# Site: https://www.uwtsd.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 500
# --------

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk:
We have 20 subject areas for you to choose from, each with a comprehensive range of courses ready to inspire you.
It’s time to grab your future with both hands and make your ambitions a reality.
We offer a more personalised experience – small class sizes and engaging lectures, with plenty of student involvement, allowing discussion and a better understanding of your subject.
You’ll learn from subject experts who’ll teach you the skills and knowledge you need to succeed.
in Wales and 2nd in the UK for Student Satisfaction
(Times and Sunday Times 2025)
If you have already have your results, you can call our helpful admissions team to make your application today.
Explore our Clearing courses on our course search to find the career ready course you are looking for and find out more about studying with us.
Guaranteed student accommodation in Carmarthen for students who apply through clearing.
Find Carmarthen Courses available in Clearing .
Upcoming:
Trinity College Carmarthen 80's Reunion
Graduation ceremonies are the highlight of the academic calendar.
They provide the opportunity for students to celebrate their achievements with family and friends.
Find out more.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy:
Mae gennym ni 20 maes pwnc i chi ddewis ohonynt.
O fewn pob un, mae ystod gynhwysfawr o gyrsiau i’ch ysbrydoli.
Mae’n bryd cydio yn eich dyfodol a throi eich uchelgais yn realiti.
Rydym yn cynnig profiad personol - dosbarthiadau llai a darlithoedd ysbrydoledig, gyda digon o gyfleoedd i fyfyrwyr gymryd rhan.
Bydd hyn yn golygu bod digon o amser i drafod a bod gennych well dealltwriaeth o’ch pwnc.
Byddwch yn dysgu gan arbenigwyr a fydd yn rhoi’r sgiliau a’r wybodaeth sydd eu hangen arnoch i lwyddo.
yng Nghymru ac 2il yn y DU am Foddhad Myfyrwyr
Os ydych chi wedi cael eich canlyniadau yn barod, gallwch ffonio ein tîm Derbyn sy’n barod i helpu er mwyn gwneud eich cais heddiw.
Archwiliwch ein cyrsiau Clirio, ar ein chwiliwr cyrsiau, i ddod o hyd i gwrs eich gyrfa a dysgu rhagor am astudio gyda ni.
Sicrwydd o lety myfyrwyr yng Nghaerfyrddin i fyfyrwyr sy’n gwneud cais drwy glirio.
Cyrsiau yng Nghaerfyrddin sydd ar gael drwy Glirio .
Cyn Hir:
Aduniad yr 80au Coleg y Drindod
Y Seremonïau Graddio yw uchafbwynt y calendr academaidd.
Maent yn rhoi'r cyfle i fyfyrwyr ddathlu eu llwyddiannau gyda theulu a ffrindiau.
Darganfod mwy.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study:
Getting your head around the options open to you can be confusing.
We are here to help you make the right choice for you, whether you have always known what you want to study or you are returning to education and want to ease yourself in.
Find out more about studying at UWTSD, explore our course listings to find the study mode that works for you.
Discover alternative study routes like foundation programmes or degree apprenticeships and get advice from the experts about each stage of the application process.
Check out our subject clusters and explore what you will get from our subject areas at UWTSD.
We have organised our courses into subject clusters to help you identify related programmes which may also interest you.
Get to know us, the place you will call home while studying with us and the experts who lead our courses.
Meet current students and hear what they love about studying with us.
Play video: Welcome to a world of decision-makers.
Looking for more information about studying a degree apprenticeship?
Explore our apprenticeships page find-out about what a degree apprentiship from UWTSD has to offer you.
A Level 6 qualification that normally requires three years* of full-time study.
* some two-year degrees are available.
A Level 5 qualification that is equivalent to the first two years of a full-time programme.
A Level 4 qualification that is equivalent to the first year of a full-time programme.
A Level 5 qualification that is designed to be work-related and vocational in nature and is equivalent to the first two years of a full-time degree programme.
A Level 4 qualification that is designed to be work-related and vocational in nature and is equivalent to the first year of a full-time programme.
An Integrated Master’s Degree is a Level 7 qualification that normally requires four years of full-time study.
A Level 7 qualification following completion of 180 credits.
A qualification consisting of 60 credits at level 7, and 60 credits at level 6.
A Level 7 qualification following completion of 120 credits.
A Level 7 qualification following completion of 60 credits.
A level 8 qualification, a research project usually completed over 3-4 years if full-time or 6-8 years part-time.
A level 8 qualification, usually with 1 year of taught modules and a 2-3 years research project if full-time, or 2 years (taught) and 4-6 years (project) part-time.
A level 8 qualification consisting of a reflective analysis and selection of previously internationally peer-reviewed published works, usually completed in 1 year full-time or 2 years part-time.
A level 7 qualification, equivalent to the first 2 years of study of a PhD, usually completed in 2-3 years full-time or 4-6 years part-time.
A level 7 qualification, with 60 credits of taught modules and a research project, usually completed in 2 years full-time or 4 years part-time.
A level 7 qualification with no taught modules, usually completed over 1-2 years full-time or 2-4 years part-time.
Programmes where students are in physical attendance for the whole of their course, with the exception of supporting online elements, which will represent less than 25% of the course.
Programmes where students are in physical attendance for more than 50% of their total contact hours.
Programmes where students are not in physical attendance for any of their course.
Students normally study 120 credits each academic year
Students normally study fewer than 120 credits each academic year, but the exact number of credits each year may vary.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/clearing:
Clearing is a positive time with so many opportunities open to you.
Whether you decided late that you wanted to go to university, have changed your mind about what you want to study or didn’t get the grades you expected, in Clearing we have a wide range of courses to inspire you.
Whether you are just leaving college or 6th form, or have decided that it is time for a career change and returning to education.
Use Clearing to explore your options and secure your place with us.
(Times and Sunday Times 2025)
Play video: Guide to Clearing [English]
Once you’ve got your grades, if you find that you haven’t met the entry requirements for your firm or insurance choices, you can apply through Clearing.
If you have your results but maybe your personal circumstances have changed and you are now reconsidering your university choice, Clearing offers you the chance to find your fit.
If you are keen to start university and have your exam results but haven’t submitted a UCAS application, its not to late to apply to us through Clearing.
If you haven’t completed any recent examinations but are looking to return to education and start a university course, then Clearing is also for you.
1.
Contact our Clearing hotline to discuss your course preferences and career aspirations.
2.
Find a course and apply to us.
3.
Get all the support that you need from our dedicated team here to help you prepare for your return to education.
We understand clearing could be a little bit daunting, and there are so many questions.
Our quick Clearing FAQs will help you get up to speed, ready for results day.
A useful guide to UWTSD Student Accommodation through Clearing.
A useful guide for Clearing Student Finance at UWTSD.
Read our comprehensive guide to using your ALevel results to secure a place in Clearing.
Your guide to using your BTEC qualifications to secure a place in Clearing.
Access courses provide a route to university and higher education.
Read our guide to using your Access Qualifications to study at University.
A useful guide for Clearing aimed at parents, carers and supporters.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/programme-search:
Selecting an option will reload the page.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/our-subjects:
We have organised our courses into subject clusters to help you identify related programmes which may also interest you.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
Grab your future with both hands with an undergraduate degree with us.
Whether you are looking for a traditional 3-year degree, a degree with a year abroad or in industry or modern alternatives like degree apprenticeship.
Across our 6 campuses we will have a degree to suit you in a place to call home.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/courses/apprenticeships:
Degree apprenticeships are an alternative to traditional university study that are becoming increasingly popular.
They are work-based training schemes.
You will gain real world workplace experience and earn a salary, whilst simultaneously working towards a degree qualification upon successful completion of the apprenticeship.
Invest in developing your employees with Industry led Higher and Degree Apprenticeships and transform your business.
We understand the everyday challenges to your business and as a result, we created in partnership with employers an Industry led Apprenticeship Programme, which when combined with daily practical on-the-job experience support students to apply the knowledge gained directly to the workplace.
UWTSD is a leading university provider of Degree Apprenticeships.
We currently deliver degree apprenticeships for over 100 employers.
We have established strong relationships with private and public sector organisations including SME’s, Local Authorities and NHS Trusts.
Our degree apprenticeships offer you the opportunity to develop your skills, knowledge and experiences.
You can take a degree apprenticeship to up-skill or re-skill if you are already in employment.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-and-pgce:
Whether you have recently completed an undergraduate degree, are pursuing a life-long interest,‌ or are seeking a career change or promotion, you can choose from our range of different postgraduate qualifications, many of which offer a choice of part-time, full-time or online/distance learning.
Applications for all Taught Postgraduate and Postgraduate Research courses (Excluding PGCE Teacher Training) can be made made directly.
We have a network of agents across the World ready to help you with your application.
Applications for Primary and Secondary PGCE programmes should be made via the UCAS application website.
Find out more about Postgraduate Research Admissions.
Here you'll find comprehensive guidance on application procedures, immigration requirements and visas, and English language proficiency, all while providing unwavering support at every step of your educational pursuit.
A centre for excellence in practice development and learning offering bespoke CPD/programmes from short courses to doctorates to professionals and their organisations.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance:
Our tuition fees for full time UK undergraduate students are £9,535 per year for 2025/26.
For all other undergraduate tuition fee information, including part-time course, visit our undergraduate tuition fees page.
Postgraduate tuition is for students who already have an undergraduate degree or equivalent, and detailed information on tuition fees can be found on the Postgraduate tuition fees page.
For anyone from the EU or overseas, international tuition fees can be found on our international tuition fees page.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/how-apply:
Whether you’re looking to pursue a bachelor’s, master’s, or doctoral degree, we’re here to help you navigate the application process as smoothly as possible.
From advice on applying through UCAS, applying direct or through an agent, for top tips on writing a standout personal statement or advice on supporting an applicant, we’ve got you covered.
Our resources provide actionable steps, insider tips, and first-hand accounts from current students.
It is important to ensure that you provide a valid email address on your application to ensure that you don’t miss out on any important communications from the University, and from UCAS where applicable.
If you have any disabilities or health conditions, please indicate this on your application form.
We can then work with you to consider what support and adjustments may need to be put in place to allow your studies to be accessible and to enable you to get the most out of your university experience.
Tel: 0300 500 5054 Email: admissions@uwtsd.ac.uk
Admissions Office Registry UWTSD 1st Floor Dewi Building College Road Carmarthen SA31 3EP
Admissions Office Registry UWTSD Technium 1 Kings Road Swansea SA1 8PH
Tel: 0300 373 0651 Email: homerecruitmentwales@uwtsd.ac.uk
Tel: 0121 229 3000 Email: birminghamadmissions@uwtsd.ac.uk
Tel: 0207 127 7404 Email: londonadmissions@uwtsd.ac.uk
Birmingham International Admissions: BirminghamInt@uwtsd.ac.uk London International Admissions: LondonInt@uwtsd.ac.uk Wales International Admissions: WalesInt@uwtsd.ac.uk
Tel: 01267 676849 Email: RegistryPGR@uwtsd.ac.uk
If you have any queries regarding your student enrolment record, examinations, graduation or wish to request a transcript/certificate in relation to your studies at UWTSD, please contact the Registry Services Team .
All students must enrol before they can officially join the University.
Enrolment is the process through which you:
If you do not enrol, you will not be entitled to:
The enrolment process should take around 15 minutes.
Start Enrolling Now

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/experience-facilities/accommodation:
Planning to live away from home while you study?
Create the uni experience you’ve always wanted.
All of our accommodation is safe, secure and independent – so whether you’re a social butterfly or you prefer the quiet life, you can find your fit at the University of Wales Trinity Saint David.
Residential Halls
You will be housed in an en-suite room with shared facilities, that puts you at the heart of student life – you’ll also benefit from being just a stone’s throw away from our on-campus services.
Off Campus
If you’d prefer to live off campus or find your own accommodation, you can choose between private rented accommodation and, in most of our locations, privately-run student halls.
Our Carmarthen location offers on-site student accommodation, with many of these rooms prioritised for first year students like you.
Make the campus your home, living just minutes away from your classes, the library and all things university.
Swansea, Cardiff, London and Birmingham have an offering of purpose-built private accommodation close to our campuses.
Make the city your home, soaking up the culture and the opportunities – and experiencing the thrill of the metropolis.
Wherever you study, you’ll become an integral part of a welcoming community, where you’ll meet some life-long friends and awesome characters along the way.
To discover more about your options, please follow the individual campus link below.
For guidance and assistance please contact the accommodation team .
The Accommodation Code of Practice is designed as a statement of good practice which is subject to change and refinement in the light of experience and encourages better management of the accommodation.
The code ensures that residents benefit from clear policies and procedures relating to the following:
Health & Safety
Maintenance and Repairs
Student Welfare
Antisocial behaviour and disciplinary issues
Environmental quality

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/experience-and-facilities:
Discover ultra-modern seminar rooms and computer suites, and brand new collaboration spaces – as well as other amazing facilities like on-campus theatres, artist studios, specialist workshops, newly kitted out gyms and sports halls, research areas, and so much more.
Explore our collection of student case studies to see the real-world journeys of our students, highlighting their unique experiences, achievements, and challenges.
These stories showcase how our programs support students in reaching their goals and making an impact in their chosen fields.
Find out more about UWTSD and start your adventure with an undergraduate degree at UWTSD.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/campuses:
Bring your main character energy to UWTSD.
Become the hero of your own story, creating the uni experience you’ve always wanted.
With a choice of six campus locations and hundreds of courses ready to inspire, it’s time to grab your future with both hands.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/experience-and-facilities/student-support-and-wellbeing:
Student support services at a university play a pivotal role in ensuring that students have a fulfilling and successful academic journey.
Our Student Hwb is designed to be the first point of contact to provide a comprehensive information service on all student-related matters.
Our professional and experienced student services team are on hand to give you the information, advice, guidance and support to help you get the most from your university experience – and get past any bumps along the way.
From academic support that provides guidance on enrolment and modules to student services that offer emotional and mental health support to students.
University life is an amazing opportunity to learn new things and discover yourself, but it can come with some challenges.
Student Services is a collection of practical professional services designed to enable and support all our students to reach their full potential.
Through our services, students can access high-quality information, advice, guidance, opportunities, and support on wellbeing support, money support, learning support, careers and safeguarding.
Everyone has wellbeing and our wellbeing can change over time.
There are lots of things you can do to look after your wellbeing.
We understand that financial concerns can be a significant factor in a student's educational journey.
Our libraries offer bright, open spaces with a wide range of facilities and study areas, designed to suit all learning styles.
Our Learning Support Team are designed to empower you with the tools and resources needed to excel in your studies.
We are dedicated to fostering an inclusive and accessible educational environment where all students can thrive.
Here to Support You!
Whether you've got your heart set on further study, a high-flying career on even starting your own business we'll support you as you chase your dreams.
We’re the Students’ Union, an independent charity for all students at the University of Wales Trinity Saint David.
Want to earn money flexibly while you study?
Join the UWTSD Student Ambassador Team.
The University of Wales Trinity Saint David welcomes equally those professing a religious faith and those of no faith.
At UWTSD we care about all members of our community, and we are here to listen to and support you.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/open-days:
Our Open Days and Open Evenings are the perfect chance to discover what our courses and campuses have to offer you.
An open day will give you a flavour of studying with us, and a chance to meet current students and some of the teaching team.
Held throughout the year, these events give you the opportunity to ask the questions that matter most to you, when deciding what and where to study.
Our Open Day Programme will give you a flavour for a typical Open Day with us, helping you plan your day, and make the most of your visit, giving you the opportunity to ask the questions that matter to you.
Attending an Open Day or Open Evening with us is easy, no matter how you plan to travel.
Our campuses are well-connected by car, train, bus, and bike, making your journey straightforward.
Why should I attend an open day?
See for yourself how UWTSD could be the right place for you.
Held throughout the year, our Open Days and Open Evenings are the perfect chance to discover what our courses and campuses have to offer you.
Our Open Evening Programme will give you a flavour for a typical Open Evening with us, helping you identify who you want to speak to get your questions answered.
We understand choosing university could be a little bit daunting, and there are so many questions.
Our quick Open Day FAQs will help you get up to speed, to make the right decision for you.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/international:
We believe in the transformative power of education, uniting students from every corner of the globe to embark on a journey of intellectual exploration and cultural immersion.
Whether you seek to expand your horizons, unleash your potential, or foster connections that will last a lifetime, our diverse and inclusive community is here to guide you towards success.
Discover an education without borders, where the world’s knowledge is at your fingertips, and endless possibilities await.
Are you an international student looking to study in a different country, why not check out our International Student Life section where you’ll see all there is on offer.
Or are you a UK student looking to go global and take your studies internationally, take a look at our Study Abroad & Exchange opportunities.
Travel, immerse yourself in a new culture, meet new friends, and try new foods, all while working towards your degree.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/international/global-opportunities:
Travel, immerse yourself in a new culture, meet new friends, and try new foods.
Funding is open to UWTSD students for a range of international opportunities across the world, such as study abroad, work and volunteer placements, and group trips.
Once an academic member of staff has completed the Go Global Reference Form, please upload it with your Go Global Application.
We believe that global experiences are an essential part of a well-rounded education.
That’s why we’ve partnered with a diverse range of universities across the globe to offer you the chance to expand your horizons, immerse yourself in different cultures, and gain a fresh perspective on your field of study.
Whether you aspire to experience the diverse landscapes of North America, immerse yourself in the bustling cities of China, or delve into the rich history of Europe our partner universities provide a unique opportunity to enhance your academic journey.
Who can apply to study abroad for a semester at whilst at UWTSD?
Students on a programme that includes a validated International Mobility Module.
Take the first step towards an unforgettable adventure by exploring our list of partner universities.
Japan: Rikkyo University
China: Hong Kong Baptist University
Taking part in a volunteering programme gives you a chance to help make a difference, gain some experience, and explore another country.
We have links with several ethical, responsible volunteering organizations as well as work placements.
You will be able to apply the knowledge you have learned abroad in numerous ways, and leave the program with highly employable skills such as the ability to work as part of a team, to communicate well, and to see things from a different perspective with a deeper understanding of a different culture.
Work / Internships
Camp America Camp America® USA Summer Jobs in America Since 1969 | Camp America
Camp Canada Camp Canada® [Official Site] Summer Camp Jobs in Canada 2025 - Camp Canada
Camp Kodiak Home • Camp Kodiak
BUNAC Summer Camps in the US and Working Holidays | BUNAC
JENZA Work abroad programs | JENZA
Absolute Internship International Internships for Students - Absolute Internship
Yummy Jobs Yummy Jobs
Think Pacific Think Pacific | Award-Winning Volunteering & Internships
Disclaimer:
Since these are external placement providers, you must apply directly to the company in addition to submitting an application with the Go Global Team.
Please ensure that you meet all relevant deadlines.
There are numerous other placement providers and summer opportunities available worldwide.
If you are interested in exploring these options, you must conduct your own thorough due diligence and apply directly to the programme provider rather than the university.
Programme-Led Group Trips are available throughout the academic year.
These are run directly by your lecturers and are typically 1-2 weeks long.
Group Trips allow students to travel with their course mates and focus on course specific experiences.
February 2023
Perfformio (Performance)
students to University of Rio Grande, Ohio
April 2023
Tourism and Hospitality students
to Aspen, Colorado
March 2024
I.T.
and Computing students to ISEP Paris
May 2024
International Tourism and Events students to Douglas College, Vancouver and Camosun College, Victoria
June 2024
Academy of Sport students to University of Rio Grande, Ohio
All UWTSD students who submit a Go Global Application will be automatically considered for funding.
The Go Global Team will place you under either Taith or Turing funding, depending on your unique circumstances.
Students going abroad will not need to apply for this funding.
This funding will not cover all costs, but is meant to help supplement students personal savings, loans, and other financial sources to go abroad.
Widening Participation Funding
You could receive additional funding from Taith or Turing if you meet one of the following criteria:
- Participants with an annual household income of £25,000 or less.
- Participants receiving Universal Credit or income- related benefits - Care leavers and participants who are care experienced.
- Participants who have caring responsibilities - Estranged participants.
- Refugees and asylum seekers
Evidence of this is required to award the additional funding.
More information can be found on the Go Global Application form.
Application Deadlines
Please note the following submission deadlines for Go Global applications.
Applications submitted outside of these dates may not be considered or may miss important visa and funding deadlines.
15 January | Fall Semester Exchange (BA Acting, Set Design and Production, and Criminology and Policing Students Only)
15 March | Summer Work, Study, or Volunteer Placements (Open to all Current Students in Any Programme)
15 July | Spring Semester Exchange (All Programmes validated International Mobility Module).
UCAS can be tricky to understand and engage with.
UCAS has come up with this handy jargon buster to allow potential student to fully understand what it is all about.
Adviser – someone who provides you with information, advice, and support with your application.
This could be a teacher, tutor, counsellor, or agent.
Apply – the name of our online application system.
(For postgraduate courses, Apply is combined with UCAS Hub.)
Bachelor’s degree – a three or four year course you can take in undergraduate higher education after you’ve finished further education – also known as a ‘first degree’ or ‘undergraduate degree’.
Most courses are either a Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science.
Buzzword – for UCAS Undergraduate applications, your school, college, or centre will give you a buzzword so you can link your application to them.
It’s a word you add to your application when you register to make a UCAS Undergraduate application (unless you’re applying independently).
Centre – a school, college, or organisation that can help students apply to higher education.
Changed course offer – in your application, you might get one of these if you haven’t met your conditions, or if the university or college has made changes to the courses they run.
It might involve a different start date or point of entry, or a different course altogether.
Choice – a choice is a course you apply for on your application – many students make multiple choices to increase their chances of getting a place.
Clearing – in a UCAS Undergraduate application, Clearing is another service you can use to look for alternative courses.
If you didn’t get a place on a course – whether you didn’t receive offers, declined your offers, or didn’t get the grades you needed – Clearing allows you to apply for courses that still have vacancies.
College – a provider of further and higher education.
When we use the term ‘uni’ or ‘university’, this is often a generic reference that incorporates colleges too.
For example, when we say ‘applying to university’, we mean ‘applying to university or college’, but in a more concise way.
Conditional offer – in your application, an offer of a place on a course subject to conditions.
To be accepted on the course, you’ll need to meet the conditions – usually related to your exam results.
This is a common type of offer for students applying directly from further education.
Confirmation – in your application, the outcome of a conditional offer you’ve accepted.
If you meet the conditions, your place will be made unconditional (meaning you’ve got a place on the course) – if not, the offer will be declined.
Conservatoire – a provider of performance-based music, dance, screen, and drama courses.
Course – there are many different courses across different levels, subjects, and locations – from foundation degrees to PhDs.
Course and training providers – a university, college, conservatoire, School Direct school, or other provider offering higher education courses.
Deferral – in your application, this is what you do if you’d like to carry an offer over to start it in the following academic year.
Entry requirements – this is what the course provider recommends you need to do/have to get on the course – from qualifications and specific subjects or grades, to interviews, admissions tests, and medical requirements.
You aren’t guaranteed an offer if you meet or already have these.
Extra – in a UCAS Undergraduate application, Extra is a service you can use to apply for alternative places if you do not hold an offer from your first five choices.
Fresher – slang term for students in their first year of university.
Firm choice – in your application, an offer you accept as your first choice.
Graduate – a student who has completed and graduated from an undergraduate course – they can now apply for postgraduate courses if they’d like to.
Higher education (HE) – the level of education we can help you apply to – from undergraduate courses when you’ve finished further education, to postgraduate courses you can move on to after graduating from an undergraduate degree.
Insurance choice – in your application, an offer you accept as your second choice – just in case you don’t meet the conditions of your firm offer.
Personal ID – the ten-digit number you get when you register to Apply – displayed in 123-456-7890 format on every email we send you.
You’ll be asked for this if you get in touch with our Customer Experience Centre.
Personal statement – a piece of text applicants write to show why they’re applying and why they’d be a great student for a course provider to accept.
Predicted grades – the grades a teacher, tutor, or other adviser qualified to remark on a student’s academic suitability believes they will achieve when they complete their secondary qualification.
Referee – in your application, someone who provides a reference for you.
Sandwich course – a course with an additional year where you work in the profession you’re studying for.
Tariff – the UCAS Tariff is the system for allocating points to the different qualifications you can use to get into undergraduate higher education.
Not all qualifications will be included in the Tariff.
It is for use in admissions only and is not transferable to the job market.
Track – the name of our online tracking system where you can see how your application is progressing.
Here you can reply to offers and make amendments, like changing your email address etc.
(For postgraduate courses, Apply is combined with Hub.)
UCAS – the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service in the UK.
This includes the main UCAS Undergraduate application service, as well as the other services UCAS runs, i.e., UCAS Conservatoires, UCAS Teacher Training, and UCAS Postgraduate.
UCAS also help students from 13 years old onwards with UCAS Progress.
Unconditional offer – in your application, an offer of a place on a course with no conditions – the place is yours if you want it.
Undergraduate – the first level of study in higher education.
If you graduate from an undergraduate degree, you can move on to postgraduate study.
University – (or ‘uni’ for short) – a provider of higher education.
Unsuccessful – in your application, either you haven’t been made an offer or you haven’t met the conditions of a conditional offer.
Withdrawal – in your application, before the decision has been made to make you an offer or not, either you or the university or college can withdraw a choice.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/international/international-new-starters:
Your Welcome Event will prepare you for studying with us.
It will also introduce you to the most important services we offer.
Knowing about them will help you make the most of your time here.
Details will be sent to you by email prior to your event.
You will need to confirm your place at the event by completing the booking request form, please complete this as soon as possible.
Swansea – 18 September 2025 Welcome Event.
Carmarthen – 19 September 2025 Welcome Event .
We offer to collect new international students from Heathrow at the start of each semester.
There is a £50 charge for this service.
Please use the form to let us know when you are arriving.
The airport pickup from Heathrow will be Wednesday 17th September 2025.
The deadline to book an airport pick-up is 5th September 2025
Online enrolment will open on MyTSD two weeks before your start date.
When enrolment opens, you will receive an email invitation with a link.
In online enrolment, you agree to be a student at the University, agree to abide by the University’s rules, and create your student record.
The UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA), a charity representing the interests of international students, provides up-to-date information about living and studying in the UK.
Topics include:
They also offer support by phone .

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/international/international-student-life:
The UK is a great place to spend this precious time in your educational career, whether you choose to study at one of our Welsh campuses or at London or Birmingham.
One thing’s for sure you can expect the experience of a lifetime.
We have a long-standing study abroad programme welcoming a number of full time international students each year and also a number of reciprocal exchange programmes with partner institutions for semester or summer school programmes.
Deciding where to go for your studies is a huge decision, and is one that could change your life!
Not only is it an opportunity for you to get an international perspective on your studies, but you will also learn about a different culture, history and way of life.
Studying an international programme will, of course, provide you with sound academic knowledge, but it is also structured to enable you to enjoy the rich diversity of cultural and social experiences available to you at the University of Wales Trinity Saint David.
You may choose from a variety of courses at the University of Wales Trinity Saint David.
Full details of the courses available are provided in our undergraduate and postgraduate course pages on the website.
Whether you’re looking to submit an application directly to the University or applying via an agent in your country studying in a different country can be daunting, but we are here to help.
Take a look at our International Application section for guidance on how to apply.
We also offer the opportunity for international students seeking a shorter, yet enriching study experience.
We understand that not everyone can commit to a full-time study abroad program, which is why we provide the option to study a single semester with us.
A condensed period that allows you to immerse yourself in a new academic and cultural environment without the long-term commitment.
Whether you’re looking to enhance your global perspective or simply experience life at our institution, you’ll find your fit with our study abroad semester opportunity.
The University regularly offers exciting summer schools for International students at our campuses in South West Wales.
We offer a bespoke programme for Universities from all around the world.
The summer schools usually last for 3-4 weeks and students usually have the option to either return home or continue travelling after the field school has ended.
The summer schools also include a cultural programme of visiting cultural places around Wales and other areas within the UK.
The UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA), a charity representing the interests of international students, provides up-to-date information about Brexit, immigration, life in the UK and similar issues.
They also run a student advice line and have some really useful guidance before you arrive in the UK.
All International Students seeking entry to the University are required to demonstrate their English Language proficiency in line with the University’s admissions requirements and English Language policy.
To ensure your experience is seamless and rewarding, we are committed to providing a wide range of support services designed specifically for the unique needs of our international students.
Financial Aid
To be considered for financial aid, you must complete a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA).
You can apply online on the FAFSA Website .
You will need to make sure that your web browser is compatible.
Please note that UWTSD is not involved in the FAFSA process.
If you have any queries regarding FAFSA you should consult Student Aid.
One of the final steps in completing the FAFSA is supplying UWTSD’s US Dept of Education federal university/school code.
UWTSD school code: 012341 00 (or G12341) Contact details If you have any questions, please email Money Support
Course Eligibility Our eligibility certificate with the US Department for Education permits us to provide Federal Student Aid for the following:
• Undergraduate Courses
• Postgraduate Courses
Certificate and diploma programs are not eligible for Federal Student Aid.
Please note that there are some courses that are not eligible for Federal Student Aid.
We will advise you if this is the case when we assess your FAFSA.
The following is a list of the types of courses that are not eligible for Federal Student Aid:
• Courses with a compulsory study abroad year.
• Courses including a mandatory work placement or Professional Placement.
This includes sandwich courses.
• Courses delivered at partner institutions
• Courses taught at the Birmingham and Outreach campuses • Distance learning courses.
• Part-time or Low Residency courses.
Programs that do not qualify for Federal Student Aid may still qualify for Private Student Loans.
Students here on a Study Abroad programme who are registered at a US university are not eligible to apply for financial aid through UWTSD.
You should instead apply to your ‘home’ university.
How You Apply FAFSA applications for the academic year 2024/25 can be submitted from January 2024, however, UWTSD will not start processing FAFSA applications until 27 May 2024 – we will deal with applications in the order we receive them.
You must have been offered a place on a course by UWTSD and accepted that place before we will process your application for Federal Student Aid.
We recommend that you submit your application to us no later than 31 July 2024 in order to enable us to process your application in time for you to apply for a visa.
If you are continuing student we will process your FAFSA at a later time as we have to give priority to new applicants who are applying for a student visa for the first time.
Applying for aid
Fill in a FAFSA application
Check your Student Aid Report
Once FAFSA has processed your information you will be emailed a copy of your Student Aid Report (SAR).
Please review the information carefully and ensure that it includes an EFC (estimated family contribution) and the details of any previous loans.
If any information is missing or there are comments stating further information is required, you will need to make corrections and re-submit your application.
If there is a C shown next to the EFC, further information will be required.
Check the comments codes and make any necessary corrections.
In some cases, we may need to ask you to provide documentary evidence (such as proof of US citizenship).
The electronic version of the SAR should be available to us in 72 hours (3 days) after submittal.
Please email the Financial Aid Officer to let us know that you have submitted an application so that we can draw down the SAR in a timely manner : moneysupport@uwtsd.ac.uk
Calculated cost of attendance: If you have been offered a place on a course University and have firmly accepted the offer, we will send you a calculated cost of attendance and details of the loans for which you are eligible, along with instructions on what you need to do next.
Please be aware that we will not be issuing cost of attendances to students who have not accepted our offer of a place.
The loans available are:
The maximum amount of subsidised and unsubsidised loans is as follows: Dependent undergraduates (students aged 24 and under):
Independent undergraduates (students aged over 24 or those whose parents are refused a Parent PLUS Loan):
Graduate and professional students:
The lifetime aggregates are $65,500 (subsidised) and $138,500 (combined subsidised and unsubsidized).
You may not borrow more than this total amount.
Federal Direct Parent and Grad PLUS Loans may be used as supplemental funding when subsidised and unsubsidised loan maximums are reached.
As always, the total amount you may borrow in student loans for any academic year is limited to your annual calculated cost of attendance minus all other sources of funding.
Please note that you are not able to borrow more than your total estimated costs of attendance (CoA).
• Undergraduate courses typically have a 39-week academic year.
• Postgraduate (graduate and professional) courses typically have a 52-week academic year.
This is an estimated cost of attendance.
The tuition fees shown above are only for illustration and will vary depending on your course.
The estimated cost of attendance for your course at the start of your application based on the information on your Student Aid report.
Loan origination fees can also be included in the cost of attendance (we include them automatically in the information we will send you).
* Please note that the exchange rate shown is for illustration only and is set once a year for the cost of attendance (normally in May).
The actual exchange rate used when processing disbursements will be dependent on the market rate on the day the funds are processed.
Please note you are not able to borrow more than your total calculated cost of attendance (CoA).
We will use the information submitted in your FAFSA and your offer letter, to determinate your eligibility for Federal Student
The standardised costs are set out against your student status.
Dependent Undergraduate, Independent Undergraduate or a Graduate.
See the Loan Types section for definitions of ‘dependent’ and ‘independent’ undergraduate students
Depending on your status, you may also be eligible for a Direct PLUS Loan award.
If you are a graduate/professional student, you may be eligible for a Direct PLUS Loan; if you are a dependant undergraduate student, your parent may be eligible for a Direct Parent PLUS loan.
Your eligibility will also depend upon your intended program of study, Estimated Family Contribution (EFC) stated on your SAR and other funding available to you such as awarded scholarships.
Once the calculation has been completed the Cost of Attendance document and Certification Calculation for the maximum total loans allowed this year will be emailed to you, along with an offer letter detailing your eligibility for the different loan types and the amounts you can borrow.
The offer letter will include the steps you need to follow in order for your loan(s) to be processed in a timely manner.
Please read this thoroughly.
You will need to:
Confirm the amount you wish to borrow and return a signed copy of the offer letter to the university
Complete the loan application/s and entrance counselling and credit check (for PLUS loans)
Ensure that you have signed a Master Promissory Note for Direct Subsidised/Unsubsidised Loans;
4.
Provide a screenshot confirming you have completed Entrance Counselling (please be aware that ‘Financial Awareness Counselling’ is NOT acceptable) even if you have done it in a previous year – it is good practice to do this every year as it reminds you of your responsibilities in the Direct Loan Scheme; and
5.
Sign a PLUS Master Promissory Note and provide a screenshot of the credit check acceptance if you will be using a PLUS Loan,
You do all of this online at studentaid.gov .
You sign into this site using the same PIN that you used to sign your FAFSA.
Please remember that if you have been awarded a scholarship from the university to cover all or part of your tuition fees, you will need to let us know about the award at this stage so we can reduce your tuition fee amount on your cost of attendance to reflect your scholarship award.
We don’t always know in advance whether you have been awarded a scholarship so your cost of attendance could be calculated on the basis that you are liable to pay the full tuition fee amount.
If this happens, you will be wrongly approved for a higher cost of attendance however when your scholarship appears on your account later on in the academic year, we will then have to reduce your loans.
We do not have any discretion on this.
Please be aware that as an international student, you may be subject to Maintenance Requirements.
If you do not send everything we need, we will not be able to originate your loans.
Loan certification
Disbursing (paying) the loan
Undergraduate and graduate students will receive two disbursements (one per semester).
When you have completed steps 1 to 3, we will originate your loans on the system and once they are confirmed we will e-mail you a US Federal Direct loan certificate.
In order to ensure that your first disbursement is made on time and that you have enough time to apply for your visa we strongly recommend that you complete your loan application no later than 31 July 2024 for courses starting in September.
For students on a standard, September start, academic year, the earliest disbursement dates will be as follows:
From each disbursement (after it has been exchanged into £ GBP) we will deduct an amount towards tuition, accommodation (if you are in University accommodation) and any other charges incurred, and the remainder will be forwarded to you.
You will need to open a UK bank account to avoid having to pay two foreign exchange charges.
You will receive an email notification approximately 14 days prior to each disbursement, in line with Federal regulations concerning your right to cancel.
Once the disbursement has been made and we have deducted your fees, you will receive a confirmation of any refund that will be deposited into your bank account with a breakdown of how we have allocated the disbursement.
Please note that it can take up to 14 days after the disbursement date for you to receive your refund.
For example, for a disbursement date of 5 October, any refund will be paid to you by 21 October.
We work with a Foreign Exchange Provider to secure a competitive exchange rate for each disbursement linked to the market rate at the time.
Therefore each disbursement will be for a different amount in £ GBP.
While in receipt of Federal Student Loans for the loan period outlined on your loan application, you are required to be enrolled on your programme of study and to maintain satisfactory academic progress.
Satisfactory academic progress means maintaining an average of at least C grades (50%) over the current academic year.
Please note that this is a higher standard than the University’s pass mark for undergraduate students.
We will check your progress before releasing loan funds.
For more information please refer to our Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy.
If you withdraw from your course, suspend your study or drop below at least 50% enrolment, you must inform the Financial Aid office (Student Funds) in the Student Life Centre no later than five working days after withdrawal in addition to notifying your course office.
If a student who receives financial aid withdraws from their course or drops below 50% attendance, we will recalculate your financial aid eligibility based on your period of attendance.
This could mean that you have to pay back money received from Federal Stafford or Plus loans you may have received.
The University may also have to repay funds received for tuition and/or accommodation to the US Federal Government.
In this case, you may become liable for additional fee payments to the University in order to replace these funds
Any calculation will be undertaken in line with the rules set by the US Department of Education and cannot be amended in any way.
It is a legal requirement that all students who have received Federal loan(s) and have graduated or withdrawn from their programme of study, or dropped below 50% attendance, complete exit counselling.
This is done through the Student Aid gateway .
Please go to the site and follow the instructions for Stafford Loan and /or PLUS Loan exit counselling.
It is your responsibility to repay your loans, in the same way, that you have to repay a bank loan or a mortgage.
When you leave your course you will enter a six-month grace period (this does not apply to PLUS loans that go into repayment immediately, but you can request a deferment).
There are a number of repayment options available and you should discuss these with your loan servicer to determine which is the most appropriate for you.
If you do not select a repayment plan you will be placed on the standard plan with fixed repayments for up to ten years.
You can find details of your loan servicer on the NSLDS website.
Further details about repayment plans, including interactive calculators, can be found on the Federal Student Aid website.
Students who are unable to take out US federal loans or who do not meet the criteria for a US federal loan can borrow from private lenders in the US.
For instance, students wishing to study a course that is not approved for federal US loans (PGCE), or students on distance learning courses based in the US but enrolled on a UK degree course at UWTSD.
We advise that if you are eligible for US federal loans, you investigate these before applying for a US private student loan, as federal loans are often cheaper and most American students are eligible for them.
Please note that US private student loans do not enable you to borrow more funds than US federal loans.
The University will work with whichever private lender you decide to use, please be aware that the number of private lenders currently servicing the UK is limited.
• If you wish to apply for a private US student loan, please email us.
• associate degree programs (in the UK these are known as foundation degrees);
• bachelors degree programs;
• masters degree and doctoral programs; and
• first professional degree programs.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/research:
The University’s research covers engineering, social science, arts and humanities disciplines.
Striving to be engaged, and always innovative, it’s often interdisciplinary and collaborative in nature.
Research Excellence
Building excellence in curiosity-driven discovery research and research that meets defined societal and economic challenges.
Civic Mission
Engaging in projects, initiatives, or areas of activity that promote or improve the economic, social, environmental, or cultural well-being of Wales and beyond.
Innovation
Translating great ideas into value, prosperity, productivity, and well-being.
Collaboration
Building partnerships by collaborating with researchers, businesses, the public, and third sectors to share excellence and deliver research impact.
High-level Skills, CPD and Lifelong Learning
Providing research-informed higher-level programmes to support the development of a resilient workforce and society.
Regional Regeneration
To support growth, well-being, and prosperity in the region.
Commercialisation & Income Generation
Support for businesses accessing financial support for innovation in collaboration with the University.
Postgraduate Research
Providing a world-class infrastructure to develop the next generation of researchers.
People
Our commitment is to incentivise, support, and reward staff for excellence in research and innovation.
Our vision for research is that our researchers, and the professional services that support them, drive innovation: the process that turns great ideas into value, prosperity, productivity, and well-being.
It is this vision that will drive wellbeing and adapt to new opportunities and challenges.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/research/camau-ir-dyfodol:
Camau i’r Dyfodol builds on a project completed in 2020 – again in partnership between UWTSD and University of Glasgow and supported by Welsh Government.
The project worked with educational professionals and focused on learning progression in the development of the Curriculum for Wales 2022.
Follow the link below to learn more about that project, including both the interim and final report of findings
The project team is seeking practitioners to join Phase 3 which focuses on curriculum development.
In February 2022, the Minister for Education and Welsh Language made a commitment to make national support available for developing progression and assessment within the context of the new curriculum and the four purposes at its heart.
In response, we are delighted to announce the launch of the Camau i’r Dyfodol – Steps to the Future project.
This 3-year project, being carried out in partnership with the University of Wales Trinity Saint David and the University of Glasgow, represents our long-term commitment to supporting schools and settings through the process of curriculum transformation, focusing on progression and assessment.
Camau i’r Dyfodol supports our collaborative ambition through building capacity and bringing together the expertise and experience of the education sector to co-develop a shared understanding of progression for all learners that is meaningful, manageable, and sustainable.
This will include provision of support through our National Network Conversations, which create spaces for schools and settings and educational partners to reflect on progression and assessment in the context of their own personal practice and share their experiences and approaches.
Our ambition for the Camau I’r Dyfodol project and these conversations, and all support regarding purpose, progression and assessment, is to:
As the project progresses, we will be producing resources and outputs to aid practitioners to reflect on their practice, share their experiences and support further discussion within their schools or settings.
These resources will be published through Hwb.
As these conversations kick off the project’s work, we will be establishing a co-construction group to guide the project’s activities, focus and outputs, ensuring that it engages with the entire education sector in Wales.
Keep an eye on the Curriculum for Wales blog to stay up to date on the work of Camau I’r Dyfodol, which will include news on upcoming events and published materials.
The Camau i’r Dyfodol project (Steps to the Future) is a joint project of the University of Wales Trinity Saint David and the University of Glasgow in collaboration with Welsh Government.
The project is designed to develop new knowledge and support the realisation of Curriculum for Wales.
It will do this by bringing together teachers, educational partners, and researchers to co-develop new capacity, ways of thinking and resources to build upon existing practice.
Central to this process will be the integration of learning progression, curriculum, assessment and pedagogy.
The expertise and experience of all those with roles in the education system are essential for the work of the project.
At the same time, everyone across partner organisations and education settings can learn as we work together to take understanding of learning progression forward in the realisation of Curriculum for Wales for all children and young people.
Realising a new national curriculum is a long-term process rather than a single event in time.
The Camau i’r Dyfodol project has four phases that take place over three years.
In phase 1, we will learn from people where they are in the process and what would help them to move forward.
It will help to identify priorities and draw ideas from a range of evidence from schools, research, and international practice.
In phases 2 and 3 we will work with teachers and other educational partners to co-construct project outputs that will advance practical understandings of learning progression.
The nature of the outcomes will be decided in partnership with project participants and will be designed to share approaches to progression that help to build confidence and capacity for those working in a range of settings.
In phase 4, we will work with participants from across the system to identify what is needed to continue to build capacity among school professionals beyond the life of the project.
What we learn collectively from each phase will feed back into the Welsh system and contribute to national and international understanding of learning progression and educational change.
Co-construction and equity sit at the heart of the Camau i’r Dyfodol project with a recognition that no single solution can come from any one partner.
Everyone will be able to engage with this work whether this is by local development in individual classrooms and schools, in educational organisations, through national network conversations or directly as part of the project’s activity.
Schools continue to face a range of demands following the pandemic which means that engagement must be meaningful, manageable and valuable to people.
We will work with a range of educational partners including those in schools, regions, the middle tier, HEIs, Estyn, Qualifications Wales and Welsh Government to help co-develop ways of thinking, associated resources and project outputs.
The Camau i’r Dyfodol Project believes that change led by those at the heart of the system provides the best opportunity for sharing expertise, building confidence, fostering coherence across the system and for supporting the different people and organisations who matter in education in Wales to realise their new curriculum.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/research/centre-advanced-welsh-and-celtic-studies:
The Centre for Advanced Welsh and Celtic Studies (CAWCS) was established by the University of Wales in 1985 as a dedicated research centre conducting team-based projects on the languages, literatures, culture and history of Wales and the other Celtic countries.
It is located in Aberystwyth, adjacent to the National Library of Wales, which is an internationally renowned copyright library with excellent research facilities.
Our work is currently focused on the following areas of specialism:
We also have staff members working on Women’s Writing, Breton Literature and Travel Writing.
We welcome applications for postgraduate research and visiting scholars from all over the world.
We co-operate closely with the National Library of Wales through our Strategic Alliance: both institutions are joint publishers of the Dictionary of Welsh Biography (ed.
Professor Emeritus Dafydd Johnston) and The Repertory of Welsh Manuscripts and Scribes c.800-c.1800 by Dr Daniel Huws.
Find out more about our work or contact Angharad Elias for more information.
CAWCS offers unique opportunities for postgraduate students to work alongside specialists in a dynamic and supportive environment.
We welcome enquiries about MPhil/PhD topics in any of our research areas.
Details of work by current and former research students
For more information about research opportunities, or for an informal chat about possible topics, contact our Head of Graduate Studies, Elizabeth Edwards .

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/research/doctoral-college-instructional-videos:
Play video: 3 Doctoral College Portal – Student Intention to Submit Process
Play video: 4.
Doctoral College Portal – Thesis Submission
Play video: 5 Doctoral College Portal - Student PG4 Process
Play video: 6 Doctoral College Portal - Supervisor Introduction
Play video: 7 Doctoral College Portal - Supervisor PG4 Process
Play video: 8 Doctoral College Portal - Institute Manager of Research Degrees

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/research/humanities-research:
At UWTSD, we are proud of our rich tradition of research, which spans a wide range of disciplines including theology, religious studies, history, classics, archaeology, anthropology, and philosophy.
With a global outlook and a focus on contemporary challenges, our work actively engages with pressing issues like sustainability, climate change, and globalisation.
Our research is designed to make a meaningful impact in the real world.
We foster an interdisciplinary environment where ancient cultures and modern communities intersect, helping to connect the past with the present in innovative ways.
From the beginning in 1822, Theology and Biblical Studies were at the core of UWTSD, supplemented later by Church History and religious history, Study of Religions, Islamic Studies, Philosophy, Ethics, Classics, and Archaeology and Anthropology.
More recently, Chinese Studies, English Literature, and Interfaith Studies were developed.
Our work brings the past to life and interrogates the present to inspire a better, informed future.
This is achieved, through several interweaving researches, drawing upon projects in Wales, the UK, the Mediterranean, Egypt, the Middle East, Africa, China, and the Americas that together cohere into a global perspective of humanity.
These diverse, yet interconnected themes, allow us to bridge past and present and feed into our world-class, research-led teaching.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/research/international-association-minority-language-media-research:
The International Association for Minority Language Media Research (IAMLMR) was created in Edinburgh in October 2019 during the Minority Language Media conference Crowded Out or Limitless Horizons co-organised by the Etxepare Basque Institute and the University of Edinburgh.
Since the early days of minority language media research (see Jones and Uribe-Jongbloed (eds, 2013) for a more detailed account), there has been a strong Eurocentric or Western focus in both conceptual and contextual studies.
As well as the overall Westernization factors that affect all academic disciplines – that we recognise – we identify three other specific reasons for this:
This however is not to discountenance efforts being made in Africa, (South) America and Asia.
Extended research essays, dissertations and theses have been written on the subject.
In Africa, the first co-ordinated effort was Indigenous Language Media in Africa (Salawu, 2006).
It took another ten years before the second edited volume, Indigenous Language Media, Language Politics and Democracy in Africa edited by Abiodun Salawu and Monica Chibita was published.
The latest is Salawu, A.
[Ed.] 2019.
African Language Digital Media and Communication.
The researchers present at the Edinburgh Etxepare conference took the collective decision to set up the International Association for Minority Language Media Research (IAMLMR) as positive action to connect researchers of minority language media in all parts of the world because:
The International Association for Minority Language Media Research’s definition of media includes all media, including social media, non-professional (volunteer or user-generated) media, factual and journalism, audiovisual fiction, digitisation etc, across all platforms and in all parts of the world.
The International Association for Minority Language Media Research’s definition of language includes all language communities who self-define as minority, minoritized or non-hegemonic, including those who self-define as indigenous.
It is not confined to written or to spoken languages, and oral/non-written languages, as well as signed/non-spoken languages are included.
As we develop our membership, structure and activities we welcome communication, ideas and contributions from researchers in all parts of the world.
Contact: Professor Elin Haf Gruffydd Jones , Dr Miren Manías-Muñoz or Craig Willis .
The next biennial conference of the International Association for Minority Language Media Research (IAMLMR) will be hosted by the Indigenous Language Media in Africa ( ILMA ) research entity at the North-West University, Mafikeng, South Africa on 8 – 11, July 2024.
IAMLMR members presented papers and panels at the XIX International Conference on Minority Language in Wales in June 2023.
A face-to-face meeting of the working group was also held during the conference.
The Conference organised by IAMLMR held at Europa Universität in Flensburg was held from March 31st to April 1st 2022.
Our first IAMLMR PhD forum was held on 27th January 2022 at 12pm CET (11am GMT) on Zoom.
Three presenters were:
Wednesday 3rd November at 15h CET ECMI Online Talk / Minority languages and media landscapes in Africa, Europe and Latin America: Between global and regional dynamics, hosted by Sergiusz Bober and panellists Abiodun Salawu, Claudia Soria and Enrique Uribe-Jongbloed.
Wednesday 22nd September 2021 at 16h CEST - an IAMLMR meeting was held to welcome new members and discuss the programme of activities for the academic year 2021-2022.
Friday 27th August 2021 - IAMLMR and ECMI co-organized a module on the digitalization and minority / indigenous language media during the 11th Annual ECMI Summer School on National Minorities in Border Regions – National Minorities and the New Digital Paradigm.
The module consisted of an online lecture “Media Landscapes and Minority Languages: How Media Can Make or Break Linguistic Vitality” by Elin Haf Gruffydd Jones,  a lecture/workshop “The Debate around the ‘Indigenous’ for Indigenous Language Media and the Limits of a Cybertarian Utopia” by Enrique Uribe-Jongbloed and a showcase by Hauke Heyen on his work on social media use in North Frisian.
Wednesday 24th May 2021 - 10am EST Book launch and discussion on the aims and challenges of curating landmark publications in the field of MLM to mark the publication of ‘Documentary in Wales’ (edited by Dafydd Sills-Jones and Elin Haf Gruffydd Jones) as part of Peter Lang’s series Documentary Film Cultures .
Wednesday 24th – Friday 26th March 2021 – we will be presenting at the XVIII International Conference on Minority Languages which will be held online.
Wednesday 24th February 2021 (16:00-18:00 CET) – Workshop on indigenous MLM and indigeneity .
Via Zoom.
Thursday 28th January 2021 (16:00-18:00 CET) – Workshop on the Findings of the Covid-19 Minority Language Media blog series via Zoom.
We meet regularly as a working group to develop the association and to plan events and activities.
Contact: Professor Elin Haf Gruffydd Jones or Craig Willis if you would like further details on how to join.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/research/research-excellence-framework-ref-2021:
The University of Wales Trinity Saint David recognised for its world-leading and internationally excellent research.
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 shows that the University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD) produces world-leading and internationally excellent research.
One of the key developments for the University in REF2021 is that Education was submitted for assessment for the first time.
As one of only three Education submissions in Wales, it highlights how research being undertaken by the University is contributing to the development and debate of education policy in Wales and in particular, the new Welsh curriculum.
A prime example of the University’s research impact is UWTSD’s involvement in the CAMAU Project, which has been integral to developing the Welsh education system’s understanding of learner progression.
So influential was this important work, it has recently been extended into a second phase.
49% of research overall is graded 4* (world-leading) or 3* (internationally excellent), from the areas of Art and Design, Education, Celtic Languages and Literature, Theology and Religious Studies, and Psychology.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/research/research-integrity-and-ethics:
The University of Wales Trinity Saint David is committed to the maintenance of high ethical standards in the research undertaken by its staff and students, whether supported directly by the University or funded by external sources.
The University recognises its obligations under the Concordat to Support Research Integrity to ensure that research undertaken under its auspices is conducted to appropriate standards, and conforms to generally accepted ethical principles and practices of conduct and governance.
These obligations are overseen by the University’s Research Ethics Committee and detailed in the Research Integrity and Ethics Code of Practice.
The University believes that research ethics review and approval are important for the following reasons:
The procedures and guidelines outlined in this code of practice apply to all academic and administrative staff, those holding honorary positions at the university and all students conducting research projects and related activities as part of undergraduate, postgraduate and short courses and research programmes in which students are enrolled/registered at, and/or supervised by staff at the University.
The exception shall be cases where the Principal Researcher is registered elsewhere providing that the research project has been approved by an equivalent ethics committee following a comparable level of ethics review.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/research/research-architecture-computing-and-engineering:
Our research is cross-disciplinary, and covers a broad scope of work in Automotive Engineering, Logistics and Manufacturing Engineering, and Applied Computing.
Our approach is centred on solving industry-led near-to-market problems that are relevant to regional companies often require innovative design solutions and an environmental management system target.
The work is focussed on the interaction of low energy photons with human tissue.
Much of the work has been carried out through collaborative research projects with locally-based international companies in two areas of research.
Industrial standard multiphysics applications for stress and fatigue predictions Modelling codes for simulating light-tissue interaction.
Non destructive Testing The university is the lead academic partner in the NDT Validation Centre at ECM2 Port Talbot operated by TWI.
Funding from the Welsh Assembly Government and from the EPSRC has facilitated the acquisition of state-of-the-art equipment and capacity, including:
In addition to these resources, the university is well equipped with conventional optical microscopy and high-speed digital video facilities and is a partner in the pan-Wales ASTUTE  (Advanced Sustainable Manufacturing Technologies ) programme delivering direct benefits to business.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/research/research-art-and-design:
Research and Innovation are well established within UWTSD’s Wales Institute of Science and Art.
Academics in the Institute are research active with many artists, designers and critical thinkers recognised as being at the cutting edge of their fields.
Research covers the broad range of methodologies and approaches from fine art and critical theory in the Swansea College of Art and applied design research in four specialist design centres, each of which interface with the needs of life-sciences and health professionals.
This research is therefore focused on two main areas:
Design based research has an applied focus and is principally based on the needs of the life-science and health sector, including NHS, health-based charities, industry, private sector service providers and veterinary sciences.
This work is organised in three research centres.
The Assistive Technologies Innovation Centre (ATiC), established in 2015, collaborates with the private sector, NHS trusts, research charities, and academic partners in the development of innovative products, services and systems in the health and wellbeing sector.
The Cerebra Innovation Centre (CIC), established in 2004, is a collaborative endeavour between national charity Cerebra and UWTSD which conducts applied research to design and manufacture bespoke equipment for children with neurodevelopmental conditions where there is a shortfall in market-available products.
The Wales Centre for Advanced Batch Manufacturing (CBM) was established in 2014 and is a leading authority in additive manufacture specialising in industry focused research, product development and batch manufacturing.
CBM supports innovation across a wide range of disciplines and industry sectors including medical, veterinary and dental, aerospace and automotive.
Swansea College of Art has a long and established record of excellence in practice-based research drawing on interdisciplinary and collaborative research methodologies.
Such creative explorations position our research nationally, with strong ties to Welsh art and culture, and internationally showcasing our innovative contemporary practices.
As such work fits into three broad themes, of collaborative research with healthcare professions and communities to promote health and welling, with particular reference to sexual identity and sexual health; socio-geographic themes of identity, community and belonging, these ranging from local site responsive work to global geo-political issues;  theoretically informed work based on perceptions and readings, for example audience relationships with creative forms and objects, and also work on drawing, creativity, semiotics and literary criticism.
Creative Industries Research and Innovation Centre (CIRIC) which has since 2005 been the primary vehicle for the development of multi-disciplinary, multi-partner collaborative knowledge exchange projects in the creative and cultural industries, and the
Metadesign Research Centre (MDRC).
Launched in 2019, MDRC acts as a bridging, collaborative and creative research space for those working in contemporary arts practice and those in design for life-science, health and wellbeing.
The Institute has a lively postgraduate culture, with thriving MA and PhD programmes in the areas of art and design.
Since 2014, forty students have joined our PhD programmes and twenty research degrees were awarded.
A key priority in this regard has been to develop collaborative and funded projects with industry, the NHS and the third sector, which are aligned to our strong practice-facing research and knowledge exchange strategy.
In this regard, we have seven Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarship (KESS) PhD scholarships with funding from the European Social Fund.
Since 2015 CBM has also funded three full PhD scholarships focussing on the application of advanced manufacturing technologies to the medical sector.
49% of research was graded 4* (world-leading) or 3* (internationally excellent), from the areas of Art and Design, Education, Celtic Languages and Literature, Theology and Religious Studies, and Psychology.
The Scale project will run throughout 2024 and will provide support to Micro/Small enterprises, entrepreneurs, and graduates in the County of Swansea.
The Architectural Glass Centre (AGC) is the commercial arm of the renowned department at Swansea College of Art, University of Wales Trinity Saint David, Swansea.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/research/research-psychology:
The Psychology department at UWTSD has a strong and exciting research profile in areas of applied and experimental psychology.
With a strong track record in collaboration and innovation, staff working in Psychology have a range of methodological expertise including qualitative methods, experimental design and intervention development and evaluation.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/research/assistive-technologies-innovation-centre-atic:
ATiC collaborates with academic, public, private, and third sector partners from the life sciences, health, and social care sectors to drive a culture of research excellence, knowledge transfer, and innovation in health and wellbeing.
ATiC combines user-centred design research methods and objective physiological measurement tools to understand people’s needs and performance during their interaction with physical and digital healthcare products, services, systems, and spaces.
We use these insights to help our partners develop innovative new solutions for health and wellbeing, which transform lives in our communities.
ATiC is a unique and key contributor to the health innovation ecosystem in Wales and beyond, driving the delivery of positive economic impact through co-design practices.
We can collaborate with academic, industry, health and social care partners on research and innovation projects funded through UKRI, Welsh Government or other sources, as well as undertaking commercial work directly with businesses and industry.
ATiC’s world recognised multimodal User Experience (UX) and Usability Evaluation (UE) laboratory facilities in Swansea enable the capture and measurement of human behaviour, movement, cognitive, emotional, and physical performance in addition to subjective responses.
Allied with this are extensive 3D scanning, modelling, virtual simulation, additive manufacturing, and prototyping capabilities to support the rapid development and evaluation of innovative new health technologies.
ATiC is a proud academic partner of the TriTech Institute , a venture by Hywel Dda University Health Board offering specific services in innovative healthcare solutions.
ATiC was a partner in the Accelerate Wales Programme from 2018-2022, which was co-funded by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the Welsh Funding Office (WEFO), Welsh Government’s Health and Social Services group, universities, Life Science Hub Wales (programme lead), and the health boards.
The ultimate aim of Accelerate was to create lasting economic value for Wales.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/experience-facilities/sport/wales-academy-health-and-physical-literacy:
We work with people of all ages and abilities to raise participation and support physical activity in all forms.
Our work focuses on applied research in practice impacting outcomes for people and communities.
All our work is underpinned by a strengths-based approach to health, supporting people to maintain health and well-being through the life course.
We believe we can all play a part in supporting physical literacy for ourselves and others.
Whether you are a parent, grandparent, teacher, work with young children in pre-schools or coaching adults in a community.
Our multidisciplinary team of researchers, academics and trainers design and deliver collaborative projects which explore health and physical literacy in a range of environments.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/research/design-partnerships-creating-learning-wales:
The University of Wales Trinity Saint David, in partnership with the University of Glasgow, is running Design Partnerships: Creating Learning for Wales .
This three-year, evidence-informed project is designed to support schools and practitioners in the coherent realisation of Curriculum for Wales (CfW) as a purpose-led, process-oriented curriculum.
Our aim is to work collaboratively with the teaching profession to enhance understanding and practice in curriculum design, progression, and assessment.
This project seeks to build professional knowledge and capacity across the education system in Wales.
Our core aims are to:
‘Design Partnerships’ employs a carefully structured model of professional capacity building, grounded in research and collaborative practice.
The project will unfold over three year-long cycles, with each cycle engaging a new group of schools.
Key features of our approach include:
Schools joining ‘Design Partnerships’ can anticipate a supportive, collaborative, and professionally enriching experience.
An indicative journey example:
Getting Started (Pre-Engagement & Term 1)
Expanding Your Impact (Term 2)
Consolidating Learning and Sharing (Term 3 & Beyond)
This project is built upon a strong evidence base, drawing from national and international research on curriculum reform and professional learning, including findings from the preceding Camau i’r Dyfodol .
We are committed to a co-constructive approach, working in partnership with schools, practitioners, Welsh Government, Adnodd, and other key educational stakeholders.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/research/microguide-2:
The World Health Organisation says that “antibiotic resistance is one of the biggest threats to global health, food security, and development”.
The major cause of resistance is over-use of antibiotics, either because they are available without medical prescription or from over-prescribing.
MicroGuide™ is an app to help hospital prescribers select the appropriate antimicrobial drug, by presenting hospital medicine guidelines in a user-friendly way.
MicroGuide™ has the ability to create decision support modules (DSMs) for particular conditions, so that prescribers can answer a series of conditional questions about factors such as disease severity, allergies, resistance risks and pregnancy status to be guided to a recommended choice of drugs or in some cases to seek further microbiology specialist advice.
We are running a randomised controlled trial of MicroGuide DSMs for five common infections (UTI, CAP, HAP, skin and skin structure infection and intra-abdominal infection) to assess the impact on prescribing patterns at the aggregate hospital level.
We are not collecting patient or clinician level data.
The study has a favourable NHS ethics review, approval from the Health Research Authority and is on the NIHR portfolio.
The study is funded by Merck Sharp and Dohme (MSD) but has no connection with any of their pharmaceutical products.
We are looking for more NHS Trusts to participate in the study.
During the study period, there will be free support from the study team for building comprehensive but simple Decision Support Modules (DSMs) to replace traditional narrative guidelines.
If you would like to express interest or for any further queries please contact our research team via email .
This content is derived from an external source, and the University therefore has no control over the language in which these documents are published.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/alumni:
Welcome to all graduates of UWTSD and our predecessor institutions.
We are proud of this inspiring global community which has inducted graduates since the nineteenth century.
We want to share your stories, celebrate your successes, and keep you connected.
One of the best ways of staying connected is by engaging with the communications we’ll send you.
As long as we have your updated information, we’ll keep in touch with news, updates and invites through digital newsletters.
You can also keep informed about what’s going on here by following us over on our social media channels and visiting our Newsroom .
From time-to-time we may ask you to contribute to supporting us through various activities such as providing case studies or guest lectures.
If you would like to contribute, get in touch.
As a graduate, you're still part of our community - and that comes with some great perks.
Whatever your next steps may be, we’re still here to support you.
We are here to support and provide you with a service long after you’ve graduated.
Why not take advantage of the many benefits still available to you as alumni.
There’s always a warm welcome awaiting you back on your campus of study.
Whether training or networking events, careers fairs, or reunions, we love to see former classmates and staff catching up.
We’ll want to know what you are up to so that we can celebrate your accomplishments and get a clear picture of the varied careers paths your degree programmes have led you to.
You may describe your time here as some of the best years of your life, so why not make that a reality for others by giving something back to the University.
Associations like the Lampeter Society exist to support the University’s alumni activities with certain groups or campuses.
Belonging is the annual magazine for alumni of UWTSD and its predecessor institutions.
In this magazine you will find the latest news and developments from the past year, including news on research, our campuses and from our graduates.
Download it as a digital version or request your free copy through the post.
Belonging 2025 is nearly here!
Sign up below to request your copy.
Today we are UWTSD but there’s a whole lot of history to this institution, and our alumni team always aim to honour this by celebrating past and future developments.
Find out more about our predecessor institutions on our History and Timeline page.
Our Special Collections and Archives team also commemorate this extensive history through physical and online exhibitions, and some of our preceding colleges’ archives are held by the team on the Lampeter campus.
If you have questions or would like to see the archives, get in touch .
Need to get hold of your transcript, award confirmation letter, or new certificate?
Get in touch with Registry .
Please be aware that it can take up to eight weeks to receive your certificate.
If the Certificate/Diploma you were issued was not produced by this University (or its predecessor colleges), you will need to contact the Examination Board that issued the certificate in the first place (BTEC, Edexcel, UW, UWE, City & Guilds, WJEC etc.) for a replacement.
We can only issue replacement certificates issued by this University (or its predecessor colleges).
If you are looking for confirmation of the achievement of a certificate or diploma, see the Transcript request details, which also apply to requests for Confirmation of Awards or Attendance.
Please note that any HND/HNC/OND/ONC certificate issued prior to the creation of BEC and TEC (later BTEC) cannot now be provided by any organisation, as the Awarding Bodies that issued those certificates no longer exist.
If you attended and achieved one of those qualifications prior to 1980, you should apply for a confirmation letter, not a replacement certificate.
The University of Wales will issue replacement certificates only in specific circumstances.
Details of those circumstances and an application form can be obtained from the UW website
Replacement Certificates are obtainable from Pearson
Replacement Certificates are obtainable from WJEC
Replacement Certificates are obtainable from City and Guilds
Replacement Certificates are only issued by UWE in exceptional circumstances
The Council for National Academic Awards [CNAA] was the largest single degree-awarding body in the United Kingdom until it was abolished by the 1992 UK Further and Higher Education Act.
The Open University Validation Services accepted responsibility for the care and maintenance of certain CNAA records and for providing appropriate access to them.
Although it is not possible for OUVS, or any other body, to provide certificates or to issue a duplicate or replacement certificates relating to CNAA awards, it does offer a Pro-forma verification document styled in a similar format to an award certificate.
Further information
We will issue replacement certificates only in the circumstances set out below.
Temporarily mislaying a certificate is not considered sufficient grounds for replacement.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-advantages:
Why not take advantage of the many benefits still available to you as alumni.
We continue to work on these offers so make sure you’re signed up to our e-newsletters to receive our updates.
Do you want to study further after completing your undergraduate degree and build on your knowledge and expertise?
To assist you in continuing to a UWTSD postgraduate course, a tuition fee discount of up to £2,500 may be applicable through the Alumni Postgraduate Taught Discount.
Who can access this?
See the full eligibility criteria on Alumni Postgraduate Taught Discount
Whether searching for graduate opportunities or information on the job market, you’ll be supported in a number of ways by our Careers Service for up to two years.
Take advantage of the free online MyCareer platform which gives you access to a live jobs board, career planner, automated CV checker, a virtual mock interview experience, and much more.
Simply convert to an Alumni account after you’ve graduated.
Our Careers Advisers can also offer advice on exploring your career options and searching for opportunities.
Plus, if you are signed-up to receive our digital newsletters, you’ll be invited to attend our Career Fairs where you can network and search for opportunities among a range of employers.
All alumni up to two years after the end of their studies
If you are a business owner or freelancer, or even have an idea you want to develop, as alumni you can access all kinds of support to help you grow your current business or get your fledgling ideas off the ground.
Our friendly and experienced Enterprise Team can offer one-to-one guidance as well as invite you to attend a free Freelance and Business Start-up course which covers the essentials of running a business - from marketing, finances and legal structures and tax.
You may also be eligible for to apply for their Entrepreneurship Start-Up Grant of up to £500 to help fund your new business venture.
Support is available to graduates for up to two years, with some services offered beyond that where possible.
Alumni can access a selection of our online resources using a walk-in access available from dedicated computers on our Carmarthen and Swansea campuses.
You are welcome to use our libraries for reference and you can search our catalogue to discover resources available across the various locations.
If you would like to borrow physical items, you can join the library as an External Borrower through the Libraries Together Passport Scheme or SCONUL Access - you’ll need to check whether you’re eligible.
If you’ve been using RefWorks as a student, you can switch to an alumni account before graduating and associate this with a personal email address for continued access.
Our library spaces are also available for studying or reading, and if you visit, you’ll be able to connect to our free Guest Wi-Fi.
All UK alumni however physical access is only available at Carmarthen and Swansea
Looking for a flexible hot-desking space in Swansea?
We’re offering 6 months free hot-desking at the Innovation Matrix on our SA1 Swansea Waterfront campus for alumni who graduated within the last two years.
Enjoy a range of benefits, including:
To claim your free six months, get in touch with us at: im@uwtsd.ac.uk
Fancy tying the knot on your university campus?
Perhaps this is where and your partner first met and fell in love?
Alumni are eligible for 10% off weddings on our Carmarthen or Lampeter campuses.
Plus, a wedding coordinator will guide you through the details every step of the way.
Take a look at the venues and book your visit: Weddings – Venue Wales
Visiting and looking for somewhere to stay?
Why not stop over on campus.
Alumni can receive a 20% discount on B&B bookings on the Lampeter and Carmarthen campuses.
Book your stay through our hospitality team: Sleep – Venue Wales
Travelling to Swansea?
We have partnered with The Village Hotel Swansea to offer our alumni a special rate on bed and breakfast.
If you would like to take us up on this offer, contact us .
If you happen to be near our Lampeter, Carmarthen or Swansea campuses and looking for a quick bite to eat, take advantage of a 10% discount at our cafes.
Complete our form to receive your voucher.
See the full list of our catering outlets: Eat – Venue Wales
If you live locally or are in the area and want to get your sweat on, our Sports Centres at our Carmarthen and Lampeter offer excellent membership deals to alumni.
Annual membership: £145
Monthly (Direct Debit): £20
Pay As You Go: £4
Visit or get in touch with our Sports Centres and take a look at our Sports Facilities .
We’ve struck a deal with LC Swansea who are offering UWTSD alumni fantastic discounted membership deals.
Annual membership: £270 (working out as £22.50 a month)
3-month membership: £70 (working out as just £23 a month)
Monthly (Direct Debit): £30
Members will also benefit from having access to the whole of Freedom Leisure Swansea including:
Let them know that you are UWTSD alumni when you sign up for your membership.
This will probably need to be confirmed with the alumni team, then you’re good to go!
Who can access these discounts?
All alumni
Looking to commemorate your time at UWTSD through some merchandise and memorabilia?
At the UWTSD Shop, alumni benefit from a 10% discount using code ALUMNI10 and a bundle deal discount on a hoodie and bobble hat using code TWOFOR30.
As well as merchandise, you’ll find stationery and art supplies at great prices here.
As long as you are signed up to our e-newsletters and have updated your details , we’ll make sure to keep you informed of any events we have planned, including reunion events, professional networking or training events, careers fairs and more.
There’s always a warm welcome awaiting you back on your campus of study.
We have great reunion packages on offer on our Carmarthen and Lampeter campuses and can offer support should you wish to arrange a reunion event for you and your old classmates.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/alumni/new-graduates:
Picture this: you’ve completed your studies, and graduation day is just around the corner - or maybe it’s already come and gone.
So, what now?
Now begins a new chapter in your UWTSD journey.
As a graduate, you’re still part of our community - and that comes with some great perks.
Whatever your next steps may be, we’re still here to support you.
The full list of advantages available to you as a new graduate and beyond − this way:
Even after graduation, having continued access to the career service made me feel supported and remembered.
As I expand my career, their advice has helped me stay focused, confident, and connected to valuable opportunities.
Alina Mariutac
MA Leadership graduate
Fifteen months after finishing your course, you’ll be invited to take part in the Graduate Outcomes survey.
It asks what you’re doing now - working, travelling or studying - and how your course helped.
Your input helps us improve our courses and services, supports future students, and shows the impact of a UWTSD degree.
You’ll be contacted via email, phone, or text, so keep your details up to date via MyTSD or the Update Your Details form.
Your certificate - which is the official proof of your degree – will be posted approximately eight weeks after the Award Board.
You’ll also receive a copy of your final transcript – a full record of your academic study including module results.
Whether you choose to frame them, or store them somewhere secure, they’re important documents that may be needed in the future.
If you ever need replacements later on, you’ll be able to order them for a fee.
We’re not only here for you as new graduates − you’re part of our alumni community for life.
You’ll get a welcome email with everything you need to stay connected, plus ongoing digital newsletters - as long as you want them - and access to our annual alumni magazine, full of stories, events, and ways to get involved.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-events-and-reunions:
As long as you are signed up to our e-newsletters and have updated your details, we’ll make sure to keep you informed of any events we have planned.
Meet fellow alumni at our reunions and benefit from joining our various events.
Can’t see an event for you?
New opportunities are on the horizon, so there may be something coming up that you would love to attend or take part in.
Don’t miss out.
Get in touch so we can keep you updated.
Employer Talks:  Beth Thomas, Director of Social Media Operations at Frankly
Employer Talks: Rhys Bebb, Screen Alliance Wales (SAW)
Reunions are the perfect way to reconnect and reminisce with old classmates, and even make new connections.
As well as hosting some reunion events on campus, we’re also happy to support you should you ever wish to arrange a reunion of your own.
The University can provide support by reaching out to fellow alumni through emails and social media promotion, plus, we may be able to offer professional photography for the event.
We have great reunion packages on offer on our Carmarthen and Lampeter campuses that include space, food and accommodation.
If you would like support organising your event and want to receive a reunion package, get in touch .

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/alumni/graduate-outcomes-survey:
The Graduate Outcomes survey is a national survey that captures information about the activities and perspectives of graduates 15 months after they finish their studies.
We’ll use this information to improve the student experience.
Hopefully all your questions are answered in the section below, but you can also visit HESA’s Graduates Outcomes website for more information.
Don’t forget, to have your say, we’ll need your latest email address and contact number.
You can update these below.
Play video: About the Graduate Outcomes survey (English)
All graduates who completed a relevant course will be asked to take part in the Graduate Outcomes survey which only takes around 10 minutes to complete.
It looks to understand whether you are in employment, have continued with further study or are doing something else, and considers to what extent your qualification has played a part.
Even if you have continued your studies with us, and regardless of whether your course was undertaken as part of, or as a requirement of your existing employment, you will be asked to complete the survey.
Your response will be anonymised but will help UWTSD market and evaluate its courses and will give current and future students insight into career destinations and development.
The survey is also of national significance.
It allows policy makers, charities, journalists, researchers and others to understand the higher education sector and the state of the graduate labour market.
The survey is carried out by Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) so you will be contacted by them on the University’s behalf.
You will receive an email from UniversityOfWalesTrinitySaintDavid@graduateoutcomes.ac.uk inviting you to complete the survey online.
You may also receive text messages from ‘GradOutcome’ , and calls from IFF Research on behalf of the University so you can complete the survey over the phone.
If you are not contactable, we may ask a third party such as a family member for this information.
Don’t forget that in order to contact you, we’ll need your latest information.
If you don’t think we have those, you can update your details .
If you are a current student, you can update your details using MyTSD.
You will be surveyed approximately 15 months after you complete your studies.
Graduates will be grouped across the year into four cohorts based on the end date of your course.
Depending on when your course ended, you will receive your survey invitation around 15 months later.
For example, if your course ended in May to July 2023, you’ll receive the survey invitation in September 2024.
End date of course
Survey period
August – October 2022
December 2023 – February 2024
November 2022 – January 2023
March – May 2024
February – April 2023
June – August 2024
May – July 2023
September – November 2024

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/graduation:
They provide the opportunity for students to celebrate their achievements with family and friends.
Tuesday, 25th November 2025 Ceremony time - TBC Brangwyn Hall, Swansea
Tuesday, 22nd July 2025 - 11.30am and 2.30pm Barbican, London
Tuesday, 15th July 2025 - 2.30pm Wednesday, 16th July 2025 - 10.30am and 2.30pm Brangwyn Hall, Swansea
Friday, 11th July 2025 - 2pm, Lampeter Campus
Monday, 7th July 2025 - 6pm Tuesday, 8th July 2025 -10am and 2pm Halliwell Theatre, Carmarthen Campus
Thursday, 26th June 2025 11am and 4pm Eastside Rooms, Birmingham
Contact graduation immediately.
The team will check your record and re-send your invitation if appropriate.
Log into MyTSD and enter your student number and password.
Go to ‘Student Graduation’ on the Home screen and follow the instructions.
You will need to arrive two hours before the ceremony commences in order to allow you time to collect your robe, seat number and guest tickets.
You will need to be seated 45 minutes before the ceremony is due to start during which time you will be seated in your allocated seat and briefed by the Chief Marshall.
Should you or any of your guests have a disability / specific access requirements that we need to know about please give details in the relevant section on MyTSD and we will endeavour to meet your needs.
Please make staff aware so that assistance can be provided.
Guests are able to sit anywhere in the venue apart from the reserved seating which will be clearly marked.
Entrance to the venue is by ticket only and tickets must be handed to the Stewards on the doors.
Doors will open for guests approximately one hour before the start of the ceremony.
Graduands must wear academic dress throughout the duration of their ceremony.
All attendees normally wear relatively formal attire.
At the start of the ceremony, graduates and guests will stand as the academic staff process into the hall.
Following a welcome, you will be addressed by the Vice-Chancellor and/or other senior officials of the University.
After a reading of the Proclamation, graduates will be presented to the Vice-Chancellor (or her nominee).
You will be prompted by staff to move forward in the order you are seated.
A presenter will read out your name at which point you will ascend the stage, walk towards the Vice-Chancellor, doff and shake her hand.
You will then leave the stage and return back to your seat.
The Vice-Chancellor will then ask all students to stand and she will then formally congratulate you.
You should “doff” in response and remain standing to receive the University’s Greetings.
Looking towards the Vice-Chancellor, nod your head slightly and either touch the front peak of your cap or raise it very slightly.
The length of the ceremony depends on the number of students attending, but are normally between an hour and 2 hours in duration.
Other than for your presentation you and your guests are required to remain in your seat for the duration of the ceremony.
You MUST ensure that you have cleared any outstanding academic debts to the University.
Please contact the Finance Office immediately to discuss your options.
If you have outstanding academic debts and have not made arrangements with the Finance Office to clear them, you could be excluded from the graduation ceremonies.
The Alumni Network is our community of graduates.
You’ll automatically become a member once you finish your studies - no need to sign up.
You’ll receive a welcome email, so it’s important to keep your contact details up to date in MyTSD .
Find out more about becoming a New Graduate and what you can access.
Certificates will be posted to graduates within approximately eight weeks of the Award Board.
If after this time you should have any query regarding your certificate, please contact Registry .
Certificates will not be released to students who have not made arrangements with the Finance Office to clear outstanding debts.
From hoodies to ties, teddy bears and coasters, you can purchase a variety of UWTSD merchandise at the Graduation Shop on the UWTSD Shop or visit the merchandise stall on Graduation Day.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/alumni/support-uwtsd:
You may describe your time here as some of the best years of your life, so why not make that a reality for others by giving something back to the University.
We believe that alumni are our greatest supporters and ambassadors.
Your contribution is invaluable in helping us provide the greatest possible experiences for our current and future leaners.
There are a number of ways you can support our current and future students.
We’d love to hear from you if you can offer any support.
By completing the Graduate Outcomes survey, new graduates can help us give current and future learners an insight into opportunities and possible career destinations based on what you report you’re up to 15 months after you finish your studies.
Your say in this survey can also help us evaluate and promote our courses.
Share your knowledge and experiences by heading back to you course or academic discipline to offer a guest lecture or workshop to current students.
You may have a story you’d like to share about your journey after graduating - the impact these stories have on the student experience is invaluable.
It can open up doors and ideas for inspiration.
Does your company have a vacancy to fill?
Why not support fellow UWTSD alumni by posting it on our jobs board available to students and alumni who graduated within the past three years.
Simply create an ‘employer’ account and follow the steps.
We’d also love for you to meet our current students and alumni in person at careers and networking events that are held on our campuses.
Why not come along to one of these to promote your company and share your expertise.
You’ll know that our students will benefit from as much experience as possible when they leave university.
If you are a business owner or in a position within your company to be able to offer work experience or internships and can offer experience relating to any of courses, we’d love to hear from you.
Paint a picture of life after graduation and inspire the next generation by sharing your story through news, case study, or blog that can be used to market and promote UWTSD and your course of study.
A financial contribution to UWTSD, no matter how big or small, can enable students to make life changing decisions and progress in their studies.
Donations play a vital role in ensuring that our mission of ‘transforming education, transforming lives’ is underpinned through providing facilities, research, campus experiences and a channel of talent from undergraduate to leaders in industry, irrespective of financial circumstance, providing access to higher education for all.
Regular or single donations can go towards a number of funds and our donors are welcome to specify where they would like their contributions to go.
We are also open to your ideas so if you would like to discuss a fundraising project, get in touch .
If you would like to make a donation specifically to our Lampeter campus, we have a number of funds that you are able to contribute to.
Every contribution - no matter how big or small - will have a lasting impact on the students of Lampeter, and those to come.
This fund supports a range of widening access projects that seek to give access to higher education to students from non-traditional backgrounds.
This will include establishing regional support groups and workshops to provide students with an access route to studying at Lampeter.
This fund supports initiatives that enhance the student experience on campus and contribute significantly to campus life, by providing financial support for excursions, field-trip costs, research trips and more.
When you make a Gift Aid donation, we can reclaim from HM Revenue & Customs the basic rate tax which you have already paid on your gift.
This increases the value of your gift to us by 25%, at no extra cost to you.
If you are a higher rate taxpayer, you can also claim the difference between the higher rate and basic rate tax on the total value of your gift to the University on your Self Assessment tax return.
You may wish to leave a donation to the University in your will, with the sum being paid out of your estate on your death.
The following are examples of typical clauses that could be used in a will, although you should note the important disclaimer at the foot of this page.
Monetary Gift – a gift of a fixed sum of money for the general purposes of the University
“I give [the sum of £_______] to the Lampeter Alumni Office, University of Wales Trinity Saint David, College Street, Lampeter, Ceredigion, SA48 7ED (registered Charity Number 1149535).
It is my wish that it shall be applied for the benefit of said University wherever the University considers the funds could be best used at the time of receipt.
On realisation of the bequest, a receipt from the Vice-Chancellor or other authorised officer shall be sufficient discharge for my executors.
“
Specific Gift – a gift of specific item(s) for the general purposes of the University
“I give [insert details of specific item(s)] to the Lampeter Alumni Office, University of Wales Trinity Saint David, College Street, Lampeter, Ceredigion, SA48 7ED (registered Charity Number 1149535).
On realisation of the bequest, a receipt from the Vice- Chancellor or other authorised officer shall be sufficient discharge for my executors.”
Residuary Gift – a gift of the whole of the residuary estate for the general purposes of the University
“I give all of my residuary estate to the Lampeter Alumni Office, University of Wales Trinity Saint David, College Street, Lampeter, Ceredigion, SA48 7ED (registered Charity Number 1149535).
Residuary Gift of a percentage of the residuary estate for the general purposes of the University
“I give _____% of my residuary estate [before/after the deduction of Inheritance Tax, if any is payable – it is recommended that specialist legal advice is obtained in this regard] to the Lampeter Alumni Office, University of Wales Trinity Saint David, College Street, Lampeter, Ceredigion, SA48 7ED (registered Charity Number 1149535).
The above suggested clauses are where the gifts are to be used for the University’s general purposes as an educational charity.
If specific charitable aims or specific departments within the University are desired then the following alternatives may be considered:-
[To support students]
“It is my wish that it shall be applied for its general purposes as an educational charity [AND I request that the funds be used for the financial support of students as deemed appropriate by the Registrar and Clerk or other proper officer at that time.]  On realisation of the bequest, a receipt from the Vice- Chancellor or other authorised officer shall be sufficient discharge for my executors.”
[To a specific faculty/school/department]
“It is my wish that the gift be used within the [faculty/school or department] in such a way as the University Registrar and Clerk or other proper officer at that time shall deem appropriate.
In the event that the said [faculty/school/department] shall cease to exist or amalgamate with another faculty, department, school or college or changes its name before my death then I request that the University apply the said gift to such other faculty, department or school within the University as the Registrar and Clerk or other proper officer shall in his or her absolute discretion think fit.
If it is intended to benefit a particular location, for example Lampeter or Carmarthen Campus, then the suggested wording for a specific faculty/school/department should be used but amended accordingly.
“I give the sum of £10,000 to the Lampeter Alumni Office, University of Wales Trinity Saint David, College Street, Lampeter, Ceredigion, SA48 7ED (registered Charity Number 1149535).
It is my wish that the gift be used within the Faculty of Humanities at Lampeter in such a way as the University Registrar and Clerk or other proper officer at that time shall deem appropriate.
In the event that the said Faculty of Humanities at Lampeter shall cease to exist or amalgamate with another faculty, department, school or college or changes its name before my death then I request that the University apply the said gift to such other faculty or school within the University as the Registrar and Clerk or other proper officer shall in his or her absolute discretion think fit.
The above suggested clauses are examples of clauses which may be used in a Will in order to make gifts to the University and may not be appropriate in every circumstance.
Therefore, these clauses should not be relied upon without first seeking specialist legal advice, particularly as to the implications of Inheritance Tax.
The University will not be responsible to any person who uses the above example clauses without taking their own legal advice.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/alumni/update-your-details:
We rely on our alumni to let us know when their details have changed.
If you’d like to hear from us, please submit your latest information in our form below.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about:
The University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD) has an ambitious mission.
We aim to transform education and by doing so transform the lives of the individuals and communities we serve.
The University is part of the UWTSD Group, a confederation of several institutions which includes Coleg Sir Gâr and Coleg Ceredigion as constituent colleges.
August 2017 saw the integration of the University of Wales and the University of Wales Trinity Saint David.
The UWTSD Group offers a continuum from further to higher education for the benefit of learners, employers and communities.
The University’s history began in 1822 with the founding of our Lampeter campus.
It enjoys the accolade of being the birthplace of higher education in Wales.
The University’s 1828 Royal Charter is the oldest of any university in Wales.
Today, UWTSD is a dynamic institution with campuses Swansea , Carmarthen , Lampeter , Cardiff , London , and Birmingham .
The learner is central to the UWTSD Group and our commitment to providing an excellent learning experience is at the heart of our activities.
We believe that education changes lives and, working in partnership with the Students’ Union, we are committed to supporting learners to achieve their potential within learning environments that are welcoming, inclusive, supportive, and secure.
Our curriculum has been designed to ensure that our students are given the opportunity to develop the graduate attributes required to take their place in a technologically enabled workplace.
Our aim is to develop reflective graduates and practitioners who can make a difference to society.
We are committed to sustainability development and the environment as one of our underpinning values.
It is a theme that is woven into the student experience enabling the UWTSD graduate to develop the right knowledge, skills, and attributes to take their place wherever they may be in the future.
We believe that the University of Wales Trinity Saint David is the connected University; connected through a range of strategic partnerships that we have developed at regional, national, and international level which serve to inspire our learners, staff, and partners.
Our connections extend to public, private, and voluntary sector employers who are working with us to develop relevant programmes and activities to maximise opportunities for jobs growth and investment in the region.
Our campuses act as strategic economic, cultural and social hubs facilitating the delivery of our civic mission.
Over the past two centuries we have evolved, transforming our academic offer to respond to the social and economic needs of the day.
We work with our communities at grassroots levels to provide transformational opportunities, building their capacity, resilience and creating opportunities to reinforce their sense of place and distinctiveness.
We are renowned for enterprise and innovation and for enabling our staff and students to transform ideas into real opportunities and solutions for business.
The focus is on impact and tackling society’s most pressing challenges, working in partnership with employers and providing students and graduates with the skills they need to thrive.
From translational research and innovation, to applied technical skills and enterprise, we are building the capacity of our communities, supporting employers, facilitating job creation, and attracting investment into our communities.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/mission-and-vision:
Our vision is to be a University for Wales, with a commitment to the well-being and heritage of the nation at the heart of all that we do.
Central to our vision is the promotion and embedding of a dual-sector educational system which educates learners of all ages and backgrounds, and stimulates economic development in our region, across Wales and beyond.
Excellent teaching informed by scholarship and professional practice , and applied research that influences knowledge and policy in Wales and beyond.
Inclusivity, by removing barriers to participation and supporting people from all backgrounds and circumstances to fulfil their potential.
Employability and creativity, by offering educational programmes that develop entrepreneurial and creative skills, enabling learners to have the best opportunities to gain employment and to contribute to the prosperity of their communities.
Collaboration through strategic relationships, working with others to provide educational and commercial opportunities and to ensure that Wales is connected to the wider world.
Sustainable development , by behaving in a way which ensures that the needs of the present are met without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs, and by systematically embedding this principle in our approach to teaching and learning.
The concept of global citizenship , through the development of multi-national activities and opportunities for our learners, staff and partners.
Wales and its distinctiveness , through embedding the goals of the Well-Being of Future Generations (Wales) Act in all of our activities, and by celebrating the vibrant culture, heritage and language of Wales.
We are a University that:
Armed Forces Community
University of Sanctuary
UWTSD is dedicated to creating a community of staff and students who support sustainability through social, economic, cultural and environmental responsibility.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/key-dates-20252026:
The following is the standard pattern for term dates for traditional full-time students.
(including 2-Year Accelerated Degrees and 3-Year Degrees)

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/newsroom:
If you’d like to contact the Communications and PR team at UWTSD, please email press@uwtsd.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/rankings-and-awards:
Across a variety of league tables, ratings and awards, we are proud that our rankings consistently show we are there every step of the way to support our students and prepare them for the world of work.
This is demonstrated in the number of our students that go on to work in globally recognised brands.
Often these students come to us as the first in their family to attend university or are already working and wanting to develop their career.
Art, Design and Photography
Film, Media and Animation
Rankings from the subject table of the Guardian University Guide 2025 .
Rankings from the subject table of the Complete University Guide 2026.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/our-institutes:
The University of Wales Trinity Saint David is made up of four Institutes across multi-locations: Swansea, Carmarthen, Cardiff, London, and Birmingham.
The Institute of Education and Humanities (IEH) combines the disciplines of education, psychology, social policy, youth and community and humanities.
The Institute of Management and Health is committed to developing creative, skilled and employable graduates.
The Wales Institute of Science and Art (WISA) brings together the complementary disciplines of science and art in all of its complex possibilities.
The Institute of Inner City Learning is passionate about widening participation and raising aspirations of students from diverse backgrounds by maximising their potential.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/history-and-timeline:
The University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD) was formed on 18 November 2010 through the merger of the University of Wales Lampeter and Trinity University College Carmarthen, under Lampeter’s Royal Charter of 1828.
On 1 August 2013, Swansea Metropolitan University became part of UWTSD.
The University’s Royal Charter is the oldest in Wales and England after the universities of Oxford and Cambridge.
In 2011 HRH the Prince of Wales became its Royal Patron.
The campus was founded in 1822 as St David’s College to provide a liberal education to members of the clergy.
Over the years it developed a range of subjects and, as the University of Wales Lampeter, enjoyed a reputation for undergraduate and postgraduate provision in English, Archaeology, Chinese, Classics, History, Theology, as well as introducing new areas such as Philosophy, Anthropology, Ancient Civilisations and Creative Writing.
Now, as UWTSD, the academic community continues to thrive and the portfolio offered attracts an international cohort of students each year.
The original 1848 building lies at the heart of the Carmarthen campus.
It was initially known as South Wales and Monmouthshire Training College and was established to train teachers for church schools in England and Wales.
It later became known as Trinity College and subsequently Trinity University College before joining forces with the University of Wales Lampeter to create UWTSD.
For most of the twentieth century, there were three separate educational institutions serving the city of Swansea: the Swansea College of Art (established in 1853); the Swansea College of Education (established in 1872) and Swansea Technical College (established in 1895).
In 1976, the three institutions came together to form the West Glamorgan Institute of Higher Education, which eventually became Swansea Institute of Higher Education.
In 2008, the Privy Council gave permission for the institution to be renamed Swansea Metropolitan University and, several years later, the institution merged with the Lampeter and Carmarthen campuses to create the new UWTSD.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/venue-wales:
Looking for the perfect place to hold your next event?
Whether you’re planning a big conference, a small meeting, or a special celebration, the Venue Wales team is here to help it all run smoothly.
Great spaces for meetings, events and special occasions across South-West Wales.
Choose Venue Wales for business meetings and conferences, staff training days, community events, weddings, parties, residential courses and retreats.
Venue Wales is the ideal choice for your meeting, conference or event.
We’re more than just rooms – we’re part of the University of Wales Trinity Saint David , offering helpful staff, welcoming spaces, and a chance to enjoy Wales at its best.
With campuses in Carmarthen , Lampeter , and Swansea , Venue Wales offers bright, comfortable spaces in lovely locations – from peaceful countryside to the heart of the city.
Ready to plan your meeting, conference, or celebration?
Get in touch today to check dates and start planning.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/jobs:
We are proud of our dedicated and talented employees and we work together as a team to make a difference to the lives of our students and the communities we serve.
‘Transforming education, transforming lives’ is our mission.
If you would like to join us on this journey and make a difference too, then we would love to hear from you.
We welcome your interest in working with us and hope that the information below will provide you with an overview of life at the University of Wales Trinity Saint David.
Valuing our People
We are a living wage employer.
Our strong focus on the professional development and wellbeing of our staff ensures that we provide the best support to our students, colleagues, industry partners and wider networks.
Our employees get access to a comprehensive pay and benefits package in recognition of their valued contribution including:
Developing our People
We recognise the important role that learning and development plays in supporting our people to achieve success and to thrive at work.
To help our people work effectively within a transformed workplace and to enable them to progress through the different stages of their careers, we have development frameworks in place to support key themes such as, learning and teaching, leadership and management and digital skills.
Our development programmes provide opportunities for our people to connect with colleagues, be coached or mentored, gain professional accreditations and recognition, and to work on projects that have organisational impacts.
Our annual teaching and learning conference NEXUS, enables colleagues and partners to come together within our learning and teaching community to share best practice, communicate, collaborate, and inspire each other.
We care about our students and staff.
We foster a culture where staff and students work together in partnership and provide an inclusive, supportive, and safe learning environment where all can flourish and are able to fulfil their personal potential.
Our vision is to create a culture of openness and respect in which barriers for those with protected characteristics are identified and removed.
We welcome and encourage applicants from all sections of the community regardless of their backgrounds.
If you work with us, you will become part of our UWTSD family.
Disability Confident
University of Wales Trinity Saint David is committed to improving employment opportunities and career development for disabled people and in recognition of this UWTSD has been certified as a Level 2 Disability Confident Employer.
The University is committed to ensuring that our recruitment process is inclusive and accessible, communicating and promoting all vacancies and offering an interview to applicants with a disability who meet the essential criteria for the post.
Living Wage Employer
We are committed to paying the Living Wage for all employees at the University and are certified as a Living Wage Employer by the Living Wage Foundation.
The real Living Wage is the only UK wage rate that is voluntarily paid by almost 10,000 UK businesses who believe their staff deserve a wage which meets everyday needs.
Flexible working
We promote a flexible workforce and the University will consider applications from individuals seeking full time, part time, job share, or term time only working arrangements and this will apply to all posts that we advertise.
Gender Equality
University of Wales Trinity Saint David is committed to fairness and transparency in relation to its pay arrangements for staff and publishes data in line with the gender pay gap reporting guidelines, although it is not a legal requirement in Wales.
The University also has an active women’s network that share information and support to female staff or those individuals that identify as female, that have registered their interest to join.
They have an active Teams site where they share information and stories of inspiring females.
Welsh Language
We have a proud tradition as a bilingual institution, committed to the Welsh Language and you are welcome to apply for any job in Welsh or English and all applications submitted will be treated equally.
Ensure you checkout our Welsh medium site , especially if you wish to apply in the Welsh language and where Welsh language is deemed essential to the role.
Whilst having Welsh language skills has not been deemed an essential criteria for all roles based in Wales, it would be expected that the successful candidate would have an appreciation and understanding of the bilingual nature of the University and willing to learn and use basic greetings.
Race Equality Charter
University of Wales Trinity Saint David is one of over 100 institutions to become a member of the Race Equality Charter (REC), part of Advance HE.
Nationally recognised, the charter promotes the representation, progress and success of Black, Asian and minority ethnic staff and students in the Higher Education sector.
We recognise that racial inequalities continue to exist within society and in the HE sector as a whole.
Our UWTSD Race Equality Plan was written collaboratively with student and staff representatives in 2021 and outlines our commitment to taking a strategic approach to making cultural and systemic changes that will make a real difference to our minority ethnic staff and students.
Stonewall Diversity Champions
UWTSD is working hard to create an inclusive University for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans, and Queer + (LGBTQ+) staff, to provide a safe, open, supportive and relaxed environment and inclusive culture in teaching and learning through continuous improvement and engagement.
We are proud to be a Stonewall Diversity Champion and aim to embed LGBTQ+ inclusion at the heart of the University through our LGBTQ+ staff network and our work with Stonewall and other education providers.
Right to Work in the UK
For jobs that are academic, research or highly specialist, the University may be able to obtain Skilled Worker sponsorship.
For all other jobs, we will not be able to consider your application if you are not eligible to work in the UK.
If you have any queries please contact our HR team .
For further information please visit the UK Government Website.
Your Data
As part of any recruitment process, UWTSD collects and processes personal data relating to job applicants.
Please refer to the Job Applicant Privacy Notice for more information on how we manage and protect your data.
Contact us
If you would like more information about any of our vacancies, please email our jobs team and a member of the HR team will get back to you.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/finance-department:
The Finance Department aims to support the University in planning, managing and maximising value by providing a cost effective, efficient and professional financial service which includes advice, direction, guidance and support to all members of the University in order to achieve its objectives in a sustainable, controlled and accountable way.
Email: fees@uwtsd.ac.uk
Carmarthen Campus Second floor, Dewi Building, directly above Reception Tel: 01792 481050
Tuition Fees Kim Reynolds – 01267 676837 fees@uwtsd.ac.uk
Student Payments Nicola Evans – 01792 481050 Kim Reynolds – 01267 676837 Emma Stevens – 01792 483693 fees@uwtsd.ac.uk
Debt Recovery fees@uwtsd.ac.uk
Accommodation Fees Jean Thomas – 01267 676819 accommodation@uwtsd.ac.uk
For Accounts Receivable queries please email fees@uwtsd.ac.uk and we will attend to your query.
For Accounts Payable queries please email pladmin@uwtsd.ac.uk and we will attend to your query
The Finance Office is situated on the second floor of Dewi Building and our opening hours are as follows:
Monday–Friday 9:00–16:00
Address Finance Department University of Wales Trinity Saint David College Road Carmarthen Carmarthenshire SA31 3EP
Monday–Friday 09:00–16:00
Address University of Wales Trinity Saint David Technium 1 Kings Road Swansea SA1 8PH

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/events:
Join us at the Promoting Excellence Conference 2025
Nature/Wellbeing Walk Join our nature/wellbeing walk around the site.
We will gently amble and notice nature.
This will help also help us to pay attention to each other and ourselves.
Join UWTSD for an informative seminar on the Professional Practice Framework.
Tailor your studies to meet your needs, entirely based on your field of work.
The session will be guided by Senior Lecturers Sarah Loxdale and Lowri Harris, where they will walk you through the possibilities.
Knowledge Exchange Symposium 2025

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/clearing-registration:
Speak to us about your Clearing course options.
Sign up below for clearing advice and guidance.
We will provide hints and tips throughout the clearing period to help you navigate clearing.
We will send regular emails throughout clearing to help you make the right decision for you before, during and after results day.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/clearing/student-finance-clearing-guide:
Clearing is your fresh start – whether you’re rethinking your path, making a late decision, or returning to education.
Once you’ve secured your place at UWTSD, the next step is sorting your student finance.
Even if you haven’t applied for student finance yet, don’t worry – there’s still time.
From tuition fees and maintenance loans to cost of living support and bursaries, this guide walks you through the essential information and application steps for Clearing students.
Let’s make sure your finances are ready for your next chapter.
What Student Financing Options are Available for Clearing Students?
When it comes to university, budgeting is just as important as your course choice.
Whether you’re coming from Wales, England, Scotland or Northern Ireland, here’s a breakdown of what you could receive:
Region
Tuition Fee Support
Living Cost Support
Wales
Tuition Loan up to £9,250
Grant and loan combination (income-based)
England
Maintenance loan (income-based)
Scotland
NI
International
Local Student Financing, Scholarships or self-funded
Contact international.registry@uwtsd.ac.uk
At UWTSD, we know that managing the cost of living is just as important as covering tuition.
Our campuses offer budget-friendly perks including low-cost meals, affordable accommodation, and access to free groceries and essentials – all to help your money go further.
How to Apply for Student Finance as a Clearing Student
Step 1: Apply (or Update Your Details) If you haven’t already applied, apply online through your country’s funding body: - England - Wales - Scotland - Northern Ireland If you have applied, update your course and university details now to avoid delays.
Step 2: Upload and Sign Submit any required supporting documents.
Sign and return your online declaration – this is essential for payments to be processed.
Step 3: Stay in the Loop Monitor your student finance portal and email for updates.
Contact your funding provider if anything is unclear or delayed.
Bursaries that are Available to you during Clearing
At UWTSD, we’re committed to making education affordable and accessible.
That’s why we offer a range of bursaries tailored to your circumstances.
These include:
Explore all the bursary options available to you on our undergraduate funding support page
Cost of Living Support from Us
At the University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD), we understand that managing day-to-day living costs is a key concern for many students.
That’s why we offer a range of practical support services to help you stay financially stable throughout your studies.
Student Financial Support Fund This fund is designed to assist students facing unexpected financial difficulties.
If you’ve accessed all your statutory funding and are still struggling, you may be eligible for a non-repayable grant to help with essential living costs.
Community Cupboard Initiative Based at the Dylan Thomas Centre, this initiative provides free groceries and everyday essentials to students and local families in need.
It’s part of our commitment to sustainability and community wellbeing.
Money Advice and Budgeting Support Our dedicated Money Support team offers one-to-one advice on budgeting, managing your finances, and accessing available funding – so you can focus on your studies without added stress.
For full details and to access support, visit our Money Support page .
Reach Out if you have any questions or specific requirements, don’t hesitate to contact the Finance Team.
We’re here to help you secure funding to get you started on your next steps.
“The university’s Money Support was a lifeline during a challenging time.
The staff were incredibly supportive and understanding, making the process smooth and stress free.
The financial help I received eased my worries and allowed me to focus on my studies”
We’re here to help.
Our friendly Student Services team offers 1:1 financial guidance sessions to support you every step of the way.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/clearing/accommodation-clearing-guide:
Thinking of applying for a place at UWTSD through Clearing?
After securing your spot on your ideal course, your next key step is finding the right student accommodation.
Whichever campus you’ll be studying at, UWTSD provides a range of accommodation options to meet your needs and ensure a smooth transition to university life.
With the support of the UWTSD Accommodation Team, you’ll be guided through your choices every step of the way – whether you’re after a uni room, or private accommodation.
On-campus Accommodation (Carmarthen campus only)
If you’re studying at the Carmarthen campus, we offer on-campus self-catered flats.
These flats contain single student rooms with shared kitchen and lounge facilities, creating a great space for both study and socialising.
This is an excellent option for those looking for accommodation in Carmarthen.
To apply for accommodation university managed housing, visit the Hallpad Application Portal.
While we strive to meet your student accommodation preferences, we cannot guarantee specific room types or allocations.
If your requested uni room is unavailable, we will offer the closest match based on availability.
In case we cannot offer university accommodation, we will assist you in finding suitable private accommodation.
Private Student Accommodation Providers (Swansea SA1 campus)
For those studying at in Swansea, UWTSD has partnered with private student accommodation providers near the SA1 campus, offering various living options with easy access to university facilities.
These options are perfect for students looking for swansea accomodation that’s modern, convenient, and close to campus.
Private Properties
For more independent options, platforms like UniHomes and StuRents offer a variety of student houses for rent, from shared flats to studios for students.
These platforms cater to different preferences and budgets, making it easier to find the right private student lettings near to where you will study.
Before you make a decision, consider the following:
Once you’ve found a property you like, contact the provider directly – you can usually apply online or by phone for more details.
Living at Home
Some students choose to live at home during their studies, especially if they live within commuting distance of the campus.
This option can be more cost-effective and may offer a supportive environment for your academic journey.
However, it’s important to consider travel time, transport costs.
If you decide to live at home, plan your time on campus for lectures, study sessions, and to engage in student clubs and societies.
Applying for accommodation through Clearing is simple.
The best way to apply is through our Hallpad application portal.
Rooms are allocated on a first-come, first-served basis, so we encourage you to apply as soon as you’ve confirmed your place at UWTSD.
While we aim to accommodate your preferences, specific room types or allocations are not guaranteed.
If your desired option is unavailable, we will offer the next closest match based on current availability.
If we cannot offer UWTSD managed Swansea accommodation or on-campus Carmarthen housing , the Accommodation Team will support you in finding suitable private accommodation , whether through UniHome , Unihousing , or other student lettings services.
Reach Out if you have any questions or specific requirements, don’t hesitate to contact the Accommodation Team.
We’re here to help you secure your ideal student room.
To get a better feel for what life is like at UWTSD, check out the Swansea Student Living video .
This video gives insight into the vibrant student community, showcasing various student accommodation options and real student experiences.
If you’re ready to start your journey, the UWTSD Accommodation Team is here to help you find the best student housing for you.
We can’t wait to welcome you to UWTSD.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/clearing/clearing-levels:
Congratulations on your A Level studies.
You can use your results to help you to secure the right university place for you in Clearing.
A Level results are released in England and Wales on 14 August 2025 (SQA’s are published in Scotland on 5 August 2025).
However, even before results day, there is early prep you can do if you are considering Clearing as a option for you.
Once you have collected your results, firstly, remember to celebrate your achievements and hard work.
You can log onto the UCAS Track Hub to find your results and confirm whether you have been accepted by your firm or insurance choice university.
If not, then take your time to calmly plan your next steps.
You will need:
Having all your key information to hand will help ensure that your Clearing experience is streamlined and stress free.
When finding the right university course for you through Clearing, consider what elements of your A Level studies that you enjoyed the most and think about your long term career goals.
Be open to alternative courses that you might not have previously considered, and look at different course formats, such as join honours or foundation level courses.
UCAS Clearing Plus provides personalised course suggestions based on your profile and applications, and can also highlight options you might not have considered.
Also, talk to our Clearing team , who will help you understand different course options and guide you through finding the best course to suit you.
Remember, that you can also combine your A Level qualifications with other qualifications that you may also have, such as BTECS, to meet the entry requirements for undergraduate programmes at UWTSD.
This flexibility ensures you can present the strongest possible application.
We understand that applying through Clearing can be overwhelming, but UWTSD is here to support you every step of the way.
Whether you choose to call us , email or attend one of our clearing open days, make sure you make the most of the advice that is open to you.
Here are 3 things to think about that our dedicated teams are on hand to help with:
Once you have accepted a clearing offer, attending one of our Clearing Visit Days will give you the opportunity to get a feel for student life at UWTSD.
You can look at facilities and teaching spaces and talk to staff and students, to make sure that you are making the right university choice for you.
Applying through Clearing with A Levels doesn’t have to be stressful .
Your A Level qualifications will be well suited to many different undergraduate courses at UWTSD.
Start your journey today by researching your options, registering your interest , and taking proactive steps to secure your future.
Call our Clearing Hotline at 0300 323 1828 or explore our website for more information.
Good luck, and we look forward to welcoming you to UWTSD.
UCAS points equivalent for BTEC Extended Diplomas are:

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-btecs:
BTECs are a great foundation when applying to University, and we warmly welcome applicants with BTEC qualifications to make an application through clearing to study with us.
Your practical skills and experience are highly valued and will be well-suited to many of our courses.
If you haven’t yet secured a university place, Clearing can offer you the opportunity to find the right course and university.
BTEC National results are released on the same day as A Levels, however you may have received some of your BTEC results earlier.
Here’s what you can do to start preparing early for the Clearing process:
Once you have completed your search for possible options in clearing, register your interest with us, let us know what interests you and we will keep in touch and let you know about opportunities open to you with us in Clearing.
If you are exploring your options through Clearing, once you have your results it is important that you are organised and have key information you will need to make an application to hand, so get organised.
When making a Clearing application you will need:
Although, entry requirements vary by course, your BTEC qualifications will prepare you well for a wide range of undergraduate courses.
Consider what elements of your BTEC studies you enjoyed the most and think about your long term career goals to help to find the right course for you in Clearing .
Be flexible.
You may want to consider alternative courses to your original choice?
Remember, that you can also combine your BTEC qualifications with other qualifications that you may also have, such as A-Levels, to meet the entry requirements for undergraduate programmes at UWTSD.
This flexibility ensures you can present the strongest possible application.
Talk to our Clearing team , who will help you understand different course options and guide you through finding the best course to suit you.
Whether you choose to call us , email or attend one of our clearing open days, make sure you make the most of the advice that is open to you and there are 3 big things to think about that our dedicated teams are on hand to help with:
Once you have your clearing offer, attending one of our Clearing Open Days will give you the opportunity to get a feel for student life at UWTSD and ask the key questions so you know you are making the right choice for you and your goals.
Clearing is an excellent opportunity to secure a place in a university course that matches with your aspirations.
With your BTEC qualifications, you have a strong practical foundation that can open many doors at UWTSD.
The most common types of BTEC qualifications include:

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-access-courses:
Access courses provide a great route to university for students who have been out of the education system for some time, or who might not have the traditional qualifications to study at university.
Students of all ages and diverse backgrounds undertake Access courses.
Clearing runs from July to October and is a great opportunity to use your Access qualifications to secure a place on a university course that suits you.
You may receive the results of your Access Course before other results, such as A Levels, are published.
If you are still looking for a university place, then you can use this time to ensure that you are ready for Clearing.
If you have already applied to university, then on results day, log in to UCAS Track to see if you have been accepted by your firm or insurance choice.
If, not, you’ll automatically be entered into Clearing.
If you haven’t already applied via UCAS, then you can also make a late application via Clearing too.
Having all your key information to hand will help ensure that your Clearing experience is straightforward and stress-free.
Your Access qualifications will prepare you for a wide range of undergraduate courses .
Consider what elements of your Access studies you enjoyed the most and choose a university course that fits with your longer-term career goals.
Prepare to be adaptable and be open to alternative course options that may be available during Clearing.
Remember, that you may also be able to combine your Access qualifications with other qualifications or experience that you have.
Talk to our Clearing team , who will help you understand different course options and guide you through finding the best university course to suit you.
We understand that applying through Clearing can be a busy time, with lots to think about.
Staying positive and proactive during the Clearing process can make a big difference.
There are many sources of information you can access.
Websites such as UCAS and The Student Room may be useful to look at.
UWTSD is also here to support you every step of the way.
Whether you choose to call us , email or attend one of our Clearing Open Days, make sure you ask for guidance where needed and make the most of support and advice that is open to you.
In addition to your course choice, then there are 3 big things to think about that our dedicated teams are on hand to help with:
Once you have received a clearing offer, take some time to weigh up your options and make the right decision for yourself.
Attending one of our Clearing Open Days will give you a wider opportunity to get a feel for student life at UWTSD and ask the key questions so you know you are making the right choice for you and your goals.
Once you have made your decision, you can confirm your university place through UCAS Track .
Clearing is an excellent opportunity to secure a place on your chosen university course, using your Access Qualifications.
At UWTSD  we highly value the wider experience that Access student often bring to university.
Remember, an Access Course has already shown your commitment and ability to succeed.
University is the next step in your educational journey.
Register your interest, using our Clearing enquiry form , call our Clearing Hotline at 0300 323 1828 or explore our website for more information.
As well as providing academic subject knowledge, an Access course will also teach you essential study skills, such as research techniques, essay writing, time management, critical thinking and real-world skills.
An Access Course is a good foundation to enable you to succeed at university.
Many Access courses include practical and vocational elements and cover a wide range of subjects, providing really valuable skills for those wishing to progress onto their chosen degree programme .
To qualify for a university place through an Access to Higher Education Diploma, you’ll usually need to complete 60 credits at Level 3.
This can be achieved full-time over one year or part-time across two or more years.
Successful completion of an Access course can award you up to 144 UCAS Points, which is the equivalent of obtaining three A grades at A Level.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-guide-parents-carers:
Clearing is a recognised and exciting pathway for entry into university, opening the door to new opportunities and experiences.
However, for those navigating through the process to find their ideal university course it can, at times, feel overwhelming.
Your role as a parent, carer or supporter, is helpful in ensuring that the Clearing journey is a positive experience.
If Clearing could be a potential option for the person that you are supporting, then undertaking early research around potential courses and universities is useful.
The UCAS website is a useful place to look at all university courses on offer or search directly using our subject areas .
Be calm and positive and offer reassurance that Clearing is a common route into university and many students find the right course for them during this process.
On results day, provide emotional support to those collecting their exam results.
Give reassurance and celebrate their efforts regardless of the outcome.
If a student has applied to university via UCAS, they can then log onto the UCAS Hub on results day to firstly confirm that they have been accepted onto firm or insurance offer.
Even if their exam results are not what they had expected, their firm or insurance institutions may have still accepted the student and confirmed their place.
For those who have not received any offers or didn’t meet the conditions of their firm or insurance choice, then they will be eligible for, and automatically be entered into Clearing.
In this scenario, firstly encourage the student to stay positive and calm.
This experience can seem overwhelming, however, there will be alternative options and opportunities for the person that you are supporting.
Encourage the student to consider alternative course or institution choices.
Work through some additional research with them to look at other potential options.
Potential students will need to have their UCAS details and exam results to hand and can then begin to contact other universities to enquiry about alternative course places that may still be available.
Submitting a Clearing enquiry form is a useful first step .
Complete our Clearing Enquiry Form : Once the student has found the course they are looking for, they can register their interest, this will allow us to keep you up-to-date with information about our courses and Clearing .
Students may contact universities directly to discuss course availability and suitability.
It is important that they take their time to find the right option for them.
Making calls to university admissions may seem daunting, however, our friendly Clearing hotline is equipped to answer queries that the student may have.
Call our Clearing Hotline : Students can contact us at 0300 323 1828 to discuss their options.
It is important that students are organised and have key information available to make a Clearing application.
They will need:
Having this information to hand will help ensure that the Clearing process is streamlined and stress free.
We understand that applying through Clearing can be overwhelming, but we are here to support students every step of the way.
Whether they choose to call us , or enquire , make sure they make the most of the advice that is open to them.
In addition to their course choice, there are 3 big things to think about that our dedicated teams are on hand to help with:
Once they have secured a course offer through Clearing, you can provide useful encouragement, support and advice.
It is important that they don’t rush their decision making.
Now is also a good opportunity to find out more about the course or university.
Consider visiting the university.
During Clearing, UWTSD has Open Day and visit opportunities .
Campus tours or virtual tours are an ideal way to get a feel for a place, check out facilities and accommodation as well as meeting staff and fellow students.
Once the person that you are supporting has decided to accept an offer of study.
They will need to formally accept via the UCAS Hub .
Once on the UCAS site they will need to Click on Add Clearing Choice.
You can support them to fill in their details and accept their Clearing offer.
Once this is done their chosen university can formally confirm their place.
If a student is unsure about taking up a Clearing course offer, you could further support them by discussing alternative options.
This might include taking a gap year, gaining work experience, or reapplying next year.
Exploring alternatives could alleviate some pressure and could also open up new opportunities.
Once a place is confirmed, you can provide further support by preparing the student for university.
Encourage them to keep an eye out for information around student finance, accommodation and start dates.
Continue to celebrate all successes.
Securing a place through Clearing is an achievement and a testament to resilience and adaptability, leading to an exciting new chapter in their educational journey.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-and-pgce/wales-academy-professional-practice-and-applied-research-wappar:
WAPPAR is a centre for excellence in practice development and learning offering bespoke CPD/programmes from short courses to doctorates to professionals and their organisations.
For the complete guide to our services and offers download our prospectus:
Our thought leaders in professional learning support our Doctoral/Master’s research groups and our research/consultancy offer.
WAPPAR is at the forefront of research and evaluation in practice and development.
Our faculty maintain their own individual research profiles as well as run Doctoral research groups in Coaching and Mentoring.
Our unique Doctorate in Professional Practice welcomes senior practitioners across sectors and disciplines.
Join our international Doctoral community with candidates from Hong Kong, America, and Europe.
Impactful and innovative research solutions to real-world challenges.
Our Doctoral candidates have produced three books in the last year!
Research is at the heart of our work in professional development so you can be assured that our provision is at the cutting edge of practice.
Our lead faculty: Prof Stephen Palmer, Dr Annette Fillery-Travis and Dr Christine Davies are some of the most productive and well-cited researchers in coaching, mentoring, coaching psychology, stress and wellbeing, professional learning, doctoral education, e-learning, and organisational change whilst maintaining a true focus on the needs of their doctoral candidates.
We have a thriving research group in coaching and mentoring that meets monthly in London and can offer doctoral supervision in a range of areas.
If you would like to join us on your own research journey then please see our doctoral programmes here.
The WAPPAR has created a fellowship opportunity at this pivotal time at the Institute.
We have recently adopted a new strategic plan that gives us the bold goal of becoming a leader in work-based learning, coaching, mentoring, and wellbeing.
We are asking new questions of ourselves, our candidates, and the fields in which we work.
We are looking much more deeply into issues related to organisational performance and well-being, where we need better evidence, better ideas, and new thinking.
We wish to partner with qualified people who can join us in exploring some key challenges in our work.
Each fellow will participate in a range of WAPPAR activities, including but not limited to:
Fellows will have the opportunity to apply their lived, professional, and academic experience to think about new and existing challenges to bring new perspectives to our work.
If this opportunity appeals to you then please email coaching@uwtsd.ac.uk .
The WAPPAR Coaching Society brings together cutting-edge research with practitioner seminars underpinned by a Master’s programme and Doctorate route.
We are a community of practice of coaching and mentoring practitioners and academics from around the world dedicated to the development of coaching and mentoring.
Our vision is to form a community of best practice, research, and enquiry into coaching and mentoring practice drawing upon the expertise of practitioners, organisations and academics to encourage practitioner-led enquiry and dialogue with coaching and mentoring peers and partners.
By research, we mean the whole continuum of enquiries we undertake from individual reflective practice through to large-scale multi-partner research projects.
For researchers who are interested in improving practice from individual practitioners interested in using the most up-to-date information and tools to sustain the cutting-edge of their offer to clients through to full-time academics interested in individual learning and change.
But, more importantly, our Society aims to learn from each other, share experiences, and seek to develop the best practice for coaching and mentoring practitioners.
We will achieve this through:
All Coaching and Mentoring Students receive annual free membership.
Contact Coaching and Mentoring in the Workplace to join:
At the Wales Academy for Professional Practice and Applied Research (WAPPAR), we offer a range of Coaching and Mentoring learning and development options for individuals up to Masters level and for organisational cohorts.
The Coaching and Mentoring Programme at the Academy has been developed to provide learning and practice in coaching and mentoring from levels 4 to7.
The Coaching and Mentoring Programme draws upon the vast experience of our team, who have worked across all sectors, and so provides you with the assurance of quality in provision.
We work with you if you are starting to build coaching skills, further developing your professional practice in the field of coaching and mentoring.
Or, if you are an experienced practitioner, you can develop your own learning pathway with the support of our lecturing team.
We can also support your development should you wish to develop this specialism within your leadership or human resource role.
We also host are also a community of practice for coaching practitioners interested in building a body of knowledge through regular masterclasses and an annual coaching and mentoring conference.
Whether you are looking to commission a bespoke programme to meet your organisational needs or you are an individual seeking to start or develop your practice, we will work with you to develop a route that is best for you.
You can study from a range of modules, or we can develop a programme tailored specifically for your own needs.
Suggested Programme Structure if you are a novice coach or mentor:
Initially, the programme includes a series of taught workshops where you will have the opportunity to explore the theoretical basis for coaching and mentoring and the approaches that can inform a coherent model of practice.
You will also have opportunities to develop your practical skills through peer-to-peer coaching and mentoring practice.
You will then extend your focus beyond the personal and explore the context of the coaching in terms of organisational change and you will discover the basis of systemic change and the role of the individual as the enabler.
Further studies can be undertaken whereby you develop your understanding of appropriate research methodologies that will support the final piece of academic work, your work-based project.
This requires you to critically investigate an aspect of coaching or mentoring that resonates with you, and so it could be a gap in the market you have identified, a change you wish to implement in your organisation, or a new business venture you wish to research.
At all stages, you will be supported by your supervisor to help ensure your work is methodologically sound and who guides and supports you through your studies.
For experienced coaches, there is an opportunity to claim credit for prior learning and the prospect of making an application to bring credits to your qualification from prior and certificated learning achieved at level 7.
For example, the type of learning that can be recognised include:
If you think that you could be in the position to take advantage of this ‘fast track’ option for the Masters then please discuss it with the programme leader before making your application to join the programme.
Whether you want a short course for your people or a complete L&D package, including accreditation of your own training, we can partner with you.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/undergraduate-fees:
Tuition fees for undergraduates will apply to any students applying from the UK, Channel Islands, Isle of Man and Ireland.
Overseas and EU students should visit our international tuition fees pages.
Tuition fees are £9,535 for September 2025 entry .
This fee corresponds with available loans from Student finance organisations.
This includes Bachelor’s courses and preliminary courses such as CertHE, DipHE and Foundation courses.
Part-time undergraduate courses are charged per credit.
A typical Bachelors with Honors degree is 360 credits in total.
For 2025/26 the fee per credit is £39 .
The fee for 60 credits would be £2,340 .
Other courses such as Integrated Masters, International Foundation Programme and courses with a placement year have non-standard fees.
Please see our Tuition Fee Schedule.
Students are being approached by individuals offering to pay their fees at reduced rates or under special conditions.
Fraudsters may present themselves as legitimate agencies or associates, they may be a friend.
Never respond to these offers and always pay your tuition fees direct to UWTSD using the authorised payment methods.
We understand that financing your education is a key part of your university journey.
Whether you’re a Welsh domiciled student, coming from England, Scotland, or Northern Ireland, we’re here to support you in navigating the financial aspects of your studies.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/applying-finance/fees-and-finance/undergraduate-fees/undergraduate-scholarships:
Our scholarships celebrate determination, commitment and achievement in a variety of areas, from rewarding academic excellence to celebrating success outside of your studies, overcoming adversity, and inspiring others.
Many of our scholarships are awarded automatically.
There are some however, where you will be involved in an application or nomination process.
Here is a list of our scholarships:
Distance Learning Scholarship (up to £1,000)
These scholarships are for students who have previously studied at The University of Wales Trinity Saint David
UWTSD 200 Year Anniversary Scholarship Home and International Students - £3,000
UWTSD Wales Global Academy Scholarship Home and International Students - £3,000
UWTSD Commonwealth Country Scholarship Home and Overseas Students -£3,000
UWTSD Wales Global Scholarship Home and Overseas Students - £5,000
There are also a range of Bursaries available.
We offer a suite of bursaries to support our students, whether that’s to make university more affordable or to help students overcome barriers to entry.
Our bursary team look at each bursary individually on a case-by-case basis.
Please visit our bursaries pages for more information.
Understanding the costs of university is an important part of your journey.
Visit our Undergraduate fees pages to find out more about what to expect and how you can finance the first step in your academic journey.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/undergraduate-fees/undergraduate-funding-support:
Play video: Applying for Student Finance, advice from the University of Wales Trinity Saint David
Regardless of where you live, the application process for student finance is straightforward.
You can apply online through the relevant student finance authority for your country.
It’s important to apply early to ensure that your funding is in place before you start.
If you have any questions or need assistance with your student finance application, our teams are here to help.
Feel free to contact us for support and guidance throughout the process.
We’re committed to making higher education accessible to all students, and our student finance support is just one way we strive to achieve this.
Don’t let financial concerns hold you back from pursuing your academic ambitions—apply for student finance today and start your journey with us.
If you’re a student living in Wales, you have access to financial support through Student Finance Wales .
This support includes tuition fee loans to cover the cost of your course fees , as well as maintenance loans and grants to assist with living expenses.
Here’s a brief overview of what you may be eligible for:
If you live in England, you can access financial support through the Student Finance England (SFE) .
Similar to Welsh domiciled students, you may be eligible for tuition fee loans and maintenance support to cover your living expenses.
Here’s what you need to know:
Students domiciled in Scotland can access financial support through the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS) .
This support includes tuition fee funding and maintenance loans to help with living expenses.
Students domiciled in Northern Ireland can access financial support through Student Finance Northern Ireland .
This support includes tuition fee loans and maintenance loans to help with living expenses.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/undergraduate-fees/undergraduate-funding-support/undergraduate-bursaries:
We have a variety of bursaries which are granted to students based on need and come in the form of fee waivers.
This bursary is for students under 25 from a care-experienced background to assist with initial costs of resources and equipment.
Award Value: Up to £1000
This bursary is to assist all students who have or are being assessed as having a disability with any costs directly associated with their disability to facilitate their studies.
Award Value: Up to £700
This bursary is for students under 25 who are estranged from their parents.
This bursary is for Level 5 or 6 BAME or traveller home students wishing to undertake research or performance activity.
Award Value: Up to £500
This bursary is for students who are carers and/or parents with childcare costs.
This bursary is for students from WIMD 40 Widening Participation areas.
Award Value: Up to £100
This bursary is to provide support for students with UK asylum-seeking or refugee status.
Award Value: Up to £250
This bursary is to provide assistance with wellbeing support.
Each Academic Institute at the University is offering bursaries up to £500 to support enrolled students in their first semester of their first year of study at the University.
The Women in STEM Academic Excellence Bursary awards up to £500 to any undergraduate student who self-identifies as a woman and is on one of our STEM courses.
A specific progression bursary for undergraduate home students from Coleg Sir Gar and Coleg Ceredigion.
Students living in Wales who are in higher education and who study part-time may have their fees waived if they meet certain conditions, dependent on when they started their course.
Award Value: Fee waiver
This bursary is to assist with career development and work experience costs.
This bursary is to assist with course-related costs.
This bursary is for assistance with a device or internet costs.
Award Value: Up to £300
This bursary is to support graduates in financial difficulty with the associated costs of attending their graduation ceremony.
This bursary is to assist with costs associated with compulsory placement activity.
This bursary is to assist any full-time UK undergraduate students taking part in a semester abroad at one of our partner universities.
This bursary is for students undertaking modules through the medium of Welsh.
Award Value: Up to £900

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/undergraduate-fees/undergraduate-funding-support/undergraduate-bursaries-2:
For students under 25 from a care-experienced background:
Care experienced students (3 months or more living under Local Authority Care after the age of three).
Available to under-25s only.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/undergraduate-fees/undergraduate-funding-support/undergraduate-bursaries-0:
Students appointed as INSPIRE interns or benefitting from the University’s STEM internships may not apply additionally via this fund as those roles are already supported via the Career Development Bursary.
Students representing the University at the Eisteddfod are also supported in this way so any bursary payment received contributes towards the maximum £1,000 award.
Whilst students can make more than one application the maximum aggregate amount that can be awarded for any student in one academic year is £1,000.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/undergraduate-fees/undergraduate-funding-support/undergraduate-bursaries-3:
All students enrolled on a UWTSD-delivered course (minimum 40 credits)
Up to £250 to support students applying for course-related costs.
Course-related costs may include specialist books, specialist equipment etc.
Whilst students can make more than one application where the support requested is less than £250, the maximum aggregate amount that can be awarded for any student in one academic year is £250.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/undergraduate-fees/undergraduate-funding-support/undergraduate-bursaries-4:
This Digital Connectivity bursary is intended to provide support for Home students (eligible for student finance) who have no access to a device and / or internet provision for their studies and for whom funding is a barrier to purchasing their own device.
The bursary will be awarded to for eligible students in their first semester of studies at UWTSD who are seeking a financial contribution towards digital connectivity (up to £100) or device costs and connectivity (up to £300).
Eligible students will be enrolled on a minimum of 40 credits on a UWTSD course and will be in receipt of the maximum level of Student Finance support.
Students who are in receipt of the maximum Student Finance wishing to receive support via this application route will need to: - Complete the online application form
- Provide a copy of your Student Finance letter illustrating that you receive the maximum level of financial support.
PLEASE NOTE: If you do not receive the maximum financial support from Student Finance you have two alternative routes for support.
1) If you purchased your own device you can apply for up to £250 towards the cost via the Course Costs bursary.
You will need to provide a copy of the receipt for your purchase.
2) If you are unable to afford to purchase your own device you can make an application for support via this bursary but you will be asked to provide additional information and evidence to support your application.
You will need to:
Applications to the Digital Connectivity Bursary are now being restricted to students who started their programme of study in July 2024 (or later).

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/undergraduate-fees/undergraduate-funding-support/undergraduate-bursaries-6:
Students (aged 18–25) who are estranged from, and have no contact with, their parents or who no longer have the support of their family due to a breakdown in their relationship which has led to ceased contact for 12 months or more.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/undergraduate-fees/undergraduate-funding-support/undergraduate-bursaries-7:
Qualifying students will self-identify as one of the ethnic groups under the following headings on this published UK Government list:
Mixed or Multiple Ethnic Groups
Asian or Asian British
Black, African, Caribbean, or Black British
Other Ethnic Group
Students whose ethnicity is Gypsy or Irish Traveller also qualify for this bursary.
Up to a maximum of £500 to support eligible students undertaking research or performance activity (or up to £250 for academic and travel costs)  .
Activities may include: attending or presenting at a conference; costs associated with a research project or show; travel and academic costs.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/undergraduate-fees/undergraduate-funding-support/undergraduate-bursaries-8:
To apply for this bursary you need to:

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/undergraduate-fees/undergraduate-funding-support/undergraduate-bursaries-9:
For students who are carers and/or parents with childcare costs
Students under the age of 25 who are Young Adult Carers
Students over 25 who are Carers
Students who have children and need help with childcare costs
Bursary levels:
Up to £500 to support childcare costs (at nursery, creche or a registered child minder in the UK) where childcare funding is not available via the government or Student Finance.
This is paid in two instalments – 50% per semester.
or
Up to £500 to support adult dependants, where a student is not eligible for the Adult Dependant grant and Special Support Grant via Student Finance (evidence required would include the relevant PIP or DLA) This is paid in two instalments – 50% per semester.
Up to £1000 for students under-25 who are acting as a Young Adult Carer (evidence required will be a letter from your Local Authority/Social Services or Carer’s Support Group).
This is paid in three instalments – 25% in term 1, 25% in term 2 and 50% in term 3.
Applications must include supporting evidence.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/undergraduate-fees/undergraduate-funding-support/undergraduate-bursaries-10:
Up to £250 to support students undertaking compulsory placement activity as part of their course.
This bursary is usually awarded as reimbursement on the submission of purchase receipts.
Where students are unable to meet costs in advance then applications to the Student Financial Support Fund are encouraged.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/undergraduate-fees/undergraduate-funding-support/undergraduate-bursaries-1:
Access to university and support for students with UK asylum-seeking or refugee status.
This bursary provides a tuition fee waiver and additional support for study.
To access this bursary, applicants must satisfy all of the criteria listed in the terms and conditions.
The criteria include:
Having one of the listed immigration statuses, and
Having received a conditional or unconditional offer of full-time undergraduate study from UWTSD
University of Sanctuary Bursary Terms and Conditions
Applications are now being taken for the 2026–27 academic year and the deadline for applications is 6pm on 29th May 2026.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/undergraduate-fees/undergraduate-funding-support/undergraduate-bursaries-11:
Applicable to undergraduate students only.
Any full-time UK undergraduate wishing to undertake a semester of Study Abroad at one of our partner institutes.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/undergraduate-fees/undergraduate-funding-support/undergraduate-bursaries-14:
Please note that students who are already in receipt of Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol Scholarships will not be eligible for the first £500 of this scholarship but can apply for the difference between the two awards if studying over 100 credits in an academic year.
The bursary is usually awarded in July following the final exam boards of the academic year.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/postgraduate-fees:
Tuition fees for postgraduates will apply to any students applying from the UK, Channel Islands, Isle of Man and Ireland.
Our full-time UK/home postgraduate tuition fee for 2025/26 is £7,800 .
This includes master’s courses such as MA, MSc, and MBA.
Our tuition fee for studying online is £6,800.
Other courses such as PGCE, postgraduate certificates and postgraduate diplomas have non-standard fees.
Please see our Tuition Fee Schedule .
Our postgraduate research courses have a non-standard fee.
Please see our Tuition Fee Schedule for a full list of non-standard fees.
We understand that financing your postgraduate studies is an important part of continuing your academic journey.
Whether you’re returning to university from Wales, England, Scotland, or Northern Ireland, we’re here to help you navigate the funding options and support available for your next step.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/postgraduate-fees/postgraduate-funding-and-support:
Whether you’re returning to university from Wales, England, Scotland, or Northern Ireland, we’re here to help you navigate the funding options and support available for your next step.
Applying for postgraduate funding is simple and can be done online via the student finance authority for your country.
It’s best to apply early so your funding is in place before your course starts.
If you have any questions, our Money Support team is here to support you throughout the application process.
We’re committed to making postgraduate education accessible.
Don’t let finances hold you back—apply today and take your next academic step with confidence.
Apply through Student Finance Wales
Apply through Student Finance England (SFE)
- Up to £12,471 for the entire course
- Paid directly to you in instalments
- Can be used for both tuition fees and living costs
- Up to £28,673 for the full course
- Paid in instalments over the duration of your studies
Apply through the Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS)
Apply through Student Finance Northern Ireland
Tuition fee discount for UWTSD Graduates to progress onto postgraduate study.
Award Value: Up to £2,500
A Bursary is a fee waiver and is available as financial support to postgraduate students to enable them to study.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/postgraduate-fees/postgraduate-funding-and-support/postgraduate-bursaries:
We have a variety of bursaries available to postgraduates which are granted to students based on need and come in the form of fee waivers.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/international-fees:
Tuition fees for International students will apply to any students applying from outside the UK and Ireland, including EU and other international countries.
Students from the UK, Channel Islands, Isle of Man, and Ireland should visit our Undergraduate or Postgraduate tuition fees pages.
Our full-time undergraduate tuition fee for overseas students for 2025/26 is £15,525 for each year of study.
Our part-time courses are charged per credit.
For 2025/26 the fee per credit is £110.
A part-time course is usually 60 credits per year.
The fee for 60 credits would be £6,000.
Other courses such as Integrated Masters, International Foundation Programme, and courses with a placement year have non-standard fees.
Whether you’re a Welsh domiciled student, coming from England, Scotland, or Northern Ireland, we’re here to support you in navigating the financial aspects of your students.
Our full-time postgraduate tuition fee for overseas students for 2025/26 is £16,800 per year.
This includes master’s courses such as MA, MSc, MBA and DBA.
Our tuition fee for studying online is £10,500 per year.
Other courses such as PGCE, postgraduate certificates and postgraduate diplomas have non-standard fees.
Our postgraduate research courses have a non-standard fee.
Please see our Tuition Fee Schedule for a full list of non-standard fees.
Whether you’re a student from the EU or Overseas, we’re here to support you in navigating the financial aspects of your studies.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/international-fees/international-funding-and-support:
We are pleased to be providing scholarship opportunities to students from across the world.
There are a range of international scholarships available, so please consult the information below for current opportunities and eligibility criteria.
If you meet any of our eligibility criteria you will automatically be considered for one of the below International Scholarships.
You don’t need to complete another form, simply apply for your course and if you receive a Conditional Offer from the University any relevant international scholarship will be applied automatically.
For Alumni of the University who are seeking entry onto one of our postgraduate courses.
Eligibility Criteria: To be eligible, you must have completed a full-time undergraduate or postgraduate course awarded by UWTSD or University of Wales and studied for at one of our main UK campuses or overseas collaborative partners.
Award Amount: Up to £3000
Recognising the close links that exist between the UK and Commonwealth Countries and to celebrate the fact the University’s Royal Patron is HRH the Prince of Wales.
Eligibility Criteria: International students from a commonwealth country applying for a Master’s level course.
For International students from the USA, Canada, India, Vietnam and countries of the European Union applying to study a full-time Master’s programme in Wales.
Eligibility Criteria: International students from the USA, Canada, India, Vietnam and countries of the European Union.
Award Amount: £10,000
Apply Now: Via the Global Wales website
Promoting Education and Cultural Links Between Wales and North America.
Eligibility Criteria: The Scholarships provide an opportunity for North Americans students to apply for an award to cover travel-related expenses in undertaking studies related to Welsh-American history and culture in Wales.
The award is designed to support students aspiring to Bachelor, Master and Doctoral degrees or equivalent at recognized academic institutions in Wales.
Application must be supported by the host institution.
Financial needs must be documented.
The recipient does not have to be of a Welsh ethnic background however, a connection with Wales is an important asset.
Apply Now: Via the North America Wales Foundation .
Facilitation of cultural exchange between North America and Wales.
The requester should provide a recommendation from a recognized Welsh American cultural or academic institution.
Application for grant amounts in excess of $1,000 should provide an indication of the total cost of the proposed activity.
The Exchange Scholarship programme provides an opportunity for North American students to apply for a $5,000 award to study in Wales
The award is designed to support students aspiring to Bachelors, Masters and Doctoral degrees or equivalent at recognized academic institutions in Wales.
Application must be supported by the host institution.
Award Amount: $5,000
Additional Information: The recipient does not have to be of a Welsh ethnic background however, a connection with Wales is an important asset.
Students are only entitled to one of the scholarships listed.
Multiple scholarships will not be awarded.
All Wales Global Academy International scholarships are only available to self-funded international students applying for a place of study on an on-campus full-time course.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/tuition-fee-schedule:
*Bursary available for Welsh domiciled students

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/finance-department/international-methods-payment:
International students will receive communication from the Admissions Team detailing the Important information regarding Fees and Finance.
The University uses Flywire for students to make payments of international student tuition fees, accommodation costs and other charges.
The University does not accept cash payments or direct bank transfers in any currency.
Please don’t put your money at risk by dealing with any payment providers, agents or intermediaries, who may offer seemingly attractive rates of exchange or incentives but cannot be guaranteed to be secure or legitimate.
As part of the UK’s anti-money laundering legislation, the University needs to understand where payments for tuition fees are coming from.
This is why we no longer offer payment for tuition fees or accommodation charges by direct bank transfer.
Pay now with Flywire provides the University’s online payment portal which enables payment by:
Flywire is not configured to American Express card payments.
Flywire offers a Best Price Guarantee for International Payments | Flywire for international payments using local currency bank transfer.
If you are offered a better rate at your bank within two hours of booking a local currency bank transfer payment, then Flywire will match it.
Anti-money Laundering Regulation in the UK requires that the University must be ‘reasonably satisfied’ as to the identity of the student (and others) that they are engaging with in a contractual relationship.
This means that the University will undertake ‘know your customer’ checks using personal information including date of birth and home address.
If payments are to be received from third parties - such as family members or sponsors - then there may be a need to provide additional documentation proving name, address and relationship to you.
For any questions regarding International Fee Payments please email International Office
Wales International Admissions : WalesInt@uwtsd.ac.uk
London International Admissions : LondonInt@uwtsd.ac.uk
Birmingham International Admissions : BirminghamInt@uwtsd.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/finance/payment:
Credit and debit cards can be used to make online Tuition Fee and Accommodation Fee payments to the University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD)
(All major credit cards are accepted except American Express and Diners Club.)
Funding is available through Student Finance in the form of a Tuition Fee Loan.
If you are having a Tuition Fee Loan, it will be paid directly to University of Wales Trinity Saint David.
When completing your Student Finance application, please ensure that you select:
If you have any queries regarding the payment of fees, please contact the Finance Department at fees@uwtsd.ac.uk .
Postgraduate Funding is available through Student Finance in the form of a Tuition Fee Loan.
Unlike an undergraduate loan, a postgraduate loan is paid directly to you, so you are required to arrange payment of tuition fees to UWTSD in accordance with our payment terms.
To make payment of your Tuition Fees please pay in full in Term 1 or by instalments (see instalments section for further details).
For further information please visit Funding for Postgraduate Study (gov.uk).
If your employer or charity organisation is contributing towards your course fee, please download the Sponsor Form.
On receipt of the Sponsor Form, we will charge your sponsor for their contribution of your course fee.
Please note we will require a new form completed at registration each year if funding has been agreed by your sponsor for that given academic year.
Students are responsible for paying all fees incurred whilst studying at the University on a timely basis.
Where a sponsor has agreed to pay on behalf of a student, the student remains responsible for the debt until it has been discharged.
Payment can be made in any one of the two following ways for:
By going to Student Payments once you have received your invoice into your student email address.
Immediate payment
Fees can be paid immediately, in full, by credit/debit card.
The payment will be processed straight away, and the full fees will be collected immediately.
Recurring card payment
Fees can be scheduled for payment on agreed dates (see details below).
Please note setting up a recurring card payment will ensure all payments due for the current academic year will be made automatically.
You don’t need to do anything further for this year unless we contact you to say otherwise.
If the dates given on screen do not match the date you receive your student finance please contact fees@uwtsd.ac.uk to discuss.
You will need the following information to pay by any of the methods described above:
Please visit Tuition Fees and International Methods of Payment .
If you are an International distance learner, please contact us at fees@uwtsd.ac.uk for your payment options.
Tuition Fees
Students are required to confirm as part of the enrolment process that they accept responsibility for the payment of tuition and any accommodation, or other charges that they may incur while studying at the University.
If a student fails to pay tuition fees when they become due and fails to make satisfactory arrangements for discharging any outstanding debt, the University reserves the right to commence legal proceedings to recover the debt.
Students that have outstanding tuition fee debts are not entitled to progress to the next year of studies, to be awarded, or to graduate.
Accommodation Fees
Returning students may apply for accommodation but will not be allocated rooms unless accommodation fees to the University are paid in full for previous Licence Agreements.
Tuition fees can be scheduled for future payment in one, two or three instalments, depending on value.
You will need to wait for your invoice before you can pay.
On your invoice will be the link to Student Payments to make payment.
The timing of the instalments will be as follows:
Fees of up to £250 – are payable in 1 instalment at the start of the first term
Fees of £251 to £1000 – are payable in 2 equa l instalments at the start of the first and second terms
Fees of £1001 or more – are payable in 3 instalments (34%/33%/33%) at the start of each term
The instalment dates available via the online link should display as a date after you receive your loan to enable you to have the funds to make payment.
If there are any problems with this, please contact us at fees@uwtsd.ac.uk .
Accommodation fees can be scheduled for future payment in one or three instalments.
On your invoice will be a link to Student Payments to make payment.
One instalment in full at the start of the first term
Three instalments, one at the start of each term
The fee due and relevant instalment amounts can be found on the Student Accommodation Contract issued by the Accommodation Office or at Student Accommodation.
By submitting a payment through the University of Wales Trinity Saint David (“the University”) online-payments site you are agreeing to these terms and conditions.
If you do not accept these terms, please do not proceed with the submission of your payment and contact the University’s Finance Office (details beneath).
It is the responsibility of the Student to ensure that the University’s Tuition Fees in respect of the Programme are paid at the beginning of each Academic or Calendar Year of study or as directed by the University’s finance office.
The fees owed must be paid prior to or at registration (enrolment) whether directly by the Student or on the Student’s behalf by a third party (such as a relative, employer or other sponsor).
The payment of any sums intended to be in respect of Tuition Fees by or on behalf of the Student does not in itself indicate the existence of a contract between the University and the Student.
Please note that for security and fraud prevention the University uses third party processors (WPM Education) to process all payment transactions.
Our Privacy Notice regarding uses of your data is available in our Student Privacy Statement.
The University may update these terms from time to time and any changes will be effective immediately on being set out here.
Please ensure you are aware of the current terms.
Our contact details are:
University of Wales Trinity Saint David Finance Office College Road Carmarthen Carmarthenshire SA31 3EP
If you have any queries relating to your use of this online payment system, please contact us (see details above).
It is your responsibility to ensure that your details are correct.
The University accepts no liability for any payments that are misallocated where you have provided incorrect information.
It is your responsibility to check that payment has been made and allocated correctly.
Please notify us immediately of any errors and we will endeavour to assist.
Payments usually clear into our account in 2 to 3 working days.
All payments made through this online payment facility must be made in Pounds Sterling (£GBP).
You are responsible for the payment of any currency conversion costs or other charges incurred in making the payment or in processing a refund.
The University cannot accept any liability if payment is refused or declined by your debit/credit card supplier for whatever reason.
Once a transaction has been completed, the payment may not be cancelled.
In certain circumstances, you may be entitled to a refund in accordance with the Master Terms.
Without limitation to any matter set out in these terms and conditions of use, you must not use the payment site to:
The formation, existence, construction, performance, validity and all aspects whatsoever of these terms and conditions or of any individual term or condition herein will be governed by the laws of England and Wales.
The courts of England and Wales will have non-exclusive jurisdiction to settle any disputes which may arise out of or in connection with the terms and conditions.
The parties irrevocably agree to submit to that jurisdiction.
In order to operate the University of Wales Trinity Saint David (“University”) online-payments system, we may collect and store personal information you submit to it via this online-payments website or give to the University in any other way.
Please read the following privacy policy to understand how the University uses and protects the information that you provide.
This online-payment system is provided and hosted by the University and its third-party suppliers.
By submitting your personal information, you are consenting to the University holding and using it in accordance with this policy.
The policy is subject to change and any changes to it in the future will be notified on this page.
By continuing to use this payment site you are agreeing to such changes.
We recommend that you check the privacy policy each time you visit this site.
Contents
When you visit our online payments page, you may be asked to provide certain information about yourself including your student or UCAS number, date of birth, name, contact and financial details before you are able to proceed with using the online-payment system.
Information you give us
We receive and save any information you enter on our website or give us in any other way.
You provide most such information when you make a payment, or set-up a recurring card payment or direct debit mandate, or communicate with us for any other reason.
This information may include your student or UCAS number, date of birth, name, contact and financial details.
You can choose not to provide information, although it may be needed to make a payment.
Automatic Information
We automatically receive and save certain types of information whenever you interact with the online-payments website.
We use the information to monitor web site traffic and to assist with the navigation and user experience of the web site.
Information that we will automatically receive includes:
When you visit some pages on the site, your computer may be issued with a small file - a “cookie”.
A cookie is a piece of information in the form of a very small text file that is placed on an Internet user’s hard drive.
It is generated by the online-payments web server.
The information the cookie contains is set by the server and it can be used by that server whenever the user visits the site.
The server uses cookies to recognise your browser session if you visit multiple pages during your interaction with the online-payments system.
You can set your browser to refuse cookies or warn you before accepting them.
However, the online-payments web site will not function properly without accepting cookies.
For further information about cookies, please see AboutCookies.org .
Fulfilment
Personal data collected as part of the payment process will be held primarily to settle your order.
This data will be retained by reputable third-party banking and distribution institutions who handle our customers card transactions and order fulfilment and may be used for any of the following purposes: accounting, billing and auditing, administrative and legal purposes, security and payment verification.
Analysis
We may also use and analyse the information we collect so that we can manage and improve the services on the website.
Demographic and statistical information about user behaviour may be collected and used to analyse the popularity and effectiveness of the web site.
Any disclosure of this information will be in aggregate form and will not identify individual users.
Data Protection Legislation
The University is your data controller.
As your data controller the University has notified its activities to the Office of the Information Commissioner as required under the Data Protection Act 1998 (the “Act”) and is listed in the Public Register of Data Controllers.
Personal information will only be collected and/or processed by the University in accordance with the Act.
Data Security
Please protect sensitive data at all times throughout your online transaction.
Make sure that nobody can see over your shoulder when typing in personal information and close your browser when you have finished.
The University and its third party suppliers have used their reasonable endeavours to ensure that access to information provided and the payments you make whilst using this site are secure.
We work to protect the security of your information during transmission.
The site is secured using a Thawte SSL Web Server Certificate to offer you secure communications by automatically encrypting all data when it is entered.
You should be aware that the computer that you use to attach to the online-payments system (via a web browser) must also be secure, and include the latest operating system, software and anti-virus updates.
The use of a shared computer to connect to the online-payments system could increase the risk that others will see your sensitive information.
Disclosure of your information
Monitoring Use of University Systems
In order to protect the security and working of University network and computer systems, it may be necessary to monitor or log the use of these systems.
If there are indications of abuse of systems or that individuals may be using systems in excess of their authority, files, messages and any or all uses of the systems may be intercepted, monitored, recorded, copied, audited, inspected and disclosed to authorised University and law enforcement personnel.
This website may contain links to other websites that are outside the University’s control and are not covered by this privacy policy.
The privacy policies of these other sites may differ from this one.
Should the information we hold about you be incorrect, you can change and update your personal information and you can have your information corrected by contacting us.
Where requested, we will provide you with a readable copy of the personal data that we keep about you, by contacting us at the address below.
We may require proof of your identity before supplying you with this information to ensure confidentiality.
We allow you to challenge the data we hold about you and where appropriate you may have the data erased, rectified, amended or completed.
For complaints or queries about the privacy policy or data protection queries generally please contact:
Corporate Services Director of Knowledge & Information University of Wales Trinity Saint David College Road Carmarthen Carmarthenshire SA31 3EP
Email: cscompliance@uwtsd.ac.uk
Student Payments Nicola Evans – 01792 481050 Kim Reynolds – 01267 676837 Emma Stephens – 01792 483693 fees@uwtsd.ac.uk
Accommodation Fees accommodation@uwtsd.ac.uk
For Accounts Payable queries please email pladmin@uwtsd.ac.uk and we will attend to your query

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/finance/withdrawing-or-interrupting-your-studies:
Before making any decision, it’s important that you are aware of the support available to help you in your studies and how your decision might affect your Student Finance.
Have you have accessed all of the support available within the University?
If you’re struggling with aspects of your course they can offer help and advice and may be able to support you with applying for additional time to complete your coursework.
We have professional counsellors and mental health advisors available to you; our Student Finance advisors can help you if you are experiencing financial difficulty; the Careers team can offer help and advice if you think you might want to change course or career direction and we have open access Study Skills sessions available to all, including specific support for disabled students.
The SU has an academic advice team who can help you understand and navigate the University’s regulations.
The SU also offer a range of social and networking activities to help you make the most of your time at University.
If you wish to interrupt or withdraw, you will find all the information you need in the sections below.
Please read through them all as each one is relevant.
Please be aware that your student funding could be affected if you withdraw or interrupt.
Interrupting your studies means taking time out or putting your studies ‘on hold’ normally for a minimum period of three months due to personal or health reasons.
This is normally done with a view to resuming the course at a later date (usually the next academic year).
When you interrupt, your student finance is usually also considered ‘on hold’ for the remainder of the academic year but please be aware that this can have a major impact on what you will be entitled to in future years.
It is important that you discuss this with the Money Support Team in Student Services, who will help you identify and understand any implications.
More information on interrupting your studies can be found in the Mitigating Circumstances Policy.
Withdrawal is when you end your registration on your programme of study and all units associated with it with no intention of returning to complete at a later date.
Your student finance will be stopped for the remainder of the year and any years studied will be considered as previous study if you return in future.
This may affect how much funding you can access if you decide to return to Higher Education in the future.
Contact the Programme Team to discuss your intention to withdraw.
Withdrawing from your studies may also have financial implications.
We strongly recommend that you discuss your options before submitting a withdrawal form.
You should not withdraw from your studies if you intend to return at a later date.
You should also discuss your intention with the Student Finance team in Student Services.
They can help you understand any financial implication of your decision.
I have discussed with the Programme Team and Student Finance team
If you have discussed with the Programme Team and Student Finance Officers and still wish to withdraw, you will find the withdrawal request form within your MyTSD account
I have not discussed with the Programme Team and Student Finance Team
Before submitting a withdrawal request it is important that you contact both your Programme Team and Student Finance Officers to discuss your circumstances.
For information on your Programme Team and Student Finance Team please contact the Hwb on 0300 131 3030 or hwb@uwtsd.ac.uk .
The University will be required to report the confirmed date of withdrawal to the Student Loans Company.
The amount of tuition fee loan requested by the University will equal the tuition fees due.
In case of a student wishing to withdraw themselves from their programme, we will report the date on which they submit their withdrawal form through MyTSD.
In the case of a student who is withdrawn by the University (e.g.
due to a lack of engagement), we will report the date on which their official notification of withdrawal was issued by Registry.
Once you’ve submitted your withdrawal form to the university we will notify Student Finance who will then recalculate the amount of loans / grant funding you should have received.
If the calculation deems that you have been overpaid, Student Finance will then pass this information to the Student Loans Company who will write to you and ask you to pay back any money you are deemed to have been overpaid.
This process can take several weeks and you will need to wait to hear from Student Finance and/ or Student Loans Company before you can pay any money back to them.
It is recommended that you try not to use any more of your Student Loan until you have received the letter from Student Finance.
Do not assume that because you haven’t heard anything within a few weeks that there is no overpayment – the recalculation process can take 8 weeks or more to be completed.
The Student Finance Officers at the university can help you to calculate whether you might be in overpayment and how much money you may be asked to repay to Student Finance.
If you can’t pay back all of the money immediately, you’ll need to contact the Student Loans repayments team to set up a payment plan.
The Student Finance officers at the university can help you to prepare for this.
Withdrawing can affect the funding you’ll receive if you return to university.
When withdrawing, your Institute will issue an official last date of attendance (withdrawal date) and confirm this on your student record so it is visible by staff in the Finance department.
Refunds can only be made once the Institute has recorded this withdrawal date on your student record.
For self-financing undergraduates if the amount paid is greater than the recalculated rate of tuition fees due a refund will be made by returning the funds to the same payee or account from which the payment was made.
If the student has not paid enough fees by the time of interruption/withdrawal, then they will be notified by email to arrange payment.
Any queries regarding a refund, contact the Finance department via email at fees@uwtsd.ac.uk .
The Withdrawal Form must be completed online via MyTSD
If you withdraw from your course, the amount of tuition fees you pay will depend on the date you complete the withdrawal form on MyTSD.
After an initial two-week period where a withdrawal would result in no fees being charged, the following tabled criteria will apply:
Students must complete a Student Request to Withdraw Form, or submit a request on MyTSD, if they wish to withdraw from a programme their studies.
If a student does not notify the university of their withdrawal, and if the last date of attendance is unclear, the University reserves the right to use the date of the Examining Board at which their candidature was withdrawn for the purpose of the calculation of fees.
This could lead to an additional 25% of fess due, depending on the scheduling of the exam board.
The amount of maintenance funding you are entitled to during an incomplete year is calculated on a pro rata basis using your last date of attendance.
For example, if you have received £1000 maintenance funding for a term and your last date of attendance is exactly mid-way through the term, then the Student Loans Company would calculate your overspend as £500.
If a student is informed that they have had an overpayment and are unable to repay, it is advised that they do the following, depending on their circumstances:
Withdrawal – When you receive the letter notifying you of an overpayment, ring the Student Loans Company on the number provided on the letter to arrange an affordable monthly repayment (or to put a hold on the account until this is possible).
Please be aware that if you start another course before you have repaid all of the overpayment, the balance outstanding will be deducted from your Student Finance entitlement during the first year of your new course.
Interruption of Study – As above, but students who have interrupted need to be aware that any outstanding overpayment that has not been repaid by the time they return to their studies, will be taken from any future funding entitlements by Student Finance Wales / England/ NI / SAAS
This means that if you were entitled to £1,000 maintenance funding but had a previous overpayment of £500, then you would only receive £500 when you return.
If you decide to take an interruption of studies, we expect that you will return to complete your course at a later date so the process is a bit different depending on when you interrupt.
If approved, the interruption is normally applied from the date the completed application was received by the Programme Manager (or nominee).
Normally you will be required to align your return to studies with the time of your original intake.
You must also discuss your intention to interrupt with the Money Support Team in Student Services.
If you’re suspending your studies because of medical reasons that have affected your ability to study, then you will need to provide medical evidence to the University so that they can record the interruption of Studies as medical grounds.
In these circumstances you are allowed to keep a further 60 days’ worth of Student Finance (after the date of the interruption).
You will need to contact Student Finance to check that this has been applied.
Tuition fee funding from student finance is limited to the length of your course plus one extra year
If you’ve studied before and have an Honours degree from a UK university or college then:
To understand how this impacts you, the general rule is that you’re eligible for student support for the length of your higher education course plus one year where a qualification is not achieved.
However, the support will be reduced by the number of years you have previously studied.
This is shown in the formula below:
Duration of new course + 1 year – No of years on previous course = x years of entitlement
For example:
Jane started a full-time course in academic year 2013/14 but only completed 2 years of study.
She now wishes to return to full-time study.
Her new course is 3 years long.
Duration of Jane’s new course (3) +1 year – Jane’s previous study (2) = 2 years
This means that Jane can receive 2 years of funding for her new higher education course.
She will need to fund one year herself.
As funding is awarded in the final year of a new course and each preceding year that is funded, Jane will need to self-fund the first year of her course.
This means she wouldn’t be able to apply for a Tuition Fee Loan or a Welsh Government Learning Grant/Special Support Grant; she would, however, still be able to apply for a Maintenance Loan and supplementary grants such as Disabled Students’ Allowances in her self-funded year.
If you feel that something out of your control had a significantly detrimental effect on your academic performance or ability to study and you had to interrupt studies or repeat the year, you are able to apply for additional funding on the grounds of CPR.
CPR can include health-related issues, disability, family problems or bereavement but this list is not exhaustive.
If you think that this applies to you and would like to submit a case to Student Finance for CPR, please contact Student Services at moneysupport@uwtsd.ac.uk to help you.
You will usually need to provide evidence of your circumstances and / or how they affected your ability to complete your studies if you submit an application for additional funding on the grounds of compelling personal reasons.
This might be a letter from your GP if you were unwell, a supporting letter from your tutor or counsellor (where relevant) if you shared information about your circumstances with them at the time.
If you suffered a close family bereavement you may be asked to provide a copy of the death certificate.
It can be difficult to collate this evidence if several years have passed before you return to Higher Education so if you decide to withdraw form your studies on these grounds it is worth gathering as much evidence as you can now in case you need it in the future.
There is no guarantee additional funding will be provided, as this is at the discretion of Student Finance.
If you intend to take an Interruption of studies and have already received the maximum amount of Postgraduate Funding, you will not be entitled to any further payments from SFW or SFE when you return to study, even if the suspension is due to Compelling Personal Reasons (CPR) such as health-related issues, disability, family problems or bereavement.
If you have only received a partial amount of your Postgraduate Funding entitlement, your payments will stop when you take the interruption of studies but you will be eligible for the remaining amount when you resume your studies.
If you get a payment whilst you are on the Interruption of studies you may be asked to repay it straight away.
If you have decided to withdraw from your Master’s course and have received Postgraduate Funding from SFW or SFE, you will not be eligible for additional Postgraduate Funding for a future Master’s course, even if you have not received the maximum amount for the current course.
However, if you are withdrawing from the course due to Compelling Personal Reasons (CPR), you can submit a request for discretionary funding for a new course.
You can only do this once.
Please read the information in the CPR section if you think you will need to apply for this discretionary funding.
If you ned to repeat any part of your course, or your course is extended, you will not be entitled to any further payments of Postgraduate Funding, unless you have not accessed the maximum funding available.
This is the case even if study needs to be repeated or extended due to Compelling Personal Reasons (CPR) such as health-related issues, disability, family problems or bereavement.
If you transfer to another postgraduate Master’s or Doctoral course between academic years, and have not accessed the full amount of Postgraduate funding, you will remain eligible for your remaining Postgraduate Master’s Funding or Postgraduate Doctoral Loan.
If, however, you transfer to another course and have already accessed the maximum amount of Postgraduate Funding, you will not be entitled to any further payments from SFW or SFE, even if the transfer is due to Compelling Personal Reasons (CPR) such as health-related issues, disability, family problems or bereavement.
Depending on your Last Date of Attendance, the funding you have received will be re-calculated on a pro-rata basis.
Any amount that you have received as an overpayment, will need to be paid back to the Student Loans Company.
When you receive the letter notifying you of an overpayment, ring the Student Loans Company on the number provided on the letter to arrange an affordable monthly repayment (or to put a hold on the account until this is possible).
Please see the section about tuition fees to help you understand how the university will calculate how much you owe in tuition fees and whether you are entitled to any refund.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/apply/undergraduate:
Your undergraduate adventure begins now.
Whether you’re looking for further information on applying for your bachelor’s degree or advice on preparing a standout application, we’re here to provide you with all the information you need to choose your story.
A personal statement is your unique opportunity to delve into your aspirations, experiences and qualities that you think make you the perfect fit for your course and university.
Discover how UCAS Extra can be the right fit for you, offering extended opportunities for the university course of your dreams.
We believe in your potential, and we’re here to support you every step of the way.
Play video: How to Apply via UCAS [English]

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/apply/undergraduate/advice-applicants:
Embarking on your university journey is an exciting milestone—and we’re here to support you every step of the way.
Choosing the right course is a big decision, and we understand that the application process can feel overwhelming at times.
Whether you’re a school leaver or returning to education later in life, our advice and guidance are designed to make things clearer.
From writing a standout personal statement to understanding course-specific requirements like a DBS check or learning about Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL), our resources are here to help you make informed choices.
Take your time exploring the information we’ve put together.
If you’re still unsure about something or need a bit more support, don’t hesitate to get in touch .
The University’s Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) procedures exist to enable applicants to claim credit for learning that has been previously assessed and certificated, or for experiential learning to be evaluated and awarded credit.
Such credit may be used to gain entry to a programme, exemption from parts of a programme, or advanced standing towards an academic award.
Further information is contained in the University’s Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) Policy .
Applicants who have previously acquired credits through formal study at Higher Education level, may make a claim for Recognition of Prior Certificated Learning (RPCL).
These credits might have been acquired at a different institution, from professional certification or from a different programme of study to the programme upon which the applicant now wishes to register.
Applicants who have acquired similar knowledge and skills during the course of their working life, whether paid or voluntary or through study/training not formally attested through any educational or professional certification may make a claim for the Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL).
If you are a prospective applicant who is looking to claim credit for learning that has been previously assessed and certificated at HE level, or for experiential learning to be evaluated and awarded credit, please ensure that you apply for the correct level of entry on your application form and make reference to this in your personal statement.
Decisions regarding the recognition of prior learning will be based on equivalence.
The prior certificated or experiential learning must be demonstrably equivalent to the learning that could have been achieved by following the module(s) for which exemption/transfer of credit is sought.
RPL may only be granted if it doesn’t result in ‘double counting’.
This means that credited learning that has already contributed to the award of one qualification cannot be used to gain RPL-based exemption in another qualification at the same level or lower.
Applicants who indicate that they wish to make a claim for recognition of prior learning will be asked to complete an RPCL / RPEL application form as part of the admissions process.
Applications must normally be processed before the applicant registers in order for exemption(s)/transfer of credit(s) to be granted.
Programme Managers will be responsible for making decisions on RPCL applications for their programmes of study.
The Executive Head of Registry and the Head of Admissions will check that due process has been followed before approving a claim.
Any applications for Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL) will be considered by the University’s Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning and Accreditation Board.
In addition to meeting any academic conditions stipulated in the offer letter, applicants who have applied for Recognition of Prior Certificated Learning (RPCL) will be required to successfully complete the RPCL process before their place can be confirmed.
After accepting our offer, a notification will be sent to the applicant via the applicant portal, MyTSD, inviting them to complete an application form for RPCL.
The applicant will need to provide detailed information regarding their certificated learning on the RPCL application form and documentary proof (in the form of a transcript) that the qualification or part thereof, has been obtained.
Credits being claimed must be presented on the same application form.
After you have submitted your application, whether this is done through UCAS or directly using the University’s online application form, you will be emailed your log in details to the University’s applicant portal, MyTSD.
This will become your student portal if you later enrol on a programme at UWTSD.
Please notify the University’s Admissions Team (and UCAS where relevant) if the email address on your application form was entered incorrectly, as this is how we will communicate with you regarding the status of your application, and any tasks that you may need to complete during the admissions process.
Once received, your application will be assessed by the relevant Admissions Tutor.
Depending on the programme you have applied for, you may be invited to attend an interview or audition or to provide a portfolio.
Please ensure that you respond to any such invitation through the relevant system.
This will be your UCAS Hub account if you applied through UCAS or through MyTSD if you applied directly to the University using our online application form.
UK Government legislation allows publicly funded educational institutions to charge two levels of fee: a lower ‘home’ student fee and a higher ‘overseas’ student fee.
In order to be charged a lower ‘home’ student rate of fee, you must meet certain residence and immigration status requirements.
Details of the criteria used to assess fee status can be found on the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) website.
If the University is unable to assess your fee status using the information provided in your application for admission, you will receive a notification via MyTSD asking you to complete a Fee Assessment Form and provide relevant supporting documentation.
Please ensure that you complete and return the form as soon as possible to avoid any delays in the processing of your application.
Upon receipt of your Fee Assessment Form and supporting documentation, the University’s Admissions team will assess your fee status and will contact you if they require any further information from you.
We use the information provided in your UCAS application to fairly evaluate your chances of succeeding during your studies with us.
We ensure that we use more than just your grades and predicted grades to consider whether you will benefit and thrive from our study experience.
This is known as ‘Contextual Admissions’.
We take your whole application into account when making and confirming offers.
During the application process, we will consider your personal statement to identify your motivations for studying with us, your reference, and your predicted grades.
Using contextual admissions enables us to use and consider further information when making or confirming your offer.
We build a picture of who you are in order to be sure that you can thrive at UWTSD.
UWTSD is committed to widening access and ensuring that those with the potential to succeed are encouraged to apply to study with us.
You can check if your postcode falls into Quintile 1 or Quintile 2 on the register of the Office for Students .
We will gather the information we need from your UCAS application so there is no need for you to provide any additional information.
If you have been identified as eligible for a contextual offer, this will be made clear to you in the offer letter sent.
Contextual Offers are only available to UK students applying via UCAS for direct UWTSD courses.
Every application is considered on an individual basis and the information we use is obtained from your UCAS application.
To identify whether you qualify for a contextual offer, the following information will be taken into consideration:
Your home postcode is in a Low Participation Neighbourhood
If you are identified as being in POLAR4 quintile 1 or 2 you will qualify for a contextual offer.
The information provided to us by UCAS enables us to identify if you currently live in a postcode assigned to the lowest POLAR4 quintile.
Please check the Office for Students’s register to see if your postcode is within POLAR4 Quintile 1 or 2.
First generation to attend Higher Education
If you are the first generation of your family to enter Higher Education, you will qualify for a contextual offer.
This information is provided to us by UCAS, as part of your application form.
You have been in care or have been looked after for three months or more
If you have been in care or have been looked after for three months or more, you will qualify for a contextual offer.
This information is provided on your UCAS application, so it is important that you declare this when applying.
If you qualify for a contextual offer, you will be made an offer which is lower than the typical offer for that course or will have this taken into consideration when results are released, meaning that we may be able to accept you even if you marginally fail to achieve your predicted grades.
The use of contextual data enables us to fairly identify that you can succeed on your chosen programme at UWTSD, and this means that we can confidently make you an offer at a lower grade.
If you apply via UCAS, in addition to your predicted grades, personal statement and reference, we will also consider the factors listed below:
We gather data about each factor from your UCAS application.
It is important to carefully complete these sections to ensure we have the most accurate information available to consider.
Please email admissions@uwtsd.ac.uk if you need to provide further details to your application.
It is important that you also contact UCAS and ask them to update your application with the missing information.
If we have already made you an offer, we will revisit your application to check that you have the correct offer.
No.
Some courses have requirements imposed by professional bodies and we are unable to make or confirm offers lower than the standard offer.
A list of programmes that do not qualify for contextual offers can be found below.
Institute of Management and Health (IMH)
Insitute of Education and Humanities (IEH)
Wales Insitute Science and Art (WISA)

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/apply/undergraduate/applying-direct-undergraduate:
Many of our part-time and apprenticeship programmes will require you to apply directly to the University rather than through UCAS.
Applications can be made by clicking on the link below as well as directly from the relevant course page.
Once you have applied, you will receive log in details to enable you to access the University’s applicant portal, MyTSD.
Applicants can use MyTSD to view the status of their application, respond to an invitation to attend an interview or audition (where applicable) and respond to an offer if their application is successful.
Our How to Apply pages will help guide you through making your application and taking the next steps to becoming a student at UWTSD.
You’ve submitted your application to the University, what happens next you may be asking?
Depending on the course you may be invited to an interview before an offer is made.
This pivotal moment is your chance to bring your application to life and showcase your enthusiasm, personality and potential in person.
See how the apprenticeship programmes at UWTSD allow you to study while you work.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/apply/undergraduate/applying-foundation-degree:
Applications for our Foundation course can be made by clicking on the link below as well as directly from the relevant course page.
Depending on the course this will be direct to us or through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) .
The Institution code for the University of Wales Trinity Saint David is T80 .

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/apply/undergraduate/applying-ucas-undergraduate:
The majority of applications to study for a full-time undergraduate degree programme or Higher National Diploma at the University are made online through UCAS.
UCAS helps streamline the application process for prospective students looking to go to university.
Your UCAS application will include the key details a University will need to offer you a place, including your personal details, course options, education and employment history as well as a personal statement from yourself as to why you wish to study the particular course with the university.
You will also need to provide a reference and pay for your application online.
The application process for full-time Undergraduate courses is entirely online, where you are able to pick a maximum of 5 choices (some restrictions may apply).
These can be 5 different universities of 5 different courses within one university or a combination of both.
As a current school student, your school or college will be registered with UCAS and will be able to manage your application.
Make sure to obtain your ‘buzzword’ from your tutor or careers adviser, as you’ll need this when you register with UCAS.
This will link your application to the organisation from which you are applying and allow your referee to attach your reference.
If you are not currently in education and are looking to return to higher education, you are responsible for completing your own application.
You will be responsible for paying the correct application fee, requesting your academic reference and submitting the completed form.
Your reference should be from a former teacher or professional who knows you well enough to write about you and your suitability for higher education.
Applicants looking to commence their studies in September can apply through UCAS for up to five programme choices to be considered simultaneously.
All applications for the September 2025 intake that are received by the UCAS deadline of 29th January 2025 will be given equal consideration.
Applications made after the UCAS deadline will be considered providing that places are available.
Applicants who are not holding any offers, having used their 5 application choices (either because they have been unsuccessful or because they have withdrawn or declined their offers), may apply for a further choice through UCAS Extra between 28th February and 4th July 2025.
This Extra choice may be used to apply to programmes, one at a time, until an offer of a place is secured.
Applicants who fail to secure a place through UCAS Extra, may apply through UCAS Clearing which begins at the start of July 2025 and continues through September.
To secure a place through Clearing, applicants must contact the University’s Admissions Team to discuss their suitability for their chosen programme.
If a place can be offered, the applicant will be asked to add their Clearing choice via their UCAS Hub account.
Applicants must meet the entry requirements for their chosen programme before adding their Clearing choice.
Please visit UCAS website for further details.
UCAS applications will begin to be processed for the new academic year as early as September.
But not to worry the deadline for the majority of full-time undergraduate programmes is the 31st of January .
However, we recommend you check the application deadline for your chosen course(s) on the UCAS website.
Before submitting your application you should ensure all fields on UCAS are correctly filled out and triple-check your application.
Once you’ve submitted your application UCAS will send your application to your chosen university.
Then each university will review your suitability for the course and decide whether to make you an offer, you can keep an eye on your application by using UCAS Hub.
If you miss the January UCAS deadline the first thing is to know it’s never to late.
You still have options available to you like UCAS Extra and Clearing.
Using UCAS Hub you will be able to see the progress of your offers from your chosen courses.
Universities have a few different options when reviewing applications, this could include inviting you to an *interview*, making you an offer which could be a conditional or unconditional offer or reject your application.
Conditional offers are offers made by the university to study that particular course provided you meet the requirements set out in the offer.
This will usually be in the form of UCAS Tariff points.
UCAS Tariff is a points score system which gives numerical values to qualifications.
Points can be accumulated from different qualifications e.g A level or AS.
Check out the Entry Requirement section on each course page for a typical entry requirement guide.
Unconditional offers are made by the university when the university is already satisfied you’ve met the requirements to study the course.
Some courses require applicants to undergo an interview process before an offer is made.
Head over to our preparing for a University Interview section to find out more on this.
The university also holds the right to refuse any application.
But don’t worry this doesn’t mean the end of your higher education dream, you’ll be able to apply to further universities through *UCAS Extra* and *Clearing*.
Chat to Our Students

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/how-apply/international-applications/applying-agent:
We have a network of agents across the World ready to help you with your application.
The University has appointed local representatives/agents who can offer advice, information and assistance with applications from prospective students.
The local representatives/agents are not authorised to make admissions offers.
All offers are made by the University in line with the admissions policy and procedures.
www.fbaukltd.com
Niergia, Ghana, Gabon, Gambia, Botswana
Wales campuses only - India and Nepal
India Office
P No 17 West Avenue Road, Central Market Sector No-II, Punjabi Bagh (West) New Delhi 110001, India.
East-Asia Office 10/F, Building 1, Yunchuang Town, Wuhan University of Technology, Hongshan District, Wuhan, Hubei

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/apply/undergraduate/preparing-university-interview:
This pivotal moment is your chance to bring your application to life and showcase your enthusiasm, personality and potential in person.
Remember, approach the interview with confidence, curiosity and a genuine eagerness to showcase why you’re the perfect fit for them.
To help you make the most of this opportunity, here’s a comprehensive guide to guide you through the interview preparation process.
Play video: Application Guide - How to prepare for Interview [English]
First things first it to thoroughly research the University, the programme and all other related factors.
Understand to the best of your knowledge the curriculum, facilities and any recent developments that might be relevant.
This will show the interviewer that you have a genuine interest in the field.
You’ve been invited to an interview based on your application, ensure that you review your personal statement and CV and be prepared to discuss any achievements, experiences and aspirations you provided in detail.
Practice answering common interview questions, craft concise yet engaging responses that highlight your strengths and passions.
These types of questions include, “Tell me about yourself”, “Why do you want to study this subject”, “What can you bring to our University?”
Prepare answers that showcase your skills by thinking of examples to demonstrate your problem-solving abilities, teamwork skills, leadership experiences etc.
This will add depth to your answers and help you stand out from others.
Your appearance is your first impression, so choose an outfit that aligns with the university culture and the programme you’re applying for.
Dressing professionally and comfortably will boost your confidence and leave a positive impression.
Look into basic interview etiquette such as firm handshake, maintaining eye contact and active listening.
Remember to be courteous to everyone you encounter, as you may interact with a number of influential people.
Have a list of questions ready to ask your interviewer.
This will show the interviewer your eagerness to learn more about the program.
Some common questions could include asking about further opportunities, career support, and anything else that piques your interest.
A little daunting to begin but conducting mock interviews with friends, family, or mentors is the perfect way to shake those interview nerves.
This practice will help refine your answers, improve your delivery and reduce nervousness.
Depending on your programme, you may be asked technical questions related to the subject area.
Prepare for this by reviewing key concepts, and recent developments in the area, and reading published literature.
The interviewer is not there to catch you out, they’re there to get a better understanding of you as a person.
Take a deep breath, maintain a steady pace and just be yourself.
Authenticity is key to making a genuine connection with your interviewer.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/apply/undergraduate/student-journey:
Our teams are here to help guide you through every step of the application process.
We have outlined each of the key steps you will need to take on your journey to joining our welcoming learning community and becoming a UWTSD student.
If you are looking for more information about studying, and the application process, you can contact our dedicated team available to answer your questions.
Deciding where and what you want to study is an important decision.
Get a flavour for student life at each campus using our campus life pages , take a moment to watch our student life videos to get your first glimpse of our campuses!
Have a look at the courses we have available, and check which campuses that course is available on.
Choose a course that aligns with your goals, and research different courses available to get you there.
We’ve grouped our courses into subject areas to make this easier for you.
When you’ve chosen where you want to go and what you want to study you should Book an Open Day to get a real feel for the campus.
Most Undergraduate Applications are done through UCAS .
You can add 5 courses, either from the same university or different universities.
Once you’ve narrowed down your options, write an awesome personal statement that tells us who you really are and why you want to study with us.
Our Guide to writing a Personal Statement video will help get you started.
Now that you’ve applied you may be wondering what’s next.
The next thing to consider is, where will you be staying during your studies?
Our accommodation page sets out the different accommodation options available at our campuses.
One of the most important factors to studying at university is fees and finance.
As there are many student finance options available our fees and finance page is a good place to start.
Once you have submitted your application, we will consider your application and will look to make you an offer for studying with us.
Once you have your offer you can accept it through UCAS or on our online portal (for students not applying through UCAS).
Then you need to look out for emails to confirm your start date, accommodation and student finance.
Whilst you are waiting for your offer, find out what is going on across our campuses, including Welsh Language Opportunities, Global Opportunities and Societies and Sporting Opportunities.
Have you missed the January Deadline but want to start in September?
Not to worry you can still apply through UCAS Extra between February and July or through clearing in July and August.
Below is a quick guide to the different types of courses and types of studies offered by universities, to help you make an informed choice about what and how you want to study.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/apply/undergraduate/supporting-applicant:
We understand that you’re probably looking for as much information as possible to help support an applicant through this all-important time in their life.
This is why we’ve put all the useful information we think you should know in order to offer the best support to applicants in one place.
Whether you want to help support through the application or are leaving them to it, you may want to learn some of the basics, so familiarising yourself with UCAS and Peak Times is a great starting point.
If your child or young person is currently in education, usually their school or college will introduce them to UCAS and will guide them through the university application process.
Play video: Parents/Guardian UCAS support video
Here are some key facts you should know about UCAS and the UCAS application process.
As a parent or guardian, it can be difficult to know how you can help an applicant through the application process.
We’ve put together a guide to help you through the UCAS application process, including tips on what support is needed during the various stages.
When AS-level exams are over, encourage your child or young adult to draw up a long list of course ideas.
Choosing a course can be a difficult task but they could start by considering the following:
Research is a vital process of choosing a university course.
Now is a good time to begin this research work and start attending university Open Days or Taster Sessions.
Finding out about the contents of the course as well as getting to know more about the university is an important part of this stage.
The most important thing to remember as they aim to choose their course is that the decision should ultimately be up to them.
Be there to support them and don’t be tempted to sway their decision in any direction for your personal interest.
This is a good time to start drafting the personal statement.
You could offer to help by highlighting their areas of strength and helping with ideas for how they can fill any gaps in their experience.
Encourage them to look for paid or volunteer work, work-shadowing or internships related to their areas of interest.
It’s UCAS application season.
If they haven’t already chosen a course, they could seek advice from teachers and a careers adviser.
Continue to attend as many Open Days as you can in order to help them make an informed decision.
And you may want to follow up on how their personal statement is progressing.
With the January 15 deadline fast approaching, check that they have finalised their choices and got their personal statement in order.
Can you help with final checks and proofreading before it is submitted?
University offers should now start to come in, but if your child hasn’t heard back yet, there’s no need to panic - universities have until May to respond and some will be quicker than others.
Interviews and entry test invites may also arrive, so you can help with preparation for these and ensuring travel arrangements are made.
If they are applying to a creative course, you may also want to check if their portfolio of work is progressing.
Now is also a good time to start looking at student finance and making an application.
Decision time: have they received and replied to offers?
Have their preferences changed?
Have they settled on their firm and insurance offers?
Aim to have a back-up plan in case things don’t turn out exactly as they had hoped.
They need to be on top of their student accommodation application too as halls of residence are usually allocated on a first come, first served basis.
Exam season: time to make sure your they are best prepared to get those grades, and provide emotional support at this stressful time.
If you’re new to the University process you may have further burning questions about how will the course be funded, where will they stay, or importantly how will they be supported… We’ve got information on each of these areas to help put your mind at ease.
Our professional and experienced student services team are on hand to give you the information, advice, guidance and support to help you get the most from your university experience

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/apply/undergraduate/ucas-extra:
At UWTSD, we understand that the journey to higher education can be a dynamic and evolving process.
UCAS Extra is a unique and flexible option offered by UCAS that opened doors for students who may not have secured a place through their initial applications or who wish to explore new educational possibilities.
UCAS Extra applications are open from February until July.
Play video: UCAS Guide - UCAS Extra [English]
UCAS Extra is designed for students who haven’t received any offers from their applications or didn’t use all 5 choices on their application.
Applications are submitted on the UCAS website, if you’re eligible you’ll have the ‘Add an Extra Choice’ option in the ‘Your Choices’ section.
During the UCAS Extra process you will not be able to submit a new personal statement.
The original personal statement made earlier on the in UCAS process will be formally submitted to any University chosen during UCAS Extra.
A student is eligible for UCAS Extra if;
During the UCAS Extra process, you can only apply to one course at a time but the total number of applications is unlimited.
Once you’ve added your Extra choice the University will consider your application and decide whether to give you a place offer or not.
You can accept your offer by replying to it using UCAS, once accepted the place is yours upon meeting the criteria set out in the offer.
You can decline the offer made through UCAS.
If you choose to decline you can start your Extra search again.
If you don’t receive an offer similarly to declining an offer you have the option to apply to another university through UCAS Extra.
If you’ve not received or accepted an offer before the UCAS Extra deadline don’t worry as there is always *Clearing* potential.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/apply/undergraduate/writing-personal-statement:
It should be a true reflection of who you are beyond your academic achievements, offering a glimpse into your passions, motivations and the journey that led you to this moment.
Stand out from the crowd and present a well-rounded picture of who you really are.
With the use of your personal statement, showcase your ability to articulate your goals, demonstrate relevant skills and illustrate your compatibility with your chosen programme.
Play video: UCAS Guide - How to Write a Personal Statement [English]
How to write a personal statement
There is no standard template for writing your statement but the main thing to keep in mind is that it flows and is easy to read.
Here are some tips on writing your statement:
Structure; ensure a nice flowing easy to read structure by starting with an introduction encouraging the reader to read on.
Then go on to what you want to include and we recommend doing these in an order most relevant to what the university is looking for.
Lastly a conclusion, this is your chance to reinforce your commitment, enthusiasm and skills with a strong closing statement.
Language; you’re trying to make a good first impression so use formal language but ensure its vocabulary that you are comfortable with.
Use language that makes you sound enthusiastic and portrays the real you.
Most importantly, check your grammar, spelling and punctuation.
Reference(s); depending on the programme you are applying for, you may be required to provide more than one reference.
This will be indicated on the application form.
Ideally, your referee should be someone who knows you academically and can write about your suitability for higher education, such as a current or previous tutor.
However, if you have not recently been in education, a professional reference may also be acceptable.
This can be provided by a current or previous employer.
References from family or friends will not be accepted.
If you are unsure about obtaining a reference, please contact the admissions tutor who will be able to provide guidance.
Don’t forget
The hardest part of the personal statement is getting started.
Consider what you want to include and what you want your chosen university to know about you.
Here’s some examples of things to include, but remember don’t just list them give examples of how they were gained and how you use them:
As you only have one personal statement to make this impact, here are some things to avoid when writing your personal statement.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/apply/undergraduate/criminal-convictions:
In the interests of safeguarding our students, staff and visitors and to enable the University to provide the appropriate support, applicants to the University and enrolled students are encouraged to declare if they have any relevant criminal convictions at the earliest opportunity.
Any declaration of a conviction, and any subsequent information disclosed in relation to the declaration, will be handled sensitively, held in the strictest confidence, disclosed only to designated university staff members and managed in accordance with the principles of the Data Protection Act 2018 and the UK General Data Protection Regulation.
At UWTSD we are committed to removing barriers to participation in higher education and supporting people from all backgrounds and circumstances to fulfil their potential.
Having a criminal record will not automatically exclude a person from studying with us.
The University has trained staff who can offer relevant advice and support to prospective and enrolled students.
If you would like to speak to someone in confidence regarding your criminal convictions and course suitability, please email disclosures@uwtsd.ac.uk and we will contact you as soon as possible.
The Immigration Services and Visa Compliance Team international.registry@uwtsd.ac.uk can provide international applicants with related advice on immigration matters.
International applicants will be required to declare any criminal convictions in line with Home Office requirements.
Depending on the programme of study applied for, there are different requirements and procedures in place relating to the disclosure of criminal convictions.
Certain programmes of study offered by UWTSD lead to professions that are exempt from the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 (such as teacher training programmes).
These programmes will include a placement or activity involving significant contact with children and/or vulnerable adults, referred to as regulated activity.
Applicants who wish to enrol on regulated programmes will be required to gain a satisfactory enhanced disclosure from the Disclosure and Barring Service in order to fully enrol as a student at the University and before they can be allowed to undertake work that requires contact with children or vulnerable adults.
If a programme of study requires a DBS check, it will be clearly stated on the course information page on the UWTSD website (and on the UCAS website if applicable).
Whether applying through UCAS or directly to the University for courses that require a DBS check, applicants are asked to declare on their application form if they have any criminal convictions that would appear on an enhanced DBS check.
Applicants who indicate that they have criminal convictions will be asked to complete the University’s Criminal Conviction(s) Self-Declaration Form.
For such programmes of study, applicants and students are required to disclose all unspent convictions and conditional cautions, and all spent convictions and adult cautions that are not protected (i.e.
that are not filtered out) as defined by the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 (Exceptions) Order 1975 (as amended in 2020) .
An academic assessment of the application will be carried out in the usual manner, however the decision on whether or not to offer a place will not be made until after the University’s Criminal Convictions Review Panel has reviewed the applicant’s Criminal Conviction(s) Self-Declaration Form and any subsequent information provided in relation to the declaration.
The Panel will decide if any convictions or information revealed are incompatible with a place on a programme of study.
Applicants who subsequently receive an offer of a place will be sent instructions on how to undertake and complete a DBS check through ` First Advantage KnowYourPeople’ , an online electronic disclosure service.
Further information on the process of applying for a DBS check is available at Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) Checks .
Where an applicant fails to disclose a conviction on their Criminal Convictions Self-Declaration Form that subsequently appears on their enhanced DBS check, their application will be referred back to the Criminal Convictions Review Panel who will decide if any convictions or information revealed are incompatible with a place on a programme of study.
Applicants who have been arrested, charged or convicted of a criminal offence after they have applied must inform the University immediately via email to disclosures@uwtsd.ac.uk .
Failure to inform the University may result in an application being refused, or an offer of a place being withdrawn by the University.
Further information is contained in the University’s Admissions Policy .
After firmly accepting an offer of a place on a programme of study that does not involve contact with children or vulnerable adults, applicants will be invited to complete the University’s Criminal Conviction(s) Self-Declaration Form.
Applicants to such programmes are encouraged to declare any ‘relevant’ ‘unspent’ criminal convictions and/or conditional cautions and to provide details of any restrictions or probation requirements that may impact upon their studies.
‘Relevant’ criminal convictions are those that involve offences against the person, whether of a violent or sexual nature, convictions for offences involving unlawfully supplying controlled drugs or substances where the conviction concerns commercial drug dealing or trafficking, and offences involving firearms, arson and terrorism.
Convictions that are ‘spent’ (as defined by the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974) are not considered relevant and need not be revealed.
Applicants who wish to disclose a ‘spent’ criminal conviction may discuss this in confidence with trained staff in the Student Services Team who can provide them with relevant support.
The completed self-declaration form and any subsequent information provided in relation to the declaration will be considered by the University’s Criminal Convictions Review Panel.
The Panel will consider whether restrictions or probation requirements that the applicant may be subject to following a conviction are compatible with a place on a programme of study.
The Panel will take into account any adjustments that can be made to facilitate study.
Applicants should be aware that while an enhanced DBS check may not be required for entry to their programme of study, future UK based employers may require them to obtain a DBS check as part of the recruitment process or during the course of their subsequent employment.
It is therefore recommended that applicants wishing to study courses with a view to a particular profession, undertake research into professional requirements and take this information into account.
The University will consider implementing the Non-Academic Misconduct Policy if a student has failed to declare a relevant criminal conviction when appropriate at the admission stage.
Any person arrested, charged or convicted of a crime whilst a student at the University will be subject to the University’s Non-Academic Misconduct Policy and will be required to declare this at the earliest point.
Continuing students will be required to confirm at re-enrolment that they do not have a relevant criminal conviction that has not previously been declared to the University.
Students who at a later stage in their programme of study indicate that they wish to enrol on an optional module that involves working with children, young people or vulnerable adults will be required to declare any relevant convictions and gain a satisfactory enhanced disclosure from the Disclosure and Barring Service before they can proceed to undertake the module.
The University’s Criminal Convictions Review Panel is comprised of the Director of Student Services, Executive Head of Registry, Admissions Manager and the Registry Services Manager.
The Panel meet on a weekly basis or when considered necessary in order to review cases referred to them via the Registry.
Depending on the nature and severity of the convictions declared and the programme of study concerned, other senior members of staff such as the Assistant Dean of Institute, Data Protection Officer, and where appropriate, the Accommodation Manager may be invited to join the Panel in an advisory capacity.
The University reserves the right to decline to offer a place or to withdraw an offer of a place if it considers that admitting an applicant could pose a risk to the safety of the University community or where convictions or information revealed, or restrictions or probation requirements that the applicant must adhere to, are incompatible with a place on a programme of study.
Reasons for the Panel’s decision will be provided in each case.
Applicants/students will be informed if it is a condition of their acceptance/continued enrolment that this information will be passed to certain members of staff on a ‘need to know’ basis.
An appeal against the decision of the Panel will be considered where there are adequate grounds, as set out in the University’s Policy and Procedures for Admissions Feedback, Appeals and Complaints available at Admissions Policy and Terms and Conditions for Applicants .
Storage and retention of information relating to criminal convictions
Any information disclosed by prospective and enrolled students relating to criminal convictions will be stored electronically and kept for no longer than is necessary for the purpose for which it was provided.
Further information can be found in the University’s policies on data protection .

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/apply/undergraduate/criminal-convictions/disclosure-and-barring-service-dbs-checks:
Certain courses offered by UWTSD will require applicants to undertake an Enhanced Check through the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS).
These courses will include a placement or activity involving significant contact with children and/or vulnerable adults, referred to as Regulated Activity.
If a course does require a DBS check, it will be clearly stated on the course information page on the UWTSD website (and on the UCAS website if applicable) and in any subsequent offer letter sent by the University.
The DBS process must be completed satisfactorily before a student can be allowed to undertake any work or placements that require contact with children and/or vulnerable adults.
Further information is contained in the University’s Admissions Policy
Register for the online service
The University uses an external service `First Advantage KnowYourPeople’ to process DBS applications.
When you have accepted your offer of a place or confirmed UWTSD as your Firm choice on UCAS, you will be required to `self-register’ for the online DBS service.
An email will be sent to you from Admissions containing the link to the registration page.
The email will also contain the Position for which you are applying.
Once you have registered, you will be able to begin your application.
Completing the application form
We recommend that you have the following to hand to assist you when completing the form:
If you do not have the above information readily available, you can return to complete the form at another time after registering.
Making payment
The cost of applying for a DBS is currently £65.86 which is payable directly to First Advantage using their online payment system.
This amount includes a £49.50 fee charged by the Disclosure and Barring Service for the Enhanced check, an administration fee of £7.98 charged by First Advantage for processing the DBS application and an administration fee of £8.38 charged by the Post Office for verifying your documents.
Document verification
As part of the DBS application process, applicants are required to provide a minimum of 3 original identity documents.
These documents must meet the requirements of the DBS permitted document list .
Verification at a Post Office that offers the CRB & ID Verification Service
As part of the online service, applicants are able to have their documents verified by the post office using the ‘CRB & ID Verification Service’.
Further information on the branches offering the service can be found on the post office website .
You will need to take a printed copy of the ID Verification Service form with you when using this service.
Registering for the DBS Update Service
We recommend that all applicants register for the Update Service .
When you have submitted your DBS application, you can subscribe to the Update Service straight away using your DBS application reference number.
You can also join the Update Service when you receive your DBS certificate, by using your certificate number.
If you choose to do this, you must join the Update Service within 30 days of the ‘date of issue’ displayed on your certificate.
The Update Service costs £16 per year, payable directly to the DBS.
Any queries in relation to DBS Checks may be addressed to the Admissions Team at dbs@uwtsd.ac.uk
The University uses an external service ‘First Advantage KnowYourPeople’ to process DBS applications.
After you have received an offer of a place at UWTSD, you will be sent an email from Admissions which will include a link to the First Advantage KnowYourPeople Registration/Sign-in page where you will need to register.
This will be required when registering for the online service.
You will not be able to complete your DBS application until payment has been made.
DBS Disclosure
If you are currently in possession of a valid DBS certificate and have a valid subscription to the DBS Update Service, please contact the Admissions Team who will be able to verify whether or not it meets the requirements of the course.
We can only accept certificates that have the same level of check as is required for the course to which you are applying e.g.
your certificate is an Enhanced Child Workforce check and the course requires an Enhanced Child Workforce check.
If your certificate does not meet the requirements of the course, e.g.
you possess an Enhanced Child and Adult Workforce check but the course requires an Enhanced Child Workforce check, or you are not registered with the DBS Update Service, then you will be required to apply for a new certificate.
To verify if you will be permitted to use an existing certificate, please contact Admissions at dbs@uwtsd.ac.uk .
Please ensure that you upload a copy of your current certificate to assist us in checking its suitability.
If your existing certificate is deemed acceptable for use, you will need to have a valid subscription to the DBS Update Service and this will need to be in place until you have completed any work or placements involving contact with children and/or vulnerable adults that you are required to undertake as part of your course.
If you allow your subscription to the DBS Update Service to lapse, you will be required to apply for a new Enhanced disclosure through UWTSD and will not be permitted to attend placements involving regulated activity or continue with such a placement until you have completed the DBS process satisfactorily.
Please note that where a DBS check is required, it must be an Enhanced check.
We cannot accept existing Basic check certificates.
Scottish Disclosure
Scottish Disclosures are only valid in Scotland and as such will not be accepted.
You will be required to apply for an Enhanced DBS check.
Access NI Disclosure
We are unable to accept the Access NI Disclosure as they are only accurate as of their date of issue.
As the DBS Update Service is only valid in conjunction with the original certificate, we are unable to accept this.
The Update Service only shows information that has been added since the original certificate was issued.
It does not show any information or markers that were present on the original certificate.
If you are unable to provide your original DBS certificate when required during the University’s DBS verification process, prior to or during a placement involving regulated activity, you will be required to apply for a new Enhanced disclosure through UWTSD and will not be permitted to attend placements involving regulated activity or continue with such a placement until you have completed the DBS process satisfactorily.
To track the status of a submitted application, you can access the official DBS application tracking service
You will need to input your application reference number and date of birth to track your application.
If you cannot find your reference number, please email Admissions .
When the certificate is issued by the DBS, the University receives an electronic confirmation letter.
If the University does require you to show us the original certificate, we will contact you directly.
Appeals against information reported on a DBS certificate need to be made directly to the DBS.
Contact details can be found on the DBS website .
You will need to take a printed copy of the ID Verification Service form with you when using this service.
This form will be generated for you once you have completed your DBS online application through First Advantage.
The Update Service is an online subscription service that lets you keep your standard and enhanced DBS certificates up-to-date.
It also allows employers to check a certificate online, with your consent.
This service reduces the need to apply for multiple certificates when you move from one position to another in the same workforce or when a re-check is required.
Organisations can carry out a quick online status check to see if an individual’s certificate is still up to date – saving you both time and money.
It costs £16 per year.
You will need your certificate number and must register within 30 days of the certificate being issued.
A subscription to the Update Service lasts for one year.
If you do not renew your subscription before it ends, you will need to apply for a new DBS check and register for the Update Service again.
In addition to gaining a satisfactory Enhanced disclosure from the Disclosure and Barring Service, applicants are also required to provide the University with evidence of a satisfactory police check from any country they have resided in (except the UK) for 12 months or more (whether continuously or in total) in the last 10 years, while aged 18 or over.
Applicants to whom this applies are required to provide this information before they can fully enrol on a programme for which an enhanced DBS check is required and before they can be allowed to undertake work that requires contact with children and/or vulnerable adults.
The application process for obtaining a criminal records check from countries outside the UK, varies from country to country.
Further information is available at Criminal Records Checks for Overseas Applicants.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/apply/postgraduate:
If you’re looking to take the next step in your academic journey through postgraduate studies, UWTSD has a diverse postgraduate community waiting for you.
A place where innovation, research, and intellectual growth are celebrated.
We welcome applications from all walks of life, whether you have recently graduated or have been away from education for some time.
Explore the right application process to take the next steps.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/apply/postgraduate/applying-direct-postgraduate:
Many of our part-time and postgraduate programmes (including PCET but excluding full-time PGCE programmes) will require you to apply directly to the University rather than through UCAS.
Please see below for information on how to apply for our MA Education (Wales) programme.
Applicants to the MA Education (Wales) programme must complete the forms below and submit them by emailing admissions@uwtsd.ac.uk at the same time as they submit their course application online.
MA Education (Wales) Supplementary Application Form
MA Education (Wales) RPL Application Form
Further details are available at: MA Education (Wales)
Postgraduate Funding and Support

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/apply/postgraduate/applying-ucas-pgce:
For applications to our other Taught Postgraduate and Postgraduate Research courses, including PGCE Post Compulsory Education and Training, please apply direct .
Our PGCE programmes are for applicants who have completed a degree and want to become qualified teachers.
The Institution code for the University of Wales Trinity Saint David is T80.
Further information on the application process is available at: How to apply | Teacher Training | UCAS .

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/apply/postgraduate/postgraduate-research-applications:
Before you apply please read the following information before completing your application.
Additional requirements may apply for certain programmes, so please check individual programme pages.
Applications are considered on their individual merits.
If you are applying for one of our Professional Doctorates, or Masters by Research and wish to have an informal discussion with the Programme Manager before completing an application, contact details are provided on the relevant programme page.
If you are applying to start your own research project as a PhD, MPhil or PhD by Published Works, you will be supported in your research by a supervisory team of no fewer than two supervisors, consisting of a Director of Studies and at least one other supervisor.
For the MSc by Research, you will have at least one supervisor.
Therefore, the first step before you apply is to contact the relevant Institute Manager of Research Degrees in your intended area of research to identify the supervisors available to support you.
Please find the contact details relevant to you on the Institute page for your subject:
You are also welcome to contact registrypgr@uwtsd.ac.uk .
The academic entry requirements for research degrees are detailed in Chapter 8 of the Academic Quality Handbook and the Code of Practice for Research Degrees.
The normal minimum academic requirement for the PhD, PhD by Published Works, Professional Doctorate and the MPhil is a Master’s degree or an upper second class honours degree relevant to the proposed research project or equivalent professional experience.
The normal minimum academic requirement for the Master by Research and the Master of Science by Research is an upper second class honours degree relevant to the proposed research project or equivalent professional experience.
All applicants whose native language is not English or Welsh must provide evidence of competence in the English or Welsh Language at a level necessary to complete the programme of work and to prepare to defend a thesis in that language.
Proficiency in English for students whose first language is not English is normally evidenced by a minimum IELTS score (or equivalent) of 6.5 overall (to include a minimum score of 6.5 in both reading and writing).
Further information on the University’s English Language requirements is available at: English Language Entry Requirements | UWTSD .
Select your course using the search function e.g.
PhD.
You will need to select the programme title, with your intended intake and mode of study, such as full time or part time, distance or on campus, then click through to the application form.
When you start your application, you will be emailed with a password so that you can log in at any time to complete your application.
There are 3 stages to the form.
Stage 1 asks for information relating to you.
Stage 2 is information relating to your chosen course, such as your previous education, qualifications and Research Proposal or Personal Statement.
Stage 3 relates to Declarations.
You have to complete all of the mandatory fields (marked with a *) before you can Save and move to the next section.
At the bottom of the screen in each section, you have the option to Save what you have completed and Continue to the next section, or to Save and Exit and return to the form at a later time.
When a section is completed and saved, a green tick will appear against it.
The form has comprehensive instructions for you to follow, and help boxes are available in each section, detailing the required information.
When you have completed and saved each section and stage, click on Submit to submit.
Your research proposal is a key part of your postgraduate research application.
It’s your opportunity to demonstrate your knowledge of your subject and how your research will make an original contribution to existing knowledge in that area.
This section of the online application is broken down into the following headings with text boxes to complete:
Proposed title A working title of your research.
The wording may change as your research develops.
Background and context In this section you will need to:
Proposed research question
Proposed aims
Proposed objectives Outline the action(s) you will take in order to achieve these objectives.
250 words
Proposed methodology
In this section, you will need to explain how you will achieve your aims and objectives:
Contribution to the field of knowledge Identify how the results of this research will impact the subject field or professional area.
Indicative bibliography
Type into the boxes to maintain the formatting rather than pasting from a Word document.
Proposed Title
Your title should give a clear indication of your proposed research theme and related research questions addressed through your publications.
Portfolio of Publications
In this section you will need to:
Initial Critical Commentary on the Body of Work
Please provide a statement of no more than 3,000 words.
In this section you will need to demonstrate:
Please provide information that is relevant to your application for admission such as why you wish to follow this programme, the benefits you expect to gain from it and the skills and experience you possess which make you a suitable applicant.
The information you provide allows us to identify a broader set of skills than those evidenced by your qualifications and references.
The character limit for the personal statement is 64000.
Before you start to complete the online application form, you will need to gather the following supporting documents:
Documents can be uploaded to the online application in the following file formats:
.jpg, .png, .jpeg, .doc, .docx and .pdf  The maximum file size is 5MB.
The uploads should be clear and show the full document.
You will also need to prepare the following:
The online application form will ask you for the names and contact details, including email addresses, of two referees.
When you submit the online application form, emails requesting references will automatically be sent to your referees, inviting them to complete a reference via a link that will feed into your application.
The referees should normally be individuals from an organisation at which you have studied or at which you were or are employed.
Referees should normally be able to comment on your academic work.
If they are from an institution at which you have studied, then they must be academics who have assessed your work as part of the qualification that is being used to gain entry.
If they are from an institution at which you have been, or currently are employed, then they must have had line management responsibility for you.
The referees must not be a relative or a personal friend.
You also have the option to upload a reference.
Pre-prepared references must be signed and on letterhead paper.
They must also be recent (within the last two years).
After you have submitted your online application, you will receive an email acknowledgement.
Registry (Postgraduate Research Students), or International Registry will contact you if further information is required.
If your application is successful, you will receive an email informing you that the status of your application has changed and inviting you to view the update in the MyTSD application portal.
When you log in, you will be able to view the decision and the offer letter.
Please select from the options to accept or decline.
We offer an October entry for all our postgraduate research programmes, and a February and June entry for some selected programmes.
Please contact RegistryPGR@uwtsd.ac.uk for programme specific information.
For the PhD, PhD by Published Works, MPhil and Master of Science by Research, if you are a ‘home’ applicant please apply for your preferred start date and we will do our best to accommodate your request.
Early submission is recommended; usually eight weeks before the entry point.
If you are an overseas applicant, please refer to the relevant submission deadlines on the International Applications pages.
The Doctoral College provides a hub to enhance our students’ doctoral training and researcher development.
We run our own events and work with programmes and Institutes to deliver resources, networking, and training for our diverse and geographically dispersed doctoral students within a growing and vibrant community.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-and-pgce/education-and-humanities-postgraduate-research-courses:
Contribute to your field through in-depth study and original research.
Gain skills, experience and career options.
Join an engaging and stimulating postgraduate research community.
Your experience will be shaped and supported by our Doctoral College , a rich and vibrant research hub with resources, facilities, training and support for all our postgraduate researchers.
Please discuss your plans with an academic contact before applying for an MPhil or PhD.
Each dropdown item on this page contains contact details you can use.
You can apply directly to this course.
Before applying, please discuss your plans with an academic contact via the following email:
pgrathrofa@uwtsd.ac.uk
You can apply directly to this MRes course.
Online/distance – Part time – October start – visit the course page
Online/distance – Full time / Part time – October start – visit the course page
You can apply directly to this course.
Please contact pgrathrofa@uwtsd.ac.uk for more information.
Please contact Dr Nicola Welton ( n.welton@uwtsd.ac.uk ) for more information.
Our Research Degrees are classified as either Level 7 or 8 in the Credit and Qualifications Framework for Wales.
The University’s regulations for our research degrees are available in Chapter 8 of the Academic Quality Handbook and the Code of Practice for Research Degrees.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-and-pgce/management-and-health-postgraduate-research-courses:
Before applying, please discuss your plans with an academic contact via the following email: RegistryPGR@uwtsd.ac.uk .
Please discuss your plans with the following contact before applying:
Dr Alex Bell a.bell@uwtsd.ac.uk
Please discuss your plans with the following contact before applying:
Laura James laura.james@uwtsd.ac.uk
Please discuss your plans with the following contact before applying:
RegistryPGR@uwtsd.ac.uk
Please discuss your plans with the following contact before applying:
Contact RegistryPGR@uwtsd.ac.uk for more information.
You can apply for a PhD by submitting work you have already published.
Published works include:
The works must:
You will also need to complete a reflective analysis of up to 30,000 words.
Course length
Full time : 1 year Part time : 2 years

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/our-institutes/wisa/science-and-art-postgraduate-research-courses:
Professor Julia Lockheart julia.lockheart@uwtsd.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/how-apply/international-applications:
While choosing to study in a different country may initially seem daunting, we are dedicated to ensuring a seamless process for you.
Here you’ll find comprehensive guidance on application procedures, immigration requirements and visas, and English language proficiency, all while providing unwavering support at every step of your educational pursuit.
Students looking to study a full time degree with us can apply directly to the University.
These degrees will be awarded by UWTSD.
Any questions please email International Registry.
You can also apply through an agent in your country.
UWTSD works with an established network of educational agencies across the World who play a highly valued role in supporting applicants and prospective students who plan to study with us.
An agent can help you apply.
They’ll provide advice on choosing and applying for a degree, getting visas and finding accommodation.
UWTSD India Office
905, Kailash Building, KG Marg, Barakhamba, New Delhi, 110001, India
If you are interested in recruiting international students for UWTSD, please get in touch .
International Students looking to study a semester with us can apply online.
The deadline for Autumn/Fall semester is 30th May 2025.
Please note Study Abroad & Exchange programmes are contingent upon being currently enrolled at a partner University in your home country.
Bishops University California State University, Fullerton Southern Utah University California State University, Long Beach University of Rio Grande Lakehead University Douglas College Camosun College Thompson Rivers University University of North Carolina at Greensboro Volda University College Oslo Metropolitan University University of South-Eastern Norway Hong Kong Baptist University Rikkyo University UCAM Universidad Católica San Antonio de Murcia St Micheal’s college Vermont
Spain: Escola Superior de Disseny (ESDA) Llotija Barcelona
All International Students seeking entry to the University are required to demonstrate their English Language proficiency in line with the University’s admissions requirements and English Language policy.
UWTSD provides a comprehensive and expert support service for every step of your UK study visa application.
The type of visa for which you need to apply will depend on your individual circumstances, including the length and level of your proposed course of study.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/how-apply/international-applications/english-language-requirements:
In addition, the University is required to formally assess the English Language ability of any student it wishes to sponsor under the Student Visa route.
Any applicant requiring sponsorship will be required to meet both the UKVI and the University’s own English language entry requirements.
Each course offered by the University will set out the required English Language level required to gain admission to the course.
Please note that the University reserves the right to request any applicant undertakes an English Language assessment regardless of the evidence provided of English Language proficiency.
The University reserves the right on the basis of this assessment not to grant entry where it has reasons to doubt the applicant is at the appropriate overall English language proficiency.
An overall English language level equivalent to an IELTS score of 5.0 with no lower than 4.5 in reading, speaking, listening and a minimum score of 5.0 in writing.
An overall English Language level equivalent to an IELTS score of 6.0 (or equivalent) with no lower than 5.5 in reading writing, listening and speaking.
An overall English Language level equivalent to an IELTS score of 6.5 (or equivalent) with no lower than 6.5 in reading and writing, and with no lower than 5.5 in listening or speaking.
Applicants may automatically satisfy the English language entry requirements of the University for academic study for all courses if they are considered to be native English speakers through citizenship of the following majority English speaking countries:
In addition to the above, applicants may also provide the following evidence to meet the relevant English Language requirements for their course:
If an applicant has:
Level 4-7 - Minimum overall score of 6.0 with no lower than 5.5 in Reading, Writing, Listening or Speaking.
(IELTS Academic non UKVI may be accepted under certain circumstances.
IELTS One Skill Retake with IELTS Academic for UKVI is accepted)
Reading minimum 18, Listening minimum 17, Writing minimum 17, Speaking Minimum 20.
(ToEFL iBT Home Edition may be accepted under certain circumstances)
Qualification
Level
Austrian Reifeprüfung/ Matura
Grade 2 (Gut) or above in Written and Oral components
Belgian Certificat d’Enseignement Secondaire / Diplomavan hoger Secundair Onderwij / Abschlusszeugnis der Oberstufe des Sekundarunterrichts
Grade 15 out of 20 or 70%, or above
Czech Maturitni Zkousce / Maturita
Grade 3 or above
Danish Bevis for Studentereksamen (STX)
Grade 7 or above in Written and Oral components
French Baccalauréat l’Option Internationale, English (awarded until 2023),
Grade 12 or above
Baccalauréat Français International (BFI) (awarded from 2024),
French Baccalauréat Général, EnglishLV1 or A
Grade 14 or above
German Abitur, English
Netherlands VWO, English
Grade 7 or above
Norwegian Vitnemål for videregående opplæring, English
Grade 4 or above
Swedish Fullstandigt fran Gymnasieskolan or Hogskoleforberedand, English
Grade C or above
Swiss Certificat de Maturité / Maturitätszeugnis / Maturitätsausweis / Attestato di Maturità
Grade 4.5 or above
Cambridge Assessment International Education GCE O Level, English
Botswana General Certificate of Secondary Education, English
Cameroon GCEO Level, English
HKDSE English Language
Grade 4 or above overall, with Grade 4 or above in each component
Indian Standard XII, English Language with the exception of Punjab and Haryana exam boards .
Overall passmark 70% or above for Undergraduate study.
Kenyan Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE), English
Grade B or above.
This qualification is exempt from the usual five-year time limit.
Please note that we do not accept Grade B-in the KCSE English.
Malaysian 119 syllabus (UCLES)
Namibian Senior Secondary Certificate (NSSC), Higher English
Singapore Integrated Programme (IP)
Students should go on to complete A Level or IB qualifications (in any subject taught in English)
We require a scanned copy of the IP transcript as evidence of completion
South African National Senior Certificate (SANSC)
SQA HND
Pass, plus successful pass of interview with the International Office.
Tanzanian Certificate of Secondary Education / Advanced Certificate of Secondary Education (awarded by the National Examinations Council of Tanzania), English Language
Ugandan Certificate of Education (UCE)
Grade 6 or above
WAEC West African Senior School Certificate (WASSCE), English
Grade C or above, This qualification is exempt from the usual five-year time limit
West Indies Caribbean Secondary Education Certificate, English A
Grade III (3) or above
Zambian General Certificate of Education, English
Grade 6/C or above
Postgraduate Research courses
Pre-sessional English Language Courses are for students who have been offered a place on a degree programme at University of Wales Trinity Saint David but need to improve their English Language proficiency and/or Study Skills before studying their chosen subject.
All 2025 pre-sessional courses will be delivered by the Oxford International Digital Institute, more information can be found Online Pre-Sessional English University of Wales Trinity Saint David - OI Digital Institute
You will need to show evidence of meeting the English Language entry requirements for the chosen course.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/apply/international-applications/immigration-visas:
The type of visa for which you need to apply will depend on your individual circumstances, including the length and level of your proposed course of study.
The UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) Website will tell you if you need a visa to study in the UK with UWTSD.
Your course length, type and place of study will determine the visa for which you need to apply.
Policy Guide and Background
The DES was introduced by UKVI to allow Tier 4 and student visa sponsored students, studying towards a PhD award or a similar listed qualification (e.g.
DBA) to stay in the UK after achieving their award and seek skilled work in a related field.
The terms of the UWTSD DES scheme are detailed below.
To qualify for a DES CAS a student:
When a student demonstrates all of the above, the University may choose to issue a DES CAS.
If the University decides to issue a DES CAS, it must do so before the student has successfully completed their doctoral award but when doing so must be confident the student will have the relevant award confirmed.
When issuing the CAS for a DES visa the University must state the anticipated date for completion.
The University must then subsequently report to UKVI that the student has in fact successfully completed the award.
Where a student has not successfully completed the award the University must report this fact to the UKVI who will then curtail any leave given under the DES / refuse any outstanding application for leave to remain.
When sponsoring a student under the DES scheme the University must ensure it remains in contact during the period of sponsorship (normally 12 months) and have a minimum of 2 expected contacts during this period.
These contact points are not academically lead but are instead focused on the economic activities of the student – i.e.
are they in skilled employment / self-employment or seeking employment and also to confirm residential address details held on file.
Should a student not attend any scheduled attendance point without prior agreement then the University must report this to UKVI who will then curtail the leave of the sponsored student.
The contacts must be face to face or by Skype and an appropriate record kept of the meeting and placed on the student’s file.
Procedural Guide
6.
In order to ensure all doctorate level students are dealt with in a fair and consistent manner the following procedure has been adopted by the University.
This procedure applies to all SQF level 8 sponsored students across all campuses:
a) Outcome A – Doctorate Level qualification to be awarded
b) Outcome B – Doctorate level qualification to be awarded subject to undertaking and submitting corrections
c) Outcome C – resubmission of DBA thesis in 12 months
d) Doctorate level qualification is not to be awarded
7.
The above process is to be followed across all campuses and for all relevant Tier 4 sponsored SQF level 8 students who request a DES CAS.
Make sure that you have completed an application form and submitted it to the University.
There is more information available to help you with this in the *How to Apply* section.
Once your application is accepted, you will then be given detailed guidance and support for your visa application.
There are several different types of visa that permit you to enter the UK.
These are issued according to the purpose of your last visit, for example, for tourism, study, or work.
In almost all cases, to be able to study at UWTSD, you will be required to make a new Study Visa application from your home country.
However, if you require a Student Route visa for your studies (the most common visa type for students), you may be able to change (switch) to this visa if you’re in the UK already.
For further information please contact International Registry .
You will need to pay a visa application fee and the prices for these are given on the UKVI’s website for each type of visa.
You will also need to pay a ‘Health Surcharge’ fee and the price of this will vary according to the duration of your requested visa.
The University’s immigration team will advise you on the exact costs that you must pay for your specific circumstances and will guide you through the payment process.
There is no additional charge to you for the advice service provided by the University.
We recommend you start by reading the information and guidance contained in these pages and also look at the website: UK Visa and Immigration and UKCISA .
If you can’t find what you are looking for or need further personal advice, you can email the International Registry team .
Immigration advice and services are regulated by the Office of the Immigration Services Commissioner (OISC) and we as an institution must abide by the Commissioner’s Code of Standards.
The advisory team that provides support to you on behalf of the University holds OISC accreditation and in this context, they can only work with UWTSD applicants (and where appropriate, their dependents).
No, the fee you have paid for your visa application is for it to be processed and a decision to be made, regardless of the decision itself.
You will however be refunded the fee for the Immigration Health Surcharge if applicable.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/applying-finance/how-apply/how-apply-degree-apprenticeship:
The Apprenticeship programmes at UWTSD allow you to study while you work to develop your workplace competence and achieve a recognised qualification (such as an HNC, HND, degree, or Masters).
Apprenticeships are a devolved matter and the course available will depend on your contracted place of work.
Apprenticeships We Offer Here | Search Apprenticeships
If you wish to apply you must meet these requirements:
If you are ready to apply, please use the Register Your Interest button.
You will be asked for your name, postcode, employer name, and the programme.
We will review your information and provide you with an application link.
After registering your interest, potential applicants will be contacted by a member of the Apprenticeship Unit Team who will check their eligibility and advise on the best entry point based on their existing qualifications and experience.
A link to the application form may then be provided.
Apprentices must include their current employer as a referee on their application form.
If you are not eligible to apply you will need to find a relevant vacancy, please see below for details.
To secure a Degree Apprenticeship with UWTSD you must either already be employed or you need to apply for a position with one of our employer partners.
Vacancies will be listed on this page as soon as they become available, so remember to check back regularly.
Archaeological Specialist
Various roles , Jobs Information Service and Training, Chartered Institute for Archaeologists (CIFA).
Digital
Various roles – Digital Health and Care Wales (DHCW), Cardiff, Mold, Pencoed, Pontypool and Swansea.
Engineering
Various roles – Tata Steel, Port Talbot.
Stained Glass
Apprentice Stained-Glass Conservator, Painter and Glazer – Holy Well Glass , Wells, Somerset.
Apprentice Stained Glass Conservator/Craftsperson - Dan Humphries Stained Glass , Glastonbury, Somerset
Neath Port Talbot Council
Various roles
Government sites to find an apprenticeship:
In Wales, use the Wales Find an Apprenticeship Search to find external links.
In England, use the ESFA Higher and Degree Apprenticeships page vacancy listing, or the ESFA Find an Apprenticeship site (you can filter the results to level 6 for Degree Apprenticeships).

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/apply/how-apply-degree-apprenticeship/what-degree-apprenticeship:
Degree apprenticeships are an alternative to traditional university studies that are becoming increasingly popular.
You will gain real-world workplace experience and earn a salary, whilst simultaneously working towards a degree qualification upon successful completion of the apprenticeship.
In short, a degree apprenticeship is for anyone, as long as you are employed in a relevant industry and 18 and above you could be a degree apprentice, and remember there is no age-limit and no tuition fees.
Gain all the advantages of being full-time employed whilst improving your employability and career prospects.
A degree apprenticeship combines work with study (usually, but not always, 1 day release per week) this combination is a fantastic way to gain the experience and knowledge you need to succeed in a working environment.
You must be employed in the relevant sector to join the programme.
To access a Higher Apprenticeship  or Degree Apprenticeship you need to have qualifications at level 3 (A-Level, BTEC Diploma) or relevant experience in the workplace.
A Degree or Higher Apprenticeship is an excellent progression opportunity for people who have completed a Level 3 Apprenticeship programme, HNC or HND already.
Apprentices must spend at least 20% of their time on off-the-job training; this includes regular day release to university or block release, special training days or workshops.
It must be directly relevant to the apprenticeship framework or standard and can be delivered at the apprentice’s normal place of work as long as it is not part of their normal working duties.
It can cover practical training such as shadowing, mentoring, industry visits and attending competitions.
On-the-job training helps apprentices develop and embed the specific knowledge, skills and behaviours for the workplace.
Apprentices need to be supported by a work-place mentor.
Once an apprentice completes their apprenticeship, they should be able to demonstrate that they can perform tasks confidently and completely to the standard set by industry.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/apply/online-distance-learning-applications:
Applications for our Online & Distance Learning programmes can be made, programme dependent, directly to us or through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) .
Please see the individual programme pages for details.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/how-apply/schools-and-colleges:
UWTSD’s Student Recruitment team offers a wide variety of services to schools and colleges, both locally and nationally.
The team provides key information on courses, funding, student life, academic and study skills and more.
Our aim is to promote access to Higher Education for all, provide high quality information and advice, and ultimately help guide students on their transition to university.
We liaise with UK students, their parents and guardians, teachers, and careers advisers, providing accurate information on UWTSD courses as well as impartial advice on Higher Education.
As active members of the Higher Education Liaison Officers Association (HELOA)  you are assured that the information and advice provided by our team is professional and informed.
Please contact us for more information on what we can offer your School or College.
South West Wales Reaching Wider Partnership aims to increase participation in higher education by people from underrepresented groups and communities in South West Wales.
Residential courses give students aged 16-17 a taste of the unique university life at UWTSD.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges/reaching-wider:
This national programme, funded by the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales (HEFCW), aims to increase higher education participation from under-represented groups by raising educational aspirations and skills, and creating innovative study opportunities and learning pathways to higher education.
We have a specific focus on people who live within the bottom 40% of the Welsh Index of Multiple Deprivation, care experienced young people, and carers.
We are funded by the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales, Reaching Wider Programme and our partners are:
Through collaboration, we offer a range of learning and aspiration-raising activities for targeted children, young people and adults across South West Wales which create pathways to higher education.
Please contact us for further information.
Reaching Wider is a partnership of universities, schools and colleges in Wales working together to improve social mobility by widening access to all forms of higher education.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-residential:
The Student Recruitment Outreach Team are running a residential course across the Carmarthen and Swansea campuses from the 30th of June to the 3rd of July 2026.
The residential will give students aged 16-17 a taste of the unique university life at the University of Wales Trinity Saint David.
The booking form isn’t live yet, but you can fill out the form below to register your interest and be the first to hear when the booking form opens.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/experience-facilities/why-choose-uwtsd:
Start your adventure with an undergraduate degree at UWTSD.
You’ll immerse yourself in a subject that inspires you – exploring different career avenues and options for your future as you go.
Whatever your ambitions, we’ll help you hit the ground running with your goals firmly in sight.
With degrees in art and design, engineering, computing, humanities, education, business, management, health and sport, we’ve got hundreds of options to choose from.
Explore optional modules on a selection of our degrees that allow you to tailor your course to your interests.
Feel confident and comfortable to ask questions and get involved in discussions.
Our class sizes are kept small, to give you the attention and support you need from our expert tutors – making sure you truly understand your subject and get the most out of your degree.
Your wellbeing comes first.
Whether you’re struggling with your workload, having trouble settling in, or you’re just going through a tough time, our team of friendly support staff is on-hand to give you support and guidance during your degree.
What’s your dream job?
At UWTSD, we’ll help you make it happen.
From CV writing and interview practice to landing the perfect internship, you’ll find the path that’s right for you with the support of our experienced Careers Advisers.
With locations in Swansea, Carmarthen, Lampeter, Cardiff, London and Birmingham, you’ll find your home away from home at UWTSD.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/why-choose-uwtsd/laura-wade-graphic-design-ba-hons:
Name: Laura Wade
Course: BA Graphic Design
Previous Studies: UAL Extended Diploma in Art and Design at Hereford College of Arts
Hometown: Herefordshire
Studying at the Dynevor campus, in the city centre of Swansea, felt like a second home, radiating a welcoming and creative environment for all to achieve their academic goals.
At Swansea College of Art, students and staff share a collective passion and drive for the creative industry, fostering a supportive and inspiring community.
The collaborative atmosphere encourages innovation and growth, making it a place where creativity thrives, and everyone feels valued.
Most importantly, all involved understand the importance that art colleges have in the creative education system.
Why did you choose UWTSD?
In December 2020, when I began applying for university courses, the global pandemic meant choosing a university was challenging.
However, from research and interview processes, the welcoming and inspiring nature of UWTSD stood out.
Their commitment to traditional visual communication methods and excellent facilities impressed me.
Unlike larger universities, Swansea College of Art offered smaller class sizes with more tutor contact time giving a personal approach, which would be crucial for my development.
Coming from a smaller hometown, I felt that this environment would suit me perfectly, making UWTSD the ideal choice for my academic journey, one I don’t regret!
What do you enjoy outside your studies?
Outside of my graphic design studies, I am an avid sports enthusiast, with a particular passion for cricket.
I regularly played cricket throughout the summer months during my three years of study, having previously played at the highest standard of women’s club cricket in the West Midlands.
This passion for sport often influenced my academic design work, inspiring creativity and innovation.
I represented the University’s netball team during my first two years of studies, developing friendships outside of my course.
Additionally, I enjoyed spending quality time with family and friends during my time at home.
What do you hope to do when you graduate?
After I graduate, I aspire to secure a graphic design role within the sporting industry, ideally based in the West Midlands.
Combining my passion for design with my love for sports would be a dream come true.
However, my determination, self-motivation, and entrepreneurial drive fuel my long-term goal of establishing my own freelance design business.
I envision establishing a diverse portfolio of clients and projects, allowing me to explore my creativity while having the freedom to shape my own professional path.
Additionally, of course, I will continue to play cricket!
What was your favourite thing about your course?
It’s difficult to pick a favourite aspect of the BA (Hons) Graphic Design course because I’ve cherished every moment over the last three academic years.
However, the personal approach stands out.
The connections formed with the teaching staff significantly enhance confidence, ignite creativity, and provide a constant supportive presence.
This personalised attention, rare in larger universities, fosters an environment where ideas flourish.
Being in an art college amplifies this dynamic – surrounded by peers who share the same creative spark, ideas bounce off each other, creating not just friendships but also invaluable business connections for the future.
I highly recommend UWTSD to any prospective students seeking a nurturing environment to grow both academically and personally.
While the decision to attend university can feel daunting, chasing your dreams is essential, and Swansea College of Art is undoubtedly the place where this can happen.
The University offers abundant opportunities for academic development and self-discovery.
Moreover, the inviting atmosphere of both the University and the city of Swansea provides a vibrant student community.
Also, the unique blend of the seaside and the city centre offers the best of both worlds for students!

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/why-choose-uwtsd/unibuddy:
Chat with our current students below - where they’ll be honest and informative with anything you ask.
Worried about student life?
Or need more information about a course?
They’ll be there to assist you with whatever you may need.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/experience-and-facilities/welsh-opportunities-uwtsd:
UWTSD is a naturally bilingual University, where Welsh and English coexist in harmony.
A high percentage of our staff and students across our campuses can speak Welsh and it is therefore possible for Welsh speakers to receive support through the medium of Welsh in all aspects of student life here.
We are also very proud to support any student who wishes to learn Welsh or develop their Welsh-language skills during their time at the University.
Here at UWTSD we have a range of Welsh medium and bilingual courses across our campuses.
Perhaps you haven’t considered studying for your degree or part of your degree program through the medium of Welsh until now, or perhaps you don’t feel confident about studying your program entirely through the medium of Welsh.
Don’t worry, you are in good hands.
You will get support from the University throughout your studies, you won’t be alone.
Think of the doors that will open for you as graduates if you have studied at least part of your degree program through the medium of Welsh!
Students at UWTSD who take Welsh-medium or bilingual undergraduate courses or modules have a special opportunity to obtain financial support from the University and Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol.
£50 is awarded for every 10 credits successfully completed by an undergraduate student through the medium of Welsh/bilingually.
Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol awards a number of scholarships to students who study specific courses partly, or entirely, through the medium of Welsh.
UWTSD plays a key role in providing Welsh-medium higher education and has an active Branch of the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol.
The Branch organises a range of academic and social events for staff and students, from the annual lecture, conferences, freshers events and annual dinner, to the social choir and informal chats for Welsh learners.
In addition, the Branch offers linguistic and financial support to Welsh-speaking students.
The Welsh Society – Y Gym Gym is run by University students, and various activities and social events are organised, providing plenty of opportunities to make friends and gain new experiences; from international rugby trips to sports competitions and the Intercollegiate Eisteddfod… there are opportunities and activities to suit everyone!
The University’s Welsh Language Services Centre is here to support you.
As well as being responsible for promoting and developing Welsh-medium education opportunities, the centre is home to Rhagoriaith and Peniarth.
Here at UWTSD we are committed to training and preparing students for bilingual Wales.
We provide Welsh lessons free of charge to our staff and students.
Would you like to learn Welsh whilst at the University and embrace the opportunity to upskill yourself and prepare for future employment in a bilingual workplace?
To register your interest and find out more about Welsh courses available, please contact us on tiwtorcymraeg@pcydds.ac.uk
You have a legal right to receive services in Welsh.
These rights have been created as a result of ‘Welsh Language Standards’ introduced to the University.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/students-union:
Hi there, we’re UWTSD Students’ Union.
We’re the people here to help you make the most of your student experience no matter what or where you study at UWTSD.
We’re independent from the university and a charity led by students, for students.
As a student, you’re one of our members - union membership is free and automatic.
Play video: Hello from your Students' Union • 2021
It’s our mission to make sure that the thoughts and ideas of students get heard by the university.
We have a network of student representatives to help us do this - will you get involved?
We want to make every campus fun and engaging.
Your time at university is more than just lectures - with us, you can run your own sports clubs and societies, get involved with events, and develop your skills.
Our advice service is free, independent and confidential.
We want to empower you to make the decisions that are right for you.
We’ll also help with university processes and signposting.
We host a range of events throughout the year, including the official Welcome Weeks.
We also run venues on the Carmarthen and Lampeter campuses.
Perfect for students living on campus or for those post-lecture chill-outs!

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/experience-facilities/sport:
Ready to achieve your sporting goals?
Our specialist facilities include a strength and conditioning facility, 3G training area, fitness studio, physiology and biomechanics labs, swimming pool, sports analysis suite, indoor sports hall, and sports therapy and rehabilitation suites.
UWTSD offers excellent sports facilities and an extensive range of activities to cater for everyone from high-performance athletes to students, staff and the wider community.​ Find out more about UWTSD’s Students’ Union sports clubs, sports facilities, Academy of Sport, membership schemes and much more.
Got a thing for competitive sports?
Stay at the top of your game during your degree with the University of Wales Trinity Saint David Academy of Sport and create the university experience you’ve always dreamed of.
Sport, Health and Outdoor Education Facilities
Sport is a big part of the culture of Wales and going to see an event or match is an essential part of studying at UWTSD!

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/wahpl/about-physical-literacy:
Physical Literacy is a lifelong journey that begins in early childhood, as we start to discover how our bodies move and interact with the world around us.
Through play, exploration, and a variety of physical experiences, young children build the foundation for movement, confidence, and enjoyment of physical activity.
But Physical Literacy doesn’t end with childhood—and it’s not just about sports.
It encompasses all forms of movement, across all stages of life.
It’s about developing the knowledge, skills, motivation, and confidence to be active in many different ways, in many different environments.
Physical Literacy is more than physical skills.
It’s a holistic approach to movement that supports health, wellbeing, and lifelong participation in physical activity.
Definitions of Physical Literacy “The motivation, confidence, physical competence, knowledge and understanding to value and take responsibility for engagement in physical activities for life.” (Whitehead, 2016)
“Lifelong holistic learning acquired and applied in movement and physical activity contexts.
It reflects ongoing changes integrating physical, psychological, cognitive and social capabilities.
It is vital in helping us lead healthy and fulfilling lives through movement and physical activity.” (The Australian Sports Commission)
Read more about Physical Literacy at the International Physical Literacy Association website.
We aim to lay the foundations of physical activity, health, well-being, and academic outcomes in early childhood.
Learn more about the evidence-based training available for people who work with children.
All of our research is applied to practice.
You can read how our research impacts outcomes for young children, parents, older adults and patients, and improves health and wellbeing in our communities.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/experience-facilities/sport/academy-sport:
Stay at the top of your game during your degree with the University of Wales Trinity Saint David Academy of Sport and create the university experience you’ve always dreamed of.
The Academy of Sport services are currently based at our South West Wales campuses.
However, if there are high performance student athletes that could represent the University at the BUCS championships, please contact the academy.
There may be the option of accessing training programmes, nutrition advice and further support remotely, depending on the chosen sport.
Get professional-level sports specific coaching, strength and conditioning training, as well as advice on nutrition, diet and lifestyle.
You’ll train in brand-new gym facilities, fully kitted out with industry-leading equipment and enjoy regular opportunities to compete in the British Universities and Colleges Sports (BUCS) leagues, events and championships.
Our experienced staff and coaching professionals are on hand to help you thrive and succeed in the world of sport.
The Academy of Sport provide this performance pathway in the following focus sports; Rugby - Male & Female, Football - Male & Female, Netball - Female and Individual Sports - Male & Female.
All Academy Student Athletes in these pathways will access; Coaching, Strength and conditioning, Nutrition and diet advice, Sport science, Sport therapy, Performance Analysis and Lifestyle management.
We support and work with the following Student Union Sports clubs; UWTSD Rugby Club, UWTSD Football, Club UWTSD, Netball Club, UWTSD Individual Sports Club.
These clubs who compete in the BUCS leagues, cups, events and championships.
Student athletes in these clubs will typically have 2/3 dedicated sports sessions, two strength & conditioning sessions and one analysis session per week alongside their studies, outside club commitments and social opportunities.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/experience-facilities/sport/wales-academy-health-and-physical-literacy/footie-families:
Footie Families is a unique programme that fosters family engagement and enhances young children’s motor skills, while empowering parents to actively participate in physical activities with their children.
In collaboration with the Football Association of Wales (FAW), we offer an evidence-based training course designed for Footie Families.
This training equips coaches with strategies to effectively engage with families and support the physical development of young children.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/experience-facilities/sport/wales-academy-health-and-physical-literacy/health-and-physical:
Our work at the Wales Academy for Health and Physical Literacy (WAHPL) is grounded in a Saluto-ecological approach, combining McElroy’s adaptation of Bronfenbrenner’s Social Ecological Model with Antonovsky’s Salutogenesis.
We view physical literacy as both a personal resource for lifelong physical activity and a foundation for broader wellbeing (Piper et al., 2022).
Our research spans the life course - from early childhood and parenting to ageing populations - and is embedded in practice.
We also support Post-graduate Research studies at both Master’s and PhD levels linked to Health and Physical Literacy.
We have a range of completed and on-going post graduate research studies linked to Health and Physical Literacy.
Student research projects from these PG programmes have investigated a range of topics.
Some examples include:
Outdoor Education, MA -Dissertation Research
An exploration of how women perceive the presence of others to affect their freedom in outdoor activities.
The landscape of outdoor learning in Zimbabwe and the impact of indigenous culture on engagement with the outdoors.
‘Sense of Place’ in Further Education Outdoor Adventure.
How does disconnection from social media on a three-day, UK-based, outdoor residential contribute to the learning experience and change in attitudes or behaviour toward future use?
Sharing the experience: parent perspectives of an outdoor education programme for families with children and young persons at an SEN school.
Paddlesport motivation within Wales: an exploration of motivational differences for recreational Paddlesport participation within Wales.
Physical Literacy and Physical Education, MA - Dissertation Research
Parental perspectives in relation to pre-schoolers physical activity
Opportunities for female-identifying-players in Ultimate
Parents’ perception of early specialisation
The impact of SKIP-Cymru on pupils’ motor skills
The role of street dance in interest development and subjective task value of male secondary students
Psychosocial and environmental factors that influence university students’ physical activity.
Current PhD Projects:
Alan Samual (ongoing) - The evaluation of a mobile application aimed at improving how parents support fundamental movement skills in their children.
Tara Crank (ongoing) - Exploring the potential of digital technologies for supporting Nature Connection in Wellbeing Courses at a Community Green Health Hub.
Wendy Scott (ongoing) - Exploring whether synchronising exercise type and intensity to menstrual cycle phases can be effective in improving perimenopause related symptoms, mood state and physiological health.
Completed PhD Projects:
Dr Amanda John: The impact of SKIP Cymru professional development on pupils’ motor competence, perceived competence and physical activity.
Dr.
Kate Piper: A social ecological study of mass participation sports events in Pembrokeshire.
Dr Anna Stevenson: The evaluation and development of Footie Families, a family engagement motor skill programme.
Dr David Gardner: High Intensity Training for post-menopausal women
Dr Graham French: A new model for Outdoor Adventure Education for Key Stage 3
Dr Martin Norman: Therapeutic landscapes
We have a range of published research in the field of early childhood physical development.
SKIP Cymru A three-year EU-funded PhD research project led to the development of more in-depth accredited professional development across this programme.
Footie Families Recent research examined the perceptions and needs of parents in relation to their pre-school children’s physical activity.
The result of this was the development of the Footie Families early years engagement programme in collaboration with the Football Association of Wales (FAW).
MiniMovers Working in collaboration with ATiC we have researched the impact of the MiniMovers APP activities on pre-schoolers’ physical development and the experiences of parents.
Outdoor Research at WAHPL
At the Wales Academy of Health and Physical Literacy (WAHPL), our outdoor research is shaping new understanding in the fields of education, physical literacy, and health.
We explore how outdoor and nature-based activities can significantly enhance physical and mental wellbeing across all stages of life.
From early years to later life, outdoor experiences are a vital part of developing physical literacy.
Young children may explore nature through Forest School settings or family adventures.
As they grow, they might join Scouts or Guides, or take part in outdoor education residentials during school years.
Young adults often engage in activities like mountain biking, surfing, climbing, or coasteering, while older adults may find health benefits in walking, gardening, or wild swimming.
At every age, connecting with nature through physical activity contributes to a healthier, more balanced life.
The Cynefin Green Health Hub
Located just a mile from UWTSD’s Carmarthen campus, alongside the River Towy and the All Wales Coast Path, the Cynefin Green Health Hub is a unique collaboration between WAHPL, the Centre for Health & Ageing (CHA), and NHS professionals.
Together, we are developing a bespoke outdoor movement track designed to support pre-surgery fitness, post-surgery recovery and improved mental and physical health.
The track incorporates green exercise features such as benches, steps, uneven terrain, and low-impact exercise stations.
These enable individuals to walk, stretch, and balance according to their ability, guided by WAHPL exercise specialists.
Social spaces along the route foster connection, peer support, and engagement with nature -addressing both physical and mental wellbeing.
Nature-Based Wellbeing & Green Social Prescribing
WAHPL also leads research and evaluation of innovative pilot programmes focused on Wellbeing through Nature and Ecotherapy.
Delivered in partnership with organisations like Coed Lleol and Hywel Dda University Health Board, these programmes are designed to support health professionals experiencing burnout.
Through activities such as environmental conservation, bushcraft, and foraging, participants are encouraged to reconnect with nature, reduce stress, anxiety, and depression, and adopt more sustainable, pro-environmental behaviours.
The Centre for Health and Aging (CHA) was established due to the original research of Dr Peter Herbert who investigated the use of high-intensity interval training (HIIT) for older men.
This globally-recognised research gave insight into the need to consider more bespoke training regimes for the older population and the application of this research in practice led to the establishment of the CHA.
Further research by Dr Herbert and the team have tracked participants over several years and identified aspects and impacts of long-term adherence.
Ongoing PhD research has looked at the impact of strength training for post-menopausal women.
Current research in collaboration with Hywel Dda Health Board is looking at the impact of training programmes as pre-habilitation prior to oncology surgery.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/sport/external-sports-venues:
Sport is a big part of the culture of Wales and going to see an event or match is an essential part of studying at UWTSD.
Check out the several venues below which you can visit whenever you wish to.
Swansea.com Stadium
The Swansea.com Stadium opened in 2005 to provide a home to Swansea City and Ospreys Rugby while giving Swansea a facility to be proud of.
Swansea Bay Sports Park
Facilities at Swansea Bay Sports Park range from the 50m Wales National Pool Swansea, an outdoor athletics track, multi-use pitches, gym, hockey pitches and much more.
St.
Helen’s Rugby & Cricket Ground
Helen’s Rugby and Cricket Ground is a sports venue in Swansea, home of Swansea Rugby Football Club, Swansea Cricket Club and Glamorgan Cricket.
Parc y Scarlets
Home of Scarlets Rugby and a fantastic venue for all manner of conferences, occasions and celebrations.
Machynys Golf Course, Llanelli
Machynys, which translates to ‘Monks Island’, is a Nicklaus-designed 7121-yard modern links championship golf course opening in 2005, which has already hosted an unprecedented 14 Championships.
Please note that these external facilities are not free to use, you will be subject to a service charge when using them.
Principality Stadium
Sporting the first fully retractable roof in the UK, the Principality Stadium in Cardiff is at the leading edge as a multi-purpose, multi-faceted event venue, home of the Welsh Rugby Union.
Sophia Gardens
Sophia Gardens is a 16,000-seater stadium in Cardiff, home of Glamorgan Cricket and an established venue for international cricket.
Cardiff City Stadium
The Cardiff City Stadium is the home of Cardiff City Football Club and the Wales national football team.
Cardiff Arms Park
Cardiff Arms Park is the home of Cardiff Rugby and Cardiff RFC situated next to the Principality Stadium in the heart of the Welsh capital.
International Sports Village
Bordering the freshwater lake created by Cardiff Bay Barrage, the Sports Village already boasts two Olympic standard sporting facilities, Cardiff International White Water and Cardiff International Pool.
Alongside these, you will find the Viola Arena - which is both a public skating rink and home of the Cardiff Devils Elite League ice hockey team.
Ffos Las Racecourse
Ffos Las Racecourse has brought top-class racing to Wales since it opened in 2009.
Settled in between Llanelli and Carmarthen, Ffos Las hosts 23 racing fixtures across the year, as well as being available for hire for conferences and events.
Richmond Park, Carmarthen
Richmond Park is a Welsh Premier League stadium in Carmarthen.
Situated on Priory Street, it is currently used for football matches and is the home ground of Carmarthen Town AFC.
Carmarthen Park
Opened in 1900, Carmarthen Park boasts Wales’s first velodrome (cycle track) and one of the few early velodromes to survive in working condition.
Complete with its original grandstand, bandstand, lodge, entrance gates, and railings, Carmarthen Park has been used for a wide range of sports, eisteddfodau, entertainment, circuses, and concerts.
Cynefin
The UWTSD Centre for Outdoor Adventure Education Cynefin sits on a magnificent green site on the outskirts of Carmarthen, just 20 minutes’ walk from campus.
The site is sheltered and secluded with a diverse range of natural habitats and access to waterways and footpaths.
The centre’s location is perfect for learning about outdoor adventure education.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/sport/sports-facilities:
UWTSD offers excellent sports facilities and an extensive range of activities to cater to everyone from high-performance athletes to students, staff, and the wider community.
What’s more, if you’re part of our football squad, you’ll train and play out of Richmond Park, a UEFA European standard facility – and the home of Carmarthen Town AFC.
If rugby’s your thing, you’ll have your own dedicated playing fields as well as the use of Carmarthen Athletic RFC’s Indoor 3G Training Barn.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/sport/sports-facilities/carmarthen-sports-centre-facilities:
We are delighted to welcome you to the sports facilities at the University of Wales Trinity Saint David, Carmarthen.
Whether you’re a seasoned athlete or just looking to stay active, our comprehensive range of facilities is designed to support your fitness journey and enhance your well-being.
From our fully equipped gym and modern sports hall to our outdoor pitch and fitness classes, we offer everything you need to achieve your goals in a vibrant and supportive environment.
We look forward to helping you make the most of your time here at UWTSD Carmarthen.
Our gym includes a large variety of weights and cardio machines to suit everyone.
We welcome everyone from absolute beginners to the experiences athlete to make use of our equipment and machines.
You can try our gym on a pay-as-you-go basis, or you can sign up for a gym membership via our app – UWTSD Sports.
Our sessions are open to riders of all abilities, with everyone working at a personal level to improve their cycling and overall fitness.
Numbers are kept low, so everyone has the individual attention they require.
Monday and Friday at 7:30am & 8am Places need to be pre-booked via the app.
Involves bursts of high-intensity cardio and strength exercises interspersed with brief periods of recovery.
It is a great way to get a big work out with multiple benefits in a small amount of time.
Wednesdays at 12:15-12:45.
Places need to be pre-booked via the app.
If you can’t make a specific class, don’t worry.
You can follow one of the planned workouts displayed around the gym or ask for one upon arrival.
Equipment supplied by TechnoGym - The Wellness Company, Wattbike & Concept 2 Indoor Rower and Ski Erg.
Heated 20m x 7m indoor swimming pool.
The swimming pool is also used for lectures by the School of Sport Health and Outdoor Education (pool timetable updated via our App – UWSTD Sports)
Swimming is a great form of exercise for the whole body.
Water provides additional resistance for your muscle groups to work against and supports some of your body weight reducing the strain on your joints.
Opening Times Monday to Friday: 8 am - 2 pm Saturdays 10am – 1pm
The swimming pool is hired externally on weekdays from 4:00 pm for Children’s swimming lessons.
For more information, visit the Swim Champs Website .
Based within the Carmarthen Sports Centre, the Joint Care Clinic, owned by Chartered Physiotherapist Mark Brownless – offers specialised physiotherapy clinics for the treatment of sports injuries, soft tissue problems and all orthopaedic conditions.
Please visit the Joint Care Clinic Website to find out more.
Joint Care Clinic Sports Centre University of Wales Trinity Saint David (Sports Centre) Carmarthen SA31 3EP Tel: 07970 657041 Email: info@jointcareclinic.co.uk
“I joined the gym over 10 years ago after visiting the Joint Care Clinic after a nasty injury.
I was advised to join the gym to help with my rehab.
I followed a training programme given to me by the sports centre staff to help rehab my injury and have been here ever since!
The quality of the facilities is very good and perfectly suited to what I want to do.
I feel that there is a perfect balance of cardio and resistance/weight machines.” Dave Crawford
The sports hall is equipped for a variety of activities including basketball, badminton, football, netball, and rock climbing.
It can also be hired for non-sport events such as conferences.
£40 per hour to hire the hall.
Block bookings are £350 for ten weeks, they must be at the same day and time for the 10 consecutive weeks unless initiated by Sports Centre Management.
Sports Hall block booking forms to be completed prior to start of booking.
Individual Sports Hire
£20 per hour
Or £4 per person per hour (max 4 people)
Equipment Hire £1.50 per item (Tennis and badminton rackets, balls, etc.)
Party Hire We offer a party package that aims to take the hassle out of organising a birthday party or any other celebration.
A number of activities are offered which give users a chance to have fun under the watchful eye of a supervisor.
Sports available include football, netball, basketball, volleyball and a number of racquet sports are available.
Pool Parties Swimming pool parties provide a splashing good time for children (and parents) of all ages, under supervision at all times from our qualified lifeguards.
You can book a pool party with floats and pool toys in the pool – ideal for younger children.
(As a general rule, the ratio of adults to children in the pool is one adult to two children under 8).
Costs - Please note that prices vary depending on the specific services and facilities you request.
We offer a range of options to suit different needs, and we are happy to provide a tailored quote based on your requirements
Booking Cancellations The Sports Centre Manager reserves the right to cancel any bookings as a result of weather conditions or for any reason related to other use of the facilities on the day of the booking or soon after.
The University will endeavour to notify the hirer of cancellations by giving as much notice as possible.
The hirer must give one week’s notice of cancellation (48 hours for casual users), which must be received in writing by the University.
Bookings will be cancelled if, for two sessions running, the group does not attend without notice in writing.
Alterations to bookings will follow the same guidelines as those for cancellations.
For more information, contact us at sportscentre@utwsd.ac.uk or give us a ring on 01267 676942 .
To hire, please fill in the Sports Centre Hire Form below and email it to us.
Measuring approximately 40m x 40m the 3G pitch is perfect for both rugby and football training.
It meets and exceeds safety standards by having a World Rugby approved shock absorbing pad underlay, which provides extra protection to players when undertaking contact work.
The cost to hire is £50 an hour or £450 for a 10-week block booking (same day and hour for 10 consecutive weeks).
During the school holidays, we provide the children from the local area an opportunity to take park in our sports camps.
Designed to provide an enriching experience for children in the local community, as well as the families of staff and students, the Sports Camp offers a perfect blend of fun activities and skill-building exercises.
Led by experienced staff and supported by enthusiastic students, the sessions promise a blend of learning and fun.
Bryn Jones, Sports Camp Coordinator at UWTSD.
“The camps offer a fantastic opportunity for local children to utilise our top-notch sporting facilities while our students gain valuable experience working in an environment, they are passionate about.
It’s not just about staying active during the holidays; it’s about fostering holistic development.” Bryn Jones, Sports Camp Coordinator at UWTSD.
Keep an eye on our social media pages for specific dates.
We are located on the UWTSD Carmarthen Campus, the gym is based within Carmarthen Sports Centre.
Parking
Main Reception
Changing Rooms and Toilets
Annual - £125
Monthly - £12
Pay as you go - £4
Annual - £144
Staff and Partner Monthly - £24
Staff and Partner Annual - £275
Annual - £145
Monthly - £20
Annual - £200
Monthly - £25
One-off Month - £30
Pay as you go - £5
Couples Monthly - £32
Couples Annual - £350
Annual - £190
Monthly - £21
Pay as you go - £4.50
Couples Monthly - £29.50
Couples Annual - £275
Carmarthen Sports Centre has the equipment for all levels, including a gym, and two sports halls.
In addition, we have a swimming pool that can be accessed on campus.
With a range of training options and fitness classes, our facilities are the perfect opportunity to add a bit of variety to your exercise routine.
To allow you to get the most from our gym, Carmarthen Sports Centre has a range of membership options available with a variety of payment methods.
Please note: a UWTSD email is required to create a UWTSD staff or student account.
Any accounts created with a non-UWTSD email will be rejected.
Download the Carmarthen Sports App below:
For more information, please contact:
Phone: 07872423789
Email: Sportscentre@uwtsd.ac.uk
Instagram: uwtsd_sportscentrecarmarthen
Facebook: University of Wales Trinity Saint David Sports Centre Carmarthen

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/sport/sports-facilities/lampeter-sports-facilities:
The gym on our Lampeter campus Includes state-of-the-art fitness equipment and resistance machines in a friendly spacious air-conditioned environment.
The gym has everything from dumbbells to cross-trainers, resistance machines to kettlebells, everything you could need for an effective workout.
You can use our large dance studio for dance classes, yoga, Pilates, and Martial Arts.
Dance Studio Hire Prices (Per Hour)
For more information, please get in touch with us on 01570 424 774 or email sportscentre@uwtsd.ac.uk .
The Lampeter sports hall is equipped for a variety of activities including basketball, badminton, football, and netball.
Sports Hire
Individual sports
Badminton Up to 3 badminton games can be played at once.
Racket hire for all racket sports is available at reception.
Squash There is a squash court with a viewing balcony.
Booking Courts All courts can be booked by contacting the Sports Centre on 01570 424774 or emailing sportscentre@uwtsd.ac.uk .
Before using the courts, payment must be made at reception.
Equipment Hire £1.50 per item (Tennis and badminton rackets, balls, etc.)
Party Hire The party package aims to take the hassle out of organising a birthday party or any other celebration.
Sports available include football, netball, basketball, volleyball and a number of racquet sports are available.
If required, refreshments can be made available afterwards in the Lloyd Thomas Centre to complete the celebration.
Booking Cancellations The Sports Centre Manager reserves the right to cancel any bookings as a result of weather conditions or for any reason related to other use of the facilities on the day of the booking or soon after.
The University will endeavour to notify the hirer of cancellations by giving as much notice as possible.
The hirer must give one week’s notice of cancellation (48 hours for casual users), which must be received in writing by the University.
Bookings will be cancelled if, for two sessions running, the group does not attend without notice in writing.
Alterations to bookings will follow the same guidelines as those for cancellations.
For more information, contact us at sportscentre@utwsd.ac.uk or give us a ring on 01570 424774.
To hire, please fill in the Sports Centre Hire Form below and email it to us.
Monday - Friday: 9.00 am - 9.00 pm Saturday - Sunday: 10.00 am - 1.00 pm
Before using the Gym for the first time, we recommend that all new members complete a supervised gym induction with a member of our Health and Fitness team.
You can book the gym at the Sports Centre Reception.
If you are a competent gym user and have previously had gym inductions, then you can sign our Induction disclaimer/waiver and use it straight away.
Equipment supplied by TechnoGym - The Wellness Company, Star Trac & Concept 2 Indoor Rower.
To allow you to get the most from our gym, Lampeter Sports Centre has a range of membership options available with a variety of payment methods.
Annual - £125
Monthly - £12
Pay as you go - £4
Annual - £144
Staff and Partner Monthly - £24
Staff and Partner Annual - £275
Annual - £145
Monthly - £20
Annual - £200
Monthly - £25
One-off Month - £30
Pay as you go - £5
Couples Monthly - £32
Couples Annual - £350
Any accounts created with a non-UWTSD email will be rejected.
Download the Lampeter Sports App below:

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories:
These stories showcase how our programs support students in reaching their goals and making an impact in their chosen fields.
“As a mature student who hasn’t been in education for over a decade, I was apprehensive about returning.
However, the lecturers have been incredible, taking the time to ensure I understand the material and offer guidance when I need it.”
They’ll be there to assist you with whatever you may need.
“The level of one-to-one time with lecturers is something that none of my friends experienced in other universities.”
“I would always recommend UWTSD; I thoroughly enjoyed my time studying there.
The skills I learnt allowed me to be where I am today, on the career path I have always wanted.”

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories:
Dive into the creative journeys of our Art, Design, and Photography students as they explore new techniques, develop unique artistic styles, and tackle real-world projects.
These stories highlight how our programmes support students in expressing their creativity and preparing for impactful careers in the arts.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/agnes-olah-graphic-design:
Name: Agnes Olah
Course: MA Graphic Design
Previous Studies: BA Graphic Design at UWTSD; BEng in Light Industry Engineering at BMF-RKK (Hungary)
Hometown: Swansea
The university has amazing workshop facilities where I had the opportunity to explore all traditional printing methods like letterpress, block printing, screen, riso and UV printing.
The lecturers and workshop technicians not only encouraged me, but also provided all the help I needed, including opportunities to explore other departments’ workshops, as well as widening my experiments by giving me a chance to visit surface pattern, ceramic and glass workshops, naming only a handful of the numerous options available.
My husband completed his HND, MSc (Hons), and his Master’s at UWTSD alongside working at the University.
I carried out research on the various courses available of which I quickly discovered the long list of student successes, along with the high standard and supportive learning experience.
I also discovered the opportunities for practical experience and the university’s strong connections with external companies etc.
From this knowledge I had gained of the university, I decided it was going to be the best university for me to attend.
I love to be creative, design and make many different dresses, jewellery, embroidery items etc.
With one of my pieces, I was the winner of the Student Innovation Award at World of WearableArt 2022 held in New Zealand.
I love connecting to nature, walking my dog, and spending time with my family here in the UK and Hungary.
When I graduate, I would love to work in an artistic environment.
I would ideally secure a job in education, where I can carry on developing and learning new skills, ensuring to pass on my many years of experience onto other upcoming talented students with the objective of inspiring a new generation of artists.
What is your favourite thing about your course?
Being surrounded by incredibly talented, inspiring, and supportive people.
I would highly recommend this course to others as I not only had an amazing amount of opportunity to explore and experiment with traditional and non-traditional design methods, but the course itself having a highly industry-focused structure helped me to gain extremely valuable skills to be able to build a career within the industry in the future.
For example: I was able to develop a city-wide climate campaign ‘Swansea Project Zero’ for Swansea Council, which is now being used by the project members of Climate Change and Nature Action Signatories Group.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/aimee-rayner-surface:
Name: Aimee Rayner
Course: BA in Surface Pattern and Textiles
Previous Studies: First year BSc Adult Nursing degree at UWE
Hometown: Southampton
Swansea is so friendly and a perfect student city.
It’s big enough that there is lots to explore but small enough that it feels like a community.
The art facilities are amazing, covering so many processes with incredibly knowledgeable technicians to teach you.
There was also a lot of freedom and responsibility to be trained up on most of the equipment to use yourself in open access times which some unis don’t let you do.
I liked that UWTSD felt nurturing with great taught hours on my course.
The support has been great from staff, wellbeing support and study skills.
They also have great industry links and placement opportunities for those who push themselves out of their comfort zone and go for it!
The student union is also very active and supporting with so much going on across all the campuses.
What did you enjoy outside your studies?
I joined the Swansea Harriers running club and competed with them in local cross-country leagues and road relays.
I was also supported by the universities Individual Sports society which helped me manage training and competitions alongside my studies.
I also have loved getting out into nature- wild swimming in the Gower, cycles and runs along the coastal paths and even having a go at (very badly) surfing!
Me and my house mates used to go down to a bar which had a gallery attached out the back who run life drawing sessions every week which was a great way to meet other creative people.
I am part of the artist outreach team who facilitate workshops for different community groups and schools which I love doing with the team.
I am lucky enough to have a paid internship lined up with Rolls Royce bespoke design team and am looking forward to starting in July.
It will be working in colour and materiality and alongside the innovations team too.
I have also made some amazing connections with people and artists in and around Swansea too which I hope to keep in touch with and continue working with.
I would also love to keep up with running creative workshops.
The student to staff ratio and the amount of contact time meant we each got 1:1 support from lecturers daily even in final year.
It was a small friendly atmosphere but with amazing facilities and staff that were on hand to help you and push you.
The team have great industry connections and so much knowledge from techniques and craft process, to selling yourself as a designer and what industry are looking for from us.
Yes, Swansea College of Art has prioritised both a balance between allowing creative freedom, teaching you so much in terms of process, allowing you to explore what ever you’re interested in and combining that with real world industry experience, business advice, and all the tips of the trade to actually using your creative degree to get experience and a job.
I feel as prepared as I could be to go onto my next adventure.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/anastasiia-muzyka-graphic:
Name: Anastasiia Muzyka
Course: BA (Hons) Graphic Design
I am glad to be able to use the Mac room at any time – it gives me the opportunity to work in peace.
I also love workshops.
I attended the course ‘Art After Dark’ and I really liked the University and the practical approach to learning.
I go the gym and paint in my free time.
I hope to secure a position at a company with young and creative employees.
Education provides me with a great deal of inspiration and energy, and I want to be in the thick of things.
The opportunity to access workshops, visit modern exhibitions and print shops, freely communicate with teachers, and the possibility to travel and exchange experiences.
Yes, I would highly recommend UWTSD.
The programme is interesting and comprehensive, providing a lot of hands-on experience and practical skills that are directly applicable to real-world scenarios.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/bethan-morris-graphic:
Name: Bethan Morris
Previous Studies: Theatrical Hair and Media Make-up, and Foundation Art and Design
Hometown: Caerphilly
What I really liked about my campus was its convenient proximity to various amenities.
Situated near the train station, town centre, printing studio, and student accommodations, it facilitated easy access to essential facilities.
On campus, all the computer rooms on my floor were equipped with up-to-date Mac PCs, a crucial resource for my course.
My selection of UWTSD/Swansea College of Art stemmed from its distinguished focus on art education.
Accessible course details on their website allowed me to thoroughly assess each semester’s curriculum.
The comprehensive course prospectus provided essential insights for my university decision.
Despite pandemic restrictions hindering visits, I received prompt and thorough support throughout the application process, notably from Course Leader Donna Williams.
UWTSD’s advantageous location near the city centre, vibrant nightlife, dependable public transport, and scenic marina-based main library further solidify its appeal to university students.
Outside university I spend my time down the beach, having coffee dates in The Secret or walking down the Mumbles.
I am also a massive foodie and enjoy trying new restaurants with my friends.
I am very social and enjoy a drink or two down Wind Street, but I also love a chilled night playing pool or having a game of bowling.
Post-graduation, my aim is to secure a full-time position or internship within my field of expertise.
My ideal job involves joining a small team of graphic designers in a firm such as Pink Pony Creative, renowned for its work in corporate identity, branding, and packaging design.
I have a keen interest in a year-long stint abroad, working as a graphic designer and developing my skills in a city environment.
My ultimate career aspiration is to work as a freelance professional, catering to a broad and distinguished clientele base, while concurrently establishing my own company.
Numerous aspects endeared my course to me; foremost among them was the unwavering support and encouragement from our lecturers.
They accompany students on the transformative journey through university, fostering growth from first year to graduation.
Additionally, I cherished the diverse opportunities facilitated by the university, including interactions with graphic design firms and freelance professionals who offered invaluable guidance; for example, I was lucky enough to work with Swansea City AFC Foundation for a six-month internship.
Furthermore, the array of on-campus workshops enhanced the learning experience, providing convenient access to enriching resources.
This integration of support, networking, and practical resources contributed significantly to my appreciation of the course.
Certainly, I wholeheartedly recommend UWTSD.
Throughout my three-year course, I consistently received exceptional support from my lecturers, who were always attentive to any concerns or queries.
The university maintained regular communication, keeping us updated on developments and forthcoming changes.
Notably, in the final year, ample opportunities were presented for internships, allowing us to collaborate with graphic designers and esteemed organisations.
This hands-on experience has significantly enriched our skill set, proving invaluable in job applications and interview settings.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/blaine-henderson:
Name: Blaine Henderson
Course: BA (Hons) Illustration
Previous Studies: Foundation Art and Design; A-levels – Computer Science, Photography, Maths.
Hometown: Clydach
There are many good qualities about the campus that I studied at.
One of them is the vast amount of equipment and supplies that it has for the different art courses that they teach.
They also do open access workshops where you can go to use the machines with the technicians supervising you.
They are supportive and approachable.
It is also convenient that the campus is in the centre of Swansea as I don’t have to walk far to grab anything I need during my studies.
During my A-level studies, I focused more on maths and computer science rather than art, but I didn’t really enjoy it as much as I thought, but I still continued to draw in my spare time.
At the end of my A-levels I decided to do the UWTSD Foundation Art and Design to continue doing art and stay in education, but also because it was close to where I live.
Afterwards, I continued developing my art further by going into the BA Illustration course at the same university as I was comfortable with the environment.
I mostly liked to continue drawing and developing my artwork in my own time as I find it relaxing as well as fun.
However, I also like to watch videos and anime, as well as play video games to take breaks.
When I graduate, I hope to take a bit of a break first before doing the next step.
I’m currently considering doing the MA Contemporary Dialogues course at UWTSD as I feel that I’m doing well with my education.
However, I also aim to continue networking and reaching out to agencies and clients within my illustration career.
Furthermore, I want to continue creating my art.
I would say my favourite thing about my course is that it has provided me with briefs and challenges that has given me the opportunity to research and develop my artwork and style over the three years.
I really enjoyed learning about the different forms of art and artists within my research for essays and my own artwork.
Also, the opportunities to go to different places such as Berlin and London were a great experience for me as someone who is introverted and doesn’t usually travel a lot.
I feel that the experiences have improved my confidence in some ways.
Personally, I would recommend it, especially if you live near Swansea.
The campus itself is very big and the staff are friendly.
There is a great supply of tech and equipment for different purposes such as print-making, letter pressing and 3D modelling.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/cel-hopkins-fine-art-ba:
Name: Cel Hopkins
Course: BA(Hons) Fine Art
Hometown: Swansea & Bridgend
My favourite things about this campus are the workshops, the life drawing room, and the many amazing lecturers we have.
A family friend went here and highly recommended it.
My choice to come here was supported when going on a tour of the campus and seeing what it had to offer.
Cooking, baking, video games, and watching tv and films.
I hope to further my studies by doing a masters with the aim of working within art spaces such as education, writing, or galleries.
The range of opportunities we get to try new things such as life drawing, metal/woodwork, and outside workshops.
I absolutely would; the opportunities for experimentation with materials and methods, the opportunities to meet practicing artists, and the incredible staff.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/connor-davies-graphic:
Name: Connor Davies
Course: BA Graphic Design and Visual Communications
Previous Studies: A-Levels in Graphic Design, Performing Arts, and the Welsh Baccalaureate
Hometown: Aberdare, the Valleys, South Wales
Being surrounded by so many like-minded and creative people and the different styles of art being displayed campus wide.
I was offered an unconditional place with UWTSD during my interview and that pushed me towards the university as it made me feel like I was on the same wavelength as them and I thought I could learn so much from so many different lecturers.
I’m a dancer for various companies and schools around the UK which gives me the opportunity to travel worldwide from Germany to America, either to perform or teach, and there’s not much else I love more than dance.
My dream would be to essentially keep doing what I’m doing now – to be able to be creative for a living.
From graphics to dance, I truly believe art makes the world go round.
I would love to build my own creative studio up and have different departments involved like dance, graphics, photography and so many more.
My favourite thing about my course right now is the fact that the lecturers are so understanding about sensitive topics and are very supportive when needed.
Yes, I would recommend UWTSD, the staff alone have such experience in their areas of expertise, and they have so much to teach and share with students.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/emily-elias-surface:
Name: Emily Elias
Previous Studies: Foundation Art & Design @ UWTSD
Dynevor campus is the perfect central location to Swansea, everything is within walking distance.
Home to a beautiful courtyard situated at the back of the building, abundant with seating and greenery is both inspiring and tranquil and what I made the most of on sunny days studying in Swansea!
After seeing the breadth of facilities and possibilities the university had to offer after visiting an open day, and Swansea being my hometown, it was a no brainer.
Outside of studies, I love to visit galleries, experience different cultures and immerse myself in flora and fauna.
I would highly recommend Singleton Botanical Gardens when in bloom.
I hope to carry on curating my signature style by, establishing myself and practice as a brand, taking on industry experience in the process.
The Surface Pattern and Textiles course really is an immersive experience into the print world.
The level of technical skill and knowledge you acquire is set at industry standard.
You are encouraged to be ambitious.
My favourite part of the course was the opportunity to collaborate on live briefs with some amazing companies such as, Rolls Royce, MONKI and Patternbank..
Just to name a few.
Yes, the level of extracurricular support, guidance, and breadth of knowledge you acquire whilst studying here is second to none.
After working an office job for 2 years, it was during lockdown I realised that life was too short not to follow your passions.
So, on clearing day, I emailed Surface Pattern & Textiles programme director Georgia McKie, we had an informal telephone interview where we discussed my education history, and she told me all about the course.
I was so excited to begin this new journey.
That day, I was accepted to study at the university and the rest is history!
My journey is a testament to realising it’s never too late to follow your dreams.
Play video: Emily Elias - Surface Pattern and Textiles

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/erin-harvey-graphic-design:
Name: Erin Harvey
Previous Studies: GCSEs & A-levels (Graphics in both)
Hometown: Skewen
My favourite aspect of the UWTSD Swansea campus is its traditional printing facilities.
These resources enabled me to experiment extensively with my work, enhancing my creative process and significantly expanding my skill set.
This experience has been invaluable in diversifying my portfolio and honing my expertise in various design techniques.
I selected UWTSD due to its proximity to my home and it’s reputation as one of the premier institutions for graphic design in Wales.
The university’s distinguished program and strong emphasis on creative excellence made it an ideal choice for advancing my education and professional skills in this field.
Balancing part-time work with my degree left me with limited free time.
However, when opportunities arose outside of university commitments, I greatly enjoyed spending time with friends and family.
What are you doing now, how did you get to where you are, and how has your course helped you in your career?
In my final year at university, I aspired to gain professional experience in graphic design by working for a company.
Recently, I was offered and accepted an internship with Waters Creative.
I attribute this achievement to the university and its design department for their close collaboration with industry partners, providing students with valuable job opportunities upon graduation.
My favourite aspect of the course was the staff, who provided both support and encouragement to push my boundaries.
The course was challenging, and the staff’s guidance was instrumental in developing my graphic design skills and confidence.
Absolutely, I’d recommend UWTSD.
The course helped me develop a range of skills and boosted my confidence.
With plenty of opportunities, it’s definitely something I’d suggest to others.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/evan-elias-illustration-ba:
Name: Evan Elias
Previous Studies: A-Levels in Graphic Design, Textile Design, English Language and Literature
Hometown: Neath
My favourite thing was how the campus is integrated into the town centre.
I liked being a part of the city.
It meant that you could absorb the world around you, and this was a great source for creative projects since there was a lot of real-life reference material.
I chose UWTSD because of its proximity to my hometown, and also because of the seaside.
I had also been to the university with my college on various trips so it seemed very familiar.
I love sewing and embroidery, but don’t do it as much as I should.
I also regularly volunteer with the LGBTQ+ Youth Group at Neath YMCA, so am busy every week with that.
I hope to continue working on creative projects.to keep myself busy.
I would love to work on some personal projects to expand my portfolio.
Working in advertising/editorial/marketing would be my ultimate goal, as I have been working towards that since university began.
My favourite thing about the course was being surrounded by other creatives.
It was a constant source of inspiration and it was always beneficial to hear a second opinion on what I was working on.
Seeing everyone working on a variety of projects created an exciting atmosphere.
I would recommend it for its location and lecturing.
I think one of the best aspects of it is that the lecturers come to get to know you as opposed to a bigger university with more students.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/ffion-harding-thomas-fine:
Name: Ffion Harding-Thomas
Hometown: Pontardawe
I personally adore the studios and our workshops the most, as well as our lecturers.
lecturers and I had friends at UWTSD.
Travelling, outdoor adventures ie cold water swimming and diving.
I hope to be a practicing artist and perhaps also join the student union team.
The life drawing room, studios and our workshops.
I would.
The staff are unbelievably helpful and the courses are interesting.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/fran-rushworth-fine-art-ba:
Name: Fran Rushworth
Hometown: Bridgend
The Dynevor Building has a dedicated Life Room with frequent open access for Fine Art students, the studios let you share work and get to know other students and the Reading Room is a great place to retreat to.
UWTSD has a high reputation for Fine Art and a smaller class size - more people often means anonymity and struggling for access to resources.
Walking and trail running on the coast, the buzzing arts scene at Elysium, excellent pubs.
Continue to find my way forward and follow my instincts.
Feeling part of a community with a common flow of art is my favourite thing, I also love working in the life drawing room and studios and using the print room facilities, plus I have gained so much from talks by visiting artists.
Yes.
The atmosphere is really friendly and supportive, staff are always available and approachable and introduce us to so many new and unexpected opportunities to experience and be involved in art.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/jac-thomas-elsey-graphic:
Name: Jac Thomas Elsey
Previous Studies: A-Levels: Graphic Communication, Criminology & Information Technology at Gower College Swansea
Hometown: Gorseinon, Swansea
The facilities were incredible, spaces catered to all types of creatives.
Incredible rooms for printing, thought provocation, experimenting… not to mention it’s right in the heart of the city – plenty to explore all around you.
Its prestigious reputation among the rankings – 3rd in the UK for Graphic Design and 1st in Wales.
Of course, I had previous knowledge of its great course via my college, but ultimately it was the great feel I had of the place upon visiting on my open day that put it on a pedestal for me from other universities I visited.
Although I did design all week at University, I also did a lot of designing outside of it, and it’s by far my biggest passion.
I had two design jobs before my most recent employment with the Football Association of Wales – both in sports where I wanted to end up, and I was working with both Scarlets and Macron whilst studying.
Socialising with my family friends was a huge one for me and still is and I tried to do it as much as I could to ensure I separated myself from the working environment enough.
What are you doing now, how did you get to where you are and how has your course helped you in your career?
I currently work full-time as the sole designer for the Football Association of Wales.
Before my employment here, I worked at Scarlets rugby for two years, one of them being during my studies at UWTSD.
I received regular coaching and advice from my lecturers about what to do in the industry environment which helped massively.
The amazing support and education given to me on my course by my lecturers was second to none.
I had gained the foundation skills all the way to advanced skills thanks to them, which allowed me to thrive in the industry environment.
The course is incredible at nurturing you for industry, not just to gain a degree.
The diversity of modules, which allowed people like me to explore what sort of designer they’d like to be in the future.
As previously mentioned, the fact that the course prepared for life outside of university, not just to gain the degree, was incredible.
I feel as if I had a real head start when starting new roles in the industry!
Particularly, I enjoyed attending New Designers during my last year, where I was given exposure to my favourite designers who come from all around the world to see people’s exhibits.
This works both ways, where you are given the opportunity to explore work and meet new people from other universities!
Where do I start?
The lecturers, the facilities, the location, the support you’re given, the opportunities you’re led to…
Call me biased, but I can’t really see how a university course can get much better than that.
Enough said.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/jojo-bishop-surface:
Name: Jojo Bishop
Course: BA (Hons) Surface Pattern and Textiles
Previous Studies: Extended Diploma in Art and Design
Hometown: Worthing, West Sussex
My favourite part of campus is the studio.
The large windows spanning the walls of the studio create amazing light to work in, and there’s such a buzzing, energetic atmosphere during the height of projects.
Having all the year groups together in one studio creates a real sense of community – we all take inspiration from one another’s work, share tips and tricks with each other, and keep each other motivated.
I was really excited by the range of workshops available, and the course’s emphasis on being multidisciplinary.
I liked that students were encouraged to learn whole processes – from coating screens to colour matching pigments – to encourage independence.
In my spare time I love walking and spending time in nature – Swansea has the best beaches for this!
It’s really encouraged my connection to the local landscape, which in turn has sparked inspiration within my practice.
I also love reading, sewing, and baking.
For this next year after graduating, I would like to continue working on my natural dye research – especially as I will be back in England and with a whole new landscape of dye plants to investigate.
I would love to collaborate with like-minded artists, teach workshops, and visit colleges and universities with my work to encourage others to think sustainably.
I would also like to get work experience or an internship within the interiors industry to further develop my practical skills and gain knowledge of how studios/workshops operate.
I am also considering an MA after a gap year to specialise further.
I loved that we had so many visiting artists, speakers and graduates talk about their experiences, it was very inspiring.
Also, I thoroughly enjoyed the contextual aspect of the course.
I have always loved reading and writing, and while the course encouraged exploring the works of other practitioners, it also pushed me to go outside of the design context into science, politics, and philosophy.
Absolutely!
The facilities at UWTSD are fantastic.
You are heavily encouraged to go outside of your comfort zone and try everything, which develops your skills enormously.
The tutors are beyond supportive and are always willing to facilitate different techniques or put you in contact with the right people to make it happen.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/lewis-parry-product-and:
Name: Lewis Parry
Course: BA in Product and Furniture Design
Previous Studies: City and Guild level 3 in Furniture and cabinet making: Moulton College
Hometown: Bedford
The sense of community and the friendly staff and students.
The lecturing staff where friendly and I’ve never lived by the sea.
As a mature student I was very driven in what I wanted to achieve.
I have treated Uni like a job, in every day at 07:30 to about 17:30 sometimes longer.
I never focused on credits I just wanted to do the best job I could and come out the other side knowing I tried my best and gave it my all.
I also enjoy spending time with the friends I’ve made on the course.
During my final year I wrote to a range of British institutions including Westminster Abbey, eight months later I found himself standing before representatives of one of the UK’s most historic landmarks, presenting the chair to the Abbey.
I would like to do a masters in furniture design or furniture business management in Milan next or set up on my own.
But we will see, either way I’ll be happy just designing stuff.
The degree has given me lots of practical skills such as CAD, Model making, presenting etc and changed my way I approach designing and presenting something.
It has set me up to do my job.
Yes!
The lecturing staff are friendly, patient and knowledgeable.
They allow you the freedom to be creative, make mistakes and guide you through the course.
The class sizes though small works in its favour as you get a lot of 1 on 1 time with the staff.
All 3 years share the studio allowing you to make friends over the three years.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/luke-cotter-fine-art-ba:
Name: Luke Cotter
Previous Studies: A-levels
Hometown: Llwydcoed, Aberdare
The Studio, the size of the studio’s has really helped me expand my ideas and how I see creating.
My work has grown so much since being given the space.
I chose UWTSD as I was inspired by the passion of the staff when visiting the university.
The workshops were also a massive influence as they were full of really inspiring work and exciting equipment.
The beach.
The beach is what inspired a lot of my artworks in my first year at the university and is ultimately what pushed me to think about sculpture as a medium.
This and all the great local galleries with such friendly staff and inspiring spaces.
At my graduate show I was awarded the Elysium Gallery Award, in partnership with the university, where I will be given a free studio space for a year, an exhibition at the gallery in 2027 as well as £500 and international opportunities.
This is such an exciting prospect, and I cannot wait to get started.
My favourite thing about the course was its ability to open your eyes to the world.
Through intriguing lectures and hands-on workshops with a wide variety of materials you get to experience life in a totally new perspective.
This allowed me to create my latest work, Looking Forward to the Weekend, (2025) a work combining knowledge from university-led trips to Venice and Madrid with my personal life in Swansea.
I would recommend UWTSD as it has had such an impact on me as a person and has helped me form what will be lifelong friendships and meet people who have given me such great opportunities.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/nancy-akuffobea:
Name: Nancy Akuffobea
Course: BA Illustration
Hometown: Ystrad Mynach
My favourite thing about UWTSD Swansea College of Art is the incredible, talented tutors.
I’ve grown so much through lessons and one t one tutorials.
The support whether academic, mental health, or business.
I’ve had amazing opportunities to grow as an illustrator, from course trips to engaging research and competition experiences.
The university offers real chances to develop professionally with bursaries, workshops, and entrepreneurial guidance.
Every part of the year is designed to help you grow.
I chose UWTSD after researching top Illustration courses.
So many students shared positive feedback, and my tutor at Coleg y Cymoedd, Paul Lavagna, highly recommended it.
That reassurance helped me commit fully and move to Swansea, which is one of my best decisions.
I lived just 10 minutes away from campus, giving me easy access to the facilities and allowing me to be punctual and involved.
The course’s structure, feedback system, and creative environment were everything I was looking for.
Outside my studies, I love painting and sharing my illustration process through video content on social media.
I’ve been editing and posting creative videos for years.
I also enjoy exercising for both mental and physical well-being, doing makeup, cooking healthy meals, and spending time outdoors, alone or with family and friends.
These activities keep me balanced and creatively inspired.
I hope to work in the creative industry, freelancing, licensing, or joining an agency.
I’m already growing my small business ‘Nancy’s Gallery’, where I offer prints, commissions, and acrylic paintings.
My dream is to expand the brand, offering unique products and building a strong online presence.
Thanks to the university’s business start-up course and bursary, I was able to purchase a printer and equipment to grow my business.
Seeing my sheep illustration displayed in front of the university is an amazing milestone.
The course and tutors gave me the foundation, encouragement, and confidence to take these steps.
The amazing tutors, supportive and talented classmates, access to printing and studio facilities, and the wide range of competitions and job opportunities.
The environment is creative, welcoming, and full of possibilities.
Absolutely.
UWTSD teaches you what it truly means to be a professional illustrator.
If you fully commit, there’s so much support and opportunity to help you succeed.
From business guidance to creative freedom and honest feedback, the university pushes you to reach your potential.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/nia-jade-hopkins:
Name: Nia Jade Hopkins
Previous Studies: Nationals Certificate Level 3
Hometown: Pontardulais
Other than the fantastic staff my favourite things were the banner printer, access to new materials and tools and the café.
I chose UWTSD because it was recommended to me by one of my lecturers at Gower Collage Swansea.
Being near to where I lived was also a large contributing factor.
Most of my time has been taken up with my course because I enjoyed it so much.
When I did have time, I enjoyed playing the Legend of Zelda Tears of the Kingdom and related games.
I also enjoy going out for food with family and playing Dungeons and Dragons.
I’m hoping to find a position in the videogame industry or animation industry as a character designer.
I am also planning to set up an online store selling stickers and other items of my work.
My favourite thing about the course is that it has allowed me to develop my own individual style.
I also really enjoyed the first semester when I could work on my own project while still having the lecturers to help whenever I found myself stuck.
I would recommend this course to anyone who was planning on taking illustration seriously and yet still didn’t know what area they wanted to work in.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/owain-sparnon-fine-art-ba:
Name: Owain Sparnon
The facilities in the Fine Art department, such as the studios, installation spaces, life drawing room, the ceramic rooms, print making room and library, were excellent.
Having places to relax and contemplate on the artwork I was creating at the time was also useful.
I wanted to study in Wales and ideally wanted to study locally.
My brother had studied there previously and had great experiences there.
The Fine Art course, together with the lecturers, were highly recommended to me by him.
When studying at Swansea College of Art, Covid 19 affected a large amount of my time, however, when time and circumstances allowed, I enjoyed visiting art galleries and exhibitions, walking and being outdoors.
I enjoyed listening to music, watching films, and attending my local chapel.
After graduating, I worked in a studio at the College after winning the Step Change Fellowship Programme Benevolent Fund Award (2021–2022).
I then worked at the College as a Welsh-medium Artist Mentor working with students.
I currently work as an artist and as a Design Officer/Graphic Designer for the National Centre for Learning Welsh.
My studies at Swansea College of Art have clearly helped my career as an artist.
The experiences I gained there, and the guidance I received from my lecturers, have fed into my practice.
Being able to work in a studio of my own, with the freedom to experiment and develop my work, was very beneficial.
Studying the subject for three years allowed me to improve my existing skills and experiment in various fields and with different media.
It also deepened my understanding of working in the art world.
I was introduced to new areas in the field of art including sculpture, life drawing, welding, photography, and audio.
Having guidance from lecturers who were professional artists was also very valuable.
Swansea College of Art is an excellent place to study Fine Art for several reasons.
There are great lecturers there who specialize in their subject and who introduce students to new aspects within Fine Art.
The College offers opportunities to experiment in other areas, and the fact that students can study through the medium of Welsh is another bonus.
I studied part of my degree through the medium of Welsh and being able to do so was important to me.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/rebecca-davies-surface:
Name: Rebecca Davies
Course: MDes in Surface Pattern and Textiles
Previous Studies: Level 3 Foundation Year at Afan College, part of NPTC
Hometown: Briton Ferry, Swansea
Throughout the Swansea College of Art buildings, one of my favourite things was seeing students’ artwork on display.
It was inspiring and gave you a glimpse into other programmes.
Within the Surface Pattern studio specifically, that all year groups share, the studio layout created a nurturing environment.
Seeing the work of students throughout different stages of their education was incredibly motivating.
It allowed me to visualise the skill level I could achieve and provided a clear path for my own development.
This setup fostered a supportive atmosphere where we could learn from each other and see the progression possible within our field.
I heard about UWTSD when one of their students came to visit my college to share her experiences.
She showed us her sketchbook and the honest feedback she gave about the course stuck with me.
Before then I hadn’t considered going to uni.
After this interest was sparked, I thought about studying in London, but after lots of research, decided that UWTSD would be the right place for me because of its supportive nature and ratio of tutors to students.
My interview solidified my decision to go after seeing the incredible studio space and meeting the tutors.
I focused a lot of my time on the course, trying to find inspiration for my work, and Swansea was a great place for that with a rich art culture and plenty of inspiring scenery around us.
I enjoyed day trips to gardens and wetlands around South Wales with friends which inspired a lot of my sketches and patterns.
The architecture and artwork on buildings around Swansea is great too and I got a lot of ideas from that.
Because of the vibrant art scene there, it’s also a great place to find opportunities, showcase your work and connect with others from the creative industry, so I tried to do as much of this as possible.
I am currently working at Rolls-Royce Motor Cars in their Bespoke Design team, and I secured this role through a paid internship opportunity provided by my course at UWTSD.
My course prepared me well for professional opportunities, emphasising the development of practical skills and providing real-world experiences.
From learning about trends, to writing briefs and understanding design processes, this preparation, combined with the support from my lecturers, helped me succeed in the interview and transition smoothly into my current role.
After my internship came to end, I secured a permanent role here.
There was so much I loved about the course but one of the best things about it was the people!
I always felt supported and encouraged by my tutors to push myself creatively.
They always provided realistic feedback and challenged us to think critically about our design choices which prepares you for professional scenarios.
Within the studio space, you are surrounded by like-minded people and the non-competitive, supportive atmosphere fosters a sense of community and collaboration, which has been essential for my growth as a designer.
There is even flexibility within the course to collaborate or cross over with other courses, which is a unique experience.
Yes, I would!
What I learnt that day in college from the student who spoke to us about her experience of UWTSD, plus everything I discovered when doing my research, was all proven true.
The emphasis on practical skills, combined with giving students the opportunities to showcase work and engage with industry professionals is what sets it apart, as well as the supportive teaching staff, who can give you their time as classes are a comfortable size meaning you’re also not competing to use the facilities and equipment.
My experience at UWTSD provided me with the skills, confidence and connections, and I found this right on my doorstep!

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/rebecca-hodgson-graphic:
Name: Rebecca Hodgson
Previous Studies: Gower College – A-Level Graphic Communication, Religious Studies, and Music
Hometown: Port Talbot
My favourite things were the library (Y Fforwm) because of the long opening times and its available facilities.
Additionally, it came in handy with deadlines as the IQ building opposite was open 24/7…
Not only was it a local university to me: at the time of my enrolment my course was ranked seventh in the UK and first in Wales showing it had very high standing and a good programme.
I also had access to the facilities during my school years and found them to be extremely valuable.
The uni location was a great benefit.
Swansea is a very student friendly city and also has great local places for student life, but also to just experience the location with things like a beach being a ten-minute walk away from the city centre.
Ideally, getting a job in my field of study.
This seems like it won’t be an issue as there is a very high employability rate for students in their subjects after graduation here.
My favourite thing about my course was my lectures and technicians.
They are highly knowledgeable in their subject matter and getting to know and learn from them was a pleasure.
Each one had a great and individual insight into the design world and having such competent, passionate and supportive people to guide you through what is probably the most important and memorable time of your life really makes a difference.
100%.
Class sizes aren’t massive, meaning you get a lot more contact time with your lecturers and in the available facilities like the print workshop.
This is something that very few other universities can offer, making UWTSD a stand-out.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/sophie-larcombe-surface:
Name: Sophie Larcombe
Previous Studies: Neath College – A-Levels in Textiles, Fine Art, and Maths
The campus my course was situated in was in the centre of Swansea.
One of my favourite aspects was how close Swansea’s beaches and museums are to campus.
Having these close encouraged frequent visits.
I chose UWTSD as the place to study as the university is one of the best in the UK for Textiles.
I wanted to study somewhere I knew would encourage and support my creativity and I believed this University was right for me.
I have lived in Swansea with my family all my life.
Outside of the course I enjoyed spending time with them, visiting Mumbles, and going for walks along the Swansea coast.
I am very close with my family, and they have been a big support and encouragement throughout my study.
It was a very proud moment bringing them to our Degree Show Opening night to showcase my work.
After I graduate, I hope to find a creative role within the industry.
Throughout the last few years on my course, I have been provided with the skills for after university.
I feel ready to put my creativity out into the world and hope to find a creative role which allows for my own creative ideas, but also a role which I can continue to learn new creative skills in as I enjoy being a versatile designer.
I would also say that in years to come, I would like to consider teaching as this is another aspiration of mine.
My favourite thing about my course was the amazing selection of resources which were available within the workshops in Surface Pattern and the studio environment.
I would say that I enjoyed spending time in the print room, experimenting with screen print and textiles printing.
I also really liked the studio spaces within Surface Pattern – it inspired design discussions but also created a friendly design atmosphere.
I would definitely recommend UWTSD and especially Surface Pattern and Textiles as although hard work and skill are important aspects of creativity, I believe passion is also key.
UWTSD and Surface Pattern allow for their students to be passionate and proud of their work and what they want to achieve.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/svitlana-ulianych-graphic:
Name: Svitlana Ulianych
Previous Studies: Kharkiv National Medical University (Physician), NPT Group College (EASOL)
Hometown: Swansea (now), Kharkiv (Ukraine)
I love being surrounded by design; the campus constantly reminds me of who I want to become and the importance of design.
Posters, drawings, packaging, books, and a touch of creative chaos create an inspiring atmosphere.
Additionally, the computer lab equipped with excellent technology is a favourite spot where I spend a lot of time, even after classes.
My introduction to this university began with meeting some wonderful people, and I quickly fell in love with the place.
For me, it’s not just about the location, but the people who make it special.
The teaching staff here are incredibly supportive and inspiring.
I enjoy visiting Swansea Bay, sketching with watercolours or acrylics, and often immersing myself in digital design late into the night.
I have ambitious dreams.
I hope to become a successful UI/UX designer and work for one of the renowned FAANG companies or another major firm.
I appreciate that the programme is well-balanced and teaches us practical skills necessary for our careers.
There is a lot of hands-on experience, including working with real clients.
The information provided is very useful and is delivered in an engaging way.
The friendly, almost family-like atmosphere, the excellent teaching staff, the interesting and comprehensive programme, and the field trips and excursions during the academic year make UWTSD a fantastic place to study.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/tara-lea-evans-fine-art-ba:
Name: Tara Lea Evans
My favourite thing about my campus is how welcoming everyone is including all the staff.
The studios help Bring a comforting experience when experimenting and a great space to get to know all your peers.
I studied my Level 3 and Foundation in Lynwood y Bryan, gower college.
I loved my experience studying art and started to look at UWTSD, I attended multiple skills wales competitions at UWTSD during my time at Lynwood y Bryan and loved it.
I attended UWTSD open days and knew UWTSD was the right university for me.
During my free time outside my studies, I love to still tackle and explore my creative side.
I love to read, write and explore through multiple media’s of art especially digital.
Through my period of undergraduate I have been thinking about opportunities I would like to do when graduated.
I hopefully will see if I can do my masters and get an apprenticeship somewhere.
I would love to painting murals on walls at café, I would also like to be a freelancer art so I can have time to experiment and see what I can create.
My favourite thing about my course would be that all my lectures are also practising artists and are very active in the art scene.
This inspires me to keep creating and look up to my lectures.
I would definitely recommend UWTSD to anyone looking for a university to attend.
UWTSD is such a welcoming, supportive and friendly community.
Everyone is always will to help anyone who need ps an extra hand.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/art-design-and-photography-stories/zheng-jiayi-graphic-design:
Name: Zheng Jiayi
Previous Studies: High school diploma (China)
Hometown: China
My favourite aspect of the campus is its vibrant and inclusive atmosphere.
The beautiful surroundings, modern facilities, and diverse community foster a stimulating learning environment.
The supportive faculty and welcoming student body create a sense of belonging, making it easy to thrive academically and socially.
Additionally, the campus’s strategic location provides easy access to resources, cultural events, and recreational activities, enhancing the overall student experience.
Overall, the dynamic energy and sense of community make studying here an enriching and memorable journey.
I chose UWTSD primarily because several of my friends were already studying there, and their positive experiences influenced my decision.
Additionally, I was drawn to the city itself, with its picturesque coastal location, abundant seagulls, and friendly locals.
The vibrant atmosphere of the city, combined with the university’s reputation for fostering a supportive learning environment, made it an appealing choice for me.
I believed that studying at UWTSD would not only provide me with quality education but also offer a rich and fulfilling living experience outside of academic pursuits.
Outside of my studies, I thoroughly enjoy engaging in volunteer work for charitable organizations.
Contributing my design skills to create posters and manage social media content has been immensely fulfilling.
At the same time as an international student, exploring different cultures through travel, immersing myself in nature through hiking, and experimenting with cooking new recipes also bring me great pleasure.
These activities not only provide a break from academic pursuits but also foster personal growth and fulfilment.
Upon graduation, I hope to secure an internship in the field of graphic design or UX design during the summer to enhance my personal experience and resume.
In September of this year, I will begin my graduate studies.
I aim to gradually explore and delve into the area that truly resonates with me and pursue further specialization.
My favourite aspect is the opportunity for trial and error, coupled with continuous encouragement.
I’ve not only acquired knowledge in graphic design but also explored the essence of design thinking.
The supportive faculty and access to cutting-edge design tools further enriched my learning journey, making each project an exciting and rewarding experience.
Absolutely, I would highly recommend UWTSD.
Its supportive environment, dedicated faculty, and modern facilities create an ideal setting for academic and personal growth.
The university’s emphasis on practical learning, combined with opportunities for internships and industry connections, prepares students for success in their chosen fields.
Moreover, the vibrant campus life, cultural diversity, and stunning surroundings contribute to a rich and fulfilling student experience.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/civil-engineering-and-architecture-stories:
Explore the journeys of our Civil Engineering and Architecture students, showcasing their work on transformative projects, problem-solving skills, and commitment to sustainable design.
These stories illustrate how our programs prepare students to make a positive impact on the built environment.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/civil-engineering-and-architecture-stories/drew-dennehy:
Name: Drew Dennehy
Course: BSc Architecture
Previous Studies: City & Guilds Plumbing and Heating Level 2; City & Guilds Plumbing and Heating Level 3
Hometown: Bridgwater
Studying in the IQ campus I would say the library was my favourite thing.
I spent a lot of time in there looking over the architectural magazines that UWTSD subscribes to and flicking through books for inspiration for my projects.
I came through the apprenticeship route and heard about UWTSD through a previous employer.
I contacted UWTSD and they gave me a chance.
The way we were taught was brilliant and I would recommend the course to anyone.
The course was demanding, requiring a lot of my time and effort to produce work I was proud of.
However, when I did set time aside for other things, it was spending time with flatmates.
Bowling, going out, BBQs on the beach – we enjoyed the time that we had throughout our years together at UWTSD.
The plan is to move to Edinburgh to begin my Part 2.
It is a beautiful city that I have always been fond of; however, there is currently a shortage of jobs in Scotland as a whole so I have opened myself up to working wherever there is an opportunity.
But I am set on proceeding with my journey in architecture so I can move on to my Masters.
The level of one-to-one time with lecturers is something that none of my friends experienced in other universities.
There is a healthy level of competition where everyone wants to produce the best work they can but if someone discovers a new technique they still share it amongst their peers, rather than keep it to themselves.
Over the last three years, we have all become close and gotten to know each other well.
Seeing how they have each individually developed has got to be one of the greatest highlights for me.
For sure, the lecturers are a credit to the course and prepare students for practice much more than alternative universities.
We study the business and technical aspects of design as well as the aesthetics which allows us to offer more to employers than other students might be able to.
The tutors are always looking at how we can develop the course and value student feedback.
The lecturers were also easily accessible in person and over the phone.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/civil-engineering-and-architecture-stories/jacob-davies:
Name: Jacob Davies-Hannen
Course: BSc Architecture
Previous Studies: A-Levels Physics, Maths, Art and Welsh Baccalaureate
The campus location is great, it’s close to town which means the majority of what you may need is in walking distance.
When I visited the architecture open day, I met some of the lecturers, and their enthusiasm and passion for architecture and the course inspired me.
What do you enjoy outside of your studies?
Outside my studies I enjoy silversmithing along with surfing and SUP boarding.
What do you hope to do when you graduate ?
Once I graduate, I hope to get a placement at an architect’s practice before returning to university to finish my degree.
My favourite thing about the course is the variety in the work, from housing to community-based projects, even working on a live competition entry.
I would recommend UWTSD, the facilities are great, everyone’s very willing to help and the location of the campus is ideal, with Swansea city centre and the Gower as well.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/civil-engineering-and-architecture-stories/jon-langstone:
Name: Jon Langstone
Course: BSc(Hons) Construction Management
Previous Studies: Engineering and Stonemasonry
The campus was in an ideal location for me, by the sea front, easily accessible to bike routes that stretch all the way to Mumbles from SA1.
Also, the facilities were always kept clean, and the library.
I chose UWTSD because I read that they had small classes, the staff had experience in the field that I was studying to pursue a career in (Construction), and the chances of securing a graduate role after graduating were quite high.
I found all of this to be correct.
As a single parent, my spare time outside my studies were mainly taken up by frequent dog walks, lots of cooking, and plenty of reading.
What are you doing now, how did you get to where you are and how has your course helped you in your career?
I secured a graduate position at a multifaceted engineering and project management construction consultancy company, based in Cardiff.
I am thoroughly enjoying my new role as a graduate project manager at Burroughs.
I am responsible for actively supporting the project management team and subsequent engineering teams in successfully delivering large and complex projects across the UK and sometimes beyond – which is exactly what I was hoping to do, prior to graduating.
The course that I undertook at UWTSD gave me the foundational skills that I needed to help me focus on learning the detailed information needed to excel in my role.
Even a year on, the lecturers who I developed a relationship with are still able to answer the odd query that I have.
Specifically, I found that the staff at UWTSD are very good at preparing undergraduates to go out into their chosen industries with confidence and excitement.
I personally enjoyed how personal the course was overall.
The small class sizes allowed me to question my lecturers more easily, which then helped me learn a lot more information, as opposed to a more individual-based learning structure.
I would highly recommend UWTSD, especially to anyone thinking about getting involved in the construction industry.
Each lecturer I had took a different approach to teaching and a set of different skills, which allowed me to preview different types of professional routes through the construction industry, before jumping in after graduation.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/computing-student-stories:
See the paths of our Computing students as they delve into coding, data analysis, and software development, gaining skills for tomorrow’s tech challenges.
Discover how our programs enable students to innovate and make a mark in the rapidly evolving technology sector.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/computing-student-stories/daniel-richards-electrical-and:
Name: Daniel Richards
Course: Electrical and Electronic Engineering BEng Hons (Part-Time)
Previous Studies: Electrical and Electronic Engineering HNC (Part-Time); Electrical and Electronic Engineering HND (Part-Time)
Hometown: Bridgend
The campus is situated in a convenient location, offering easy access to various amenities.
It has state-of-the-art facilities that are modern and newly built, with fantastic lecturers.
A colleague I work with previously attended the University and completed the same course, and they recommended it.
Outside work, I enjoy spending time with my family.
I also enjoy participating in triathlons.
When I graduate, I plan to leverage the confidence gained from completing the course in my daily and professional life.
I am currently developing a new digital permit-to-work system at Tata Steel in Port Talbot.
This system will replace the current paper-based system.
I have transitioned to this role within the company as my original position became redundant due to the closure of multiple plant areas at Tata Steel, Port Talbot.
Embarking on a journey with friends I made six years ago during my HNC, and culminating in graduating with a BEng Hons.
It possesses all the necessary attributes for creating a successful student.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/computing-student-stories/francois-riches-certhe-stem:
Name: Francois Riches
Course: Certificate in Higher Education Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (Computing)
My favourite thing about attending the IQ Building for my studies is often the walk there in the mornings.
The views of the marina to one side and the green hills on the other are often a great start to the day.
It can be a really refreshing walk before arriving at the IQ early and making myself comfortable.
The library is right next door and has some great views too.
It might seem like a small thing, but anything that can help in keeping a good positive mindset I find quite important.
To be entirely honest it was proximity – living in Port Talbot it was simply easier to attend UWTSD.
Not that I had even considered anywhere else.
I only have UWTSD for reference but I’m very happy there and I look forward to the rest of my time studying there.
Mostly as a mature student I enjoy the people in my life and my solitude sitting at my computer.
A little bit of gaming at home and time with friends and their families.
I am also involved with a local charity and enjoy volunteering with them.
I like eating out and getting coffee in Swansea.
I am taking everything one step at a time and have not given much thought to what comes after university.
I have received emails that inform me of events for employment and other opportunities held at UWTSD.
I’m yet to attend one of these since I am only at foundation level, however, next year I plan to partake and see what is available.
For me personally the journey is enough right now; I’ll let the destination reveal itself.
I have enjoyed a lot about attending the course, and it is hard to single out just one thing.
I have had many great lecturers at the University, many different and interesting personalities for the most part excellent at keeping me engaged and interested.
I’ve enjoyed working with my peers, being helped by them and helping others.
As a mature student I have even enjoyed just the academic journey, the challenge to myself to actually do something constructive.
And I really enjoyed getting to do that in a comfortable and welcoming environment.
Attending the course has helped me a great deal.
I had no structure before this, and it really helps by engaging me intellectually.
The CertHE foundation course in particular helps with my lack of knowledge concerning academic standards.
From how to effectively write reports, to mathematics and programming, I feel better prepared for the degree ahead of me.
It has also given me needed experience in taking exams and giving presentations.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/english-and-creative-writing-student-stories:
Discover the experiences of our English and Creative Writing students, whose stories reflect their passion for literature, storytelling, and critical thinking.
Our programmes nurture their voices, equipping them to impact culture, education, and beyond.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/english-and-creative-writing-student-stories/carly-holmes:
Hi!
I’m Carly Holmes and I work as an editor and publishing manager at Parthian Books .
I’ve published two novels and a collection of short stories, and I am currently working on my third novel.
Name: Carly Holmes
Course: Creative Writing (MA) (PhD)
Previous Studies: English Literature
Hometown: Born in Jersey, raised in Ceredigion
Published publisher: Editor, publishing manager and author Carly Holmes (right) in conversation with Jodie Bond (left) at the launch of Jodie’s novel.
I loved Lampeter campus when I undertook my BA there as it was vibrant, friendly, and small enough for a shy person like me to feel comfortable.
I was familiar with the town anyway, and honestly, I was a very introverted and shy person and was in a long-term relationship locally so didn’t want to go far afield to university.
Lots of reading, spending time with my cats, and writing.
I have graduated (three times).
I dreamed of being a writer and working in publishing, and after a decade-long sidestep into social work I finally, after my PhD, began to publish my writing and worked as a freelance editor and proofreader before getting a permanent job with Parthian in 2019.
I was in love with the medieval literature courses when I did my BA in English Literature, and particularly Chaucer.
I was raised in Ceredigion and went to UWTSD Lampeter campus for my BA degree in English Literature from 1994-1997.
I then went on to do my MA (Carmarthen campus) in Creative Writing from 97-99, and then my PhD in Creative Writing back at Lampeter from 2010-2014.
I’ve published two novels and a collection of short stories,and am currently working on my third novel.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/english-and-creative-writing-student-stories/linghwa-bremer:
I’m a mature student that previously completed a creative writing BA with UWTSD and continued on with a creative writing MA to follow my passion as a writer and hone my skills.
Name: Linghwa Bremer
Course: Creative Writing (MA)
Previous Studies: Access to Humanities and Social Sciences
Hometown: The Midlands, England
I love the tranquil setting of Lampeter campus, that is set within the town centre and has a wonderful and welcoming community, both with students on campus and in the town.
I chose to study with UWTSD having heard so many positive reviews regarding students with various disabilities and the opportunities for tailored support for each student.
This support has been invaluable to me throughout my studies and truly helped me go beyond my expectations and thrive with my studies.
It’s also been a huge boost to my confidence outside of university life.
I enjoy motoring and exploring Wales by road, and travelling wherever and whenever the opportunity arises.
After graduating, I hope to continue pursuing a career with my writing; and potentially staying on with UWTSD to do a PhD that has been inspired by my creative research throughout my studies.
It is extremely difficult to choose one favourite thing about the creative writing (BA & MA) – however, I can say all of the lecturers are amazing, supportive, and always able to find time to help with even the obscurest of writing-related questions.
My time spent studying creative writing both at BA and MA level at UWTSD has pushed me to write outside of my comfort zone, to challenge myself with different styles and perspective, and introduced me to a wonderful community of writers, both on campus and within the county.
I have also been encouraged and supported to push beyond my own limit with solo travelling overseas to carry out research which has opened up doors to new and unexpected career options.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/environment-energy-and-sustainability-student-stories:
See how our Environment, Energy, and Sustainability students are tackling global challenges, from conservation to renewable energy.
These stories showcase how our programmes empower students to make a positive difference for our planet and future generations.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/environment-energy-and-sustainability-student-stories/milena:
Name: Milena Tomaszewska
Course: BEng Energy and Environmental Engineering
Previous Studies: A-levels and GCSEs at Morriston Comprehensive School
Hometown: Swansea since 2013; previously Wroclaw, Poland
The IQ building, it’s modern with many ‘chill-out’ spaces, providing comfort during stressful times.
The cafeterias were always lively with familiar faces – whether peers, lecturers, or friendly staff.
The welcoming environment made it easy to relax and connect.
I loved the state-of-the-art engineering equipment and often spent free periods exploring the labs, fascinated by the technology in action.
In sixth form, I was unsure about my future and career path, fluctuating between fields like criminology, nursing, and veterinary science.
My teacher suggested UWTSD for its blend of theory and practical experience.
The hands-on learning approach, combined with lecturers who had real industry experience, made UWTSD the perfect choice for me.
To maintain my mental and physical health, I joined Swansea Sirens at Swansea University.
It was great to collaborate with Swansea University for sports while studying my chosen course.
I also nurtured my side hustle, which has since grown into two successful businesses.
After my BEng, I pursued a master’s in Computer Science to stay current with technological advancements.
Now nearing the end of my master’s, I’ve accepted a graduate role in sales at City Science.
Surprisingly, this role combines my engineering, IT, marketing, and business skills from both studies and entrepreneurship, making it an unexpected yet perfect fit for my career.
The lecturers’ passion and real-world industry insights were invaluable.
They shared stories – funny, challenging, happy, and sad – that provided a deep understanding of the profession.
A field trip to CAE, organised by my lecturer, was a highlight.
It was not only educational but also inspired my dissertation on sustainability, blending theory with practical experience and encouraging personal growth and creative thinking.
I would recommend UWTSD for those who value smaller class sizes and direct interaction with lecturers.
The university offers ample opportunities for questions and discussions, fostering a supportive and engaging learning environment.
There’s also strong support for securing internships.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/environment-energy-and-sustainability-student-stories/rebecca:
Having a lot of outdoor hobbies, such as canicross, climbing, and caving, I chose to study BSc Environment, Sustainability and Climate Change at UWTSD Swansea.
Name: Rebecca Macfarlane
Course: BSc Environment, Sustainability and Climate Change
Previous Studies: BA Philosophical Studies at UWTSD (though then it was University of Wales, Lampeter)
Hometown: Llanelli
The location – right by the sea made it easy to get outside and get some fresh air between classes, but it was also really close to the city centre if I ever needed anything.
It was also easily accessible by car, which was particularly convenient for me as I was working full-time and would need to drive across the city to get to the office for certain days.
Why did you choose UWTSD?
The course content covered more of my interests whilst also keeping a focus on teaching employability skills.
I was looking for a career change so it was important to me to find a course that had a good balance for delivering applicable learning without compromising on quality.
It was also flexible enough that I could continue to work full-time after consultation with my employer.
What did you enjoy outside your studies?
Alongside canicross, caving, and climbing, I practice a lot of martial arts, such as lau gar, kendo and tai chi.
Admittedly my focus on them dropped slightly the further I got into my final year, but I’m looking forward to getting stuck back in again.
I’m in the process of following through with my career change plans, and recently accepted a graduate environmental scientist position with Welsh Water.
This wouldn’t have been possible without the course, so I’m immensely grateful for the opportunity.
Additionally, I’m hoping to continue my studies by pursuing a PhD that continues the research I performed for my dissertation.
What was your favourite thing about BSc Environment, Sustainability and Climate Change?
The mixture of fieldwork and lab sessions gave a good overview of what it would be like to pursue a range of careers, and the opportunity to learn or refine practical skills was always offered.
Definitely – everyone goes above and beyond to support you throughout your studies, and you’re always invited to present your views, or just have a chat.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/environment-energy-and-sustainability-student-stories/rowan:
Hi, I’m Rowan!
I study Environment, Sustainability and Climate Change in Swansea.
I’m passionate about environmental communication and education.
Name: Rowan Jack Moses (They/Them pronouns)
Course: BSc Environment, Sustainability and Climate Change
Previous Studies: Horticulture Apprenticeship at the National Botanic Garden of Wales and the Royal Horticultural Society.
Hometown: Ammanford, Carmarthenshire
I study at the SA1 Waterfront Campus, and I love how close to the sea it is.
I’ve seen seals on my walk into uni, and my favourite seat in the library gives me a view over the ocean while I’m studying!
I wanted to study close enough to my family to visit often, as I have a young sister.
I also wanted a Welsh university that engages with Welsh environmental issues, as these are so often overlooked in the wider UK context.
A university with good disability support was also vital, as I am Autistic and ADHD, and I’d heard good things about the quality of support available.
I want to work in environmental communication and engagement, ideally increasing access to nature and environmental spaces and knowledge for marginalised groups such as disabled and LGBTQ+ people.
I love Swansea!
I live here year round with my partner, and we’ve found there’s a lovely local community.
Places like the Environment Centre are really good for getting involved in local environmental action, and venue spaces such as Elysium always have interesting creative events.
What is your favourite thing about BSc Environment, Sustainability and Climate Change?
The course covers a really broad range of topics, which I’ve really enjoyed and benefited from.
At the same time, you can easily focus on your particular interests for assignments, using different lenses to examine your interests throughout the course.
There are lots of opportunities for practical engagement, and all the lecturers are really supportive.
One of my favourite trips we went on, we got to see wind turbines that hadn’t been put up yet.
It was really cool to see them up close, and how large they are!
Being disabled, the smaller campus and class sizes make it possible for me to attend university.
It’s very personal, people know you and what you’re up to; you’re not just a face in the crowd.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/film-media-and-animation-student-stories:
Explore the creative paths of our Film, Media, and Animation students, who bring stories to life through innovative techniques and media.
Our programmes help students refine their craft and impact the world of visual storytelling.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/film-media-and-animation-student-stories/benjamin-martyn:
Name: Benjamin-Martyn Wheeler
Course: BA Film and TV Production
Dynevor was in the heart of Swansea, letting us explore storytelling through various locations that were well within walking distance of the campus.
I chose UWTSD because my interview felt more personal.
Outside my studies I spent time exploring the Gower coastline for more filming locations.
I am currently a Director of Photography in the Film and TV industry, shooting short films and commercial content in my free time.
My course was the springboard into the Welsh industry, helping me to establish myself and to grow my network from the off.
The department staff were incredibly supportive throughout.
I think the course offers a unique approach to the material, something more practically minded students may appreciate.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/film-media-and-animation-student-stories/joshua-knight:
Name: Joshua Knight
Course: BA (Hons) Adventure Filmmaking
Previous Studies: HSDC Alton: UAL Level 3 Diploma Creative Media Production and Technology
Hometown: Winchester, Hampshire
What I really enjoyed about studying at Carmarthen Campus was the helpfulness and passion that came from the lecturers and staff.
They not only had a clear passion for the subject matter but also for helping the students.
I chose to study at UWTSD due to its clear passion for encouraging creative careers.
It’s not often you see a university or institute so keen on promoting careers in the creative industry and that’s something that really drew me to this university and course.
What I really enjoyed outside my studies was the access I had to surrounding areas.
Within an hour’s driver you have both Pembrokeshire and the Gower which is home to breathtaking coastlines, perfect for a photographer and filmmaker like myself.
I’m currently working as a freelance photographer and filmmaker based out of Swansea.
Hoping to build up a big enough portfolio so that I can start working with sponsors and taking my skills abroad for more job opportunities.
The best thing about the Adventure Filmmaking course is the range of skills you learn and the opportunities you are offered.
The course has taken me to some incredible places both in the UK and abroad, allowing me to develop my skills in a variety of unique environments, making me a more well-rounded creative and person.
Yes, I’d absolutely recommend studying at UWTSD.
The Adventure Filmmaking course is interesting and engaging and this not only comes down to the topics covered within the subject, but also down to the enthusiasm that comes from the staff and other students.
Carmarthen campus is an amazing hotspot for going on your own adventures outside of studying.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/film-media-and-animation-student-stories/lucy-davies:
Name: Lucy Davies
Previous Studies: A-level: Photography, psychology, and physical education
Hometown: Mumbles, Gower
The location – the campus is not too far away from Gower or Pembrokeshire which are great locations for surfing and climbing and for shooting projects for this degree.
The campus has loads of great facilities like the Mac labs and editing suites as well as the immersive room.
It is also right next door to the S4C building which has provided us with loads of opportunities.
I chose UWTSD for its unique degree.
This university offered the only adventure filmmaking course I could find or the closest degree to the sort of career path I want to head down.
I also like the fact that it is not a huge campus where you’re 1 of 300 in a class.
You get a lot of help from lecturers and it feels like a tight-knit university where the lecturers can really give a lot of their time in lectures to help you.
Working with the outdoor adventure education degree students on lectures was great.
I found people who also loved surfing and people who loved climbing.
We would go out to places like Rhossili and abseil through caves or spend the day coasteering when we had spare time.
I really enjoyed going out surfing and photographing my friends in the water.
The expeditions were also amazing.
There were opportunities to go on expeditions outside of lectures.
We went on a climbing expedition to Spain in 2023 where we spent the week sport climbing and ascending cliffs with my camera to take photos of people climbing.
We also went on a climbing expedition to Pembrokeshire and worked on our trad climbing skills and climbed multi-pitch trad routes overhanging the sea.
The dream would be to make surf films or become a surf photographer but I would be really happy working in any areas related to adventure filmmaking.
Working for the BBC Natural History Unit would be a dream come true or even National Geographic as a camera woman.
I am currently working as a freelancer making documentaries for a nature reserve.
I also work as a coasteering guide and rock-climbing instructor.
In October or November, I will be flying out to Kalymnos, Greece to shoot an exciting project which will involve a bunch of rock climbers, riggers and a circus artist and stunt performer.
I will likely be hanging 100ft off an overhanging cliff in my harness filming this stunt which I am really excited to do.
The practical lectures.
Some lectures we would be filming red kites with massive telephoto lenses and learning how to track them in flight and keep them in focus.
Other lectures would be focusing on macro photography learning or learning how to focus stack.
Some of our lectures were up in North Wales in December so we had opportunities to photograph people mountaineering in up to 6ft of snow up Crib Goch in Eryri.
We also had opportunities to film and photograph the Pembrokeshire fire spinners multiple times, one of those times using RED cameras that cost up to £50,000.
The practical lectures with the outdoor adventure education degree were also a highlight of this degree.
We would go anywhere and everywhere either climbing, kayaking, mountaineering, or gaining first aid and catastrophic bleed qualifications.
UWTSD feels like a close-knit university.
The lecturers go above and beyond to help in any way they can.
There are unique opportunities at this university like climbing expeditions abroad or filming and learning from some really successful people in the adventure filmmaking industry.
The location of the campus is perfect for someone doing an adventure filmmaking degree.
There is so much to offer in this part of the world for adrenaline junkies or wildlife photographers or anyone who loves the outdoors.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/film-media-and-animation-student-stories/nathan-chaplin:
Name: Nathan Chaplin
Course: BA Computer Games Design
Hometown: Baglan, Port Talbot
One of my favourite things about the campus would be the environment.
Being on a creative course we used our day-to-day environments as inspiration to create new environments and experiences for players.
Having the other departments around us allowed me to generate new unique ideas for my work.
I chose UWTSD because of the experience the academics bring to the course and how they could help me reach my goals as a games designer.
This gave me confidence, knowing no matter what I did, if that was failing or pushing the boundaries, that they would give me support and feedback so that I could get the best out of myself and the course.
I loved the social environment, being able to meet new people from other courses and go out to gain new experiences.
One of the highlights was going to Insomnia with the team to not only have fun, but also to talk to game developers and ask for tips and tricks.
I am now working for UWTSD in the department Digital Creativity and Learning.
My team is called Digital Experience and Engagement.
I started here on a graduate role and now am full time and my role is VR Technology Specialist.
I work on creating VR applications, Managing VR, Immersive Rooms, digital tours, drones and more.
My course helped me get here by allowing me to experiment and push the boundaries on the technology we had.
Without the course I would not feel confident in taking on new technologies and seeing what we can do with them.
Looking back on some key areas I found the experience I gained from the academics was critical to my success so far.
For this I am very grateful to all academics who taught me.
It’s hard to decide as there are so many areas which I will always remember and so many highlights as without them I don’t think I would be doing what I do now.
If I had to highlight one, it would be learning game history.
As much as I push new and innovative technology, I think learning game history showed me how far technology has come and some of the hurdles people and companies have jumped through.
I think it’s important to know the past to so you can help improve the future.
I would recommend it 100% as not only does UWTSD have a range of courses to choose from but they also have some of the best academics, in my opinion, that can teach students a high level of skill in their area.
From my experience the high level of the academics was really an inspiration.
Also, the community that surrounds UWTSD is fantastic, they support you outside the classroom and there is always some experience or event to keep you entertained

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/history-and-archaeology-student-stories/troy-wilkinson:
Hi, my name is Troy, I am a distance-based student in Devon, and I am currently in the third year of my PhD in Ancient History at UWTSD.
Name: Troy Wilkinson
Course: Ancient History
Previous Studies: MRes Ancient History, BA (Hons) Ancient History
Hometown: Exmouth, Devon
My favourite thing about living on Lampeter Campus was the Old Building which provided a unique sense of personality and history.
I chose to study at UWTSD because of its comparatively small size and deeply personal approach to their students.
UWTSD’s personal approach to their students was clear to me during an open day when I had a chance to meet some of the incredibly friendly and supportive academic staff.
Whilst living in Lampeter I enjoyed spending time at the Lampeter Campus Gym as well as going for walks in the beautiful Welsh countryside with friends.
While studying at home as a distance student I still enjoy spending time at the gym, with friends or with family.
I am still unsure is the honest answer, 10 years is a long time after all!
I hope to be able to utilise the skills learned during my degree(s) be that in teaching, writing, public speaking, or something else entirely.
I look forward to seeing what the future brings!
My degrees at UWTSD have primarily helped to give me a good insight into a career in academia.
This includes conducting research, organising and presenting at conferences, attending summer schools and publishing articles in academic books and journals.
?/My favourite thing about my PhD, and my previous degrees, is the opportunity to explore my own areas of interest while practising valuable skills like research, writing and public speaking.
Having the opportunity to visit several countries during my studies including Greece, France, Germany and Switzerland was certainly a nice bonus though!
Having also done my BA and MRes degrees at Lampeter Campus I have spent my entire career of soon to be 10 years in higher education at UWTSD!
My time at UWTSD has been one of incredible opportunities, from meeting new friends to fascinating academic research and travel to Greece, Italy and more, I have enjoyed every moment!
While primarily academically focussed, my degrees have provided a wealth of transferable verbal, literary and organisational skills which I believe would be suitable to a wide range of careers.
The opportunity to receive training in what was then the PASS (Peer Assisted Learning Study Sessions) scheme also provided skills for facilitating group discussions and knowledge.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/hospitality-leisure-and-tourism-student-stories-0:
Discover the journeys of our Hospitality, Leisure, and Tourism students as they explore vibrant industries built on experiences, service, and global connections.
These stories showcase how our programmes prepare students to shape memorable guest experiences, lead dynamic teams, and build rewarding careers in a fast-moving and people-focused sector.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/hospitality-leisure-and-tourism-student-stories:
Explore our Hospitality, Leisure, and Tourism students’ stories, showcasing their skills in customer service, event management, and global tourism.
Our programmes equip students to deliver exceptional experiences in a thriving industry.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/hospitality-leisure-and-tourism-student-stories/elena-cazacu:
Name: Elena Cazacu
Course: BA International Hotel Management
Hometown: Pontypool, Torfaen
My favourite thing about Swansea campus is the stunning beachfront location.
Being able to take study breaks with a walk along the bay or enjoy sunsets right outside the building.
I chose UWTSD because of its strong focus on student support, smaller class sizes, and practical learning.
The university’s blending of academic theory with real-world experience stood out to me.
The variety of courses and flexible learning options.
I found a good balance between studying and enjoying my time here, which really helped me stay motivated and happy.
Outside of my studies, I enjoyed exploring the local areas as it has some amazing beaches and parks, which are perfect for relaxing or going  out with friends.
When I graduate, I hope to start a career where I can actually use what I’ve learned, maybe lets me travel, and gives me a chance to work with people, whether it’s in hospitality, business, or something similar.
I have also always had the idea of starting my own small business, where I can be creative and build something of my own.
In the end, I just want to enjoy what I do, keep learning, and feel good about the direction my life is going.
Yes, I would definitely recommend UWTSD.
It has a good mix of theory and practical work, preparing us for the real hospitality world.
The campus is in a beautiful location, and there’s always events going on.
Overall, it’s a great place to learn, grow, and feel part of a community.
I enjoyed the mix of everything, active classrooms and hotel placements, from learning about customer service to understanding how hotels and businesses are run.
It kept things interesting and gave me a clearer idea of what I want to do in the future.
I also really liked working with people and seeing how small details can make a big difference in someone’s experience.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/law-criminology-and-policing-student-stories:
Discover the paths of our Law, Criminology, and Policing students as they engage with justice, legal frameworks, and public safety.
These stories reflect how our programmes support students in upholding the law and pursuing meaningful careers in justice.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/law-criminology-and-policing-student-stories/jamie-dick-bsc:
Name: Jamie Dick
Course: BSc Criminology and Policing
Hometown: Kent
The best thing for me about the business campus is the library, there is a lot of space to go on the computer or to go do research without having to worry whether if there will be any space available to do work.
One other for me is, I live at St Davids Roost, which is a 2 min walk where the campus is so I do not need to get transportation and worry about traffic.
I chose UWTSD, partially because I really liked Swansea when I first came to visit with the beach and the hills all being so close together as well as the town itself, so when I discovered that the university was offering my chosen course, I put it down as my first choice of university, because of the environment and because the university had a bit smaller capacity of students it really helped with getting that support from the lecturers and the learning support.
For me, when I first came here, the night life was amazing as it was really close to where I lived but mainly due to variety of different places to go, whether it was something chill like the pub or going one step further and vibing at the clubs.
As time went on though, I focused on physical activity, such as running and the gym (JD gym).
I also enjoyed the thrift shops kilo sales that happened every so months to see if there were any clothes I’d like, I mostly like collecting football tops.
I was really fascinated with learning new areas within the criminology environment that I did not touch in College.
I especially enjoyed learning about serious organised crime (SOC), as I chose it for my topic for the dissertation.
I really enjoyed speaking to experts as well who came in to speak about the different areas of SOC, whether it would cyber crime or county lines there was an expert who gave an interesting presentation on the dangers of SOC.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/law-criminology-and-policing-student-stories/kirsty-jones:
Name: Kirsty Jones-Higginson
Course: BSc Criminology and Policing
My favourite part about being on the business campus has got to be the lovely smoothies in the canteen and having Laura and Sadie as supportive and caring lectures.
I chose to study at UWTSD as I heard the student services were known to be one of the best, as well as being really interested in the joint degree in criminology and policing.
Outside of university I took part in volunteering as a PSV with South Wales Police.
I also worked alongside my degree.
As well as spending most of my free time walking or going to the gym.
In the future I hope to pursue a career in the police and complete the fast track to detective and then just see where it takes me from there.
I hope to be able to achieve a lot in this career choice as it’s always something I have been interested in doing.
The course has built my knowledge and understanding on many different aspects of policing as well as looking at the more investigative sides within criminology.
Volunteering with South Wales Police has allowed me to gain more experience on the front line and be involved in many different activities.
I would recommend UWTSD.
The student support received from lectures has been good.
Staff are friendly and overall enjoyed studying my degree.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/law-criminology-and-policing-student-stories/megan-worrell:
Name: Megan Worrell
Course: BSc Professional Policing
Hometown: Carmarthen
My favourite thing about the Swansea Business Campus is its intimate size, which allows lecturers to really get to know the students.
This personalised attention enhances the learning experience and fosters a supportive academic environment.
Additionally, the campus’s excellent location adds to its appeal, making it convenient and accessible
I have always aspired to join the police force, and I saw this degree at the University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD) as the best pathway to achieve my goal.
UWTSD is renowned for its excellent academic programmes and supportive learning environment, making it an ideal place to prepare for a career in the Police Force.
The university’s strong reputation and comprehensive curriculum were key factors in my decision, as they align perfectly with my career ambitions and educational needs.
Outside of my studies, I love keeping fit and go to the gym five times a week.
Maintaining a regular fitness routine helps me stay healthy and focused.
Additionally, I enjoy travelling and visiting new places whenever I get the chance.
Exploring different cultures and discovering new places not only provides a refreshing break from my studies but also broadens my perspectives and enriches my overall experience.
When I graduate, I am excited to begin my career with Avon and Somerset Police.
I have secured a position as a response officer and will be starting in August.
This role aligns perfectly with my long-standing aspiration to join the police force, and I am eager to apply the knowledge and skills I have gained during my studies to serve and protect the community.
Yes, I would highly recommend the University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD).
The university offers a supportive and engaging learning environment, with small class sizes that allow for personalised attention from lecturers.
This close-knit academic setting fosters strong relationships between students and staff.
The UWTSD provides a comprehensive curriculum that is both challenging and relevant to real-world applications.
The practical approach to learning ensures that students are well-prepared for their future careers.
The campus itself is well-located, offering easy access to local amenities and vibrant city life, which adds to the overall student experience.
Additionally, UWTSD’s emphasis on employability and career development is evident through its strong connections with industry and dedicated support services.
These resources help students secure internships, work placements, and job opportunities, ensuring a smooth transition from university to the professional world.
Overall, UWTSD is an excellent choice for anyone looking to pursue higher education in a dynamic and supportive setting, with ample opportunities for personal and professional growth

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/motorsport-mechanical-and-electrical-engineering-student-stories:
See the journeys of our Motorsport, Mechanical, and Electrical Engineering students, who are solving technical challenges and innovating within their fields.
Our programmes prepare them to engineer solutions that make a lasting impact.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/motorsport-mechanical-and-electrical-engineering-student-1:
Name: David Migliorati N’Doua
Course: BEng Motorcycle Engineering
Previous Studies: Mechanics and Mechatronics (High school – Italy)
Hometown: Stezzano (Italy)
The best thing was the motorcycle workshops where we were able to put theory into practice.
I moved to Swansea because I saw that the course could help me to find a job in motorcycle racing and was a very good balance between theory and practice.
Also, I wanted to experience living in a foreign country.
I messaged another Italian guy who was attending the course, and he confirmed my expectations.
I was working as a CAD designer in Italy at the time; I then applied and attended an English school to improve my language during my evenings after work.
I loved Swansea beach.
I was part of the athletics track team as a sprinter and I met lovely friends who I still see now.
I’m a design engineer for Triumph Racing for the World MX2 and Supercross teams.
I’m in charge of designing the best components to suit riders’ riding styles and meeting required performance levels, communicating with the race teams and getting their feedback from testing and racing.
After university, I worked in several places: I worked for a small motorcycle company in Italy as mechanic/engineer first, then I worked as a data engineer in the MOTO 3 at the Italian championship, then I worked in World SuperSport as data engineer, then I had a call from Triumph and I accepted the offer.
I loved the practical aspects and the fact that the teachers come from the Motorcycle industry so they are passionate about their topics.
100% recommended for someone who wants to get a job in motorcycle racing and industry, and live in a vibrant city like Swansea.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/motorsport-mechanical-and-electrical-engineering-student-3:
Name: Ilias Iatrakis
Course: MSc Motorcycle Engineering
Previous Studies: BEng Motorcycle Engineering ; Technical Secondary Education in Industrial Sciences.
(Or full A-Levels in STEM)
Hometown: Genk, Belgium
The workshops including high-end technical facilities, available to the students to work on their projects of interest; the possibility to apply the theory we learn in class and being able to go into the workshop and perform the actual measurements and tests related to these subjects.
I’ve had the privilege to run and ride for the University’s Motorcycle Racing project for two years.
The current racing teams offer great opportunities related to development and competition, also allowing the students to gain real life experience in real paddocks, working on real projects.
From machining to engine work, engine dynos, to suspension work, opportunities are there if you want them.
In 2018, when I was 15, my father and I were choosing between UWTSD and a German university for my higher education.
We visited UWTSD during an open day, and I was immediately impressed by the cutting-edge technology and equipment available.
The highlight of our visit was meeting Dr Owen Williams, whose expertise and teaching approach greatly influenced our decision.
The staff’s dedication and the university’s friendly atmosphere were also pivotal.
Dr Owen’s commitment reassured us of the quality of education I would receive.
Convinced, I decided to aim for enrolment at UWTSD, starting my journey towards turning my passion into knowledge.
After just turning 17, I started the course in 2020.
I love staying active; whether it’s working out, exploring the outdoors, or mountain biking, I’m always on the move.
Over the past two years, I’ve taken up surfing – a sport I now thoroughly enjoy in the beautiful nature of the Gower, which has become my favourite activity.
However, my passion for motorcycles occupies much of my time outside of studies.
I’m constantly engaged in racing, working on various projects, and experimenting with new ideas and concepts, all in the spirit of fun.
Besides my Master’s in Motorcycle Engineering here at UWTSD, I’m currently working as a race engineer/ crew chief for MRP Racing in the BMW Motorrad Motorsport IDM Superbike team.
When I graduate, I’m aiming to continue working in the racing paddock.
I also aim to work within a development department in the automotive industry, with the end goal of a becoming a technical director of some sort.
I’ve also got interest in opening my own ‘performance shop’, building and engineering race bikes.
Besides the support of my parents, passion and continuous work towards my goals are the main driving factor.
The knowledge we gain here is invaluable in the way it’s taught and is highly appreciated in the industry.
What has been your favourite thing about your course?
One of the major highlights for me has been the amount of hands-on opportunities and the sheer amount of specialised knowledge which the staff offers and shares with us.
These experiences have allowed me, as a student, to engage in various professional activities related to motorcycles and racing.
In particular, being given the opportunity to develop and ride for the university’s racing team has been an exceptional experience.
Moreover, I had the privilege of eventually leading the team, which has undoubtedly been one of the most memorable and rewarding experiences of my young life.
I would highly recommend this course to anyone interested in motorcycles or motorsport.
I feel, and have noticed from established professionals, that the knowledge and opportunities you can get through this unique course can’t be gained elsewhere.
The combination of specialised knowledge, the teaching method, hands-on opportunities, and the support of the University makes this course exceptional.
I believe that pursuing this course would provide passionate individuals with a distinct advantage and a solid foundation for their future endeavours in this field.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/motorsport-mechanical-and-electrical-engineering-student-0:
Name: Max Hart
Course: BEng Automotive Engineering
Previous Studies: A-Levels in Maths, Physics, Product Design
Hometown: Surrey
The location!
In Swansea you have the most amazing beaches, hills and countryside right on your doorstep.
As well as this you have all the amenities you would expect in a big city, plus some fantastic bars and pubs, which is of course very important!
The campus is close to the city centre so you’re never far away from everything Swansea has to offer.
I looked around many unis and found that most felt quite sterile.
Immediately I felt inspired by how enthusiastic everyone is at UWTSD; the lecturers are genuinely passionate about what they do and are very welcoming.
The facilities on offer also impressed me, with lots of opportunities to participate in hands-on activities to support the theory learnt in lectures.
I enjoyed being a member of Team MCR (now Team MSport Eng).
This allowed me to improve my practical skills and gain hands-on experience of working in a race team and competing at events all over the country.
I was a student rep for my course and attended multiple outreach events at local schools on behalf of the University.
After graduating, I started working as a Technical Sales Engineer for Diffusion – a commercial heating, air conditioning and ventilation (HVAC) manufacturer.
I used the technical knowledge gained throughout my degree to help clients specify and design an HVAC solution to satisfy their specific requirements.
I used previously learnt thermodynamic principles to calculate perform the required heating/cooling calculations.
I recently moved into the defence industry, now working as a Systems Design Engineer for MBDA, a world leader in the manufacturing of defence equipment.
Complex defence systems require a broad engineering skillset; experience from UWTSD of working with key engineering principles and tools, particularly MATLAB, whilst juggling multiple projects and sticking to strict deadlines helps me in the role hugely.
Having the opportunity to work with like-minded, passionate people.
Studying engineering, particularly automotive engineering, meant I was surrounded by people with the same interests as me.
I made many close friends who I still see today.
The lecturers share that enthusiasm and help achieve UWTSD’s uniquely personal and supportive learning style.
I would always recommend UWTSD; I thoroughly enjoyed my time studying there.
The skills I learnt allowed me to be where I am today, on the career path I have always wanted.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/motorsport-mechanical-and-electrical-engineering-student-4:
Name: Oliver Kucyj
Course: BEng Electrical and Electronic Engineering
Previous Studies: HNC Electrical and Electronic Engineering at Pembrokeshire College
Hometown: Milford Haven
I thought the facilities were very modern and had everything you could possibly need.
I chose UTWSD because I had heard good things about them, and I did my HNC in Pembrokeshire College but through UWTSD.
This made it the clear path for me to study my degree.
For the first two years, I worked at Consort Ltd.
as an electrical engineer.
Twelve months before my course was due to finish, I started working for EDF.
Outside of work, I enjoy going on hikes, fishing, and going to the gym.
I am due to graduate this summer, and I work for EDF at HPC.
This summer, I will relocate to Paris for nine months of training.
I think the combination of working in engineering whilst studying at UWTSD has been key to my progression and no doubt has helped me to get the job I have.
I was able to learn the practical side of things whilst working at Consort (my old job) whilst the lecturers at UWTSD taught me the theoretical side of things, although they were very good at teaching us the topics in real life situations and applications too.
My favourite thing about the course was learning in-depth information about various topics within Electrical and Electronic Engineering.
I would recommend UWTSD to anyone.
The facilities are excellent, and the lecturers go above and beyond to help you.
They supported me through my change of job.
With the new job, it would have been challenging to continue my studies for the remaining 12 months of my course due to relocation to Paris in summer 2024.
UWTSD allowed me to ‘fast track’ and complete all of my work by January 2024.
This was invaluable to me.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/motorsport-mechanical-and-electrical-engineering-student:
Name: Ragulan Pulanthitan
Course: BEng Automotive Engineering
Previous Studies: Ysgol Dyffryn Aman, Carmarthenshire (2015–2022); St.
Luke’s Primary School, Dublin (2008–2015)
Hometown: Place of Birth: The Hammocks, Miami-Dade Family Origins: Sri Lanka Current Residence: Ammanford, Carmarthenshire
The 24/7 computer room was relieving to have on campus as it was a useful room to do project and assignment work in.
The motorsport workshop is a good place to hang out after class and the technicians are interesting people to talk to who always keep it real with you.
UWTSD were really the only university to make an effort in marketing themselves to my sixth form within secondary school.
The MCR race team, as an extracurricular activity, was a large factor in why I chose to come to this institution.
The motorsport team is what I enjoy the most at UWTSD.
I was able to gain the most amount of knowledge in first year from being a part of that team.
Outside of the university, I enjoyed the experience of living in a city as it was a much-needed change of pace compared to where my family currently live.
On top of the city itself, the people I met after coming to university have been some of the most positively influential people to me and have changed my outlook on life.
I didn’t think people like them existed before coming here.
I hope to work somewhere in the automotive or motorsport industry.
I have been contemplating doing a master’s degree but am unsure where to do it.
I would like to do some travelling and would be open to working abroad.
I look forward to the day when I can find a company that has goals I believe in and share so I can pledge my complete loyalty to them and dedicate 100% of my time to making money for myself and bringing success to the company I work for.
My favourite aspect of the course was the group project I did in my second year, as it gave me the opportunity to lead and organize a group of my peers to complete a project that would allow us to thoroughly practise skills in computational fluid dynamics in order to better apply our conceptual theories of aerodynamics to the motorsport team’s race car.
I would recommend UWTSD for anyone who has an interest in motorsports as it is, without doubt, the best institution in the country for gaining practical experience in real world competitive environments through extracurricular activity.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/motorsport-mechanical-and-electrical-engineering-student-2:
Name: Vinicius Dreher
Current Studies: PhD candidate
Hometown: Sao Paulo
I loved the opportunity to learn theoretical concepts in lectures and quickly test them in state-of-the-art facilities.
The availability of a dyno engine, CNC, dyno rolling, and an excellent motorcycle workshop allowed for hands-on exploration and experimentation.
This integration of theory and practice made my educational experience engaging and impactful.
I chose UWTSD because it offered the only bachelor’s program specifically focused on motorcycle engineering.
The unique emphasis on motorcycles, combined with comprehensive training and access to cutting-edge resources, provided an unparalleled opportunity to delve deeply into this specialized field.
Outside of my studies, I deeply enjoy spending time with my family and engaging in motorcycle racing.
My passion for motorcycles extends beyond my academic and professional life, enriching my personal life and hobbies.
Additionally, I have co-founded a startup with another ex-UWTSD student, focusing on advanced motorcycle dynamics through a mobile application.
Balancing family time, my start-up, and racing interests keeps me grounded and motivated.
I am currently pursuing a PhD at UWTSD, focusing on developing an intelligent motorcycle racing simulation platform.
My bachelor’s degree in motorcycle engineering provided me with a solid foundation in both theoretical knowledge and practical skills, which have been crucial in advancing my academic and professional career.
My favourite aspect of the course was the opportunity to dive deeply into the intricacies of motorcycle dynamics.
As a motorcycle enthusiast, I found immense satisfaction in putting theoretical concepts to the test using advanced algorithms.
I would highly recommend UWTSD because of its unique and specialized programmes, particularly in motorcycle engineering.
The course offers in-depth knowledge and hands-on experience that are unparalleled.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/performance-dance-and-musical-theatre-student-stories:
Explore the experiences of our Performance, Dance, and Musical Theatre students as they bring passion to the stage, hone their talents, and connect with audiences.
Our programmes support them in building skills for successful careers in the performing arts.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/performance-dance-and-musical-theatre-student-stories/celeste:
Name: Celeste Turnbull
Course: BA (Hons) Acting
Hometown: Burry Port
My favourite thing about the campus is the little nooks you can find during warmer weather to sit and do work in.
These areas have helped me to relax and have helped to improve my focus and therefore my motivation to work.
My favourite spot is near the large tree outside between the library and NIB001.
I also found myself returning to this spot for mental wellbeing and general relaxation between classes.
I chose UWTSD as it offered a primarily practical acting course, something which I could not find elsewhere.
I am a practical and visual learner, therefore, this course has accommodated my needs and left me fulfilled and exceptional at my craft.
I was also drawn to the number of opportunities that the acting course offered for me to perform in front of an audience.
Audiences are what make theatre, so being able to experience this early on has reinforced my love for this industry.
Outside of my studies, I enjoy trips to Llansteffan beach with my friends, as well as taking long walks around Abergwili museum trail.
Being able to drive has also allowed my friends and me to visit our local country park in Pembrey, only a 25-minute drive from campus!
As someone who enjoys being active, Carmarthen leisure center has been especially useful in helping me maintain my energy and motivation during each semester.
There are also multiple castles nearby which restore the history of our beautiful country!
Following graduation, I am hoping to do a master’s degree in Screen Acting!
I then hope to enter the world of bilingual children’s television!
Acting is my passion and is something I never thought I would get this far with.
It poses challenges and pushes me to my extremes yet is a constant reminder to my younger self that it is possible to live your dreams!!
My favourite thing about my course is the lecturers.
Welcoming us each day with warm smiles and open hearts, supporting us as we strive to go beyond our comfort zones, and celebrating our achievements no matter how big or small, is only the foundation of the course.
They treat us as an acting company rather than students and make us feel at one with them.
They listen to, and consider any concerns we have, and are quick to implement feedback related to the course to make it a completely pleasant, enjoyable, and memorable experience for us all.
I would recommend UWTSD to anyone in a heartbeat.
During my time at UWTSD, I have had experience as a Student Ambassador, and was given the opportunity to study a semester abroad in California, where I found my love for rock climbing.
This only enhanced my skillset and the attitude I approach each day with.
Furthermore, through direct experience with the student services team, it is safe to say that my literary, as well as common skills have vastly improved, and have been shaped to guarantee further successes in future work.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/performance-dance-and-musical-theatre-student-stories/elicia:
Name: Elicia Axon
Course: BA Acting
Previous Studies: Queen Elizabeth High School – GCSEs and A-Levels:  Performing Arts,  Sociology, Welsh Baccalaureate
My favourite thing about campus was the size of it.
It’s not an overwhelmingly large campus – everything is quite contained in one area, so it’s super easy to navigate and move from class to class.
It is like a little community and you’re able to easily interact with students on other courses.
The facilities are great: I spent a lot of time studying in the library and the common areas and it was always so easy to book individual spaces for rehearsals, meetings, or study sessions.
I never found myself wishing for anything the campus didn’t have.
It really met my needs as a student.
I chose to study at UWTSD because during my audition I felt at ease the entire time.
I felt extremely safe and comfortable because the campus was well laid out and signposted.
The staff were so knowledgeable and passionate about the course – they were really welcoming and friendly.
I knew that I would get the kind of support that I was looking for with my education.
Also being able to talk to students already studying across all three years was super beneficial – they all talked really highly of the course and of UWTSD, so I knew I was in safe hands.
Outside of my studies I really enjoyed spending time outdoors.
Carmarthen has a lot of lovely nature walks and two big parks.
It’s also only a short drive from Llansteffan Beach, where groups of us would often spend the evening hanging out and exploring.
I was also a member of the dance society on campus and that was always so much fun.
It was a chance to socialise with people outside of your course, learn new skills and improve your fitness.
I am now working as a freelance actor and facilitator.
I’m very lucky to have had some amazing opportunities within the industry since graduating.
The BA Acting course taught me the importance of creating my own work, how to start from scratch and build/create something from nothing.
The course had a huge influence on who I am now as a creative.
I’m not just an actor, I’m a director, producer, and a theatre maker and that’s super important.
I’ve filmed commercials, toured England with new writing, performed a one-woman show in Cardiff, built an installation, run workshops with students.
I teach young children drama.
I have an incredibly versatile career and that is due to my training at UWTSD.
We focused on the industry as a whole and developed multiple different skills, building a little toolbox of all the things needed to thrive in the arts.
My favourite thing about my course was the staff.
My tutors were just incredible.
The head of learning had a wealth of experience and knowledge relating to acting and the industry and we were able to meet and be taught by some really awesome people.
I loved that some modules were taught by outside facilitators because, even though we were still studying, we were making connections and relationships with people in the industry, some of whom I have worked with since graduating.
I am a huge advocate for UWTSD and the BA Acting course.
I could not recommend it enough.
I absolutely adored my time studying, so much so that after two years I’m going back to study for a Master’s.
It is such a welcoming campus and the staff really do care about your wellbeing.
Everyone was always so helpful and attentive.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/performance-dance-and-musical-theatre-student-stories/grace:
Name: Grace McArthur
Previous Studies: HND at North East Scotland College
Hometown: Aberdeen, Scotland
There are lot of great walks and sights to see in the area as well as a good train link to major cities.
I chose UWTSD due to small class sizes and options to study abroad.
I loved taking trips to Llansteffan beach which is a short drive away as well as going on nights out with my classmates after lectures.
I hope to work within the theatre industry using the skills and connections I have created while on this course.
I also hope to do more travelling – after I had the opportunity to study abroad in California, I wanted to travel more and possibly look for work beyond the UK.
I love exploring the ways in which the acting industry is different in a foreign country compared to back home.
I love the valuable one to one time with the lecturers who are very caring and understanding.
They made me feel at home and really helped me to be the best that I could be within my studies.
I would recommend UWTSD as it is a close-knit community, and everyone is super friendly and supportive in many different departments.
There were also lots of opportunities to work with the set design students as an actor in my third year, which was extremely useful.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/performance-dance-and-musical-theatre-student-stories/hollie:
Name: Hollie-Anne Clark
Course: MA Advanced Vocal Studies
Previous Studies: Advanced Diploma Musical Theatre (Associated Studios), MA Music (Vocal) Performance (RWCMD)
Hometown: Chelmsford, Essex
I really enjoyed the personal feel to the college, creating a lovely space to grow and develop your skills.
There was a lot of focus on your individual craft, similar to an artist development programme and that really was a benefit.
I knew of alumni and current students who had a good experience.
I also was drawn to the smaller numbers on the course which allowed for more individual time.
I am a multi-faceted performer; as well as opera, I perform musical theatre, sing other styles in cabaret and act professionally.
I also enjoy recording music, making music videos, and dancing in various styles!
I have just performed and developed two vocal shows for guest entertaining on cruise lines, so that’s really exciting!
One is focused on musical theatre/classical crossover and the other opera, so getting to showcase both is really great!
I am also taking on the role of the Contessa in Mozart’s Marriage of Figaro this Summer, for Grimeborn Opera Festival at the Arcola Theatre.
I love this role, as I performed her before, and I’m incredibly grateful to have the opportunity to perform this professionally in London for a run.
I have a few festivals this summer I’m performing at too!
I released my new EP Enchanted on Spotify and other platforms in February this year, and I have some new music coming soon, including writing an original too!
Aside from my own performing, I also coach and teach singers, and lead a collective of performers in children’s entertainment!
I’ve been lucky enough to write, direct and produce various professional shows and events including as Artistic Director of my own opera company and three pantomimes for theatre.
See more of what I’ve been up to on my website www.hollieanneclark.com
The personal and friendly atmosphere, and individual focus and time.
And the international mix – as many students were from other countries.
I would say I am where I am, because of being proactive, consistent, and persistent.
But there is no destination, only the journey of seeing where my performing and skills take me, which is the adventure!
It’s important to keep focused on what you want to achieve, as I believe everyone can be successful in anything they put their energy into.
Doing the course at WIAV (now WAVDA), really helped me tone my skills in opera and develop vocally in a positive and encouraging environment – Dennis O’Neill was a wonderful teacher!
It also gave me the tools and confidence I needed to learn roles quickly which has led to some recent successes!
Yes – even though some of my course experience was through the pandemic, so teaching halted for a time, I found I developed a lot as an artist and met and became friends with some really great people from all over the world and made connections, so I would definitely recommend it!

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/performance-dance-and-musical-theatre-student-stories/kia:
Name: Kia Elise Breckon
Course: BMus Vocal Performance
Previous Studies: Scarborough Sixth Form College
Hometown: Whitby, North Yorkshire
My favourite thing about the Cardiff campus was how central it is.
It is very easy to get to and it has lots of student accommodation that is just a short walk from Haywood House.
The building itself has amazing spaces that are used for lessons, masterclasses, rehearsals, and performances.
As a performance student, being surrounded by the arts was so important to me, and at WAVDA that’s exactly what you get.
There are so many different creative spaces near Cardiff campus including the Wales Millennium Centre which is just a short train ride away.
I chose UWTSD because the Vocal Performance course was unlike any I had seen at other universities.
UWTSD offers a unique blend of how you learn: an hour each week of one-to-one vocal coaching and a one-to-one singing lesson; lessons and projects lead by industry professionals that are still working whilst teaching; smaller classes so the lecturers are able to get to know you as a person and a performer.
UWTSD has a focus on industry links and on the Vocal Performance course you build them from day one.
Outside of my studies I enjoy reading – fantasy is definitely my favourite genre.
I also went to the gym before my lessons and rehearsals because it set me up with a positive mindset for the day, and I feel like I was definitely more productive.
I also enjoyed meeting up with my friends who were on the Musical Theatre course.
Now that I have finished the Vocal Performance course at UWTSD, I am going to the Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama to complete a Master’s in Arts Management.
During my time at UWTSD, I found that I have a love for organisation, whether it was the programme for the Student Spotlights – which is a concert series we created on the Vocal Performance course as part of a module in second year or creating rehearsal schedules for performance projects.
The course definitely helped me build on the organisation skills I already had ready for my time at RWCMD.
The lecturers that I was lucky enough to be taught by were my favourite part of this course – both the HPLs and the visiting lecturers who took us for masterclasses.
They are all incredible.
Their passion about the arts is unmatched to anyone I’ve met before and their experiences provided me with valuable insights into the industry and inspired me.
They taught me how to look after my voice, how to use it properly and how to use it in different ways which has helped me grow as a performer.
The university offers a unique and enriching educational experience, especially on courses like the Vocal Performance course.
The experiences you get at UWTSD are incredible and I have never seen them be offered anywhere else which I feel makes the university really special.
UWTSD’s focus on employability and strong industry links also provides invaluable practical experience and career opportunities.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/performance-dance-and-musical-theatre-student-stories/rhys:
Name: Rhys Price
Course: BA (Hons) Creative Music Technology
Hometown: Aberdare
The best thing about my campus was the access to multiple studios.
I was able to book a studio and have access to all its facilities, including all equipment and any instruments that were available.
The studios also included Macs that had industry-standard software, allowing me to create music that was normally impossible with the equipment that I owned.
UWTSD featured many creative aspects that other courses lacked.
Typically, other courses seemed to have traditional views of music and would teach you about music analysis and theory.
Creative Music Technology had a more creative and unconventional view on music, allowing the student to decide what they would want to do with their tasks.
I was given a lot of freedom to express my music in my own way, and approach tasks with my own ideas
It’s fun to test out the knowledge I’ve gained by revisiting my past work and seeing how I could’ve approached things differently.
Revising these songs and seeing how much they improve by using the skills gained is great for seeing how much you’ve improved as a musician.
What are you doing now, how did you get to where you are, and how has your course helped you in your career?
Since completing my final project, I’ve been occupying myself with writing music as I did during the course.
I have uploaded many songs to platforms like YouTube and Spotify and am evolving my brand as a composer to increase my audience.
This course featured many lectures on branding and industry and gave insight on the harsh reality of the music industry.
I was taught that choosing the correct path that a musician can follow was vital in whether you would succeed.
This course provided a lot of freedom.
I was never told to complete an assignment in a specific way.
Since the other students on the course all had different specialties in music, the course felt like it had been adapted to help us grow in the ways we wanted by providing a diverse range of tasks.
One day you could be recording a drum kit and the next you could be filming a music video or creating an instrument.
If this course has taught me anything, it’s that there are more jobs in the music industry than you realise.
You may join the course and be set on being a producer, but you never know your other interests until you try them, and those are the opportunities that will be provided for you.
The practical knowledge gained from my experiences in the studios and the Mac lab is something that I couldn’t have gained anywhere else.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/performance-dance-and-musical-theatre-student-stories/chloe:
Name:  Chloe Fowler
Previous Studies: Bridgend College Level 3 Performing Arts
My favourite thing about the campus is the nature.
It’s filled with all kinds of plants, wildlife, and trees.
The quality of teaching was rated highly, and the comforting feel of home that the campus provided.
Also, the variety of modules that were offered – they covered a range of skills.
I enjoy going to the local park and reading, a short walk from campus.
Also, going to the café in the park as well.
What do you hope to do when you graduate?
I hope to connect with theatre companies that are focussed on helping the communities around them.
The staff.
They get to know you and are always able to help with anything.
They are very kind and knowledgeable.
I would recommend UWTSD because they have provided and recommended so many opportunities that have helped me grow as a student.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/performance-dance-and-musical-theatre-student-stories/william:
Name: William Kingshott
Course: MA Theatre Directing
Previous Studies: BA Acting (UWTSD)
Hometown: Porthmadog
Carmarthen campus is very small which created a very nice and homely atmosphere, making it easier to meet new people.
I chose this University because it had a really good reputation within the performing arts courses which offered a variety of modules and the experience of working with various industry professionals.
I really enjoyed my time on the undergraduate and postgraduate course.
I always enjoyed being with my friends, going to town, bowling, or visiting Llansteffan for a nice walk.
I graduated in 2023 and since then I have been working as a freelance (a mixture of acting, directing and facilitating), however, I was lucky to have made contacts whilst I was at university which made life after graduation a bit easier.
The course provided me with the confidence and knowledge needed to enter the industry, and I will forever be grateful for that.
Funnily enough, I am currently working at the University on their upcoming production The Admirable Crichton .
It feels wonderful being back in the space with the most amazing staff and students.
My favourite thing about the course was the independence I was given.
There was always support provided if needed, however, the course really helped me to understand who I was as a director, what I enjoy directing, and how I go about my own rehearsal space(s) and, without independence, those independent discoveries would not have happened.
The staff are brilliant and really do care about their students, as well as the progression of their students.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/philosophy-theology-and-religious-studies-student-stories:
Discover how our Philosophy, Theology, and Religious Studies students are exploring profound questions, ethical dilemmas, and diverse belief systems.
Our programmes provide a foundation for impactful careers in academia, counselling, and beyond.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/philosophy-theology-and-religious-studies-student-stories-0:
Hello, my name is Elis and I’m in my second year of studying philosophy at UWTSD.
I’ve learned more than I could have expected so far and I’m very glad that I chose to study in Lampeter.
After graduating I intend to do further study in philosophy and foreign languages.
Name: Elis Williams-Huw
Course: BA Philosophy
Hometown: Cardiff
I chose UWTSD specifically to study in a small town with a community feeling.
With the size of the campus, I felt there would be flexibility that would otherwise be impossible in larger universities.
I enjoy playing football for the local team in Lampeter.
I often play chess with my friends and study Japanese on my own.
I started studying in UWTSD after 4 years of being out of education.
I didn’t finish high school, so I started with the foundation year.
I was fortunate to receive a lot of support from the university to ensure that I could succeed.
What I like about Lampeter campus is how integrated everything is.
The library, lecture halls, accommodation and students’ union are all close to each other, which gives a very personal feeling environment.
From the campus you can always see hills, trees and wildlife – this sets Lampeter apart as a beautiful and calm place to study.
As the university grounds are a central part of the town, you can easily feel a sense of community walking around.
Whilst studying philosophy, I’ve enjoyed the opportunities to discuss with many of the lecturers.
With smaller class sizes, I’ve had ample time to discuss with different experts in their respective fields.
I am also grateful for the many chances to improve my writing, reading, discussion and presenting.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/psychology-and-counselling-student-stories:
See how our Psychology and Counselling students are learning to understand human behaviour, support mental health, and foster well-being.
Our programmes empower students to make meaningful contributions to individuals and communities.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/psychology-and-counselling-student-stories/ashlee-ryan-rose:
I’m Ashlee Ryan-Rose, a 29-year-old mature student at UWTSD.
Three transformative years have flown by, reshaping my life in ways I never imagined.
Name: Ashlee Ryan-Rose
Course: Psychology and Counselling (BSc)
One aspect I truly appreciated about the IQ campus was the outstanding academic resources it provided.
The state-of-the-art facilities, well-equipped library, and abundant study areas throughout the campus created an ideal environment for learning.
Also, how can I not mention the campus surroundings – whether you’d like a trip to the shops, a tasty meal, or unwind with a leisurely stroll along the picturesque coastline, the IQ campus has it all within a short distance.
UWTSD not only holds a distinguished reputation but also offers a wide variety of psychology programmes that directly align with my career goal of becoming a counselling psychologist.
On a personal note, maintaining a healthy balance between professional commitments, academic pursuits, and self-care is extremely important to me.
Nestled in a picturesque location, the UWTSD campus is just a stone’s throw away from the serene coastline.
This unique setting provides the perfect balance of nature and academia, offering an ideal environment for students to thrive and excel in their pursuits.
As an aspiring psychologist, I appreciate the importance of self-care and nurturing to maintain a healthy balance in my life-practices that proved invaluable during the demanding years of my academic journey.
Outside of my studies, you can find me immersed in nature, whether that’s bike riding along the scenic coast, or marvelling at the underwater world on my snorkelling adventures off Mumbles Pier.
Of course, Swansea is a foodie’s paradise, so there is always plenty of choices for exquisite restaurants to finish the day.
During my academic journey, I have been fortunate enough to acquire a wealth of knowledge and practical experience that has positioned me as a desirable candidate in the mental health sector.
Within the next two weeks I will be embarking on a new professional endeavour as an LGBT+ Specialist Support Worker and Programme Facilitator for victims of domestic violence at Calan DVS.
My long-term aspiration is to return to academia and continue enhancing my qualifications and experience with the aim of becoming a licensed counselling psychologist.
I’d have to say my favourite aspect of the BSc Psychology and Counselling degree is each amazing person that makes up the Psychology lecturing cohort that is there to support you each step of the way.
As a mature student who hasn’t been in education for over a decade, I was apprehensive about returning.
However, the lecturers have been incredible, taking the time to ensure I understand the material and offer guidance when I need it.
Beyond lecturing, the cohort always fostered an engaging classroom environment that promoted critical thinking and discussion.
Their passion for psychology and psychotherapy is inspirational!
The BSc Psychology and Counselling course has been truly transformative for my career trajectory.
Not only has it equipped me with invaluable knowledge and resources to support individuals facing mental health challenges, but during my second-year placement, I had the incredible opportunity to put theory into practice while working alongside mental health practitioners at Swansea Mind.
Due to my commitment to the cause and the knowledge imparted by the exceptional psychology cohort, I was offered a 10-month contract as a mental health practitioner.
This hands-on experience has been invaluable, allowing me to directly apply the concepts learned in the classroom to make a tangible difference in people’s lives.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/psychology-and-counselling-student-stories/kayleigh-phillips:
My name’s Kayleigh Phillips, I am a part-time student, studying BSc Psychology and Counselling returning to study after leaving higher education at 21.
The field of Psychology is something that has always fascinated me and my goal is to study a PhD in the field of Clinical or Health.
Name: Kayleigh Phillips
Previous Studies: A-Level A-C in Psychology, Criminology, Fine Art, ICT and Welsh Baccalaureate.
Certificate of Higher Education in Psychology and Criminology.
Psychology has always been a passion of mine, as well as being able to balance my studies between working and my family.
The support regarding student health is fantastic here at UWTSD and the Wellbeing and Student Services/Support team are incredibly helpful and are willing to work with you to find the best avenues of support.
Outside of my studies I enjoy reading, taking walks along the Swansea coastlines, and I run various social activities with the Psychology Society for other students.
I also love art and think it is a fantastic tool for wellbeing and enjoyment.
UWTSD has always discussed the importance of taking opportunities when they present themselves.
Taking opportunities advertised by the department have allowed me to become a Student Representative for the course, a Student Ambassador for UWTSD for the British Psychological Society which has provided me with the opportunity to make excellent connections professionally, attend conferences and more.
Through their placement module I was also fortunate enough to volunteer within a charity which I am now employed as Project Officer which allows for professional contacts in third-sector research around my area of interest in Psychology.
All of these opportunities will help further my career and allow me to achieve my goal to study a PhD in the field of Clinical or Health.
I would say the learning environment and experience.
The cohort and department are smaller, which allows for better engagement.
You are able to be known as an individual and not just another number in a room.
Developing professional relationships with members of the department and having their support I believe has heavily contributed to my academic performance.
I would absolutely recommend UWTSD and its BSc Psychology and Counselling course.
The learning process has been fantastic, the course is engaging, and all academic staff have been supportive every step of the way.
I also have made lifelong connections and friends during my time here that I will forever be grateful for.
There is so many opportunities available through the university and so much support available.
My experience has been nothing short of incredible.
I love having the opportunity to be able to engage with lecturers on a deeper level.
The campus itself may be smaller than your “typical” university setting, the IQ campus is in a wonderful location.
It’s accessible to central Swansea, is right on the seafront which I love.
Everything is easy to navigate and is accessible.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/sociology-student-stories:
Explore the journeys of our Sociology students as they study society, social behaviours, and cultural dynamics.
Our programmes equip them with tools to drive social change and deepen our understanding of human interactions.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/sociology-student-stories/martha-lee-sociology-bsc-hons:
My name is Martha Lee and I am a mature student studying Sociology and have just completed my second year at UWTSD.
I stumbled across this course after attending an open day in 2022 and was immediately interested in what it had to offer.
Given that much of my experience is in the care sector, I knew Sociology would broaden my knowledge and provide me with the skills to grow in the health and social care sector.
Name: Martha Lee
Course: Sociology BA
Previous Studies: NVQ Level 2 – Health & Social Care
Hometown: Newcastle Emlyn
I chose UWTSD mainly because it was close to home and as I had already lived away and was going as a mature student, I didn’t really want to venture too far.
I also liked that it was relatively small, and I think this is what has made it such a good experience for me.
The support network and student support are outstanding, and because our Sociology group is on the smaller side, you get to know everybody really well.
If I’m being honest, I work a fair amount when I’m not studying.
However, when I’m not doing that, my favourite pastime is to go on a long walk with my dog.
I haven’t really done any extracurricular activities!
At this stage, I am slightly clueless, but I am contemplating doing a masters.
I genuinely thought I would never go back into education after dropping out of sixth form, but I am thoroughly enjoying my course and the experiences I have had so far.
I am interested in entering either social work or the probation service, but I am still undecided.
Studying Sociology has broadened my knowledge in so many different areas and has highlighted systemic issues in not only the social care sector but across all of society.
While this hasn’t necessarily helped me directly in my work, it has certainly encouraged me to think about it more as well as giving me an insight into areas where I may wish to seek future employment.
My favourite thing about studying Sociology is that we cover such a vast number of topics.
It’s interesting to hear people’s perspectives and to have an open discussion in lectures (there are plenty of opportunities for a debate!).
Alongside this, the lecturers are incredibly knowledgeable and supportive.
Sociology covers so many aspects of people’s lives often making it very relatable, which is what makes it so interesting.
My favourite thing about the Carmarthen campus is that it’s not too big!
I have visited various university campuses in the past and have found it too overwhelming.
Everything is within walking distance and pretty easy to find.
And if you do get lost, everyone is friendly and will point you in the right direction.
Yes, I came as a mature student after being out of education for almost 10 years.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/sociology-student-stories/sunny-zdravkova-equity-and:
Hi, my name is Sunny Zdravkova.
I am a mature student who is retraining to pursue my passion for social justice, belonging, and equity and advance my career.
Name: Sunny Zdravkova
Course: Equity and Diversity in Society MA
Hometown: Originally from Sofia, Bulgaria, but currently living in the UK.
I chose UWTSD because of its flexible programme and accessibility.
As someone employed full-time, it was important for me to find a course with live interactions and lectures, unlike most distance learning degrees, which are mainly online without a live tutor experience.
Another reason for choosing UWTSD was the accessibility and overall inclusion of the programme.
The degree welcomes individuals from all walks of life, regardless of prior education, making it easier for people from various social backgrounds to access education equally.
This inclusivity was an important factor for me, as promoting equity and inclusion is fundamental to our studies.
I love spending time with my partner and my family.
I also enjoy staying active, being outdoors, and travelling.
Although I dedicate a lot of time to my job, I always try to find ways to relax and have some downtime.
I hope to continue learning and making a positive impact.
I also aim to progress in my career and apply the knowledge and skills gained from my degree in my everyday life and work.
One of the things I appreciate most about the MA in Equity and Diversity in Society is the wide range of topics and questions we cover in our lectures and assignments.
Social environments are incredibly complex, and being able to research and discuss these issues has helped me gain a broader perspective and be more understanding of the challenges faced by specific groups.
This experience has been invaluable and has also improved my self-awareness and knowledge of various societal issues and challenges.
I’m a distance learning and remote student.
I haven’t been to the campuses yet, but I heard it’s beautiful, so I can’t wait to see it this year or the next time I visit.
Yes, I came as a mature student in hopes of retraining to pursue my passion for social justice.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/sport-and-physical-activity-student-stories:
Discover the stories of our Sport and Physical Activity students, who are developing expertise in fitness, sports science, and health promotion.
Our programmes enable them to inspire active lifestyles and advance wellness in diverse communities.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/sport-and-physical-activity-student-stories/cameron-james:
Name: Cameron James
Course: Sport and Exercise Science (BSc)
There are many good things about the campus, the campus has a lot of nature around it, and access to good facilities.
Also being around a lot of Welsh culture on this campus has improved my Welsh speaking with it being my second language.
But the best thing has been the staff, I feel lucky to be here because of them.
The positive atmosphere.
I’ve worked in various jobs since finishing school, tried a trade in college twice.
But I always wanted to work in the field of sport and exercise someday, lack of confidence stopping me.
I attended an open day at CSG, which led to a campus tour at UWTSD Carmarthen.
My 2nd child was also due soon, I thought I’d struggle, but the staff were positive, understanding, and all my self-doubt was gone when encouraged by them, I applied.
Studying what I enjoy, I come home to my family a lot happier these days and that’s important to me.
Making use of the facilities, the uni’s pool where I learned to swim at 24 y/o, the sports hall, and the gyms.
I’d love if I lived closer to campus, because I really appreciate the staff and friendly atmosphere at these places.
I’m considering multiple paths.
I like the thought of post-graduate study after 3rd year.
Long-term, some type of 1-on-1 analysis work with athletes.
But my goals continue to change as I learn more about different areas of study, so I’m keeping my options open.
The classes are small (varied between 5-25 students), this makes opportunities for class discussions and gain more experience in the practical sessions.
In these sessions, we also have access to great equipment that we can use for our coursework or to practice what we’ve learnt.
I would highly recommend UWTSD.
The smaller groups provide opportunity for more engaging learning, during sessions I feel comfortable asking lecturers questions to improve my understanding of the subjects.
The university always considers my circumstances and support me greatly in my work and personal development.
The staff I’ve met on the course are people that I can trust, so I never hesitate to ask for help.
The learning here has developed me in ways that I never thought I could, which has benefitted me outside of university too.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/sport-and-physical-activity-student-stories/dafydd-millns:
Prior to University I completed a level 3 diploma in Outdoor Adventure Education in Coleg Sir Gar (Graig).
Being fuelled by my own lived experiences the value in outdoor based intervention was apparent.
In turn this pathway towards a BA was obvious.
The practical capacity of the degree complimented my vocational and experiential preference in regard to learning.
In addition to this however, complimenting my diploma I’ve since developed a deeper passion and understanding as to the value of academia in such a practical field.
Alongside this realisation I’ve been able to apply theory to practice throughout the three years of my degree which has allowed me to develop a unique perspective on practice, facilitation and management.
Expanding, the opportunity to study through the medium of Welsh meant that what I was learning and writing about was directly transferable to  the area in that I was working.
Furthermore, the support from the ever so passionate lecturers meant that I’d be able to have a constructive conversation whilst delving into all aspects of the industry.
Moving forward I’ve since been supported by the University to attend the Gathering of Adventure Therapy Europe (GATE) based in Latvia whereas I hope to make connections and contacts prior to beginning a MSC in psychology in September.
Name: Dafydd Millns
Course: Outdoor Adventure Education
Previous Studies: Level 3 Diploma, Outdoor Adventure Education (ColegSirGar)
Hometown: Ammanford
The facilities at Carmarthen campus including the gym and library allowed for me to develop a healthy lifestyle alongside both academia and physical health, this particularly being key given the nature of my degree.
In addition to this, intimate support from staff from both facilities meant that I felt like a part of the community throughout my studies.
I chose UWTSD given its locality to a variety of natural environments including coastlines, crags, rivers and mountains.
This only complimented my desire and passion to work in the outdoors.
Additionally, it meant that I could continue to work alongside companies and organisations that I’d made connections with prior to university.
After graduating I hope to study a MSC in the Psychology of Mental Health and Wellbeing.
In doing so I hope to gain clinical accreditation in which I can compliment with my outdoors skills in order to practice in the outdoors and give back to young people in care/crisis etc.
Alongside these I hope to further develop my skills and abilities within research of adventure therapy within South Wales and beyond.
My favourite thing about the Outdoor Adventure Education course must be the intimacy and relationships which were developed throughout the course.
Given class numbers alongside the nature of what we did including group projects, and expeditions the relationships formed were very strong.
As a result of this it meant that our community was ever supportive, caring and meant that the learning environment was idyllic.
Additionally given the practical nature contact time with lecturers was exceptional allowing for deeper connections in being formed and feeling supported throughout.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/sport-and-physical-activity-student-stories/emma-knight:
Name: Emma Knight
Course: Masters in Outdoor Education (MA)
Previous Studies: Biomedical Sciences (BSc), Professional Certificate of Education (PCE)
Hometown: Newcastle-Under-Lyme, Staffordshire, England
As I was a distance learner mainly, only attending for organising weekends, I wasn’t on campus very regularly.
I liked it’s location and how it enabled us to travel to a range of locations suitable for engaging us during different modules.
I wanted to do a Masters, I wanted to do blended learning part-time and UWTSD met these needs.
As my course was delivered in a blended learning style, I was able to continue my usual life routines whilst visiting campus for the weekend visits.
This meant I could continue with my hobbies of reading, nature photography and playing in a brass band.
It also meant I could continue with my volunteering with Girlguiding and the West Midlands Ambulance Service.
As it was part-time, I continued to work whilst studying.
My course helped me to understand Outdoor Education in more ways than I originally thought of it.
It enabled me to become more confident with current studies and handling data.
I started it whilst I was a primary school teacher and during that time it enable me to be confident as an Outdoor Education Specialist, providing information to other school staff and enhancing the provision in the school.
Then I moved into a role as a project manager and consultant supporting colleagues with nature connection and action activities.
The course enabled me to talk with confidence and back up what I said with evidence.
My favourite thing was the adventures that were built into it.
I was able to push myself through a range of ‘adventure’ challenges which I would normally shy away from.
From coasteering to cycling, I was able to push myself out of my comfort zone.
I enjoyed that I was able to choose the topic for my dissertation and align it with my interests and work situation.
This meant my dissertation research and knowledge gained impacted my work too.
I would recommend UWTSD because of the support available from the staff and peers, the opportunities that it offers and the campus location.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/sport-and-physical-activity-student-stories/lizzie-wild-ma:
Name: Lizzie Wild
Course: MA Outdoor Education
Hometown: Whitchurch, Hampshire
I  love the location of the Camarthen Campus.
It is perfectly placed for a variety of outdoor adventure opportunities, easily accessible from the M4 and the Cynefin outdoor centre was the perfect base.
I was searching for a distance learning MA that I could fit around my family life and career.
The course offered a really flexible course which fit well for me.
I also chose the programme based on the interests and expertise of the lecturers.
I work in outdoor education and also have a busy family life with my wife and children.
We spend most weekends on adventures in the mountains or by the sea.
I completed the MA to increase my academic understanding of outdoor education, the field in which I already work.
My studies have greatly deepened my knowledge, which is passed on to my further education students.
It has also deepened my passion for evidence based practice and therapeutic work outdoors.
I intend to complete a PhD in diversity and inclusion in the outdoors.
The wonderful supportive community that I built with my lecturers and cohort.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/sport-and-physical-activity-student-stories/sara-gray-bsc:
Name: Sara Gray
Course: BSc (Hons) Sport & Exercise Therapy
The intimacy of the campus and availability of facilities.
Sport Therapy have a designated building ensuring there is appropriate and available teaching space.
The ‘common area’ in the building really helps build the rapport between cohorts and the course has a community feel.
There’s a real sense of family within the course where more experienced students support newer students through their studies.
The Sport Therapy degree is endorsed by the Society of Sports Therapists, meaning it’s student are educated up to a required level of competency recognised within the sports industry.
Aso being in Carmarthen, it was close to home to enable me to commute and still uphold my work/life commitments.
The vocational opportunities presented from the first year, the course design allowed me to explore my newly acquired skills and begin building experience and networking whilst studying, which supported my career trajectory.
Completing my degree completely changed my career.
Prior to studying I worked in an insurance company; the degree has enabled me to start a career as a Sports Therapist.
I was very fortunate to secure some work placements as a student which lead to paid employment upon graduation, including private practice and club sport (EFL Championship Academy).
This gave me fast-tracked experience of exposure to complex and long-term injuries building a wealth of experience.
This has expanded into international senior football.
Furthermore, the course design, competencies and familiarity with the content has enabled me to transition my skills into academia and apply these to teach the next generation of Sports Therapists.
It’s unique combination of Musculoskeletal medicine and Sport.
Using Sport and Exercise principles to underpin the working knowledge throughout the degree course made it relevant to industry and prepared me for a career in Sport.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/teaching-and-pgce-student-stories:
See how our Teaching and PGCE students are preparing to inspire and educate the next generation.
These stories reflect their passion for learning and commitment to making a difference in education.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/teaching-and-pgce-student-stories/cerys-bailey-primary:
My name is Cerys Bailey, I grew up in Cardiff and my mother was originally from Pembrokeshire, so I had the opportunity to visit her side of the family during school holidays.
Although I was a little sceptical when choosing Carmarthen as somewhere to go to university, these were some of the best years of my life.
Name: Cerys Bailey
Course: BA Primary Education with QTS
After hearing from my careers adviser how much praise there was for the Primary Education course in Carmarthen this had a big influence on my choice.
In addition, he explained to me that it would be possible for me to do the entire course through Welsh.
This was not something I originally considered but the choice was an easy one because I felt much more confident continuing with my education through Welsh.
I enjoyed playing netball and as a result I got to know people outside my course.
As a flat, when there are no lectures, we all enjoyed going to the beaches such as Lampeter and Pendine as well as socialising through the Welsh Society.
We were lucky enough to go on an unforgettable trip to Dublin with the society during the six-nation tournament.
I have been extremely lucky to accept a position as a year 6 teacher in Pembrokeshire so I am really looking forward to that starting in September.
All of my work experiences had a huge influence on my practice as a teacher, the opportunity to have a cross-section of different schools really develops your understanding of how each school can be different but have the same aim, which is supporting every individual.
I also had the opportunity to carry out research into the welfare of pupils where I conducted interviews and provided questionnaires to staff and pupils.
Deriving from this, we were required to write an assignment on our findings deepening our understanding of the field in question.
All the lecturers must also be praised in their ongoing efforts to support us and share any advice they have after being teachers.
Living in a flat with my friends who were doing the same course.
We all enjoyed each other’s company and so we took every opportunity to socialise.
Like all students, finding the motivation to start research and write assignments was sometimes a challenge but living with students from the same course as it meant we could motivate and support each other.
I cannot emphasise more how significant it is to establish a support system that includes students from the same course as you.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/teaching-and-pgce-student-stories/natasha-doyle-primary:
Hello!
I’m Natasha and I am a student here at UWTSD studying Primary Education in the Welsh language.
I spent time in the working world after leaving school, but teaching was always a passion I wanted to pursue.
Initially, I enrolled on the English route, but after a long thought I wanted to try the Welsh route.
I was educated through the medium of Welsh, and so I feel the need to give it a go.
I felt a lack of confidence at first, as I hadn’t used the language for a long time, especially in an academic environment.
However, I quickly found myself feeling confident enough to continue the course through the medium of Welsh.
I’m so glad I did, as it has now opened many doors for me with the opportunities to teach in Welsh schools and continue to celebrate Welshness.
I will be willing To encourage anyone who has the ability to speak Welsh to study through the medium of Welsh, even if you do not feel your skills are of a standard, the support is exceptionally good.
There are many opportunities to build your skills at university.
Name: Natasha Doyle
Hometown: Tonyrefail - Rhondda
UWTSD has always received a strong reputation particularly within education.
I wanted a university that is willing to provide support and plenty of experiences at school.
After reading about the course, I saw plenty of time on teaching experience and also the support on campus.
I have also spent much of my childhood in Carmarthen as my grandparents lived in the town and I have random memories of the area and the people.
I enjoy hanging out with friends and keeping fit by going for walks and enjoying the outdoors.
Hopefully I’ll go for a job straight away within a Welsh Primary School.
I hope to teach a class myself in the future and then use the skills and experiences from university within the world of work.
I enjoy the element of studying on campus but also the opportunity to go out and get first-hand experience in the classroom.
I think the lecturers provide very rewarding and professional lectures, and plenty of support throughout.
I like the atmosphere around campus, it’s very friendly.
The CWAD is a lovely area to have coffee and cake and relax with friends.
I also love the location, the town centre is very close.
The library is one of my favourite facilities, the opening times are very flexible to allow everyone to get in a convenient time for them.
I joined my course through the clearing system, because I realised while I was working a job that I didn’t enjoy I felt I wanted to change.
At first I thought it was too late, however clearing made it possible for me.
I interviewed online and then started in September.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/youth-work-and-early-years-studies-student-stories:
Explore the journeys of our Youth Work and Early Years Studies students, who are dedicated to supporting children’s development and fostering positive environments for young people.
Our programmes equip them with the skills to make a lasting impact in their communities.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/youth-work-and-early-years-studies-student-stories/emily:
I’m Emily Morgan.
I have just finished my undergraduate degree studying early years education and care.
This course has prepared me massively for the PGCE which I will be starting in September.
Name: Emily Morgan
Course: Early Years Education and Care (BA)
Previous Studies: Graduating 2024 and starting PGCE
My favourite thing about UWTSD SA1 campus was the beautiful location of this university right next to the beach.
I chose UWTSD because of their great reputation for education degrees.
This course has provided me with a lot of valuable knowledge and experience and made me more confident working with young children.
I enjoy baking cakes, I do it all the time for my family and friends and special occasions.
I will be studying the PGCE at UWTSD with the hopes of becoming a primary school teacher.
I love how inclusive this course is with a brilliant, encouraging and supportive team of lecturers.
Studying the Early Years Education and Care degree has really been one of the best decisions I have ever made.
I have enjoyed every aspect of this course and made some   friends for life.
The content of this course has been really educational and enjoyable, and I have personally gained so much valuable knowledge and experience that has set me up for a career in early years education.
For anyone who is considering studying Early Years Education and Care, I think they will have a very rewarding couple of years.
Endless support and encouragement from a wonderful team of lecturers and a chance to gain valuable knowledge that will set you up for a career in early years.
The whole early years lecturing team deserve special praise, they have been so supportive, encouraging and patient over the last three years.
They really do go above and beyond for their students and make this course inclusive for everyone.
I couldn’t have done this without their continuous support.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/youth-work-and-early-years-studies-student-stories/katrina:
I’m Kartina Peters, a Deputy Headteacher who studied BA Early Years Education and Care at UWTSD.
Studying Early Years Education supported me as a mum and allowed me to work as a teaching assistant.
From here, I decided that I wanted to teach.
Name: Katrina Peters
Course: Early Years Education and Care (BA)
Previous Studies: I completed my A-levels six years before thinking about doing a degree.
The Carmarthen campus gave me everything I needed while studying; calming outside spaces, a well-resourced library and places to socialise with my friends.
As a mature student I worried about not feeling welcome on campus, but this was far from the truth.
I completed my A-levels six years before thinking about doing a degree.
I have A-levels in Music, Music Technology and Drama and Theatre Studies.
I had hoped to study stage management and musical theatre at university; however, I ended up starting a family and committing my time to this instead.
From here, The course was directly related to my job, which allowed me to go straight to work the following day and put my new knowledge and understanding into action.
UWTSD offered a flexi approach to studying.
This allowed me to work full-time and be a mum to my two children.
As I was working and a mum to two young children, I didn’t have much time to do anything outside of my studies!
However, I did build a wonderful friendship group of like-minded people who were in similar circumstances to myself.
This network gave me the confidence to put myself first and take more risks.
During my study I spent a year working in a family centre, which I would not have done if it wasn’t for the support from friends and lecturers.
Since graduating I have been fortunate to have many opportunities to further my career and reflect on what I learnt at university.
I decided that I wanted to teach as this gave me the opportunity to combine all of my qualifications.
I was lucky enough to gain a place on the Graduate Teacher Programme, allowing me to work as a teacher while gaining my QTS.
I love that I can now teach music, theatre and drama in school and provide many opportunities for learning through expressive arts.
Alongside my role as Deputy Headteacher, I work as a registered nursery inspector for Estyn, I deliver training for the local authority and run a non-profit organisation that promotes early years education across south Wales.
The course provided an excellent balance of theory and practical application, with lots of opportunity for discussion with like-minded people.
I loved having opportunities to go on trips and establish connections with outside agencies that I have continued to work with in my career.
I began my journey with an undergraduate degree in Early Years Education, which laid a strong foundation for my teaching career.
It was clear, straight from the start, that the lectures and structure of the course would support me through my study.
After gaining classroom experience, I pursued a Postgraduate Diploma to further enhance my skills.
Today, as Deputy Head in a primary school, my studies have equipped me to create a nurturing and effective learning environment for our youngest learners.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-stories/youth-work-and-early-years-studies-student-stories/kayleigh:
I’m Kayleigh Cowdery, a mature student embarking on a transformative journey.
I am dedicated to pursuing my passion and advancing my career.
Name: Kayleigh Cowdery
Course: BA (Hons) Youth Work and Social Education (ETS Endorsed)
My favourite thing about the campus is its relaxing vibe.
There are always cozy spots to sit down with my university friends, enjoy a coffee, and feel safe and supported.
This welcoming atmosphere creates the perfect environment for connection and collaboration, allowing us to thrive both academically and personally.
I chose UWTSD primarily because of the lecturers.
I found that I could relate to them; they listened, understood my concerns, and made me feel welcome.
Despite my initial hesitations about whether I could achieve a degree, they believed in my potential.
I also appreciated the smaller class sizes, the supportive environment at the university, and the inviting spaces that foster collaboration and learning.
Outside of my studies, I truly enjoy traveling, meeting new people, and immersing myself in different cultures.
Volunteering is also a passion of mine, as it allows me to learn new skills while giving back to the community.
I love being outdoors.
Hiking in the mountains and connecting with nature brings me a sense of peace and fulfilment.
Additionally, I practice Buddhist meditation, which helps me in my journey of continuous inner development and self-discovery.
These activities not only enrich my life but also contribute to my overall well-being.
Studying for a degree in Youth Work has profoundly changed my life and shaped my career path.
It has helped me recognise my potential and overcome the doubts I once had about my abilities; achieving a degree that I initially thought was beyond my reach has been empowering.
The broad scope of youth work aligns closely with my values and beliefs, allowing me to engage with topics that genuinely interest me.
My trip to Atlanta in May 2024 was particularly impactful, as it allowed me to meet youth workers from around the world and gain insights into the challenges facing young people globally.
This experience broadened my perspective and deepened my understanding of the diverse issues that young people encounter in different contexts.
My favourite thing about the Youth Work course is the incredible opportunities for placement.
During my first placement, I had the chance to volunteer at Swansea Community Farm, where I secured a job.
This hands-on experience not only allowed me to apply what I was learning at university but also deepened my understanding of community engagement and youth development.
My second placement was with the Boys’ and Girls’ Clubs of Wales Police Youth Volunteer Scheme, where I was also offered a job.
These experiences have been invaluable in helping me bridge theory and practice.
As I learn at university, I can immediately implement those concepts in real-world settings, which has been essential for my growth and development as a youth worker.
Engaging directly with young people in these environments has allowed me to enhance my skills, build confidence, and foster meaningful relationships, reinforcing my commitment to this rewarding field.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-support-wellbeing/faith-spirituality:
The University of Wales Trinity Saint David welcomes equally those professing a religious faith and those of no faith.
It seeks to be an inclusive community where the needs of all are recognised, and support is available.
Part of this commitment involves ensuring that all staff and students are provided with opportunities to explore and celebrate faith, sometimes through local faith communities beyond the university.
Provision differs from campus to campus due to both historical foundation and current context.
Faith and Spirituality provision is not just for those who regard themselves as religious.
It may include occasions to meet a diverse range of interesting people through social events or to listen to fascinating, engaging speakers, as well as opportunities to become more committed to issues of peace, justice, and sustainability or to get involved in charities and volunteering.
In short, the Faith and Spirituality provision seeks to enhance the university experience for all, enabling each member of the university to develop a mature, informed outlook on life and to offer themselves in service to others.
The goal is to help individuals to be enriched and energised to reach their full potential – academically, socially, and spiritually.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-support-wellbeing/faith-spirituality/carmarthen-chaplaincy:
The Chaplaincy at Carmarthen is here to support you throughout your studies.
We hope that your time at university will be exciting and worthwhile, providing a fantastic platform for the future.
To get in touch, contact Mones Farah who is currently the contact for pastoral support.
The Chaplaincy Supports the Spiritual Life of the University
Through Chapel life, it provides regular opportunities for students and staff to:
The Chaplaincy Offers Pastoral Care to All Members of the University
From time to time, we all need a listening ear and the help of someone who may be able to help us through difficulty.
The Chaplain provides a confidential, bilingual ministry, available to all students and staff regardless of religious background and affiliation.
More informally, those associated with Chapel life, support one another in many ways, often forming deep, lasting friendships.
The Chapel forms part of the Old College building with the entrance on the main corridor, directly opposite Y Cwad.
The Chapel Lounge
This is the room that you pass through on your way into the Chapel: a place of hospitality and fellowship, laughter and fun, eating and drinking, study and growth.
Feel free to chill out here between lectures on one of our comfy sofas, get motivated to work for peace and justice, or pick up an inspiring book.
Regular Services and Events
We are keen to ensure our worship reflects the languages of the campus as fully as possible.
The regular pattern of worship in the Chapel (during term-time only) is as follows:
Evening prayer and alternating with Holy Communion Mondays 5.15pm.
Pilgrimage to Taizé
Taizé is a small village in Eastern France which, since the 1940s, has been home to a remarkable Christian community.
Today young people from across the world and of many faith backgrounds visit for a week of prayer, study, and fun in a wonderful setting.
It must be experienced to be appreciated: a potentially life-changing event!
We hope to have a Chaplaincy pilgrimage there; please contact the Chaplain for more details.
We have a collection of books in the Chapel Lounge which are available to borrow.
Topics include biblical studies, theology, spirituality, liturgy, ethics and social justice.
David’s Day
To celebrate Wales’ patron saint, Dewi Sant (St.
David), there will be a celebration service in the Chapel.
A warm welcome to all.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-support-wellbeing/faith-spirituality/lampeter-chaplaincy:
David’s University Chapel
The Chapel belongs to the students and staff of the University, and we try to be radically inclusive in our welcome.
The Chapel is open most of the time and anyone is welcome to use the space for quiet reflection, prayer or simply to take time out in the busyness of the day.
The Chapel is traditionally an Anglican foundation, part of the Church in Wales, and therefore uses the rites and ceremonies of the Church in Wales.
However, the ministry of the Chapel is open to all of any denomination or none, and everybody is invited and most welcome at any of the Chapel’s services.
Services take place term-time only.
Our main service of the week is Holy Communion on Fridays at 1:15 p.m.
Compline by candlelight on Sundays 7 pm.
Please see the chapel notice board or contact the Chaplain for other services.
An Organ Scholarship with a bursary is also available to a suitably qualified student.
As some organ lessons are provided as part of the scholarship package an able piano player would also be able to qualify for it.
The Chapel was consecrated by Bishop Jenkinson of St Davids on 23 August 1827 , nearly six months after the first students had been admitted to St David’s College.
There were daily services from the beginning which all staff and students attended.
These comprised shortened forms of Morning and Evening Prayer on weekdays and full services of Morning and Evening Prayer on Sundays.
Holy Communion was celebrated once a month, the norm at this period.
Approximately half the services were in English and half in Welsh.
The painting which now hangs in the Visitors’ Aisle, a copy of Correggio’s Holy Family, of which the original is in Parma, was originally hung behind the altar.
For the whole of Bishop Jenkinson’s episcopate, and much of that of his successor, Connop Thirlwall, the Chapel was the normal venue for ordinations in the diocese of St Davids.
The Chapel was one of the first Anglican places of worship in Wales to introduce a weekly celebration of Holy Communion, in place by the 1870s.
To celebrate the golden jubilee of St David’s College in 1877 it was decided to rebuild the Chapel which was then considered inadequate.
The new Chapel was designed by T.
G.
Jackson and the woodwork for the canopied stalls came from New College, Oxford.
His plans included no provision for a pulpit, but one had been installed by 1901.
The painted ceiling is Jackson’s but the planned screen between the main body of the Chapel and the Visitor’s Aisle was never installed.
The new Chapel was consecrated on 24 June 1880 , the preacher at this ceremony being Bishop Ollivant of Llandaff, who as first Vice-Principal of St David’s College had preached at the consecration of the original Chapel 53 years earlier.
In 1879 Bishop Basil Jones of St Davids ordered that the shortened versions of Morning and Evening Prayer used on weekdays must be replaced by full services each day, to be taken in rotation by the members of staff in holy orders, and that the number of Welsh services should be reduced.
In the 1880s there was Morning and Evening Prayer on weekdays at 8 a.m.
and 5.30 p.m., but only Friday Evensong was in Welsh.
Sunday services were Holy Communion at 8.30 a.m., Choral Mattins at 11 a.m., with a Sung Eucharist on the first Sunday of the month, and Evensong at 7 p.m.
Regular anthems on Sundays were introduced by the new precentor, Edmund Tyrrell Green, in 1895.
Green also established the Guild of St David for the spiritual development of both staff and students.
In 1906 W.
D.
Caröe was commissioned to design a new Chapel but the plan was never implemented.
The organ was, however, renovated, at a cost of £200, in 1908.
A weekday celebration of Holy Communion, on Wednesdays, was established in 1914 and a daily celebration in 1925.
Eucharistic vestments were first worn in 1933 and made compulsory at Sung Eucharists, but not said celebrations, in 1934.
In 1935 the Sunday service pattern was changed to Holy Communion at 8 a.m., Choral Mattins at 10 a.m., Sermon at 10.30 a.m., Sung Eucharist at 11 a.m., and Evensong at 6.30 p.m.
Staff and students were expected to attend either Mattins and Sermon or Sermon and Sung Eucharist on Sunday mornings.
A war memorial tablet, designed by W.
Caröe, was unveiled in 1922 .
A new pulpit, also designed by Caröe, was presented in 1928, and a new reredos was dedicated in 1934.
Repairs to the organ were also carried out in 1934 and in 1936 the altar table was given a new carved front.
The total cost of all these improvements was nearly £1400.
Nevertheless, the Chapel was still considered to be inadequate for the college’s needs, and a new Chapel was proposed by Principal Archdall in 1939.
Bishop Prosser of St Davids donated £1000 towards the new Chapel in 1943 and Ben Roderick of Aberdare was commissioned to draw up plans for this, a theological hall and two new professorial houses, which would have occupied the open space between the St David’s and Canterbury Buildings.
A new Chapel was still part of the plans for new buildings in 1948 but nothing ever came of them.
Until 1975 when the last Principal in holy orders, J.
R.
Lloyd Thomas, retired the principal was responsible for the Chapel and its services.
Thereafter a full-time chaplain was appointed.
In 2005-6 a significant reordering of the Chapel took place to make it a more appropriate setting for the new eucharistic liturgy of the Church in Wales.
The pulpit was removed, and a new altar table and lectern installed.
At the same time, most of the pews in the Visitors’ Aisle were removed and replaced by chairs which could be used in a more flexible manner for small-scale services or meetings of the Chapel congregation.
The Chaplaincy also has a team of students who help set up for services.
These posts are open to all, and there is often a vacancy at the start of the year.
Please contact the Chaplain if you are interested 01570 424 781 .

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/faith-spirituality/swansea-chaplaincy:
Swansea’s campus has the lovely Rev’d Sam Aldred, UWTSD’s first chaplain for the Swansea Campus.
Rev’d Sam Aldred works full-time at St Mary’s Church in the city centre but is available to meet at the university every Monday and can be reached by email here swanseachaplain@uwtsd.ac.uk .
Rev’d Sam Aldred is a minister in the Anglican tradition of the Christian faith but hopes to be a point of contact for everyone at UWTSD regardless of their faith, or lack of it.
If you see him (usually identified by the collar!) Then please say hello.
A chaplain is someone to talk to about life’s big questions.
Why are we here?
Is there a God?
What is love?
What do Christians believe?
Where do we go when we die?
These are questions that we cannot ignore.
A chaplain is a point of reference for community projects.
Feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, comforting the afflicted: the chaplain can help direct you to good works going on in the city.
A chaplain is a listening ear.
Stress with work, relationship breakdown, addiction, illness, death.
Sometimes we just need to talk, and that is a big part of the chaplain’s job.
A chaplain is a worship leader.
I can direct you to churches, and throughout the year will be leading services at the university that are open to everybody.
Sam was born in 1987 and raised in the West Midlands.
Despite an atheist upbringing he came to faith in his teenage years and was baptised whilst an undergraduate at Keble College, Oxford, in 2007.
Sam had a few jobs before seeking ordination.
He was a perfume salesman in Kazakhstan, a marketeer in London, and a teacher of Russian history at Brighton College.
In 2014 he returned to Oxford to read for an MPhil in Ecclesiastical History.
During these two years, he lived and worked as Sacristan of Pusey House, an Anglo-Catholic student chaplaincy at the heart of Oxford.
In 2016 he went to St Stephen’s House in Oxford for three years of theological training, emerging in June 2019.
He was ordained in Brecon Cathedral on the 29th and began his ministry at St Mary’s.
Sam is a keen walker, sea swimmer, and ephemerist.
He was married to Helen in 2016 and (at the time of writing) they are expecting their first child.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-support-wellbeing/student-ambassadors:
Join the UWTSD Student Ambassador Team.
As a Student Ambassador, you’ll support the work of the Marketing, Recruitment and Reaching Wider teams across each of our campuses.
With flexible working hours, you choose when to work.
Experience
We’re looking for positive, friendly and reliable students to join the team in supporting recruitment activities such as open days, taster events and campus visits as well as sharing your experiences with the next generation of UWTSD students on our social media channels.
Employability
Being a Student Ambassador allows you to gain work experience and build excellent employability skills that will only enhance your CV.
A good student ambassador is enthusiastic about UWTSD and its course offering, enjoys working as part of a team, is good at communicating with new people and is comfortable with public speaking.
As you can see no two days are the same as a student ambassador and we’ve broken down the varying duties into job types below.
If there are any specific job roles that take your interest please note these on your application.
But don’t worry you have the option to work across all roles with our flexible approach to onboarding.
Support and deliver talks, presentations and workshop activities on and off campus.
Attend events alongside a member of UWTSD’s marketing and recruitment team.
Actively support reaching wider events on and off campus working with primary and secondary school-aged children.
Promote Higher Education as an option for target groups as specified in the Widening Access and Community Engagement Strategy
Assist the Marketing Recruitment teams’ activities in promoting the University’s specialist courses and related workshop materials and equipment.
Demonstrate the safe use of specialist equipment or programmes during taster days and events.
Support the Marketing recruitment team with preparation for events and projects.
Admin support ambassadors should be proficient in the use of Microsoft Office, and knowledge of the mail merge function is desirable.
Attention to detail and an ability to work unsupervised is key to this role.
Assist with delivering presentations and workshops aimed at students returning to education.
Share your own experiences of admissions processes, student support and life at UWTSD as a mature student.
Provide a realistic view of HE to help manage returning students’ expectations.
Social media content producers play a pivotal role in our marketing and outreach activity, creating engaging social media content for future students thinking about joining UWTSD.
In this role you will be expected to tell your UWTSD story and share top tips through authentic written and/or visual content aimed at prospective students, parents and other influencers.
Social Media Champions are expected to adhere to the University’s social media policy at all times.
If you’re interested in joining the team please contact us .
The main recruitment period is October – December, however, applications throughout the year are invited.
If shortlisted, you will then be invited to an Interview.
Successful applicants will be required to attend a training session.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-support-wellbeing/student-hwb:
University life is an amazing opportunity to learn new things and discover yourself, but it can come with some challenges.
Our Student Support services offer a professional support service providing high quality information, advice, guidance, practical and emotional support to enable all students to reach their full potential.
The Student Services department is a collection of practical professional services designed to enable and support all our students to reach their full potential.
You may be coming to university with a diagnosed mental health condition or develop difficulties with your mental health or wellbeing whilst you are studying.
Whether you are experiencing a short term issue with stress, a longer lasting complex issue, or if you are struggling but are not sure what to do then the Wellbeing Service is here to support you.
You can access our free service at any time during your studies.
We have a range of free, professional, student-focused and confidential services which can work with you to better understand what you are experiencing and help you decide how you want to manage the impact on your studies
Our Learning Support team are on hand to support your studies.
All students can access our Study Skills sessions and book a slot to work one-on-one with our study skills team.
We also provide comprehensive academic support for Disabled Students.
Our team will support students in applying for Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA), including access to assessment and diagnosis for Specific Learning Difference (SpLD) where required.
Our professional qualified team of Non-Medical Helpers are on hand to work with students with a diagnosis to support their learning and help them to achieve their potential.
Regardless of DSA status, the Learning Support team are on hand to support students through unforeseen circumstances and difficult times which have impacted their studies.
Students can seek support from the team and can apply for Extenuating Circumstances where appropriate.
Ready to hit the ground running with your goals firmly in sight?
Whether you’ve got your heart set on further study, a high-flying career on even starting your own business we’ll support you as you chase your dreams.
And if you’re not sure what you want to do yet, our experienced and friendly Careers Advisers will give you the advice and guidance you need to find your path.
Through one-to-one appointments, or drop-in sessions, you’ll get the chance to identify your natural strengths and skill sets, find out more about effective job searching, learn how to write effective CVs, sharpen up your interview skills and apply for graduate roles.
We’ll also help you with personal statements and applications for postgraduate study.
As well as our Careers Advisers, you’ll have access to MyCareer, the University’s online careers platform, brought to you in partnership with Abintegro.
With specialist tools like a jobs board, career planner, automated CV360 checker, Interview 360 and more, you can start preparing for your future on your own terms.
Ready to take the next step?
We’ll be here to help you find work experience, paid placements or a part-time job – so you’ll graduate ready with the skills and confidence to build the future you’ve always dreamed of.
The Careers Service organises employer webinars and careers fairs on each campus throughout the academic year.
Contact Us
Email: hwb@uwtsd.ac.uk
Phone: 0300 131 3030
Opening Hours:
Monday 8.30 – 5.00
Tuesday 8.30 – 5.00
Wednesday 8.30 – 5.00
Thursday 8.30 – 5.00
Friday 8.30 – 4.30

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/experience-facilities/student-support-wellbeing/wellbeing-support:
Play video: Mental Health support at the University of Wales Trinity Saint David
If you require specialist support or would like some help to access support by talking to a member of the Wellbeing Service first, please complete the Support Request Form .
All students have access to use the Sorted App for FREE.
You can download on your phone and unlock all of the content by using our university specific codes.
Sorted is an audio-based app offering Positive Mental Training which allows students to switch to a positive state of mind, letting go of the negative emotional triggers which underpin distress, whilst simultaneously increasing concentration and focus.
UWTSD offers all students access to a free 24/7 online supportive service called Togetherall.
Togetherall is an anonymous space that you can visit when you’re feeling down, need support or just need to talk.
You can learn practical skills to help you feel better and tackle a variety of issues.
The service is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year and provides assistance to you on a wide range of issues such as legal, financial, medical or life matters.
Some of the support offered by the Student Assistance Programme can help you with:
FREE 24 HOUR Confidential Helpline 0800 028 3766
The Helpline is staffed by qualified professionals, including mental health professionals.
UWTSD students can speak to someone via the helpline at any time, day or night, 365 days a year.
IMPORTANT:
If you have medical concerns, please phone 111.
If it is a medical emergency, please phone 999.
If you think alcohol is having an unwanted, negative impact on your daily living you should get more information and support.
There is lots of support available.
Alcohol Change UK
Alcohol Change UK host lots of useful factsheets and interactive tools such as Dry January app (Free)
Alcohol Coaching
The university is committed to supporting students who identify alcohol as being an issue in their lives.
If you meet the scoring criteria on the Alcohol Quiz you are able to have 3-4 free coaching sessions with counsellors from Alcohol Change UK .
Alcohol Change UK have expertise in alcohol use and misuse and support those who find that alcohol is causing a problem in their lives.
The sessions are free to you and completely confidential.
Information about your alcohol intake will not be shared with the university (unless the situation is deemed critical to life).
The coach will listen and support your first steps to making positive life changes and provide support on services where appropriate.
If you think you would benefit from coaching please complete the quiz below.
If you meet the criteria you will be provided with information and contact details.
Alcohol Quiz
If you are unsure whether alcohol is an issue for you, if you have concerns with the amount of alcohol you consume or its impact on your daily life try the Alcohol Quiz.
It is free, quick, confidential and easy to use.
Please answer honestly as there will be information and support tailored to your score at the end.
If you are a student entering Higher Education from care, you can be assured that the University will offer the necessary support and information.
‌This support is available whilst you are deciding what or where to study, continues through the university application process, and is on-going once you have started your course.
Help and information are also available if you are someone advising a student from care.
We are delighted that we have been awarded the Buttle UK Quality Mark in recognition of our commitment to care leavers in higher education.
Play video: Support for Students From Care
As a student from care, or as someone advising a care leaver, your first point of contact is the named person for care leavers: Carmarthen Campus: Delyth Lewis Tel: 01267 676947 Email: d.lewis@uwtsd.ac.uk
Lampeter Campus: Lynda Lloyd-Davies Tel: 01570 424722 Email: l.lloyd-davies@uwtsd.ac.uk
Swansea Campus: Sharon Alexander Tel: 01792 481123 Email: sharon.alexander@uwtsd.ac.uk Non-campus-based students: Delyth Lewis Tel: 01267 676947 Email: d.lewis@uwtsd.ac.uk
They are based in Student Services, and can give you information about all aspects of the University’s support provision – both prior to admission and whilst studying.
At the University of Wales Trinity Saint David, the following are provided:
You can declare on your UCAS application form that you have been in care, or your social services team can let us know that you are a care leaver.
This means that we can make sure that support is in place from an early stage.
Some useful websites
Myf.cymru is a mental health and wellbeing website resource which has been developed in response to the shortage of resources in the medium of Welsh.
Welsh speaking students across Wales and beyond have had input into the development of a wide range of informative resources.
Social and Communication Support Group
SoCom offers ideas and activities which are aimed at encouraging a greater self-esteem, and the ability to understand and cope with issues related to social and communication difficulties, with potential for a new friend group and support network to develop.
Participation in any activity is optional.
Session Themes
A library of resources will be available throughout the year for you to access even if you don’t attend the group sessions.
If you are struggling to manage the impact of your health on your studies you can access specialist support to help you develop self-management skills.
This includes Counselling, Wellbeing Advice, Specialist Mental Health Mentoring, and support to access external services where needed.
We can work with you to agree any reasonable adjustments for your study, ensure these are communicated appropriately, and are working effectively.
We can also support you to manage any risk associated with your health or your circumstances.
Once we have received your form, we will contact you via your e-mail to explain the next steps in the support process, including the type/s of support we will offer you.
The purpose of this form is to ensure that we fully understand the issues you are experiencing and how these are impacting your studies.
If you need any help accessing or completing this form, please ask the student HWB .
Call 999 immediately or go to your nearest A&E Department .
999 is the emergency number for police, ambulance, fire brigade, coastguard, cliff rescue, mountain rescue, cave rescue etc.
Note the word ‘EMERGENCY’ – this number should only be used when urgent attendance by emergency services is needed – e.g., if someone is seriously ill or injured, or if a crime is in progress.
Calls to 999 are free and can be dialled from a locked mobile phone.
It can help to know the mnemonic ‘LIONEL’ when contacting emergency services so you are able to give them all the information they need:
You can use 101 when you want to contact the police but it isn’t an emergency – an immediate response is not required, for example, if your car or home has been broken into, or your property has been damaged.
101 can also be used to give the police information about a crime committed, or to contact the police with a general enquiry.
If your emergency is non life-threatening but is serious and requires help or attention, here are some places you can go to find help:
If you need help, you can contact an NHS urgent mental health helpline in your area.
If you are in England, these can be found on the NHS website .
If you are in Wales, you can call 111 and select option 2.
The service is available for all ages, 24hrs a day, 7 days a week.
It is free to call from a landline or a mobile, even if you have no credit left.
CALM: Campaign Against Living Miserably Support for young men ages 15 to 35.
Available seven days a week, between 5pm and midnight.
HOPELine UK Suicide prevention advice and support.
Available weekdays 10am to 10pm; weekends and bank holidays, 2pm to 10pm.
Samaritans Whatever you are going through, you can call the Samaritans any time, from any phone, free on 116 123 .
Sometimes, writing things down can help you to understand your thoughts and feelings better, and so you can also email the Samaritans or write them a letter.
If you think someone is in immediate danger or need help in an emergency, call the police on 999.
Any form of sexual assault, harassment or misconduct is never okay.
It is important to remember that if this happens to you, it is not your fault.
UWTSD is a safe place for all students to be heard, regardless of age, gender, race, or sexuality who have been impacted by sexual violence, harassment, or misconduct of any kind.
The Wellbeing Team can offer confidential support and advice; from practical support to keep you safe and feeling safe, emotional support or help with managing your studies, we are here to support you at your pace – whatever you decide.
Our response covers all educational settings, including placements.
Sexual misconduct is any kind of unwanted sexual activity, which does not always involve physical contact.
It covers all forms of sexual violence, including:
If your experience is not covered by the definitions above, or you are uncertain about the nature of your experience, please do not allow this to prevent you from seeking support.
We are here to listen and will support you.
Telling a Member of the University Community about an Incident of Sexual Misconduct
At UWTSD we care about all members of our community, and we are here to listen to and support you.
There are two main routes in which you can tell us about an incident, and it is important to know the difference between them.
Disclosure is simply sharing your experience of sexual misconduct.
A disclosure does not launch any kind of formal process, and it does not need to include specific detail.
You can disclose to anyone – a friend, fellow student, teaching assistant, colleague, faculty member or a staff member (a disclosure to a staff member is a disclosure to the University).
If there is a risk to you, or someone else, the disclosure may be shared with the wellbeing team via the cause for concern process .
When you disclose to the University, we can make available services and support, as well as discuss whether counselling, access/referrals to medical services, and academic and/or other accommodations may be appropriate.
Remember: A disclosure does not lead to a report unless you want it to, or you or someone else is at immediate risk.
You can make a disclosure using our Support Request Form , speak to a trained first responder member of staff, or contact our Safeguarding lead .
A report is a way of officially sharing a complaint and requesting for this to be considered and responded to by the University.
We use the terminology of ‘reporting party’ and ‘reported party’ instead of ‘victim’ and ‘perpetrator’.
If the reported party is a student, measures can be taken to safeguard both parties whilst an incident is investigated.
There is more information regarding this process below.
A report includes specific details of what happened, when, where and who was involved.
It is up to you whether, when, how, and to which body you want to report an act of sexual misconduct.
You may wish to seek independent legal advice as part of your decision-making process.
To initiate a formal process, such as a disciplinary process through the University, a report must be made.
You can report an incident of sexual misconduct to the University through academic office using this form: Report to the University .
To make a formal report to the University on behalf of somebody else, please use our Cause for Concern form.
Help and advice on completing the form is provided by UWTSD Students’ Union and can be found here: Concerns and Complaints .
Formally reporting about an incident involving a member of the University Community may trigger an independent internal investigation or other process that can ultimately result in academic or workplace accommodations, suspension, expulsion, or other forms of disciplinary action.
In line with the Non-Academic Misconduct Policy , the University may impose interim measures to safeguard both the reporting and reported parties.
These actions may include (but are not limited to):
The police have specially trained officers who are very experienced in supporting survivors of sexual misconduct.
To make a report to the police, you can walk into a local police station , call 101, or 999 in an emergency.
Please note that:
Sexual Assault Referral Centre (SARC)
You can also report sexual misconduct via a Sexual Assault Referral Centre (SARC).
These are independent of the University.
SARCs offer confidential, specialist support to anyone who has been raped, sexually assaulted, or abused.
They offer a number of services, including medical and forensic examinations, emergency contraception, testing for sexually transmitted infections and emotional support.
Access to an independent sexual violence advisor (ISVA) can also be arranged, as well as referrals to voluntary sector sexual violence support services and mental health support.
ISVAs provide a range of specialist support to victims/survivors which vary case by case and are dependent on individual needs.
Typically, ISVAs provide impartial support and information to victims/survivors about their options, from reporting to the police to accessing other relevant services.
You do not have to speak to a doctor or the police to receive assistance from a SARC and your rape, sexual assault or abuse does not have to be recent for you to access help.
Should you later decide to speak to the police, fully trained staff at the SARC can support you, although the decision is entirely yours.
You can find the closest SARC to you by searching for your location on the NHS website .
Live Fear Free
You can contact Live Fear Free , a service providing help and advice about violence against women, domestic abuse and sexual violence.
The service is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week and you can call the free helpline, chat online, text or email.
South Wales Police force have highlighted a number of concerning trending issues and have asked us to pass on some facts and information to help you keep safe.
Tarian is the Southern Wales police forces response to serious and organised cross-border crime.
They have created a Student Safety pack to help keep you safe.
Facts and Advice about Alcohol: This factsheet identifies short and long term impacts of alcohol, recommended number of units of alcohol, what you can do to keep yourself safe.
The university has a referral process for specialist support if drinking alcohol is an issue impacting your daily living.
Facts and Advice about County Lines: This factsheet explains what county lines is and where it is happening.
It also explains the term “Cuckooing” and signs to look out for if you think someone is a victim.
Facts and Advice about Drugs: This factsheet explains the classification and potential penalties of various commonly used drugs.
The makeup and effect of various drugs are discussed along with tips to reduce harm.
Advice about Radicalisation and Extremism: This factsheet helps you to understand the PREVENT strategy, learn the signs you could look out for if you think someone is being radicalised or involved in extremist behaviour.
The university also has a PREVENT duty and a supporting policy .
Find a selection of apps below to help with your safety when out and about.
They are all free (or offer free trials) and are available on iOS and/or Android devices.
UWTSD is an inclusive environment in which working and learning should take place free from any form of bullying or harassment.
The expectations we set out for our students can be found via the UWTSD Student Charter and the UWTSD Student Code of Conduct .
If you experience harassment or bullying, it is important to know that you are not to blame , and actions can be taken to make it stop.
The University views any incidence of bullying or harassment as a very serious matter.
Should an allegation of bullying or harassment be substantiated, disciplinary action(s) can be taken against the alleged perpetrator(s), and this can include expulsion or dismissal.
Information as to how you can either disclose or report incidents to the University can be found on Reporting to the University .
If your situation is affecting your wellbeing or studies, you can request support from the Wellbeing Team.
Whilst there is no legal definition, bullying is an unwanted, repetitive behaviour which is intended to hurt someone either emotionally or physically.
Bullying typically involves a real or perceived power imbalance.
Examples of bullying can include (but are not limited to):
Physical bullying occurs when someone physically hurts another person.
This can be via spitting, tripping, pushing, kicking, punching, scratching and any other form of physical violence.
Sexualised bullying refers to behaviours, physical or non-physical whereby sexuality is used as a weapon against another person.
In encompasses behaviours in which someone is degraded or singled out using sexual language, gestures, or violence.
Family Lives offer comprehensive information about sexualised bullying .
Social and emotional bullying can include purposely excluding an individual, encouraging other not to be friends with them, spreading gossip and rumours, humiliating someone in front of others or making someone the topic of jokes consistently.
Also referred to as ‘name-calling’, this is one of the most common forms of bullying and can include teasing, making derogatory remarks about someone’s appearance, taunting, making threats and/or using insults to humiliate another person.
This form of bullying takes place online via social networking sites, messaging apps, chat rooms and gaming sites.
It can take the form of fake profiles, sharing personal information without consent, stalking, harassment, trolling, spreading fake rumours and posting negative comments intended to cause distress.
Harassment is behaviour which causes alarm, upset or distress.
It may be threating in nature.
Examples of harassing behaviour include (but are not limited to):
In some instances, harassment may be targeted at a person’s specific characteristics.
Many of these characteristics are protected by UK law and so harassment targeted at these characteristics can be a criminal offence.
Protected characteristics are:
All individuals have the right to ask any member of the University community, whether that be student or staff members, to stop behaving in a manner that is upsetting to them.
We understand, however that this is not always possible.
Students can act using either the informal and/or formal procedures outlined in our Reporting to the University pages.
You can also contact our Wellbeing Team using a support request form if it is for you, or a cause for concern form if you are reporting for somebody else.
Socialising can play a big part in student life.
Whilst it’s important to have fun and make new friends when you are out, it’s just as important to stay safe.
Here are some tips to ensure you have a great – but safe –night out.
If your stomach is empty when you start drinking, alcohol enters your bloodstream much faster.
This can result in you feeling the effects of alcohol quickly, making it more difficult to control your drinking.
Doing something as simple as eating a meal before you go out and keeping topped up with snacks whilst you are out will help you stay in control and feeling fresh the next day.
From using maps to find out where you are, to staying in contact with your friends or calling a taxi to get home, your phone is your essential friend on a night out.
Make sure it is fully charged when you leave and look after it when you are out.
Plan your night out – a big part of this planning is knowing how you are getting home safely.
Buses:
Check out the local bus routes – you can find registered local bus services using gov.uk’s Find Registered Local Bus Services tool.
Download the local bus service providers’ app so you can have information at your fingertips.
For example, the First Bus App allows you to buy and store tickets on your phone, track your bus live on a map and tells you when the next bus is arriving if you miss one.
First Bus covers much (but not all) regions of the UK so do check your local provider before travelling.
Taxis:
There are two main types of taxis in the UK – hackney carriages and private hire.
Hackney carriages (sometimes referred to ask ‘black taxis’ although they may be a different colour in your city – they are blue in Bristol, for example) can be approached at taxi ranks (you’ll see the word TAXIS) painted on the road surface.
You can also flag hackney carriages down in the street by standing in a suitable place beside the road and holding out your hand.
There will be an orange ‘taxi’ sign above the windscreen – the taxi is only available if this is lit up.
Private hire taxis are also known as minicabs.
Private hire drivers can only pick you up if you have booked in advance (via phone, app, in person or online).
A private hire licence plate should be clearly visible on the car.
It is not safe to get into a minicab that has not been booked in advance – don’t flag down a private hire taxi on the street, even if it has a visible licence plate and the driver looks respectable.
Don’t wait for your taxi alone, make sure your friends wait for you, and don’t allow a drunk friend to travel alone.
See the Durham Council website for more helpful advice on how to get a safe taxi home in the UK.
Walking home:
We do not recommend going home on foot, even if it is only a short walk.
However, if the occasion arose in which this was unavoidable, here are some steps you can take to ensure you arrive safely:
Steer clear of rivers
Alcohol can seriously impede your ability to survive in water.
The Royal Life Saving Society (RLSS) aim to drive down the rate of alcohol-related fatalities in what are usually completely avoidable tragic incidents.
They offer the following advice:
For more information and free digital resources, you can visit the campaign pages of the Royal Life Saving Society .
Drinking enough water is essential for staying hydrated while drinking alcohol.
Alcohol dehydrates the body, so it’s important to drink water or other non-alcoholic beverages in between alcoholic drinks.
There are lots of great resources online for making your own non-alcoholic drinks , and a number of venues serve ‘mocktails’ as a refreshing and fun alternative to alcohol.
Drink ‘spiking’ is when someone outs alcohol or drugs into another person’s drink without their consent or knowledge.
To avoid drink spiking:
What to do if you think you’ve been spiked:
For more help and advice on drink spiking, visit drinkaware .
Look after your friends, stay together and make arrangements for everyone to get home.
Make it normal practice for you to check in with each other when you get in.
There are a number of personal safety apps available which can help to keep you safe.
Most are free (or offer free trials) and can be downloaded onto most handsets.
At UWTSD we care about your online safety and want to make sure that you are aware how to stay safe online, how to tell if there may be an issue, and what you can do to address any issues.
UWTSD employ a zero-tolerance approach to cyberbullying and any student experiencing cyberbullying will receive our full support.
Cyberbullying refers to the use of digital technologies (including, but not limited to social networks, gaming sites, chat rooms and messaging apps) where the intention is to harass, abuse, offend, threaten, or humiliate another person.
Examples may include:
It is important to remember that any form of bullying is not your fault and there are ways you can be supported.
You may want to contact the Wellbeing Team using a support request form if it is for you, or a cause for concern form if it is on behalf of another student.
You may wish to tell the University about your experience.
Details as to how to do this on Reporting to the University .
We are all responsible for keeping ourselves and others safe online.
Here are a few practical tips:
Addiction is a common problem, but help and support is available.
Addiction is defined as not having control over doing, taking or using something to the point whereby it could be harmful.
It is possible to become addicted to just about anything, although the most common addictions are gambling, drugs, smoking and alcohol.
UWTSD takes a non-judgmental approach to supporting our students.
If you are worried about an addiction, you can access help from the university by completing a support request form if it is for you, or a cause for concern form if it is for someone else.
There are many reasons why addictions begin.
Drugs, nicotine and alcohol can impact the way you feel both physically and mentally.
These feelings can be enjoyable and because of this, a strong urge to use the substances again develops.
Gambling can affect a part of the brain that releases a type of neurotransmitter called dopamine.
Dopamine is a ‘feel good’ chemical that creates feelings of pleasure and reward.
This mental ‘high’ after a win can create a strong urge to try again and recreate those pleasurable feelings.
This can develop into a habit that becomes very hard to stop.
The strain of managing an addiction can significantly damage your work life and relationships.
Substance abuse can have serious physical and psychological effects.
There is some research suggestive of addictions having a genetic basis, although environmental factors, such as being around others with addictions can also increase this risk.
Substance misuse can be a way of ‘blocking out’ trauma, emotional distress or difficult issues.
It is important to remember that addiction is a treatable condition.
Whatever the addiction, there are lots of ways in which you can seek help and support.
You can speak to your GP for advice, or get in touch with an organisation that specialises in helping people with addictions.
There are a number of online directories run by the NHS where you can find addiction treatment services in your area:
To speak to someone anonymously about any form of addiction, you can call the Samaritans free on 116 123.
We understand that there are students who work in the sex industry; recent research undertaken by Swansea University found that five per cent of students were, or had been involved in the sex industry in some capacity, with a further twenty per cent stating they had considered working in the sex industry.
If you are a student sex worker seeking support, UWTSD provides a safe, private and non-judgemental space for you to talk openly about your situation, and to guide you through the types of support available to you both on and off campus.
We can signpost you to specialist organisations that work with sex workers, as well as discuss any issues that may be impacting your wellbeing or studies.
You can request support using our support request form if it is for you, or a cause for concern form if it is for someone else.
Sex work is an umbrella term that incorporates anything that involves the direct exchange of sexual services for goods or money.
This can take the form of both direct physical contact and indirect sexual stimulation.
Examples of sex work include (but are not limited to):
Laws around sex work in the UK are complex and can be confusing as it is legal to be a sex worker, but many associated activities are not legal.
Illegal activities include soliciting on the street, managing a brothel or sharing premises with another sex worker.
Further details around the legalities of sex work can be found in the booklet Sex Work and the Law .
Cybercrime is a type of crime involving a computer or computer network.
The computer may have been used in committing the crime, or it may be the target.
Cybercrime may harm someone’s security or finances.
South Wales Police have asked us to share these videos with you so you can protect yourself from cybercrime.
It’s important to look after your health when moving away from home for the first time.
This includes registering with a new GP and finding your local sexual health service.
Things to consider before arrival:
Register with a local GP
If, like most students, you spend more weeks of the year at your university address than your family’s address, you need to register with a GP near your university as soon as possible.
You can choose to register with any local GP.
Register with a dentist
Dental problems cannot be dealt with by doctors, so make sure you register with a local dentist.
Not all treatment is free, even under the NHS.
You may be able to apply for help with health costs, including prescriptions and dental care.
Check your vaccinations
Students are now routinely offered a vaccination to prevent meningitis.
The MenACWY vaccine protects against 4 different causes of meningitis and septicaemia: meningococcal (Men) A, C, W and Y diseases.
It replaces the separate Hib/MenC vaccine.But if you’re a student going away to university or college for the first time, contact the GP you’re registered with to ask for the MenACWY vaccine, ideally before the start of the academic year.
This is because you’ll be at particularly high risk in the first weeks of term, when you’re likely to come into contact with many new people.
Universities and colleges also advise students to be immunised against mumps before starting their studies.
The MMR vaccine (for mumps, measles and rubella) is part of the routine NHS childhood immunisation schedule.
This means most young people who’ve grown up in England will have had 2 doses of it in childhood.
If you’re not sure you’ve had 2 doses of the MMR vaccination, ask a GP for a catch-up vaccination.
Get an annual flu vaccination if you have asthma and take inhaled steroids.
You should also get a flu vaccination if you have a serious long-term condition such as kidney disease.
Get contraception
Even if you do not plan to be sexually active while studying, it’s good to be prepared.
Contraception and condoms are free for everyone from any GP – it does not have to be your own – or family planning clinic.
Find your local sexual health service
Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA)
As a higher education student living in England and Wales, you can apply for a Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA) if you have a:
· disability
· long-term health condition
· mental health condition · specific learning difficulty, such as dyslexia
Carmarthen GP’s
Furnace House Surgery, St.
Andrews Road, Carmarthen, SA31 1EX Telephone: 01267 236616
Morfa Lane Surgery, Carmarthen, SA31 3AX Telephone: 01267 234774
St Peter’s Surgery, Carmarthen, SA31 1AH Telephone: 01267 236241
Lampeter GP
Bro Pedr Surgery, Taliesin Court, Lampeter, SA48 7AA Telephone: 01570 422665
Swansea GP
Kingsway Surgery, 37 The Kingsway, Swansea, SA1 5LF
01792 650716
SA1 Medical Centre- Langdon Road, Swansea Waterfront, Swansea.
SA1 8QY
Telephone: 01792 481444
Website: SA1 Medical Centre and St David’s Surgery (wales.nhs.uk)
A period is a normal part of the menstrual cycle where a person bleeds from the vagina for a number of days every month.
This starts in puberty and occurs through much of adulthood.
The amount and number of days this occurs for each month varies between individuals.
Some people experience physical and emotional changes relating to their menstrual cycle, known as premenstrual syndrome “PMS” or premenstrual tension “PMT”.
There are lots of period products available to suit the needs and preferences of the individual including pads, tampons, menstrual cups, reusable pads and underwear.
You can find out more information on the NHS Website and on the Brook Website .
Period Friendly
Using initial project funding from HEFCW, the university is committed to becoming more period friendly; that includes raising awareness around menstruation and period products to reduce stigma and taboo.
Period Dignity
Period Dignity refers to the access to and availability of products to support those who menstruate.
If you find yourself in need of products whilst on the university campus, you will be able to find some disposable pads and tampons in various toilets and reception areas.
Period Poverty
Period poverty is when an individual doesn’t have period products because they cannot afford them.
Plan International UK surveyed 1000 14-21 year olds in the UK in 2017 and found 1 in 10 of those surveyed have been unable to afford period products.
Of those surveyed, 14% had to ask to borrow period products from a friend due to affordability, 12% improvised period wear due to affordability issues.
Hardship Fund
As a University, we are committed to ensuring that our students have access to period products during times of hardship.
We are offering students who have accessed the hardship fund the opportunity to order reusable products to a chosen address.
This will ensure that they are not struggling to purchase period products each month and therefore ensuring that students aren’t experiencing period poverty.
Important information about Meningitis and Measles
UWTSD is concerned about the health and wellbeing of our students.
There has been a rise in Meningitis and Measles cases amongst UK University students.
Please take the time to read through the information on the student hwb carefully to understand what the diseases are, the symptoms and how to get help if needed.
It is important to protect yourself against the potentially life-threatening disease.
Many students will have had the vaccine as children.
You can check with your GP if you are unsure whether you have been vaccinated or not.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-support-wellbeing/wellbeing-support/safeguarding:
Anyone in our community can be at risk of abuse or neglect which means safeguarding is a shared responsibility for all of us.
We all have a role to play in keeping each other safe.
Whilst there are groups who may be more vulnerable to abuse or neglect, risk is more likely to be increased by circumstances rather than personal characteristics and is often the result of a culmination of factors.
Safeguarding children and adults at risk means:
The University works together with our staff, students, Students’ Union and regional networks to help safeguard our community.
We work in partnership with local Councils, the Police and other statutory agencies to share information, identify issues and respond to challenges.
As part of this local partnership activity, the University meets its statutory duty in relation to preventing vulnerable people from being drawn into extremism or terrorism.
If you are concerned about yourself or others being drawn into extremism or are at risk of radicalisation then please follow the Cause for Concern reporting route.
Emergency
If you have an emergency and you are on campus you should contact the 24/7 Operations Team on 07767 842738.
If you have an emergency and you are off campus you should call 999.
Keep Safe
If you are concerned about another student, please complete the Cause for Concern form .
You can report your concerns anonymously if you choose to.
Your concerns may include issues around a student’s health, wellbeing or behaviour or circumstances that may be impacting their academic progress or general management of life at University.
Student Wellbeing Services
The University recognises that students may require support during their studies.
The Wellbeing team offers a range of services designed to support students to engage effectively with their studies.
The Well-Being team provide professional and confidential advice and guidance in relation to student well-being and mental health.
Information about the Wellbeing services provided and how to access them can be found here .
University Commitment
The University is committed to supporting and promoting the welfare and safety of students, staff and visitors throughout our operations and environment.
Occasionally students may become vulnerable and the University has a range of services and policies in place to respond to presenting need and help to safeguard them.
Our published Safeguarding Policy explains the framework in place to safeguard against potential risk, abuse and harm, and to appropriately respond to concerns.
The principles set out in the Policy are that the University of Wales Trinity Saint David is committed to:
The Policy is based on the National Wales Safeguarding Procedures .
The Policy also acknowledges the University’s wider responsibilities in respect of the UK Prevent Duty and the requirement to prevent people from being drawn into radicalisation and/or terrorism.
If you have any concerns in relation to Prevent themes then please contact the Interim Prevent Lead Officer, Rhys Dart.
PREVENT Duty
Under the Counter-Terrorism and Security Act 2015 all universities have a statutory responsibility to ensure ‘due regard to prevent people from being drawn into terrorism’.
There is specific guidance in relation to this duty for higher education institutions in England and Wales .
The Prevent duty has three main objectives:
To comply with the legislation, the University:
These documents are reviewed and updated regularly through the Safeguarding Forum, with oversight provided by the University Council, our governing Body.
The Higher Education Funding Council for Wales (HEFCW) is the monitoring body for Prevent for HE providers in Wales.
Additionally, the Office for Standards in Education, Children’s Services and Skills (Ofsted) is the monitoring body for Prevent for Higher Degree Apprenticeship provision.
The University reports to its monitoring bodies on a regular basis.
The University manages Prevent as part of its welfare and safeguarding activities.
At UWTSD we are committed to maintaining a safe, inclusive and supportive environment for all members of our community.
Training
The University delivers induction training on the Prevent duty for all new staff.
It also has internal short courses that cover both safeguarding and the Prevent Duty which are available to all staff.
There is also introduction to Safeguarding resources which form part of student induction and make reference to Prevent.
These resources in particular identify how to raise a cause for concern and seek support within the University.
Anyone can access national Prevent training via the Home Office e-learning hub .
The UK government has published a series of resources via their ‘ Action Counters Terrorism ’ campaign.
This includes advice about being vigilant and what behaviour or activity might require the submission of a report.
External Support
Safeguarding leads at the University are actively involved in the South Wales Higher Education (HE) Prevent Group and are embedded within regional and national Prevent structures.
University representatives also sit on relevant regional Channel panels and Contest boards, as well as associated other fora.
This enables the university to maintain up to date knowledge about the local risks, as well as an understanding of regional, local and national policy frameworks.
Raising a concern:
The university has a process for reporting concerning behaviours or safeguarding concerns via the Cause for Concern form .
This is open and available to anyone to use.
Trained University staff will take forward concerns and decide an action, linking in with statutory authorities as required.
Please remember, in an emergency you should always call 999.
University Approach
Our Prevent safeguarding responsibilities are applied on the basis on a person’s vulnerability to be radicalised and not as a result of any individual’s protected characteristics.
Our Prevent responsibilities are balanced against our responsibilities to uphold individuals’ right to freedom of speech within the law under relevant legislation.
Further detail of how the Prevent duty is applied at the University is detailed in our External Speakers and Events Code of Practice .
Our aim is to implement the Prevent duty with the due consideration, consultation and care to allow both academic freedom and the protection of staff and students to sit together side by side.
Contacts:
If you have any questions with regard to these pages or any aspect of the Prevent duty, please contact the University’s Prevent Lead
Director of Student Services: Rhys Dart r.dart@uwtsd.ac.uk
Associate PVC (Academic Experience): Mirjam Plantinga m.plantinga@uwtsd.ac.uk
Executive Director of Human Resources: Jane O’Rourke J.ORourke@uwtsd.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/experience-and-facilities/student-support-and-wellbeing/careers-service:
Depending on your course, you’ll also get the opportunity to gain industry-based qualifications, work placements and internships during your degree.
If you’re studying an engineering or automotive degree, for example, you could be spending a placement year in the automotive industry with the likes of Aston Martin, Jaguar, or Rolls Royce .
Studying law, policing or criminology?
Our courses are developed in partnership with South Wales Police.
Interested in the academic discipline of childhood, youth and education?
We’ll provide you with work placements in a range of settings during your degree.
Looking for a degree in hospitality, tourism or international hotel management?
Get the experience you need with placements at Marriott Hotels.
Perhaps you want to boost your culinary skills?
With International Gastronomy Management, you could do a placement with Marco Pierre White Restaurants.
And if you’re considering a future in the creative industries, we’ve got links to Tinopolis, H&M, M&S and Hallmark.
At UWTSD, we understand that barriers can sometimes prevent you from gaining the experience needed to pursue your career goals.
That’s why, with the support of MEDR (the Commission for Tertiary Education and Research) , we offer the Your Career Pathway programme — a funded initiative designed to help you overcome those barriers.
If you meet our eligibility criteria, our team can support you in accessing work experience, mentoring , or attending insight days to help you progress in your career journey.
If you relate to any of the following , you may qualify for bespoke support through the Your Career Pathway programme:
If you’d like to take part in the Your Career Pathway programme, please email us at: careerpathway@uwtsd.ac.uk
UWTSD Students have full 24/7 access to the leading university Careers platform.
Through this platform you have access below to Careers information, self-assessment, Career planner, CV360 checker and MUCH more.
24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
We support graduates for up to 2 years after graduation.
As a UWTSD graduate you also have access to the careers platform for 2 years.
Please email to make an enquiry .

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/experience-facilities/student-support-wellbeing/disability-support:
We aim to provide students who require support with the tools to enable them to work to their potential and demonstrate the true level of their abilities as an undergraduate or postgraduate student.
Our disability support services are tailored to meet the unique needs of individuals with disabilities.
Whether you have a physical, cognitive, sensory, or mental health condition, our experienced staff is here to provide comprehensive support and accommodations.
We work closely with each student to develop personalized plans that ensure equal access to all aspects of university life, from academics to campus facilities and extracurricular activities.
Our commitment to accessibility extends beyond the classroom, and we take pride in creating a campus community that values diversity and embraces the contributions of every individual.
Please complete our Support Needs Enquiry Form to request more information about how we can assist you to study with UWTSD.
We provide comprehensive academic support for students with long term health conditions and disabilities.
Our team will support students in applying for Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA), including access to assessment and diagnosis for Specific Learning Difference (SpLD) e.g.
dyslexia, where required.
Our professional qualified team of Non-Medical Helpers (Specialist Support Tutors) are on hand to work with students to support their learning and help them to achieve their potential.
Current students can request an interview to discuss their needs or concerns at any point during their course.
Our goal is to give all students, including those with disabilities, equal opportunities to encounter our wide range of academic, social and cultural experiences.
We try - with reasonable adjustment - to meet needs and overcome difficulties, so that these no longer present any barrier to potential and existing students.
We welcome applications from students with additional needs.
A declaration of disability will in no way disadvantage you in the application procedure.
Students with a declared disability are encouraged to visit before applying to see what facilities are available.
Disability Advisers and Learning Support Managers are available to discuss individual needs, in particular any specific arrangements needed for access, learning support, study support, lectures, placements, assessments and examinations.
Many of you will already have received some support for your studies, either in school or college, and found that support helped you to achieve good results.
Many of our students at Trinity Saint David also benefit from support with their studies.
If you know already that there is a particular reason why you will need support, it is best to get in touch with the Disability Adviser.
Open Days are a perfect opportunity to come and see our campuses for yourself.
Our aim is to create an inclusive and accessible environment for all.
If you have any disabilities and would like to express your specific needs ahead of an Open Day we encourage you to do so when you book.
Your well-being and success are important to us, and we are here to assist in making your visit both informative and accommodating.
We look forward to meeting you and making your open day experience a positive and inclusive one.
For those who are studying at a distance, we are able to provide a number of services to facilitate your study experience.
Our specialist support team is able to provide distance one-to-one specialist support for those entitled to DSA funded support via MS Teams.
We also offer Study Skills support to all students via MS Teams through Study Skills Distance .
You can find the timetable on the Student HWB .
Any students with specific learning differences such as dyslexia, dyspraxia, ADD and Autistic Spectrum Disorder are offered help with DSA applications, appropriate support and advice and guidance on reasonable adjustments.
Support with:
Dyslexia and other Specific Learning Differences - Information for prospective students
The University of Wales Trinity Saint David welcomes applications from students with dyslexia and other Specific Learning Differences.
We can make arrangements for:
If you have already been assessed as dyslexic or have another Specific Learning Difference, we advise that you contact Disability Support as soon as possible by emailing disability@uwtsd.ac.uk
We are currently following DfE guidelines.
UWTSD is keen to establish effective working relationships with external Non-Medical Helper (NMH) suppliers to ensure quality support provision for the benefit of our students.
Providers of Non-Medical Helper (NMH) support must adhere to the DfE guidance, and ensure that all relevant policies are in place, shared with the student, and made available to the University on request.
Our disability and mental health advisers are located in the University’s Student Services.
The advisers collaborate with a network of disability contacts in our faculties and other directorates to facilitate an accessible and inclusive learning environment for students with disabilities.
More information about the roles and responsibilities of our disability and mental health support provision is available.
Details about other support services for students at the University are also available on our website.
Access for Support Workers
External providers are responsible for providing suitable meeting facilities that are comfortable, confidential and take account of the student’s needs.
Due to the limited availability of 1:1 bookable meeting rooms at the University, external providers would normally be expected to make independent arrangements external to the University.
Visiting and Parking
On rare occasions when support is being delivered on-site, we have provided information on parking near the University’s campuses and directions to the University’s campuses.
UWTSD has several campuses, further information on the respective University campuses and the courses delivered at those campuses is available on our website.
The University’s access guides are also a helpful first point for information on access around the campuses and accessible buildings.
Health and Safety
If meeting students on-site, support workers must report to the relevant reception area on the University campus to:
External visitors are prohibited from entering unauthorised areas or areas that are not necessary or relevant to part of their work.
If a fire alarm activates, support workers must leave the building as directed immediately.
Similarly, any accidents or emergency situations must be reported to staff at the receptions immediately.
External NMH providers should also be mindful of University guidance on workplace/general safety.
Communication and Feedback
Information about support provision for disabled students should be sent to disability@uwtsd.ac.uk
External suppliers must:
Learning Support and Disability Support is a confidential service, and we will not share your information outside of the people involved directly with your support while at UWTSD .
Information will be shared strictly on a need-to-know basis, meaning that only relevant information will be given when appropriate.
We will exercise appropriate care at all times to ensure your privacy is respected.
For further information, visit our Confidentiality and Data Protection Statement
Access Centres - Can all queries and NARs be directed via email - thank you.
Non-Medical Helper (NMH) Rates - University of Wales Trinity Saint David

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/experience-facilities/student-support-wellbeing/money-support:
We understand that financial concerns can be a significant factor in a student’s educational journey.
That’s why we’re committed to providing comprehensive financial support to help you achieve your academic goals without the burden of excessive financial stress, including support on
Bursaries
Cost of Living Support
Budgeting Tools
This is an additional source of financial support for any student who has taken out a Student Loan (if eligible) and is suffering unexpected financial hardship.
An applicant also has to prove that she/he has exhausted all other funding sources, including their overdraft provision before an application can be considered.
International students will need to evidence why the funding required for the purpose of the Tier IV visa has been exhausted and what exceptional circumstances have caused the financial difficulty
Please note that the fund cannot be used to provide assistance with tuition fees.
Financial support is available to any student studying at least 40 credits in an academic year.
A student can apply for funding at any time during the course and can re-apply if in financial difficulties.
Usually, funds are not repayable.
Funds are administered by the Student Financial Support Fund panel which is comprised of a representative from the Finance Department, Student Services and the Students’ Union.
This panel meets weekly during term-time.
Although formal meetings are not held during the vacation periods, applications will be considered according to staff availability.
Apply now: Student Financial Support Fund application form
The University understands that many students are living and studying under difficult financial circumstances at present.
Rising costs in fuel, food, transport and accommodation in particular all impact on living standards.
Anxiety around money, budgeting and meeting the cost of bills and necessities is a significant contributing factor to poor mental health.
The following is a brief explanation of the steps that the University has taken to support our students during this time.
Where we can we have included the links to further information or action.
You can access your exemption letter here: Council Tax Exemption » Hub (uwtsd.ac.uk)
The University understands that in the current climate, budgeting and money management can only help to a point.
Our Money Support team is on hand to help to support you if you feel that you would benefit from a budget review.
The current cost-of-living crisis arising from the surge in energy prices and exacerbated by the rising cost of other essentials has made it even more important to take a tight grip of your personal finances.
We offer a training course which  provides further information and guidance which can be accessed through the Hwb .
Supporting the emotional wellbeing of our students is important to the University.
We understand the potential impact of money on individual wellbeing and healthy living.
In addition to the above, the University has invested in the creation of the new Student Wellbeing team and an expansion of available wellbeing support.
You can view and access our Wellbeing services here.
In addition to our own services we also subscribe to a number of additional external support services on your behalf:
Call 0800 028 3766 any time to speak to an advisor.
Log into TogetherAll here: Togetherall
Access the Sorted app here: Sorted .
UWTSD Students’ Union offers support and opportunities to students on a range of topics, including work on cost of living.
For more information on the work of the Students’ Union and how to get involved please visit the Students’ Union’s website: UWTSD Students’ Union
Living on a student budget and making your student loan stretch across the year is no easy task, whether you are living in halls or student accommodation and managing your money for the first time or you are a student with a family who is having to review your budget now that you are receiving Student Finance.
The key to managing your money starts with setting a budget that is both workable and realistic.
This can make it easier to identify any areas where you might be able to cut back and make savings.
Step 1: Collect up all the relevant documents
From bank statements to Student Finance Letter; gather anything that will give a picture of what is coming in and out your account.
Step 2: Work out how much you get
Work out how much money you will have coming in during the year.
This includes the Autumn, Spring and Summer Student Finance payments, any income from employment or benefits and help you may be getting from family.
If you are living with a partner, remember to include any income they are receiving from employment or benefits.
If you are living alone or have a family of your own, remember that the student loans and/ or grants will need to stretch the full year so you should divide the total amount you receive from Student Finance by 12 to work out how much you will have to spend each month.
(A)
Step 3: Work out how much you spend on essential things
Work out every single essential outgoing that comes out of your account during the year.
This should include all the essential things you have to pay for including rent, food, utility bills, council tax (where applicable), phone and internet costs, travel course costs etc.
(B)
Step 4: Work out how much is left:
Calculate what is left (C) by subtracting your expenses (B) from your income (A).
Step 5: Consider what else you may spend on each month that are non-essential
Write down how much you spend on things like haircuts, socialising, birthdays etc then deduct these from the balance after essential costs (C)
Step 6: Work out your weekly allowance
Anything you have left needs to be divided by the number of weeks that the money needs to cover (e.g.
the number of weeks in the academic year {38} if you are going home to live or work over the holidays or the number of weeks in a calendar year {52} if you are living independently).
This will then give you a weekly allowance that is at your disposal to spend.
Always factor in some money for emergencies.
It’s better to overestimate your sending than to run out of money
Here are some of the student-focussed apps and resources currently available:
All students have access to the Academy of Money Open Learn course developed by MoneySavingExpert Martin Lewis and the Open University .
“The current cost-of-living crisis arising from the surge in energy prices and exacerbated by the rising cost of other essentials has made it even more important to take a tight grip of your personal finances.
This course will enable you do that.”
This training opportunity provides up to 12 hours of information and offers certification upon completion.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/experience-facilities/student-support-wellbeing/learning-support:
We are dedicated to your academic success and believe that every student’s learning journey is unique.
Our Learning Support Team will empower you with the tools and resources needed to excel in your studies.
Whether you’re seeking help with study strategies, time management, our team is here to assist you.
Study skills support is available to all University of Wales Trinity Saint David students who need assistance with their studies.
Please note all sessions are currently being delivered remotely.
Refine your study skills and achieve your best from Foundation through to Postgraduate level.
This support is designed to supplement but not replace the subject-specific teaching and advice provided by your academic tutors.
Also please note: Study Skills sessions are not proof-reading sessions!
Social and Communication Support Group
Participation in any activity is optional.
A library of resources will be available throughout the year for you to access even if you don’t attend the group sessions.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/student-support-wellbeing/reporting-university:
The first step to knowing how the university can help to safeguard you is to share what you have experienced.
Sharing with us does not oblige you to pursue any action against anyone who has harmed you, but it does enable us to work with you to understand what the university can do to remove or manage harm, support you emotionally, and to manage any impact on your studies.
Disclosure is simply sharing your experience of an incident.
Remember: A disclosure does not lead to a report unless you want it to or you or someone else is at immediate risk.
You can report an incident to the University through academic office using this form: Report to the University .
The University may impose interim measures to safeguard the reporter and the reported including (but not limited to):
Where you have experienced abuse or feel at risk from another member of the university community, making a direct report to the university is the quickest way to help us keep you safe.
The university expects that all members of the community act in accordance with the Student Code of Conduct and it takes any breaking of this agreement very seriously.
This would include incidents of sexual misconduct, bullying (including cyberbullying), harassment or Prevent concerns.
Making a formal report to the university/Academic Office is the quickest way to help us keep you safe.
It does not oblige you to pursue a complaint, but it does help us to give you options for how the university can act to support you.
For reporting/reported students, this would be in line with the Non-academic Misconduct Policy ; all reports related to staff will be referred to HR.
The university treats all reports as confidential, and we share information on a need-to-know basis only.
The university would only break confidentiality where there is an immediate risk to you or to someone else.
In all other circumstances, they would work with you to understand what you want from making a report and that we are doing all we can to keep you safe and support you.
We understand how difficult it can be to share an experience of abuse and we value your privacy.
You will not be asked to give any more detail than necessary in the reporting process to enable us to understand the risk and respond appropriately.
This might include:
When you submit your report, it will be reviewed by the Head of Student Cases, and they will assign an independent Case Officer who will reach out to you to discuss what you have shared.
They will work with you to understand what has happened and what you want from making the report.
They can ensure you have appropriate support and that where needed ‘precautionary measures’ are taken to safeguard you.
This may include suspending someone who has been ‘reported’ whilst the case is considered.
Where necessary they will start a Non-Academic Misconduct Procedure to manage this.
Making a report does not oblige you to continue this process, but it is important for understanding what you have experienced, and it also enables the Academic Office to determine whether the reported party has other reports against them, and whether the University needs to take independent action.
This can be very important for building a safeguarding picture, but it does oblige you to pursue a complaint against them.
If you opt to continue the process formally, the Case Officer will interview those who have been identified as able to provide information on what has happened.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/accommodation/birmingham-accommodation:
If you are planning to live away from home whilst at university, accommodation is probably at the top of your list of considerations.
Birmingham has a huge student population, and the variety of accommodation available will leave you feeling spoilt for choice.
Accommodation in Birmingham is provided by various purpose-built student accommodation providers and the accommodation team can guide you through your options and will offer ongoing support throughout your time as a student with us.
Students staying in non-university owned accommodation will still be able to access services such as the mental health team, money advice and more.
The accommodation office will be available to support and provide advice as to where UWTSD students stay so you can be around students studying with us.
If your looking for a house share or a studio flat, this website will give you a variety of options.
They offer a range of properties that could suit your needs, whether you’re after a spacious house share or a cosy studio flat.
If you’re looking for a student house, flat or purpose built student accommodation, this website will give you a variety of options.
Offering a range of properties to suit various needs.
Once you have secured your room in halls you may then want to start thinking about what to bring with you onto campus.
UniKitOut are an online store that can provide HUGE discounts on many of the following items:
All items once purchased can also be delivered directly to your room on campus so they are waiting for you when you arrive.
Browse their offers online today.
Our accommodation team are here to help you make the right choice to help create the university experience you are looking for.
If you have any questions about accommodation whether accessibility, accommodation options or specific questions about your situation our accommodation team are on hand to help.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/accommodation/cardiff-accommodation:
Cardiff has a huge student population, and the variety of accommodation available will leave you feeling spoilt for choice.
Accommodation in Cardiff is provided by various purpose-built student accommodation providers and the accommodation team can guide you through your options and will offer ongoing support throughout your time as a student with us.
Play video: Cardiff Student Living at the University of Wales Trinity Saint David
Windsor House is situated in the heart of Cardiff city centre – Close to the universities, transport links, high street shops, restaurants and nightlife.
Crown Place boasts modern student accommodation within easy reach of everything including local amenities and the university.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/experience-facilities/accommodation/carmarthen-accommodation:
When it comes to accommodation in Carmarthen, we have a number of options available.
Our comfortable living spaces are located on the main campus, within the university-owned residential hall.
By choosing to stay with us, you’ll be just a stone’s throw away from your study areas and everything that our vibrant Carmarthen campus has to offer.
Play video: Carmarthen Student Living at the University of Wales Trinity Saint David
Applications for the 2025/2026 Academic Year will open on Monday 3 March 2025.
New Students will need to register on Hallpad, you will need your student number and date of birth.
Once registered you will then be able to complete the application form and submit.
Returning Students will need to log into Hallpad, if you have forgotten your details you can ask the system to reset.
As a returning student, you will be able to advise us whom you would like to live with on your application form.
There are two styles of rooms at our Carmarthen Campus all located in flats of 8 bedrooms sharing a kitchen and lounge being:-
How to I apply for Accommodation?
Accommodation Portal
Login to the Accommodation Portal (Hallpad)
The Accommodation Portal is an online service to apply and secure accommodation at University of Wales Trinity Saint David, Carmarthen campus.
Login as follows:
The University of Wales Trinity Saint David strive to accommodate as many students as possible; however, we regret that we are unable to guarantee university accommodation for all applicants.
Where we are unable to offer a place, we will support students in finding private accommodation where possible.
All students who have applied, will have their accommodation offer confirmed after 14th August 2025.
If we are unable to offer you university accommodation, we will assist you in exploring private housing options where possible.
Occupation Contract
The Accommodation Occupation Contract is a legal contract between you and the University which lays out your obligations and the University’s obligations.
Make sure you read and understand the terms and conditions.
Connect with your Flatmates
If you would like to get in contact with your new flatmates, we will provide you with details of the University social media pages where you can search for your flatmates.
Payment Details
Following arrival into your new home, you will receive an email from our Finance Department with your annual invoice and a link for making your first rents payment.
You will have the option to make annual or termly payments.
Induction Programme
Before you arrive, you will need to complete the Induction Programme which will provide you with useful information on living in University accommodation.
You will be contacted by email when the Induction Programme is available for you to complete.
Cancelling your booking
You can cancel your booking at any time prior to moving in by logging back into the portal.
What happens next?
We appreciate that for many of you this may be the first time that you have lived away from home, so to help you we have put together an “Accommodation Welcome” booklet which will be emailed to you when we confirm that you have been allocated a room.
New Style, En-Suite – 64 Rooms
En-suite, Single – 216 Rooms
Occupation Contract 38 weeks running
To
Pricing
Termly Fees
Applications for the 2025/26 Academic year will open on the 3rd March.
You will be offered accommodation within the self-catered accommodation in Archbishop Noakes .
Each flat contains 8 single rooms together with a shared kitchen and lounge.
There will be a choice of two styles of rooms:
You may apply for accommodation provided you have a ‘Conditional’ or ‘Unconditional’ offer from the University.
If we are your second choice, applications should not be made until after exam results in August.
We are keen to support the strong community of Welsh speakers located at UWTSD, Carmarthen campus.
As a result, the University has created a home for Welsh students on allocated flats for students who speak Welsh or who are learning the language and who wish to live together.
Why should you choose accommodation with our Welsh speakers?
By choosing a Welsh speaking flat you will be at the heart of university life, and part of a close community with other Welsh speakers – the perfect choice to help you settle in quickly.
The Welsh speaking flats are located within the Archbishop Noakes blocks.
You will be asked on our application form if you would like to live in a Welsh speaking flat.
If you have any questions regarding the Welsh speaking flats, please contact the accommodation team by emailing accommodation@uwtsd.ac.uk
Returning students may apply for accommodation, with applications opening on the 3rd March 2025, please contact the accommodation team for more information.
We can accommodate Postgraduate students on campus, in the en-suite accommodation.
Please contact the accommodation department to discuss your requirements.
Where we are unable to offer a place, we will support students in finding private accommodation where possible.
We can offer a place in university accommodation to new first-year undergraduates who choose UWTSD as their Firm Choice and apply for accommodation by 31 July 2025 .
Returning students currently studying at our Lampeter campus will be guaranteed a room in Carmarthen accommodation if they apply by 6 May 2025 .
Returning Carmarthen students will be allocated on a first come, first serve basis.
As demand may exceed availability, priority will be given to students who:
Are enrolled in a full-time course at UWTSD
Are a returning Lampeter student.
Live too far away to commute or secure private rented accommodation.
Have particular social and/or physical needs.
While we will do our best to meet accommodation preferences, we cannot guarantee specific room types or allocations.
If your requested room type is unavailable, we will offer the closest match based on availability.
If your preference is not listed in the tick boxes provided, please include your request in the “Notes” section of your application.
If we are unable to offer you university accommodation, we will assist you in exploring private housing options where possible.
Students who accept an offer of accommodation in the University’s Halls of Residence must abide by the terms and conditions.
Any queries regarding the Regulations for Students in Halls of Residence should be directed to the Accommodation Team .
Complaints
If the Resident is unhappy with a decision made by the University or the steps taken by the University in respect of the Agreement and/or if the Resident considers that the University has breached its obligations under this Agreement, in the first instance, any complaint should be referred to the Accommodation Department to investigate.
If your complaint is still not resolved, it is possible to report this via the Procedures for Academic Appeals, Complaints and Other Student Cases procedure ,  which can be found in the  Academic Quality Handbook, where you will need to complete the GA5 Formal Complaint Form .
Formal complaints must be received no more than 1 month after the informal procedure has ended (where appropriate) and no more than 6 months after the main issue complained about occurring.
Formal complaints received after these deadlines will be deemed to be out of time.
They may not be considered unless there is independent evidence to show compelling reasons why the formal complaint was not raised in a timely manner.
Arrangements can be made where possible to accommodate Disabled Students.
If you have special requirements, please discuss these with the one of the University Disability Advisers.
They will be able to discuss any support requirements you may have, further information can be found on our Learning Support pages.
Accommodation Applications for 2025/26 will be open from Monday, 3 March 2025.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/experience-facilities/accommodation/international-accommodation:
Our Accommodation Team can assist you with finding the most suitable accommodation whilst you are studying at UWTSD.
Once you’ve firmly accepted your offer from UWTSD, it is time for you to consider where you will be living whilst you study.
In Carmarthen our International students are housed within the university residential halls.
Make your application using the Hallpad link.
You will need to have received your student number to access the portal.
For Swansea, Cardiff, Birmingham and London, where private student accommodation is available offer, further assistance can be sought by contacting the accommodation team .
To apply for accommodation on our Carmarthen campus please use the button below, you will need to have received your student number to access the portal.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/accommodation/london-accommodation:
London has a huge student population, and the variety of accommodation available will leave you feeling spoilt for choice.
Accommodation in London is provided by various purpose-built student accommodation providers and the accommodation team can guide you through your options and will offer ongoing support throughout your time as a student with us.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/experience-facilities/accommodation/swansea-accommodation:
Swansea has a huge student population, and the variety of accommodation available will leave you feeling spoilt for choice.
Accommodation in Swansea is provided by various purpose-built student accommodation providers and the accommodation team can guide you through your options and will offer ongoing support throughout your time as a student with us.
Students staying in non-univeristy owned accommodation will still be able to access services such as the mental health team, money advice and more.
Play video: Swansea Student Living at the University of Wales Trinity Saint David
We currently recommended the following private accommodation in Swansea:
Located in the heart of Swansea.
There is a diverse range of student accommodation available at our Swansea location, from stylish studios to spacious en-suits, all with bills included.
Situated on the waterfront and overlooking Swansea Marina and the River Tawe, Crown Place is perfectly located for our SA1 campus.
There are a number of room types to choose from.
Whether you want the privacy of your own studio or to mingle with like-minded students in cluster en-suits.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/experience-facilities/accommodation/accommodation-frequently-asked-questions:
What is provided for me in my room?
All rooms in halls of residence come fully furnished, the fixtures and fittings include a bed with mattress, desk and chair, hand wash basin, mirror, wardrobe, shelving, and bedside cabinet.
- You will be required to complete a room inventory upon your arrival.
Do I need a TV licence?
Information is available from TV Licensing .
Does my room have an internet connection?
Every bedroom in halls of residence will have access to a free wireless internet connection.
Do I need to arrange insurance for my belongings?
Student possessions insurance has been provided through Howden for every student who is living at our student residences.
This covers a range of belongings inside your room, including laptops, sports and electrical equipment, clothes and frozen food.
This has been arranged by the University at no extra cost to the student.
If you wish to check what is covered under the policy then please get in touch with accommodation@uwtsd.ac.uk .
What do I need to bring with me?
Students are required to bring their own bedding, towels, coat hangers, cooking utensils (including cutlery and crockery), cleaning and washing products, dishcloths, tea towels, food etc.
A list of recommended items to bring with you will be sent to you by email prior to your arrival on the campus
Is there a bus service?
Bus timetables are available from the HWB App.
Are there items I shouldn’t bring with me?
A full list of prohibited items are detailed in the Guide to Residential Living
Can I bring my car?
You will be emailed information on parking during your first week at university.
What laundry facilities are available?
There are two laundry locations in Carmarthen, which have card operated washing machines and dryers.
Who is responsible for cleaning?
All students living in halls of residence are responsible for keeping the accommodation clean and tidy.
A team of cleaners (both male and female) will enter the building every working day between 9.00am and 12.00pm to top up cleaning in the kitchens and corridors.
Note, they do not wash dishes.
Students are expected to clean their own study bedroom.
Where do I collect my mail?
All your mail is delivered to the Security Team in the Dewi Reception, and you will be required to collect during the collection hours shown in The Guide to Residential Living.
Can I stay on Campus during the holidays?
Your license agreement covers the use of your room for 38 weeks, which includes the Christmas and Easter holidays.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/birmingham:
Find your fit in Birmingham, a city famous for its people, food and cultural festivals – a place where there’s never a dull moment.
UWTSD Birmingham offers a range of innovative courses designed to propel you into the world of work.
All in a city bursting with opportunities.
Birmingham, a bustling metropolis steeped in history and culture.
From its iconic landmarks like the Bullring and Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery to its bustling canal networks and green parks, the city boasts a vibrant mix of modernity and tradition.
With two campuses – located on Stratford Road, in the vibrant Sparkhill neighbourhood, and in the city centre’s lively canalside – UWTSD Birmingham offers opportunities for people of all backgrounds to enter higher education.
A campus offering courses with a business, computing or health and social care focus, UWTSD Birmingham courses are designed to get you ready for the workplace.
Both our campuses offer either an option to study during the week or study at the weekend, which means you can fit your studies in and around your current work or family commitments.
Play video: Birmingham Student Life at the University of Wales Trinity Saint David
Shape your future with superb links to London, Bristol, Cardiff, Sheffield, Manchester and Liverpool – all less than two hours away by train.
We’re also focused on removing barriers to education and ensuring equal opportunities for all, which means you can count on entry requirements that take individual circumstances into consideration.
Offering courses with a business, computing or health and social care focus, UWTSD Birmingham courses are designed to get you ready for the workplace.
Both our campuses offer either an option to study during the week or to study at the weekend, which means you can fit your studies in and around your current work or family commitments.
Our Birmingham Campus is made up of two locations.
Quay Place is located in the city centre’s lively canal side with the second located on Stratford Road, in the vibrant Sparkhill neighbourhood.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/birmingham/how-get-our-birmingham-campus:
Quay Place is located in the city centre’s lively canal side with the second located on Stratford Road, in the vibrant Sparkhill neighbourhood.
To cater to the various ways students may arrive at our campus, we have provided detailed directions and transportation options.
Whether you’re travelling by car, train, or bus, we have you covered with helpful information to guide you every step of the way.
View larger map
Birmingham campus is strategically situated and easily accessible via major roads.
We suggest utilizing the AA Route Planner to map out your journey in advance.
For parking options please visit the Birmingham Council website .
Quay Place
New Street Train Station is serviced by bus route that will drop you off near the campus.
Services 126 towards Dudley stops at the National Indoor Arena bus stop, which is a short walk from the university campus.
Sparkhill
New Street Train Station is serviced by bus routes that will drop you off near the campus.
Service 5 and 6 pass Baker Street bus stop, which is a short walk from the university campus.
We recommend using Transport for West Midlands to plan your journey ahead of time.
Both Birmingham campuses are only a few miles from New Street Station, which has cross country links as far north as Edinburgh, and as far south as Penzance, Southampton, Cardiff, Swansea and London Euston.
We recommend you plan you journey using National Rail .
Our campuses are easy to reach via foot, bike and public transport.
Follow the links below for information on how to get there using sustainable modes of transport.
Our sustainability pages will give you more information about our commitment to sustainability at UWTSD.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/birmingham/top-10-things-do-birmingham:
Visit Birmingham’s award-winning science museum Thinktank, feast on chocolate at the famous Cadbury World, or explore the underworld at the National Sea Life Centre.
Walking tours of the city’s attractions and famous landmarks are also a great way to learn about the history and architecture of Birmingham.
We have The Bullring, Grand Central, and House of Fraser are iconic shopping centres in Birmingham, you can also find hidden gems and great bargains in the Bullring markets and high streets across the city.
Whether you love shopping or the dancefloor - we have a great nightlife with plenty of bars and clubs playing all kinds of music.
Broad Street is a popular choice for students and is located right in the city centre.
In Birmingham, you’ve got plenty of options whether a comedy show at the Glee Club, a show at the Hippodrome Theatre, or a rare film at the Electric Cinema.
For something more futuristic, try a few rounds of virtual reality games or immersion pods at Otherworld VR Birmingham.
There are lots of live music and concert venues such as the 02 Academy, Symphony Hall, and Hockley Social Club as well as various open mic nights.
The Custard Factory is also home to much creative talent, hosting festivals, gigs and poetry nights.
The Library of Birmingham is the second-largest Library in Europe and the largest in the UK.
It opened in 2013 and cost over £180 million to build.
The library contains a Shakespeare Memorial room and is a popular stop on Birmingham City walking tours.
A 10-minute walk from Quay Place, students can also benefit from using its facilities.
As host of the 2022 Commonwealth Games, Athletics World Championships, and the Ryder Cup.
In Birmingham, you can find a range of sporting events to watch and play including cricket, football, basketball, and tennis.
Relax and unwind in one of the many local parks including the Botanical Gardens, Licky Hills Edgbaston reservoir.
Birmingham campuses have a lively and supportive atmosphere where students can flourish.
Our Quay Place campus is a short walk away from the city centre and bursting with cafes, and restaurants, and is located alongside the beautiful canal.
You can enjoy the rich culture and diversity at our Sparkhill campus which overlooks a green parkland; a refreshing place to relax and reenergise.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cardiff:
Ready to take centre stage?
There’s no better setting for you to choose your story than UWTSD Cardiff – a conservatoire-style campus for the dancers, singers, directors and performers of the future.
Based at Haywood House, our degrees in Vocal Performance to Musical Theatre will set you up for a career in the spotlight.
You’ll develop a broad understanding of the creative industries from Wales to the World, with strong links to leading companies in the capital and beyond.
If you’re a performer, or love the arts, you’ll find your fit in Cardiff.
It’s a bustling hub of theatre types – overflowing with creativity and an enduring pre-show buzz.
There are plenty of opportunities to get involved with projects, try out something new and meet people with similar interests to you.
Because here’s where you’ll find fellow creative spirits who’ll become your best friends for life.
A unique environment offering specialised industry-focused programmes developing secure technique along with a broad understanding of the creative industries in Wales and beyond.
Building on the success of both the Wales International Academy of Voice and Canolfan Berfformio Cymru, WAVDA is a hub of creativity, developing the actors, singers and directors of the future.
The work ethic of the Academy is based on respect and collaboration, our students work with renowned industry experts refining their art in readiness for their careers.
Play video: Cardiff Student Life at the University of Wales Trinity Saint David
Choose your story on the stage or in the wings.
With degrees in Vocal Performance, Perfformio and Musical Theatre, you’ll learn from renowned industry experts who’ll refine your talent and get you ready for life after uni.
Cardiff is all about respect and collaboration – our students work together to create magic.
And with links to Theatr Genedlaethol Cymru, S4C, National Dance Company Wales, BBC Cymru, Mid Wales Opera and more, you know you’ll be received with a standing ovation when you graduate.
Stroll along the newly regenerated waterfront, go clubbing in Cardiff’s ex-industrial warehouses, and soak up the culture in internationally-renowned museums, galleries and theatres.
Plus, there’s a medieval castle, 76 000-seat international stadium, and all the shops, restaurants and cafés you could want in a city.
And if you fancy exploring other urban hubs, you’re less than an hour away from Swansea and Bristol, and less than two hours from London and Birmingham.
Cardiff, a city of endless opportunities and boundless potential is home to our Haywood House Cardiff Campus.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cardiff/how-get-our-cardiff-campus:
Cardiff, a city of endless opportunities and boundless potential is home to our Haywood House Cardiff Campus.
Located in the bustling city of Cardiff, Haywood House is perfectly situated to offer you the best of both worlds.
To make your journey to our Cardiff campus hassle-free, we’ve compiled detailed directions and transportation options to guide you.
Haywood House is within walking distance of the city centre, central bus and Cardiff Train Station.
Haywood House is accessible from a number of Cardiff Cycle routes which can be found at Cardiff Council .
Cardiff Station has great rail links with trains running regularly from and to Carmarthen, Swansea, Manchester Piccadilly and London.
You can plan your train journey in Traveline.cymru.
Haywood House is accessible by the regular bus services across the city.
You can use UWTSD Myunijourney Planner to help you plan your bus journey.
Cardiff Campus is conveniently located and well-connected to major roads, including the M4 motorway.
Cardiff city has a number of parking options but the closest multistorey car park to Haywood House is Cardiff Dumfries Place.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cardiff/top-10-things-do-cardiff:
Cardiff is a student-friendly city that has something for everybody.
Stroll along the newly regenerated waterfront, go clubbing in Cardiff’s ex-industrial warehouses, and soak up the culture in internationally renowned museums, galleries and theatres.
Plus, there’s a medieval castle, 76 000-seat international stadium, and all the shops, restaurants and cafés you could want in a city.
Our campus is only a short walking distance to the city centre, so you’ll have all of this on your doorstep!
Well known for a good night out, Cardiff is full of the cool bars and restaurants you would expect in a capital city.
Including clubs like PRYZM, Tiger Tiger, Popworld, Mary’s and so much more.
Cardiff is home to some of the country’s most iconic entertainment.
Millennium centre - the national arts centre for Wales, is situated in the heart of Cardiff Bay.
Enjoy a West End musical, opera, ballet, contemporary dance, hip-hop, or some stand-up comedy.
There’s the New Theatre, one of the principal theatres of Cardiff, located in the city centre.
St David’s Hall is also a performing arts and conference venue which you can visit.
Then we have the Principality Stadium, an iconic venue in the heart of Cardiff.
Hosting a range of events, including concerts, international football and rugby, motorsports, and more.
Or why not enjoy an open-air gig at Bute Park?
With a whole host of activities available you won’t be at a loss of things to do as a student in Cardiff.
Including ice skating, and swimming at the Cardiff International Pool and Gym, Cardiff International White Water centre, and numerous parks ideal for cycling, skateboarding, and more.
Just a few miles down the road there’s Penarth pier 1929 art deco-styled refurbished Pavilion building.
Go to the funfair or a day at the beach in Barry Island or along the South Wales coastline.
How about a hike in the beautiful Brecon Beacons National Park?
With the most beautiful views.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/carmarthen:
Become the hero of your own story in the historic market town of Carmarthen.
Ready to start your adventure?
Get active with some of the best sea kayaking, coasteering, mountain biking and rock climbing in the world.
Nestled along the scenic River Towy, you’re just half an hour from the Bannau Brycheiniog National Park (Brecon Beacons) and the stunning sandy beaches of Pembrokeshire and Carmarthenshire.
Whether you’re an outdoor enthusiast or simply love to explore, the natural beauty surrounding Carmarthen provides the perfect backdrop for adventure and discovery.
These breathtaking landscapes perfectly complement our exciting range of courses – from sport, health, and outdoor education to performing arts and creative industries.
Play video: Carmarthen Student Life at the University of Wales Trinity Saint David
Carmarthen Campus is more than just a place to study – it’s a home from home for around 1,500 students.
It offers a close-knit, safe, and welcoming environment where students are known by name, not by number.
Here, you’ll find a strong sense of community and a university experience that values individual growth and wellbeing.
The campus blends historic charm with modern innovation.
You’ll find Old College, dating back to 1848, standing proudly alongside the Canolfan S4C Yr Egin, a state-of-the-art creative centre that opened in 2018.
This unique combination of old and new provides an inspiring setting for both study and social life.
Carmarthen is a place where you will be inspired, empowered, and supported to reach your full potential.
We want to see you flourish, develop valuable skills, and leave university with a sense of achievement and confidence for the future.
Here, you’ll have the freedom to express yourself, explore new opportunities, and shape your own success story.
Carmarthen offers a welcoming and inclusive environment where students quickly feel at home.
The supportive campus community ensures that everyone belongs, making it easy to form friendships and build lifelong connections.
Whether it’s through societies, sports, or creative collaborations, you’ll find plenty of ways to engage with campus life.
Carmarthen offers a dynamic range of hands-on, career-focused courses, including:
Business & Management
Sport & Health
Performing Arts
Archaeology & History
Youth & Community Studies
Early Years & Education Studies
Adventure Filmmaking
Wellbeing & Mental Health
Creative Writing
Philosophy & Ethics
Ancient Civilisations
Here, learning goes beyond the classroom.
You’ll have opportunities to gain real-world experience, take centre stage in performing arts, inspire the next generation, and make a difference to society.
Our graduates leave equipped with the skills and confidence to thrive in their chosen fields.
Our Carmarthen Campus is just a short walk from the town centre, a place steeped in history and charm.
From the picturesque Carmarthen Castle to the tranquil River Towy, the town offers a stunning environment that will inspire you throughout your university journey.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/carmarthen/how-get-our-carmarthen-campus:
Our Carmarthen Campus is located just a short walk from the town centre.
A town encompassed in history and charm.
From the picturesque Carmarthen Castle to the serene River Towy, Carmarthen’s beauty will inspire you throughout your time here.
We understand that every journey is unique, and that’s why we’ve compiled comprehensive information on various transportation options to make your journey to our Carmarthen campus a breeze.
Carmarthen Campus introduced an Automatic Numberplate Recognition System in February 2023.
Parking on campus is free of charge for permit holders only, visitors can park on campus but must pay to park via one of the payment meters or the PayByPhone App on the signage available.
Our Carmarthen Campus is about 30 minutes’ walk from either Carmarthen bus or Train Station
Our Carmarthen Campus is accessible from National Cycle Route 4 and there are plenty of areas for locking your bike available on campus
Carmarthen Train Station has great rail links with trains running regularly from and to Swansea, Milford Haven, Pembroke Dock and Manchester Piccadilly.
We recommend using Traveline.cymru to plan your journey ahead of time.
Our campus is just a 26-minute walk from the station, or please see the Bus section for regular buses that stop near our campus.
Carmarthen has a comprehensive network of bus services, connecting to our Carmarthen campus on both College Road and Jobs Well Road, making our campus easily accessible by eco-friendly modes of transport.
If you are driving to our UWTSD, Carmarthen Campus, Carmarthen, SA31 3EP.
If you are attending an open day, parking is available on our Carmarthen Campus car park.
Visitors to UWTSD must pay for parking unless pre-approved.
All vehicles, whether pre-approved or not, must be registered upon arrival, and parking charges apply at Carmarthen and Lampeter, with specific enforcement hours and rates; any PCNs issued must be handled through Parking Eye.
In order to ensure a practical parking management solution, spaces on campus are divided into zones as shown on the Carmarthen Parking Maps.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/carmarthen/top-things-to-do-in-carmarthen:
Explore the Town
The historic market town of Carmarthen has a large array of cafes, bars, and shops including Pizza Express, Costa, Lush, and a fully digital, 3D six-screen cinema.
Local institution Sloppy Joes was recently described by a student as “the place to go for a good quality juicy burger!” This is not a place to be missed.
Carmarthen is our active campus!
With plenty to do on and off campus, take advantage of the onsite gym, pool, and sports hall, or get involved in our Academy of Sport where there’s a wide range of activities to keep you entertained.
Get off campus and experience everything Carmarthenshire has to offer, with activities like sea kayaking, coasteering, and rock climbing right on your doorstep!
With several friendly pubs and clubs in town, our students recommend Club XO, Cwrw, and the Friends Arms pub as some of the best.
Check out the Lyric Theatre, star of the film ‘Save the Cinema.’ See local talent on the stage such as Carmarthen and District Youth Opera, as well as touring companies from across the UK.
Our Carmarthen campus provides a whole host of activities on-site.
Including a library, theatre, swimming pool, gym, sports hall, and students’ union bar and club, as well as on-campus student accommodation.
Feeling peckish?
Have lunch in our Merlin restaurant or a coffee and cake in The Cwad.
Just a short drive from Carmarthen town centre, we have the beautiful village of Llansteffan.
Hosting its picturesque beach and castle – perfect for beach volleyball and a BBQ with friends!
Carmarthenshire is also home to more glorious beaches in addition to its beautiful green countryside, including Cefn Sidan in Pembrey, Pendine, Ferryside, the Millennium Coastal Park in Llanelli, and Laugharne, home to Dylan Thomas’ Boat House.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/swansea:
The city as your campus?
Check.
Buzzing student energy?
Feel the sea breeze and enjoy the city vibes as you study and socialise in Swansea.
You’ll be within walking distance of the five-mile stretch of stunning sandy beach – and all of the best pubs, restaurants and nightlife that Swansea has to offer.
Swansea is big enough to give you the space you need to grow, but small enough to make you feel like you belong.
Here, the city is your campus and you’re sure to find your kind of people.
From buzzing nightlife to a range of outdoor activities, you’ll become an integral part of a welcoming community, where you’ll meet some awesome characters along the way.
Play video: Swansea Student Life at the University of Wales Trinity Saint David
Live and learn in the heart of a thriving seaside city at UWTSD Swansea.
The university’s locations include some of the city’s most beautiful historic buildings alongside some of its newest modern additions.
You’ll always be within easy reach of the city’s destinations for shopping, entertainment, culture and nightlife, and sports facilities.
And if you fancy getting out of the city, head out and discover Mumbles – a vibrant and picturesque area full of bars and restaurants, with a pier and a castle – and the glorious Gower peninsula, just a few miles up the road from the city centre.
UWTSD’s new SA1 Waterfront Campus and Innovation Quarter development, in the city’s maritime quarter, sits next to the marina and a five-mile stretch of sandy beach.
The main building, the IQ, is where you’ll develop fresh ideas and discover new innovations with STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) subjects, with access to specialist equipment for your studies and projects.
The IQ is also home to UWTSD’s education and teacher education programmes in Swansea.
And our super-modern new library, Y Fforwm, with its breathtaking views of the city and sea, is just a few steps away.
Want to make your way in the world of business or public service?
UWTSD’s Swansea Business Campus (SBC), is where you can immerse yourself in our innovative business degrees.
You’ll learn from professionals and academics with industry experience – and develop the versatile skills needed for a career in business and management, public services, health, or as an entrepreneur.
Plus, there’s student accommodation close by, which means you can roll from halls to your lectures in moments.
Thinking about a creative degree?
UWTSD’s Dynevor and Alexandra Road buildings, at the heart of the city’s art quarter and near the internationally renowned Glynn Vivan art gallery, are home to Swansea College of Art.
You can study a wide range of award-winning art and design courses here in our beautiful workshop and studio spaces.
And when you’re in your final year, you’ll get the chance to showcase your work at our annual city-wide degree show – a popular cultural event in the city and beyond.
Choose hitting the ground running with career goals firmly in sight.
Make waves in business.
Express yourself in Art and Design.
Explore brand-new ideas and innovations with STEM subjects.
Empower the next generation through teaching.
Swansea is known for our innovative, industry-led and career-driven programmes which put you in the driving seat.
Our Swansea campus is made up of multiple locations across the city.
A dynamic and thriving hub of education and innovation, nestled within the vibrant city known for its breathtaking coastal beauty and rich cultural heritage.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/swansea/how-get-our-swansea-campus:
To ensure your smooth arrival and easy navigation around our campuses, we’ve curated this “How to Find Us” page to provide you with all the information you need.
Whether you’re travelling from near or far, our goal is to ensure that your arrival is as stress-free as possible.
University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD), IQ Building, SA1 Waterfront Campus, Kings’s Road, Swansea, SA1 8EW
The University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD) IQ Building at SA1 Swansea Waterfront is within walking distance of the city centre, central bus and Swansea Train Station.
The University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD) IQ Building at SA1 Swansea Waterfront is accessible from a number of Swansea Cycle routes which can be found at Swansea Council .
Swansea Station has great rail links with trains running regularly from and to Carmarthen, Cardiff, Manchester Piccadilly and Swansea.
You can plan your train journey at Traveline.cymru.
The University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD) IQ Building at SA1 Swansea Waterfront Kings’s Road, Swansea, SA1 8EW is accessible by the regular bus services across the city.
You can use UWTSD Myunijourney Planner to help you plan your bus journey.
There is free parking* at The University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD) IQ Building at SA1 Swansea Waterfront, Swansea, SA1 8EW.
UWTSD, Swansea College of Art, 34 Alexandra Road, Swansea, SA1 5DU
Alex is within walking distance of the city centre, central bus and Swansea Train Station.
Alex is accessible from a number of Swansea Cycle routes which can be found at Swansea Council .
Alex is accessible by the regular bus services across the city.
The nearest parking is at Orchard Street NCP, SA1 5AS.
UWTSD, Swansea College of Art, Dynevor Place, De-La Beche Street
Dynevor Building is within walking distance of the city centre, central bus and Swansea Train Station.
Dynevor Building is accessible from a number of Swansea Cycle routes which can be found at Swansea Council .
Dynevor Building is accessible by the regular bus services across the city.
Swansea Campus introduced an Automatic Numberplate Recognition System in February 2023.
Please be aware that our parking facilities are limited to spaces available and a permit does not guarantee you a space.
Our facilities can get very busy during term time and are utilised by staff and visitors also.
If you have the option for alternative transport or car sharing, it is highly recommended and encouraged.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/swansea/top-things-do-swansea:
Swansea has a mixture of independent shops which offer a huge variety of niche products alongside the big-name stores.
Drop into the famous Swansea Market for a vast array of stalls from electrical goods to food and fresh produce, including the renowned cockles and laverbread.
The city centre is also home to a bowling complex, laser tag, and two large cinemas for everyone to enjoy.
Next to our SA1 Waterfront campus, where the city meets the sea, Swansea Marina is situated in the award-winning Maritime Quarter area of Swansea.
Annual events include the Waterfront Winterland with its fair and ice skating, the annual Air Show, and a number of sports events including park runs both a 5 and 10K.
Wind Street is home to a variety of bars, clubs, and restaurants for students to enjoy and indulge in – a student night on a Wednesday is not something to be missed!
Swansea was awarded its 9th Purple Flag in 2023.
Highlighting how visitors can expect an entertaining, diverse, safe, and enjoyable night out.
Sitting in the heart of the Copr Bay development, Swansea Arena is a landmark 3,500-capacity indoor arena that opened its doors in March 2022 and attracts some of the world’s top names in entertainment.
The historic Swansea Grand Theatre is also full of charm and atmosphere and provides the public with a broad range of cultural, artistic, and general entertainment events.
Swansea is home to several internationally renowned galleries including the Glynn Vivian and Mission Gallery.
Other cultural venues include Swansea Museum, the National Waterfront Museum, and The Dylan Thomas Centre.
Swansea is home to Swansea City AFC, Swansea RFC, and Glamorgan County Cricket Club.
A range of professional sport for you to enjoy!
Swansea is an active city with plenty of opportunities to try a range of land and water-based activities.
This includes surfing, cycling, paddle boarding, kayaking, golf, tennis, and kite surfing to name a few.
The LC is Wales’ premier Waterpark and Leisure Complex.
Wales National Pool also offers a 50m pool.
As a student with us, you will also have access to our cross-campus Academy of Sport.
Mumbles is a well-loved area of Swansea with an array of boutique shops, cafes, bars, a castle, a lighthouse, a Victorian pier, and of course the legendary Joe’s ice- cream.
Parks and green spaces are plentiful in Swansea many of which are within walking distance of our campuses including Clyne Gardens, Singleton Botanical Gardens and boating lake, Victoria Park, Brynmill Park, and Cwmdonkin Park, with its links to Dylan Thomas.
These green spaces are great places in which to relax, revise, and spend time with friends all within easy walking or cycling distance of the city centre.
The Gower Peninsula is just a short drive from Swansea city centre, designated as the UK’s first Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty in 1956 the 19-mile-long Peninsula, which starts at Mumbles and extends westwards, is most famous for its beautiful coastline and stunning beaches – a favourite destination for walkers and surfers alike.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/lampeter/how-get-our-lampeter-campus:
Our Lampeter campus is located in the heart of Lampeter town.
A town, steeped in history and culture.
Embrace the warmth and hospitality of the local community.
We’ve curated this “How to Find Us” page to provide you with all the information you need to reach our Lampeter campus effortlessly.
Whether you’re travelling from near or far, our goal is to ensure that your arrival is as stress-free as possible.
UWTSD, College Street, Lampeter SA48 7ED
The nearest train stations to Lampeter are Carmarthen and Aberystwyth with regular trains from major cities and towns.
From Carmarthen and Aberystwyth, you can catch one of the regular buses that run to Lampeter.
Details on the bus services can be found above under our ‘Bus’ section.
The local bus service in Lampeter offers regular routes that connect different parts of the town, including our campus.
Regularly buses run from two nearby Carmarthen and Aberystwyth
If you are driving to our UWTSD, Lampeter Campus, College Road, Lampeter, SA48 7ED
If you are attending an open day, parking is available on our Lampeter Campus car parks.
All vehicles, whether pre-approved or not, must be registered upon arrival, and parking charges apply at Carmarthen and Lampeter, with specific enforcement hours and rates; any PCNs issued must be handled through Parking Eye.
In order to ensure a practical parking management solution, spaces on campus are divided into zones as shown on the Lampeter Parking Maps.
These include-
Lampeter Campus introduced an Automatic Numberplate Recognition System in February 2023.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/lampeter/top-things-do-lampeter:
The historic market town of Lampeter offers a lively mix of independent shops, restaurants, and cultural attractions.
Browse local crafts and produce at the farmers’ market, or visit the Welsh Quilt Centre, which showcases a world-famous collection of Welsh quilts within the town’s historic Town Hall.
Lampeter is known for its commitment to sustainability.
As an e co-heritage town, it has embraced green initiatives, including community-led sustainability projects and eco-friendly businesses.
Denmark Farm Conservation Centre offers workshops on rewilding, sustainable living, and local biodiversity.
Food lovers will enjoy the town’s excellent eateries, from Granny’s Kitchen and The Mustard Seed to the vegetarian café at Mulberry Bush Wholefoods, a local institution since 1974.
The town’s pubs and restaurants serve up a variety of local produce, ensuring there’s something for every taste.
Lampeter is surrounded by some of Wales’ most stunning landscapes, making it a perfect base for outdoor adventures.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/london:
Discover UWTSD’s dynamic educational environment in the centre of London.
With smaller classes and either weekend or weekday study as options, we prioritise an interactive learning experience that accommodates your life’s demands.
Embracing diversity, we foster a highly supportive and friendly environment where learning is an engaging shared experience.
Our commitment extends to your holistic development, enriching your personal journey with us.
Step into London with UWTSD, where our campus, based in an iconic building at Westferry Circus, signifies more than teaching and learning – it’s a dedication to supporting mature students.
Our experienced academic and professional service staff provide tailored support, from practical workshops and seminars, to 1-1 support that enriches your programme, ensuring your prepared for success.
Cultivate lasting connections with our staff and experience an engaging learning atmosphere.
At UWTSD London, we strive to introduce you to industries related to your interests, allowing for personal and professional growth.
Choose an education that can transforms lives.
Immerse yourself in one of the world’s most captivating and vibrant cities and explore the diversity of city life at Canary Wharf and beyond, whilst surrounded by a thriving business community, including global brands and start-ups.
Play video: London Student Life at the University of Wales Trinity Saint David
Step into the heart of London with UWTSD, where our vibrant campus signifies more than learning – it’s a dedication to supporting mature students.
Our experienced staff provides tailored support, from workshops to adaptable programmes, ensuring your success.
Cultivate lasting connections with lecturers and experience an engaging learning atmosphere.
Choose an education that can transforms lives.
Explore a dynamic learning space where programmes accommodate your life’s demands, offering a pragmatic approach to your educational journey with UWTSD London.
Choose your story in a city that thrives on difference, diversity and belonging.
Eat food from around the world.
Visit exhibitions showcasing international artists.
Enjoy the never-ending stream of gigs, concerts and club nights of world-famous musicians, performers and DJs.
Everyone can find their fit in London.
Offering courses taught on campus with a focus on business, computing, or health and social care, UWTSD London courses are designed to prepare you for the workplace and impress employers.
You will be taught a mixture of both theoretical and practical knowledge and skills which varies by programme.
Our London campus provides a structured learning environment so that week by week, you will build your confidence and expertise in your chosen subject area.
When you apply for your programme, you can choose either the option to study your programme exclusively during the week or alternatively, just at the weekend.
And because you’re studying in a campus surrounded by one of the world’s top business hubs, you’ll feel immersed in industry.
London is a captivating and dynamic city that offers a world-class education experience like no other.
Located in the heart of London’s thriving financial district, our new London campus in Canary Wharf embodies the fusion of industry and academia.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/london/how-get-our-london-campus:
London is a captivating and dynamic city that offers a world-class education experience like no other.
Whether you are an incoming student, a visitor, or a faculty member, this comprehensive guide is designed to help you navigate your way to our bustling and vibrant campuses in the heart of London.
1 Westferry Circus
London
E14 4HA
1 Westferry Circus is located in Canary Wharf, which is well-connected and pedestrian-friendly.
London Campus is within a walking distance of Canary Wharf Station.
Canary Wharf has bike lanes and bike-sharing services.
You can cycle to 1 Westferry Circus from nearby areas.
It is accessible from a number of  Cycle routes which can be found at Cycling routes in Canary Wharf - 🚲 Bikemap .
The Canary Wharf Underground Station is your closest stop on the Jubilee Line .
When you arrive at Canary Wharf Underground Station, make sure to take the West exit toward Jubilee Plaza which is the closest exit to our campus at around 8-9 mins walk.
When you arrive at the station, follow the signs for the West Exit.
Click here for more details.
Several bus routes serve Westferry Circus , including 135 , 15 , 277 , and D7 .
You can Click here to check out the specific route and timings based on your location.
If you’re arriving by train, Canary Wharf Station is your closest stop on the Elizabeth Line .
When you arrive at the station, make sure to take the exit via either  Fishermans Walk or N Colonnade , Both exits are within 15 mins walk to 1 Westferry Circus.
The Canary Wharf DLR Station is another option for reaching 1 Westferry Circus .
It’s located next to One Canada Square and serves the Canary Wharf office complex.
The DLR network runs from Canary Wharf to various destinations, including Bank in the heart of the City of London, Tower Gateway, Stratford, Beckton, Woolwich Arsenal, and Lewisham.
You can check here the specific route and timings based on your location.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/london/top-10-things-do-london:
Located in the heart of London’s thriving financial district, our London campus embodies the fusion of industry and academia.
This modern educational hub offers students access to a vibrant urban experience.
Our new campus at Canary Wharf, which we moved to in June 2024, has been significantly updated and upgraded with the latest modern educational facilities.
Discover the unique opportunities that await at London campus, where we transform education and lives.
Additionally, we offer both weekday and weekend delivery on some programmes, catering to diverse and mature student profiles
Near 1 Westferry Circus, students and locals can enjoy the calm of Westferry Circus Gardens, a beautifully landscaped area that provides a peaceful retreat from the urban landscape.
Additionally, Jubilee Park, with its cascading water features and lush plantings, is a perfect spot for picnics or quiet contemplation.
For those seeking an oasis amidst the skyscrapers, the Crossrail Place Roof Garden offers an impressive display of exotic plants sheltered within an innovative wooden structure, reflecting the area’s maritime heritage.
For a unique social experience, Electric Shuffle Canary Wharf offers a modern take on shuffleboard, perfect for an evening with friends.
To appreciate London’s skyline, the Sky Garden presents a lush, landscaped garden set within a glass dome, offering breathtaking views and a serene escape from city life.
Additionally, for those seeking a more relaxed evening, The Cocktail Club provides a waterside setting with an artistic interior, perfect for sipping on expertly crafted cocktails.
Each venue caters to the diverse preferences of students, ensuring a memorable night out.
The Museum of London Docklands, a short walk from the campus, provides a deep dive into the rich history of London as a port city with engaging exhibits and galleries.
For those interested in design and innovation, The Design Museum showcases a wide range of creative works and has been recognised with the European Museum of the Year Award.
Market Halls Canary Wharf, a short walk away, is a standout destination, bringing together a mix of London’s best street food, from Malaysian delights to classic burgers, complemented by live music and sports screenings.
For those seeking a more traditional market experience, the Greenwich Vintage Market is also a short journey away, offering an array of antiques, crafts, and food in a family-friendly atmosphere.
Additionally, the area hosts The Lunch Market, where every Thursday, visitors can indulge in a kaleidoscope of flavours from around the world, perfect for breaking the monotony of daily routines.
Canary Wharf hosts a variety of events catering to diverse interests, many of which are well-suited for students.
The Summer Screens event, running from late May through early September, offers a chance to enjoy sports screenings in an open-air setting.
For those interested in wellness and self-care, the Wharf Wellness events provide a four-day festival dedicated to rejuvenation and wellbeing, taking place in early June.
The Alfresco Arts series throughout the summer months includes theatre performances and music events, offering cultural experiences under the open sky.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/research/camau-ir-dyfodol/camau-ir-dyfodol-phase-3:
The Camau i’r Dyfodol project is a collaborative initiative between the University of Wales Trinity Saint David and the University of Glasgow.
The project supports educational professionals to co-construct shared understanding of learning progression for Curriculum for Wales (CfW).
Phase 1 of the project focused on understanding of progression in the education system in Wales.
Phase 2 built on this understanding, to collaborate with education professionals to think through some of the challenges and opportunities of curriculum realisation – translating CfW within practice within your own schools and settings.
Phase 2 also explored some of the shifts in thinking involved when working with a purpose-led, process-oriented curriculum.
Practical support materials were developed from the work and thinking of the co-construction group.
They can be accessed on the Curriculum for Wales webpage .
Phase 3 of the project puts into practice the insights gained from Phase 2 regarding the realisation of the Curriculum for Wales.
Building upon the practical support materials from Phase 2, there will be collaborative efforts with practitioners in their individual schools and settings to develop curricula using a process-oriented approach.
Additionally, the phase will involve developing approaches for progression and assessment, influenced by a purpose-led, process-oriented perspective to realise the Curriculum for Wales.
These approaches are designed to be shared across the system, enabling their incorporation into professional practices for capacity building.
Phase 3 offers the scope to explore and engage in curriculum development within individual schools, supported by the Camau i’r Dyfodol team
Phase 3 creates a valuable opportunity for schools to focus on developing their own curriculums, with the support of the Camau i’r Dyfodol team.
This phase encompasses two key components:
This exchange aims to foster a broader perspective and collective learning.
In this collaborative setting, schools are encouraged to share practices and challenges, of developing a process-oriented approach.
Throughout this phase, the Camau team plays a pivotal role in assisting both the individual school teams and the collaborative inter-school groups, in the curriculum development process.
We anticipate the time commitment for the Camau project to be equivalent to ten school days per school staff member; this would sit on top of the work the schools and their teams are already planning to enable curriculum realisation.
The majority of the time spent with Camau colleagues will be either on-line or within the school itself; there would be an expectation, however, for an AoLE team member to attend three full-day events through the course of this academic year.
For more information, please contact camau@uwtsd.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/research/international-association-minority-language-media-research/xix-international-conference:
Registration is now closed.
The XIX International Conference on Minority Languages will be held in Wales between 20 and 24 June 2023.
It is thirty years since the ICML was last held here, during which one of the keynote speeches was delivered by Professor Joshua Fishman.
Over the past three decades, the landscape of so-called minority languages has changed dramatically: political, social, economic, technological and environmental challenges have transformed the contexts in which global linguistic diversity exists.
Regional, minority, or minoritized language communities in different parts of the world continue to experience a range of factors and circumstances: their domains can expand as well as contract, their populations in numbers or percentages may increase as well as decrease, the patterns of daily use are becoming more complex and their speakers live in increasingly multilingual and mobile environments in both rural and urban areas.
Yet very often, the wider socio-economic, technological, cultural and political frameworks prioritise monolingualist paradigms and ways of working.
Activism and community endeavours – as emphasised in Fishman’s own work – continue to be important resources for many minority languages across fields as diverse as education, technology, media, public administration, commerce, economic development and broader political structures.
In addition to a wide range of academic papers, panels and posters, ICML 2023 aims to present participants with a site-specific sociolinguistic experience of contemporary Wales and provide in-depth knowledge of practitioner-based case studies as well as opportunities for networking and contact building.
Our All-Wales partnership for ICML 2023 includes a wide range of stakeholders who play a key role in language revitalization in Wales.
Please allow 15-20 minutes for your paper presentation, with additional time for questions.
Please send your PowerPoint presentation to canolfan@cymru.ac.uk by Thursday 15 June.
ICML 2023 will be held between 20th and 24th June 2023.
The Conference will be held on the Carmarthen Campus – Halliwell Centre and Canolfan S4C Yr Egin.
The University can offer student accommodation on site for ICML delegates for four nights from Tuesday 20th June to Saturday morning 24th June.
Bed and breakfast is priced at £210 per person.
Rooms will be allocated on a first come first served basis.
Conference delegates may wish to arrange their own accommodation in Carmarthen town or nearby.
See Travelling to Carmarthen for local distances to the Conference Site.
Information about your journey and parking can be found on the University’s website.
You will need to register your car on arrival when you register for the conference.
Conference organisers will be able to share a QR Code with you.
The Conference will be held on the Carmarthen Campus, University of Wales Trinity Saint David in the Halliwell Centre and Canolfan S4C Yr Egin.
ICML 2023 will be held between 20-24 June 2023.
The Conference will be held on the Carmarthen Campus – Halliwell Conference Centre and Canolfan S4C yr Egin.
The call for papers has now closed.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/scale:
Scale is a new project, designed to support your business development and growth.
Scale will run throughout 2024, supporting Swansea-based enterprises entrepreneurs and graduates.
Scale will provide assistance to enterprises wishing to develop new products and services as well as to incorporate new technologies and processes.
This will be delivered through a series of business focussed workshops, one-to-one surgery sessions and collaborative research and development (R&D) projects.
In addition, Scale will also work with aspiring entrepreneurs and start-ups through a launch pad and accelerator programme, designed to create new sustainable Swansea-based businesses.
Scale is co-funded through the Shared Prosperity Fund, administered by Swansea Council and delivered by the University of Wales Trinity Saint David.
Throughout 2024 Scale will be delivering a series of business-oriented workshops.
Scale workshops will introduce new processes, technologies and practices to support your business development
The workshops will cover a range of topics such as social media, AI, 3D scanning and printing, HR… and much more!
The workshops will run throughout 2024 and a full list will be published shortly.
Do join our mailing list to keep up to date.
We are keen to hear from you and welcome suggestions for further workshops.
Absolutely nothing, these are free workshops for those with a business address in the City and County of Swansea.
All upcoming events will be publicised on our social media channels.
You will be able to sign up from this website as they are announced.
Looking to grow your business?
Sign up to our workshops here!
Upcoming workshops will be announced here as well as on all our social media channels.
Scale Business Masterclass: Next steps
Your potential market
Leadership skills and business growth
Managing change in your growing business
How do we ensure long term viability and sustainability
Scale Business Masterclass: Bidding, pitching and closing deals
Recruiting and retaining the right staff for your growth plans
Understanding the importance of Intellectual Property and Copyright for your business
Throughout 2024 Scale will be working with enterprises on collaborative R&D projects.
Scale collaborative research and development
Do you have a research challenge that you need help with?
If your business is involved in developing a new product or service, we may be able to assist through a research and development project.
We have expertise in key research areas including:
The R&D will be a collaboration, with no ‘cash cost’.
Instead, participating enterprises will be expected to contribute staff time to demonstrate true collaboration.
We can discuss this with you.
Fill in our online scoping form to apply or send us an email.
This four-week programme of 4 sessions of 3 hours once a week is for anyone who would like to explore starting their own business.
Launchpad – taking your ideas to business ready in 4 weeks Could you be your own boss?
Are you ready to embark on an extraordinary journey of business start-up?
Look no further, because our Business Start-up Course is here to equip you with the essential skills and knowledge to kickstart your entrepreneurial journey.
In this information-packed course, we combine all the essential knowledge you will need to successful start your own business with a friendly and approachable team of experts who boast years of entrepreneurial experience.
Our enterprise team has supported hundreds of start ups and are dedicated to guiding you every step of the way.
Throughout this course, you’ll dive deep into the fascinating world of start-ups, learning invaluable strategies to transform your brilliant business ideas into reality.
From crafting well-defined business plans to understanding market trends and honing your marketing skills, we’ve got you covered.
At the end of the course, you’ll be armed with a comprehensive understanding of business fundamentals, an entrepreneurial mindset, and a sense of confidence that will propel you forward.
Don’t miss out on this opportunity to gain the tools and knowledge needed to thrive in the business world.
Click that “Sign Up” button now to secure your spot in our Business Start-up Course.
Let’s turn your entrepreneurial dreams into reality, together!
Remember, the road to success begins with the first step.
Start today, and discover the world of self-employment.
Run over four 3-hour sessions in Swansea, this programme will give you all the help and information you need to get yourself ready for your first customer and bring in that much needed income.
During the sessions we will look at how to get started, finding customers and the practicalities of running your own business.
What’s stopping you?
The SCALE Team is looking forward to working with you to take your business ideas to the next level.
This programme is offered as twelve, 3-hour sessions and is aimed at anyone who would like to take their current business to the next level.
Accelerator – Enabling business owners to grow already successful business to be more sustainable and financially viable.
Welcome to the SCALE Accelerator, where innovation meets acceleration!
Embark on a transformative 12-week journey that will revolutionise your approach to business.
Our Business Growth Course is designed for entrepreneurs and business owners ready to take their ventures to new heights.
Throughout this immersive experience, you’ll dive into strategic planning, marketing mastery, financial acumen, and leadership essentials.
Each week unfolds a new chapter in your business evolution with the help of Industry Expert led Masterclasses.
Whether you’re a startup looking to scale rapidly or an established business seeking a fresh perspective, this course equips you with the tools and insights needed for sustained growth.
Get ready to elevate your business, connect with like-minded peers, and turn your growth aspirations into a strategic reality.
This Free programme is for Swansea business owners wishing to develop their ideas and business further.
Offered as 12 sessions of 2–3 hours in Swansea this programme will help you develop the tools and knowledge required to build on what you have already achieved in your business
During the programme we will look at your business structure and financials, investment opportunities as well as prepare documentation such as financial and business plans for investment and other growth opportunities.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/agc:
The Architectural Glass Centre (AGC) is the commercial arm of the renowned glass department at Swansea College of Art, University of Wales Trinity Saint David.
Our services cover most aspects of commissioning, manufacturing and installing decorative glass work.
Latest news and events from the Architectural Glass Centre.
Read more...
Learn more about our completed works and view our galleries.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/agc/case-studies:
A centre piece for the refurbishment of the Alex building, the Glass Beacon is located in the central tower of the original Old Swansea Central Library, home to Swansea College of Art’s celebrated centre for glass education since 1935.
Collaboratively designed by staff and students, the Glass Beacon incorporates a spectrum of contemporary glasses, from hand cut, mouth blown sheets to experimentally waterjet cut components.
The AGC managed the project’s manufacture, bonding the entire scheme over 12 laminated backing sheets.
After its installation, sandblasted and fire polished makers marks designed by students and alumni were retrofitted with VHB tape.
Redhouse Cymru is a centre for the arts and creative industries in the heart of Merthyr Tydfil.
Formerly the Old Town Hall, a magnificent Victorian Grade II listed building, Redhouse Cymru is the culmination of an extensive redevelopment programme.
The AGC undertook the restoration and glazing of over 100 Victorian leaded lights, many of which were severely damaged or lost entirely.
Original glass patterns, authentic lead profiles and handmade roundels were used throughout.
Missing areas of original paintwork were recreated, including a stained glass portrait of Queen Victoria at the centre of the main glazing scheme in the grand entrance.
Y Fforwm library is part of the latest UWTSD campus development on the Swansea Waterfront and incorporates artwork undertaken by the student body.
This first floor decorative glass balustrade was designed by Stacey Mead, BA Surface Pattern Design student at Swansea College of Art.
The continuous pattern, inspired by the dock’s water side environment, runs across 14 metre square, 25mm thick laminated glass panels.
The AGC worked with closely with Stacey, assisting in project management, the production of stencils and sandblasting the final design.
Creating work for commercial use is daunting task and the team at the AGC gave me the confidence to complete a high level final piece.
The team also produced my final work which now takes pride of place in the new SA1 Campus Library.
In short I could not have produced such a high quality piece without the AGC and will always be grateful that I had the opportunity to work with them.
— Stacey Mead
In 1966, celebrated Welsh artist-craftsman Jonah Jones created an imposing dalle de verre scheme for the Church of the Resurrection of Our Saviour in Morfa Nefyn, on the Llŷn peninsula.
When the church was closed for demolition, the AGC removed the scheme, transporting it to our workshop where the panels were individually restored for relocation to St.
David’s Church in Mold.
The scheme consists of 12 windows, each composed of two panels over a metre and a half high, constructed from fragments of inch-thick coloured glass slabs set into a resin matrix.
Damaged and missing areas of glass and resin were repaired and replaced, and blocks of coloured glass were fused to replace colours that couldn’t be sourced commercially.
Our in-house waterjet cutting facilities allowed us to precision cut the replacement dalles to fit exactly into their cast resin openings.
One of the base panels had completely failed due to structural issues and was rebuilt as an almost exact copy of the original.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/agc/news-and-events:
If you are interested in obtaining further information about our news or events, please contact the team .
We can add you to our mailing list.
The Architectural Glass Centre at Swansea College of Art is pleased to announce the autumn session of specialist glass painting masterclasses by Jonathan Cooke.
The glass painting masterclass is suitable for both beginners and those with previous experience of glass painting.
Jonathan will demonstrate and teach his techniques, and discuss materials, tools and firing schedules.
There will be ample time for participants to practise, produce samples and create finished pieces to their own designs.
An additional masterclass will be available focusing specifically on the use of enamel and silver stains: an exploration of materials and techniques for use principally in traditional glass painting, using a range of stains, transparent and opaque enamels, a range of media and mixing techniques, application and firing regimes to achieve differing effects and outcomes.
To book please contact: agc@uwtsd.ac.uk Telephone : 07769 210127
For examples of Jonathan’s own work, see his website .
For more information on glass courses at Swansea College of Art UWTSD, please search the website .

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/agc/what-we-do:
Our services cover most aspects of commissioning, manufacturing and installing decorative glass work.
The Architectural Glass Centre (AGC) is able to offer a consultancy/advisory service covering all aspects of:
Glass design, construction and installation
Information on stained glass artists in the UK and beyond
Commercial glass studios in the UK and abroad
Potential sources of funding
The Architectural Glass Centre (AGC) has undertaken a range of commissions for:
Decorative and stained glass windows
Dalle de verre
Screens and panels
Signage
Decorative glass features
Awards
For examples of completed commissions see our Case Studies .
Domestic Installation
The AGC has worked with architects and private clients to design and realise a number of glass panels and installations for domestic installations
Schools
The AGC is committed to developing links with schools in the community.
In-school workshops allow pupils to experience the creative process and gain a valuable insight into the complexities of designing for glass.
We also invite schools to visit, to see firsthand the realisation of their ideas into glass.
Students and ex-students of the university have worked with a number of schools in the local area and further afield to realise commissions.
Places of Worship
The AGC undertakes new commissions for churches and chapels.
We can assist with the process of advising on appropriate styles and techniques, selecting a shortlist of artists, overseeing the fabrication of glassworks and supervising installation.
Over recent years the AGC has completed a number of commissions for places of worship; the newest examples can be found in our Case Studies .
Public Art
The AGC undertakes new commissions for secular buildings and spaces.
We specialise in the processes of advising on appropriate styles and techniques, selecting a shortlist of artists, overseeing the fabrication of glassworks and supervising installation.
In the last few years commissions have been completed in a number of locations.
These include West Glamorgan Archive Service and Children’s Hospital Cardiff.
Further examples can also be found in the Case Studies .
Conservation/Restoration/Repair
The AGC has undertaken a number of conservation and restoration projects, including: heraldic stained glass at Margam and leaded work at Merthyr Town Hall.
Further examples and fuller details can be found in our Case Studies and in News and Events .
The Architectural Glass Centre (AGC) has worked with many emerging stained and architectural glass artists/designers and potential clients on topics such as:
Appropriate selection processes
Supervision of projects
Costings
Contracts
Channel 4 Time Team
Staff from the Swansea School of Architectural Glass took part in a ‘Time Team’ project, recreating a sample of medieval stained glass.
Celtic Studios
A book by Professor Maurice Broady ‘A Vision Fulfilled: The story of Celtic Studios and Swansea’s architectural glass tradition’ was jointly edited by Elizabeth Broady and Alun Adams and published by West Glamorgan Archive Service.
Copies are available from West Glamorgan Archive Service
Book on Glass Painting by Jonathan Cooke
The AGC advised Jonathan Cooke in publishing ‘Time and Temperature: A glass painter’s guide to multiple layering’.
Technology Report, Margam Castle
Alun Adams collaborated with David Dungworth of English Heritage on the publication of a technology report, ‘Scientific Examination of the window glass, Margam Castle, Port Talbot.
Undergraduate and Postgraduate Courses
The Architectural Glass Centre (AGC) in collaboration with the internationally renowned centre for glass education, Swansea College of Art at UWTSD, organises and hosts a range of glass courses for professionals and interested amateurs.
The AGC can also provide internships, work experience and bespoke courses tailored to your requirements.
Workshops
The AGC runs a range of workshops each year, many of which are suited to both the novice and those wishing to update or extend their skills.
Past workshops have covered skills such as fusing, sandblasting, glass painting, adhesives and bonding, gilding and architectural mosaics.
For the latest course information go to News and Case Studies or contact us on 07769 210127.
Other Activities
The Centre also organises:
Talks and lectures
Trips and tours around the UK and Europe
Trips to glass and related exhibitions, trade shows
The Architectural Glass Centre (AGC) sells a comprehensive range of specialist tools, paint brushes and materials for glass artists.
Contact the AGC to discuss your requirements and to check opening hours.
The Architectural Glass Centre team work with a number of partners.
Please find some useful links below:
The Swansea College of Art Glass Department
J & R Cooke – Stained Glass Conservation
Stained Glass in Wales
Rachel Phillips Glass Artist
Scene and Word – Cofio Jonah Jones

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/graduation/graduation-brochures:
A copy of your Graduation Brochure will be available to download below.
The Graduation Brochure is correct as at the date it is downloaded or printed.
The Graduation Brochure is available below.
The Graduation Brochure is available below.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/mission-and-vision/sustainability:
UWTSD is dedicated to creating a community of staff and students who support sustainability through social, economic, cultural and environmental responsibility.
We work collectively across all University areas to collaborate and educate individuals about the ways we can positively influence today’s society and generations to come.
UWTSD declared a climate emergency in 2019 and we are working hard to protect your planet so that you can have the best future possible.
For general enquiries around sustainability please email .
On average UWTSD used 135,000 disposable cups per year and generates 1,599Kg of waste and 34 tonnes of CO2 emitted into the atmosphere as direct results of this waste stream.
This is the equivalent of 170 double-deckers filled to the brim with carbon dioxide.
In our journey to Net Zero Carbon, UWTSD catering services are aiming to use less disposable coffee cups.
Since October 1st, you’ve been getting 50p off the price of your hot drink when you bring in your own reusable (lidded) cup.
Ten percent of customers have already taken advantage of this discount.
In the two months since it has been running, nearly 600 of you have remembered your reusable cup, which has saved 6.7kg of carbon, equating to 45.5 baths full of carbon.
Also a massive thank you the catering team for promoting this initiative across all our cafés.
Spread the word, BYO cup – save money and the planet!
Travel is a key policy area, both nationally and locally, that significantly impacts upon climate change.
It is also a great example of how UWTSD have looked holistically at how we decrease our carbon emissions, while supporting colleagues to take their own meaningful action on reducing theirs.
Last year UWTSD launched the Electric Vehicle (ultra-low emissions vehicle) Salary Sacrifice Lease scheme.
This is operated by an expert in this field Knowles Fleet.
Salary sacrifice is an arrangement under which you agree to give up (sacrifice) some of your gross salary (your salary before income tax and National Insurance Contributions (NIC) have been deducted) in exchange for a non-cash benefit, such as a car, provided by your employer.
This means that you do not have to pay tax, or national insurance contributions on the amount that you give up.
By signing up to this scheme, you agree to sacrifice an amount of your gross salary, on a monthly basis, in return for a brand new ULEV car.
This car will be leased to you for a fixed period (either 2 or 3 years) and there will also be a pre-agreed mileage limit, the same as if you leased a vehicle from a local garage.
The added benefit is vehicles under the scheme come inclusive of all maintenance, tax and insurance costs so it’s a single monthly payment direct from their salary with no other vehicle costs.
Sixteen members of staff have already benefitted from the this and have the pleasure of driving their brand new Electric Vehicle.
Electric Vehicle charging points have been installed by Podpoint across the majority of our estate.
If you register on the Podpoint app with your UWTSD staff or student email address, the electric is charged at a preferential rate (currently 20p p/kWh), significantly cheaper than the public rate and most commercial charging points.
In addition to these schemes much of the University fleet is now electric which is seeing the current charging points being well used.
To increase capacity to ensure that our university vehicles can be charged, UWTSD have successfully applied for a Welsh Government Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure grant that will see the additional charging points being installed in Cardiff Registry, Swansea IQ and SBC, Carmarthen Campus, and Lampeter Campus.
A cupboard brimming with household things that you need, FREE to a good home, open to EVERYONE.
The Community Cupboard has been collecting items that maybe useful to you, such as bedding, crockery, curtains, cutlery, electricals pots and pans, anything that can be put to good use.
If you need something you can come to the Community Cupboard and see if we have it and you can take it home for FREE.
Donations The Community Cupboard is based in the: Dylan Thomas Centre, 6 Somerset Pl, Swansea.
SA1 1RR Open weekly.
Please contact communitycupboard@uwtsd.ac.uk
Follow the links below for information on how to get there using sustainable modes of transport.
The University demonstrates its commitment to long-term goals of becoming a net-zero carbon organisation with the signing of the ‘ Swansea Bay Healthy Travel Charter ’.
The charter’s ambitious actions promote sustainable transport methods and empower staff and students to make green travel choices.
Staff and students are encouraged to follow this detailed hierarchy when deciding on whether to attend a meeting or conference off site:
The Green Dragon Environmental Standard is awarded to organisations that can demonstrate effective environmental management and that are taking action to understand, monitor and control their impacts on the environment.
It’s suitable for organisations of all sizes, in any industry, and is flexible in design, so you tailor it to your needs.
The Standard, which is structured into five ‘Levels’, allows organisations to gain a third-party certification that provides recognition of their environmental practices and demonstrates their commitments to sustainability, consideration of environmental impacts, compliance with legislation and environmental protection.
The 5 Levels of Green Dragon are:
Level 5 Green Dragon is equivalent to, and in fact requires a greater environmental commitment in respect to public reporting and carbon emissions than ISO14001 and EMAS.
The Green Dragon Environmental Standard is owned and managed by Groundwork Wales, a UKAS Accredited Inspection Body.
Working together Kelly Williams, Executive Head of Operational and Estates and Facilities, and the Head of Sustainability, have established a clear accountability route that ensures that sustainability becomes embedded into policy and establishes collective responsibility to make a positive impact upon our people, our communities and our planet
The Sustainability Steering Group (SSG) is responsible for supporting the Sustainability agenda for the University Group, and for monitoring and measuring progress against performance indicators to confirm effective implementation and alignment with organisational objectives and strategy.
It will review (where appropriate) strategy and policy and approve or refer to Senior Directorate as is necessary, while working to ensure that the requirements of both UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Wellbeing of Future Generations Act (2015) requirements are met.
This steering group is chaired by the Chief Operating Officer who is instrumental in driving the institutional change.
The Sustainability Development Group (SDG) is formed by managers across every academic and professional service in the University as well as Coleg Sir Gâr.
This group has student representation, and membership is open to all students who wish to be part of it.
They are tasked with creating a departmental sustainability action plan, capturing suggestions and actions to move the sustainability agenda forward to meet our commitments, including the Net-Zero Carbon by 2030 ambition.
The membership of these groups ensures senior level oversight and support for this agenda, as well as ensuring engagement and consultation with senior officers in terms of wider University Group impact.
Across the academic and professional services, staff members have taken on roles as champions.
The Sustainability Champions and Waste Champions will be pivotal to enabling the shift in organisational culture that is required to truly embed sustainability
Across the student body, sustainability interns and student champions are nudging their peers along the sustainability journey.
The roles range from supporting litter-picks to sorting donations or running awareness campaigns.
Students also have an opportunity to be co-opted onto sustainability action groups, themed groups that develop strategy and action plans in specific areas such as food or biodiversity.
Green Impact is a world-wide environmental accreditation developed by the National Union of Students (NUS) and now run by Students Organisation for Sustainability (SOS).
The programme is a United Nations award-winning programme, that a range of organisations can take part in, from Students’ Unions, Universities, NHS Trusts and more.
Over 60 Universities and 70 Students’ Unions in the U.K have taken part!
The Green Impact Programmes aim to provide a framework for organisations to work with to record and grow their sustainable actions.
SOS also provide training and support for any organisations undertaking Green Impact, to ensure that they achieve as many sustainable actions as possible.
For universities, the Green Impact programme looks for students and staff to undertake impactful actions towards sustainability; this includes environmental sustainability but also more widely at wellbeing, culture and how the university embeds sustainability across all curriculums and programmes.
For Students’ Unions, the Green Impact programme seeks to support students’ sustainability initiatives across campuses whilst working with Elected Officers in their Students’ Union to build sustainability into the core of the Union strategically and operationally.
For the University, initiatives carried out throughout the year for Green Impact are designed to incorporate sustainability into everyday practice.
Example activities include encouraging staff to only print when absolutely necessary and applying double-sided printing by default; using marketing materials to remind people to turn off lights and electronics when not in use; uploading lecture notes and module handbooks electronically to reduce the number of print-outs disseminated to students, and recycling food waste – with one of our teams setting up their own wormery!
To reduce the impact of travel, car-pooling has been introduced by some teams and video conferencing negates the need for staff to travel between campuses for meetings.
UWTSD Students’ Union take part annually in the Green Impact Accreditation, the last accreditation was ‘Very Good’ .
Having recently gone through the process they are awaiting the outcome of the latest assessment.
The accreditation recognises all the work that was undertaken by the Sabbatical Officer Team, the Part-time Officer Team, INSPIRE Interns, students and staff.
The INSPIRE Interns have supported with leading on campaigns such as Go Green Week, collecting, promoting and distributing the reused of coffee grounds and building rainwater collectors.
They have worked in partnership with the Sustainability Team and Student Services to deliver litter picks and awareness campaigns across the student and staff body at UWTSD.
You can see more on the Students’ Union website about the campaigns that have happened that supported the work of Green Impact.
To find out more about Green Impact and how you can get involved, take a look at the website .
For general enquiries around sustainability please email sustainability@uwtsd.ac.uk with further information available from the Sustainability Contacts below.
emyr.jones@uwtsd.ac.uk
d.priddy@uwtsd.ac.uk
b.evans-phillips@uwtsd.ac.uk
cenwyn.jones@uwtsd.ac.uk
k.hodson@uwtsd.ac.uk
emily.spencer@uwtsd.ac.uk
r.doswell@uwtsd.ac.uk
Sustainability is at the heart of UWTSD; as such our staff and students work hard to have a positive impact on our people, our communities and our planet.
Take some time to have a look at a few of our stories below.
Play video: Taith Peilliwr

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/mission-and-vision/human-rights:
This support includes supporting the distribution of a new guide to human rights, which aims to show why they are important to the everyday lives of people in Swansea.
PDF versions of the guides can be downloaded from the council website.
Swansea’s declared ambition to become a Human Rights City is shared by the University and other key organisations such as the police, health board, fire service, and voluntary groups as well as businesses and residents across the city.
Tackling poverty
Supporting vulnerable children and families
Tackling discrimination
Tackling domestic abuse and violence
Raising awareness of human rights
In the eighty or so years since U.S.
President Franklin D.
Roosevelt’s speech on January 6, 1941 in which he articulated ‘the Four Freedoms’, the world has changed beyond recognition but today in many parts of our world those fundamental freedoms are under threat.
In his address Roosevelt proposed four fundamental freedoms that people “everywhere in the world” ought to enjoy:
Freedom of Speech
Freedom of Worship
Freedom from Want
Freedom from Fear
Eight decades on and the City of Swansea is aiming to become Wales’ first Human Rights City.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/mission-and-vision/armed-forces-community-covenant:
University of Wales Trinity Saint David is the University for South West Wales; we have campuses in Carmarthen, Lampeter and Swansea which means an even broader range of learning opportunities for you to choose from delivered in the heart of Swansea.
We are the first dual sector University as we are working in partnership with both Coleg Sir Gar and Coleg Ceredigion.
What this means to you is that, with such a wide range of opportunities, we can hopefully offer you both a course and a learning experience to suit you and which reflects your needs.
We have an excellent record of working with mature students across all our campuses.
University of Wales Trinity Saint David is registered with the MoD’s Enhanced Learning Credit Scheme so you can find out about our courses on the ELCAS website or have a look at ours on this website.
For general information on the application process for mature applicants and support available, please visit our Mature Students section.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/mission-and-vision/university-sanctuary:
UWTSD Sanctuary Bursaries are aimed at people with refugee, humanitarian protected, limited leave to remain or asylum seeker status, or dependents of the same.
The scheme includes the waiver of tuition fees as well as other forms of support.
Find out more…

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/emergency-notices:
No emergency notices active.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/newsroom/request-film-uwtsd-premises:
We recognise the important role of the media in communicating the University’s achievements and aspirations and we seek to facilitate this work whenever possible.
The University can offer producers and filmmakers access to a wide range of internal and external settings for commercial and non-commercial filming.
Our estate covers locations in Swansea, Cardiff, Carmarthen, Lampeter and Aberystwyth.
Our buildings, grounds and interiors range from nineteenth-century listed buildings to more modern architecture.
We have specialist equipment and resources across our campuses including the Roderic Bowen Library and Archives which is home to the University’s special collections in Lampeter and state-of-the-art technology and facilities at our Swansea campus.
Please contact the Corporate Communications and PR team, if you wish to film a news item at the University or if you are a student carrying out project work involving filming on campus.
Staff who are taking part in media work are kindly asked to contact the Communications team to inform them of any filming/media requests.
We will liaise with other departments of the University including the Operations Team to seek the relevant permissions and to ensure that no other conflicting activity is taking place on the campus.
Communications Team:
Internal Requests: Cyfathrebu-Communications@uwtsd.ac.uk
External Requests: Press@uwtsd.ac.uk
If you would like to enquire about filming at the University, please contact the Operations team to discuss your enquiry in the first instance.
All relevant permissions must be given, and submit documentation prior to filming taking place.
This will typically include evidence of insurance details and a full risk assessment in addition to a location agreement and agreement of a location fee.
Please submit your request by completing the form.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/newsroom/university-statements:
All Vice-Chancellors in Wales appeared before the UK Government’s Welsh Affairs Committee on 25 June to discuss the financial challenges facing the Higher Education sector.
During the session, UWTSD Vice-Chancellor, Professor Elwen Evans KC, confirmed that, while undergraduate teaching at Lampeter will cease this summer, the University is not closing the campus and is actively working to secure a new, sustainable use for it.
Professor Evans highlighted the importance of the campus to the community and invited members of the Committee to visit Lampeter to learn more about the University’s plans.
A recording of the Welsh Affairs Committee session is available here .
Due to diminishing numbers of students at the Lampeter campus and the financial challenges facing the UK higher education sector, the University took the decision to relocate Humanities teaching to its Carmarthen campus from September 2025.
We are committed to supporting the future of Humanities at the University and continuing to provide a high quality educational experience for all our students.
We are equally committed to the future of the Lampeter campus, not only because of its importance in the history of higher education in Wales but also because of its place within the local and regional community.
Responsibility for the Lampeter campus sits with the University, but we are actively engaging with a wide range of representatives from across our community to explore viable and exciting opportunities for its future use.
So that we can be open and transparent, we established a Key Stakeholder Group of representatives including local politicians, business and community leaders, and University-associated groups including the Lampeter Society.
At the Group’s first meeting, members discussed and agreed a process by which proposals would be received and considered.
We have responded directly to all stakeholders who have contacted us regarding the process for submitting and considering proposals and are continuing to respond to their requests for further information.
As agreed, all proposals will be provided to the Key Stakeholder Group at the first meeting after the submission closing date of 19 May 2025.
Several meetings may be needed to ensure that the Group has every opportunity to consider the proposals in detail.
We are grateful for the enthusiasm shown by the community and are optimistic for the future of the Lampeter campus.
On 11 November 2024 it was proposed that, given the diminishing numbers of students studying full-time at the Lampeter campus, the University should relocate current and future Humanities teaching and learning to its Carmarthen campus from September 2025.
This would provide students with improved access to services that would support their university experience and, allow the Humanities discipline the opportunity to flourish in a more inter-disciplinary environment.
Since then, the University has engaged in regular conversations with students and staff to listen to their responses to the proposal and undertaken a formal consultation with trades unions and affected staff.
Discussions have also been held with external stakeholders representing local, regional and national interests.
The engagement from students and staff has made an essential contribution to challenging and helping to further develop the original proposal.
The University has now concluded its decision-making process and approved the proposal to relocate its Humanities provision from Lampeter to Carmarthen.
We have worked to reduce uncertainties for staff and students by making a decision in good time to enable the transition.
The University will now commence preparations and practical considerations, to enable a smooth transition for Humanities to begin the academic year at its new Carmarthen home in September 2025.
The Lampeter campus is of great importance to the University.
A mechanism will be established through which stakeholders can be involved in proposals for a range of economically viable, education-related activities that would bring a new, sustainable lease of life to the campus.
On 31 January 2025 the University published its financial statements for the year to 31 July 2024.
In these financial statements we record a surplus of £30,587,000.
However, this includes a reduction in staff costs of £32,925,000 (shown in the ‘Movement on USS Provision’ line) related to the revaluation of the USS pension provision.
In 2023–24 the Universities Superannuation Scheme (USS) was revalued and contributions reduced for both members and employers.
In addition, the value of future contributions to the USS’s current calculated scheme debt (which is shared among all active employers in the scheme) has also fallen.
The scheme is currently in surplus, so it shows as income rather than expenditure.
This movement is not money that the University has available to spend.
It is an ‘accounting surplus’ and must be shown here as part of the accounting rules*.
The University’s underlying surplus of £382,000 is shown on page 15 of the Financial Statements , this reflects the operational financial performance of the University in that financial year.
* An explanation of these rules can be found in Accounting for Pensions in HE

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/governance-and-management/academic-office:
The Academic Office is responsible for the development and management of the University’s academic regulatory framework, quality assurance and enhancement and academic experience procedures (e.g.
surveys).
The office also oversees the student-facing framework (both academic and non-academic student cases) and learning and teaching through the Nexus Framework.
It also provides support for the principal academic committees of the University that relate directly to its remit.
The office has its main base on the Carmarthen campus but has an active presence on all of the University’s main campuses.
The Doctoral College forms part of the Academic Office.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/feedback:
Survey open: 6 February 2025 – 30 April 2025 Who is it for?
New students (students starting after 1st January 2025) How to complete?
Check your email for ‘ Welcome Survey ’
1st and some 2nd year undergraduate students
This includes: CertHE students, HNC students, students on a 1-year top-up course, HND students in their first year, BA/BSc students in 1st or 2nd year
This excludes: Students who started after 1st January 2025, HND students in their final year How to complete?
Check your email for ‘ AES ’
Final year students (HND or BA/BSc) How to complete?
Check your email for ‘NSS’ The email has been sent from Ipsos Mori
Postgraduate Taught students How to complete?
Check your email for ‘ PTES ’
Postgraduate Research Students How to complete?
Check your email for ‘ PRES ’
Survey open: Continuously throughout the year in four three-month survey periods.
Who is it for?
All graduates that obtained relevant higher education qualifications, 15 months after completion of studies.
Graduates are surveyed after completing each qualification and can therefore be surveyed on more than one occasion.
How to complete?
Check your personal email approximately 15 months after completing your studies for emails from UniversityofWalesTrinitySaintDavid @ graduateoutcomes.ac.uk .
Visit the official website for more information.
The student privacy statement applies to all student surveys at UWTSD.
NSS Survey Promotion The NSS should reflect what you think about your course.
UWTSD should not influence your response.
Please find further information on the NSS guidance on inappropriate influence on the Student Survey website .

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/university-council:
The University’s governing body is the University Council.
Under the Charter and Statutes, the Council is responsible for determining the educational character and mission of the University, overseeing its activities, ensuring its solvency and safeguarding assets.
The Council works closely with the Vice-Chancellor and other senior members of the Executive in setting the strategic direction of the University.
Thereafter it is responsible for ensuring that there are effective systems of control and risk management in place.
Under integration arrangements agreed in 2017, the University Council works closely with the Council of the University of Wales and shares a standing committee structure.
A common core of governors are members of the two Councils.
The University Secretary and Clerk to the UWTSD and University of Wales Councils is:
Email: governance@uwtsd.ac.uk
This is a shared email account in order to ensure a timely response.
The University Secretary is supported on a day-to-day basis by the Governance Team, which comprises:
Governance Documents

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/governance-and-management/fee-and-access-plan:
The Higher Education Funding Council for Wales (HEFCW) has approved the Fee and Access Plans of the University of Wales Trinity Saint David, allowing it to set tuition fees for its undergraduate courses for full-time Home/EU undergraduate entrants.
These fees allow the University to continue to provide a university experience of the highest quality to students from a wide range of backgrounds and to provide funds for additional student facilities.
The fee plan is approved by the Council of the University of Wales Trinity Saint David and developed in consultation with the Trinity Saint David Students’ Union (TSDSU).

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/governance-and-management/freedom-information:
The Freedom of Information Act 2000 gives people the right to request information from the University and other public sector bodies.
The Act aims to promote a culture of transparency and accountability amongst all public sector bodies and therefore facilitate better public understanding of how public authorities carry out their duties and how they spend public money.
Follow the following steps if you wish to request information about the University:
The Data Protection Officer University of Wales Trinity Saint David Technium 1 Kings Road Swansea Waterfront Swansea SA1 8PH
Your freedom of information request should include:
The University aims to respond to requests within the statutory timeframe of 20 working days.
The  University’s Data Protection Officer may contact you to clarify your request.
If clarification has been sought, the 20 working day time period will be suspended until clarification is received from you.
The Freedom of Information Act defines a number of exemptions which may prevent the release of the information you have requested.
These are explained in detail on the Information Commissioners Office Website
Where the University decides it is necessary to apply any of these exemptions, you will receive an explanation, quoting the relevant exemption, and an explanation of your rights of appeal.
The University reserves the right to refuse any vexatious or repeated requests.
This may include repeated requests from the same person, or from a number of people apparently working in concert, asking for the same information, or making requests which are intended to disrupt the University’s work.
If upon receiving a response to a written request for information, you are dissatisfied with the outcome, you are entitled initially to request a review of the response.
All reviews must be made in writing to:
Or by e-mail .
The review is conducted by a senior UWTSD member of staff (“the reviewer”)
In order to progress your review as quickly as possible, please quote the request reference number  (F20/xx) and the date of your original request, as well as details of why you are requesting the review.
Please include full contact details including a phone number where possible, in case we need to contact you during the review process.
Receipt of your review will be acknowledged in writing.
Following the review, you will be provided with a response from the reviewer containing the outcome and subsequent actions where appropriate as taken by UWTSD
If you are not content with the outcome of the review, you have the right to appeal directly to the Information Commissioner for a decision.
The Information Commissioner can be contacted at: -
Information Commissioner’s Office Wycliffe House Water Lane Wilmslow Cheshire SK9 5AF
Paul Osborne Data Protection Officer Tel: 01792 481180
Email: foi@uwtsd.ac.uk
University of Wales Trinity Saint David Technium 1 Kings Road Swansea Waterfront Swansea SA1 8PH

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/governance-and-management/publication-scheme:
The Freedom of Information Act came fully into force on 1 January 2005 and aims to promote greater openness and accountability across the public sector.
It gives a general right of access to all types of recorded information held by public authorities (including universities), sets out exemptions from that right and places a number of obligations on public authorities.
Under Section 19 of the Freedom of Information Act 2000, the University is required to maintain a publicly available Publication Scheme ; a document that outlines the information that the University routinely publishes, currently makes available or intends to do so in the future.
It is not a list of actual documents, but a guide to the different ‘classes’ or types of information the University is committed to proactively make available.
The publication scheme is intended to assist the public in finding information held by the University and to reduce the need to make a formal FOI request for information.
The University has adopted the Information Commissioner’s Definition document for universities and other higher education institutions, which is organised into seven classes of information:
Organisational information, locations and contacts, constitutional and legal governance.
Legal Framework / Organisation:
UWTSD is a Royal Chartered University and a Registered Charity.
It is governed by its Charter Statutes and Ordinances .
Location and contact details
Collaborative partners
Companies wholly or partially owned by UWTSD:
UWTSD Group:
Other Companies:
Joint Ventures:
Students’ Union
Financial information relating to projected and actual income and expenditure, tendering, procurement and contracts.
Strategy and performance information, plans, assessments, inspections and reviews.
Policy proposals and decisions.
Decision making processes, internal criteria and procedures, consultations.
Current written protocols for delivering our functions and responsibilities.
Information held in registers required by law and other lists and registers relating to the functions of the authority.
Advice and guidance, booklets and leaflets, transactions and media releases.
A description of the services offered.
Information about the majority of the services we offer is available online.
Our courses:
Our Fees:
Our Student Support Services:
Other Student Services:
Other Services:
The University is committed to making information available to the public which falls within those classes.
More details about each class are available in the Information Commissioner’s Definition Document for the Model Publication Scheme for universities .
Information excluded from the scheme
Information available in the classes will not normally include:
Alternative formats
Information about accessibility and alternative formats is published here .
Charging
Much of the information is available free of charge on our website.
In cases where it is impractical for us to make information available via the web, or the information is available in hard copy format only the University reserves the right to levy charges to cover photocopying, postage and packaging.
Such cases will be subject to a minimum charge of £5.00 .
If the request exceeds 50 A4 pages an additional charge of 10p per sheet will be made.
Standard postage will be applied at Royal Mail rates.
Other information
Please be aware that the majority of documents included in this publication scheme have been created primarily for internal purposes.
This may occasionally create minor problems of intelligibility for external readers.
Please send any requests for guidance to foi@uwtsd.ac.uk
If you cannot find the information you are looking for via the publication scheme, you may wish to try the web search facility, available in the top right of the home page.
Information held by the University which is not published under this scheme can be requested in writing.
Such requests will then be considered in accordance with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, Environmental Information Regulations and the Data Protection Act.
Please e-mail foi@uwtsd.ac.uk or see the FOI pages for further details.
Copyright
Almost all publications listed in this scheme are copyright of the University of Wales Trinity Saint David; reproduction of material supplied through the publication scheme or in response to a request for information without the express permission of the University (or copyright holder) may be an infringement of copyright.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/governance-and-management/welsh-language-standards:
The University of Wales Trinity Saint David is committed to be a higher education institute which provides bilingual education and services of choice.
This is evidenced through being a sector leader for bilingual and Welsh-medium education and proactively engaging with the duties set out in the Welsh Language Standards, in accordance with the Welsh Language (Wales) Measure 2011.
The Welsh Language (Wales) Measure 2011 affords the Welsh language official status in Wales.
This means it must be treated no less favourably than the English language.
It also establishes a legal framework to impose a duty on the University and other public sector organisations in Wales to comply with Standards of Conduct in relation to the Welsh Language.
In this section
The Welsh Language Standards, which came into operation on 1 April 2018, outline the services the University will provide through the medium of Welsh and how the University will ensure that full consideration is given to Welsh language matters in any policy or strategy decisions.
Focusing on providing services.
They aim to promote and facilitate the use of Welsh or to ensure that the Welsh language is not treated less favourably than the English language in service provision.
These Standards ask Officers to consider the effect that their policy making decisions may have on people’s opportunities to use Welsh and the guiding principle not to treat the Welsh language less favourably than the English language.
These Standards deal with the way in which the University uses Welsh internally and promotes the concept of a bilingual workplace, affording some rights to employees in the context of receiving their HR Service in their language of choice.
These Standards deal with data and recording systems relating to the other Standards, along with a complaints procedure.
It also includes methods to record service-users language preferences, staff language skills, training and recruitment.
Please find below a copy of  UWTSD’s final compliance notice issued by the Welsh Language Commissioner (September 2017) , which lists the Standards that the University must comply with.
The duties which come from the Standards mean the University  must not treat the Welsh language less favourably than the English language, together with promoting and facilitating the use of the Welsh language; making it easier for people to use in their day-to-day lives.
This supports the UWTSD’s  aim of continuing to improve the provision of services through the medium of Welsh.
The University seeks to comply with the Standards across all its campuses in Wales in accordance with the expectations outlined in the Compliance Notice.
Engagement sessions are provided to managers to embed the Standards, to promote learning opportunities and to share best practice and ideas.
A dedicated page on our intranet provides guidelines and resources to support staff in implementing the Standards and increase use of the Welsh language across the University.
Internal monitoring procedures are established to monitor compliance.
The Welsh Language Standards Officer and the Corporate Governance Unit is responsible for ensuring that the University complies with Welsh language legislation and is the main contact point with the Welsh Language Commissioner.
In accordance with the Welsh Language Standards UWTSD has published a Compliance Plan, that outlines how the University promotes and facilitates the use of the  Welsh language and monitors compliance.
The University must also produce an annual report in relation to each financial year, detailing the ways in which the University has complied with the Standards to which it is subject:
The Welsh Languge Commissioner has a statutory duty to monitor compliance with the Welsh Langauge Standards, and will investigate complaints and breaches of compliance.
It is within her power to impose enforcement action, county court judgements and fines.
As students studying in Wales, you have a range of rights which prescribe that you can receive services through the medium of Welsh at the University.
When you first enrol as a student at the University you will be asked for your preferred language- Welsh or English.
This information is noted on your student record so that staff are aware when they communicate with you.
The Welsh Language Standards imposed on the University enables you to receive the following in Welsh:
UWTSD fully supports your rights as Welsh-speaking students and we are here to support you.
Remember that these are your rights as students.
It is important that you use these rights if you would prefer to receive services in Welsh.
The University will correspond with you in your language of choice.
If you write to us in Welsh, we will respond in Welsh.
If we do not know your language choice, we will correspond with you bilingually.
Please note that the rights apply to the activities listed in the Compliance Notice.
If you have any questions regarding the Welsh Language Standards or for further advice, please contact, iaithgymraeg@pcydds.ac.uk ,  we will be happy to offer advice and guidance.
University staff rights are protected under the Welsh Language Standards although they differ from the rights of the public and students.
They include such matters as the right to use Welsh in relation to professional development and employment, and are listed in the set of Operational Standards.
Further guidance and information is provided for staff on the intranet.
If a member of the public, a student or a member of staff feels that the institution has not complied with one or more of the Standards or has any concerns about the use of the Welsh language then they may submit a complaint.
The procedure below describes the complaints process to be followed in such a situation.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/governance-and-management/corporate-governance:
The Corporate Governance department is responsible for the oversight and monitoring of assurance, compliance, regulator (HEFCW/CTER) engagement, strategic planning and performance monitoring across the University this includes:
Governance and Constitutional Matters
Charities and Companies
Freedom of Information Requests
Subject Access Requests
GDPR compliance
Publication
Welsh Language Standards
Strategic Planning
Policy oversight
Performance and monitoring of the institutional strategy
Oversight and reporting of Key Performance Indicators
Risk Management
HEFCW/CTER and Welsh Government engagement and liaison
Fee and Access Planning
This is evidenced through being a sector leader for bilingual and Welsh-medium education and proactively engaging with the duties set out in the Welsh Language Standards, in accordance with the Welsh Language (Wales) Measure 2011.
Strategies and Policies are in place to shapes our institutional vision.
UWTSD needs to process and store information (including personal information known as 'Personal Data' and sensitive data known as 'Special Category Data') about students, employees and others to effectively carry out its business.
Learn more about the University Council and how to contact us.
The Higher Education Funding Council for Wales (HEFCW) has approved the Fee and Access Plans of the University of Wales Trinity Saint David, allowing it to set tuition fees for its undergraduate courses for full-time Home/EU undergraduate entrants.
Every year the University recognises persons of distinction by presenting them with Honorary Fellowships or Honorary Degrees, normally at a Degree Congregation.
The University welcomes constructive feedback on its activities and recognises that, from time to time, people or organisations external to the University may feel their expectations have not been met by the University, its staff or its students.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/governance-and-management/strategies-and-policies:
Delve into the principles that underpin our decision-making processes, ensuring transparency, accountability, and a shared dedication to advancing knowledge and transforming lives.
We aim to reflect a comprehensive approach to academic and operational aspects through these strategies and policies.
Click to view the UWTSD Strategic Plan.
Please refer to the sections below for the relevant UWTSD document.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/governance-and-management/strategies-and-policies/admissions-policy-and-terms-and-conditions:
The Admissions Policy sets out the University’s aims for the admission of students and describes the principles and processes which are used to select and admit new students to taught programmes of study.
The Admissions Policy document is to be read in conjunction with the University’s Policy Statement on the Admission of Disabled Students.
The Policy and Procedures for Admissions Feedback, Appeals and Complaints document clarifies the arrangements for applicants to obtain feedback about an unsuccessful application, to appeal a selection decision or to complain about the admissions process.
If you accept an offer of a place on a programme of study at UWTSD, you will enter into an agreement (a contract) with us.
This Student Agreement, together with your offer letter, is the legally binding contract that we will make with you and it is very important that you read it carefully before you accept your offer.
Student Agreement
The Student Agreement document is to be read in conjunction with the University’s Policy Statement of the Admission of Disabled Students.
The Cancellation Form ‌ may be used to inform the University of Wales Trinity Saint David that you wish to cancel your place on your chosen programme.
Our tuition fees at UWTSD cover the cost of delivering your course and are payable annually.
However, further costs may be incurred by you during the course of your studies, examples include:
Some UWTSD courses include optional field trips and possible work placements, where participation is encouraged but not required to evidence module or programme learning outcomes and will not disadvantage you should you not be able to take part.
These optional activities are at additional cost to you.
Your annual tuition fees will cover your first attempt at all the modules necessary to complete that academic year of your programme.
Additional modules, the retaking of work and/or repeating of elements of a course, may incur extra costs.
For additional information, please see the individual course page.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/our-institutes/institute-education-and-humanities:
The Institute of Education and Humanities (IEH) combines the disciplines of education, psychology, social policy, youth and community and humanities.
Offering a personal and comprehensive approach to study, we encourage and focus on developing students into future focussed, skilled and employable graduates.
Through innovative teaching, practical experience and an inclusive learning environment we create, innovate and inspire the next generation of educators, leaders and influencers.
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
Apprenticeships
The IEH portfolio is delivered across the University’s campuses in Wales with students following programmes at our Swansea , and Carmarthen Campus , as well as a selection of courses at our Cardiff Campus and at our partner colleges.
UWTSD has a distinguished research tradition, which not only has a global perspective but also attends to contemporary concerns through research in theology and religious studies, history, classics, archaeology, anthropology, and philosophy.
The Psychology department at UWTSD has a strong and exciting research profile in areas of applied and experimental psychology.
The Centre for Advanced Welsh and Celtic Studies was established by the University of Wales in 1985 as a dedicated research centre conducting team-based projects on the languages, literatures, culture and history of Wales and the other Celtic countries.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/sinology:
Discover the wealth of Ancient Chinese language, philosophy and culture through studying with the Academy of Sinology
Discover the insights of Ancient Chinese texts
Discover Ancient Chinese culture
Discover the harmony of the three religions: Confucianism, Buddhism, and Taoism.
Foundation Certificate in Sinolog y
Sinology, BA (Hons )
Sinology Humanistic Education, BA (Hons) Also available as CertHE and DipHE courses
Confucian Classical Studies, (MA )
Chinese Buddhist Textual Studies, (MA )

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/sinology/about-academy-sinology:
The Academy uses an immersive teaching methodology (itself familiar to the ancient sages) by delivering the programme sequentially, one module at a time.
This approach allows the students to focus their learning upon one subject until they are fully absorbed into the deep understanding and meaning of the Chinese texts and are able to translate their learning into deep understanding and insight by the end of each module.
There are six modules in each MA programme.
Each module will be delivered in eight consecutive weeks with a combination of lectures, small group seminars, self-study, presentation practice and essay writing.
Similar approach of BA programme, there are three levels in total and five modules at each level; while Pre-BA programme contains five modules for the duration of one academic year.
There is great emphasis placed on the presentation to ensure that the students are able to effectively communicate the ideals and knowledge learnt.
The Academy believes in the centrality of teaching and learning directly from the ancient Chinese written texts themselves.
Students are thus fully immersed in the ancient texts which is the essential part to the learning process.
Each module is guided by and aligned with selections from the writings of the ancient Chinese sages.
The MA programme will span 72 weeks running consecutively, except for the public holidays, in order to provide students with enough time, focus and concentration, to intensively learn the ancient texts study and to complete study assessments and practice presentations.
The duration of each BA level is usually between 44 and 46 weeks; Pre-BA programme runs for around 40 weeks.
The Academy of Sinology places great emphasis upon the formal presentation and communication of the ideas, concepts and teachings of the ancient Chinese sages to the rest of the seminar group.
Students will work closely and collaboratively with teaching staff to encourage student participation and peer learning, thus operating in a supportive and inclusive learning environment unique to the Academy, a pedagogy we refer as the “Family Culture of Sinology”.
Such a learning culture allows the teachers and the students to work and learn together just like a big family of sinologists.
In this way the Academy of Sinology is a close and supportive environment brought together to jointly learn and study the great texts and ideas of traditional Chinese culture.
Be knowledgeable.
Be humble.
Be responsible for the harmony of the world.
Venerable Master Chin Kung
The establishment, in July 2016, of the Academy of Sinology as a joint institution between the Chin Kung Multicultural Education Foundation and the University of Wales Trinity Saint David marked the beginning of a new era in the studies of the ancient Chinese culture, values and ethics.
Commentators have long known that China remains one of the oldest civilizations in the world, and ancient Chinese culture is shaped and governed by an emphasis on traditional values, filial piety and ancestral respect and commemoration.
The purpose of the Academy is, through education, instruction and enlightenment, to reintroduce this ancient heritage and culture to the international community, at a moment when so much change and chaos in the world today undermines people’s faith and belief in social harmony, mutual respect and peace.
The Academy seeks both to equip its students with a sound and extensive knowledge of ancient Chinese culture and values, as well as the ability to transform that knowledge into wisdom and strength.
Knowledge may be power, but without its accompanying sagacity, insight and deep understanding, it simply remains a piece of futile verbalism.
The Academy wishes to guide and educate its students towards a deep understanding of the classic Chinese texts, and the legacy of the ancient Sages including the Sakyamuni Buddha, Confucius and Laozi.
Many of our students will themselves go on to further instruction and education, to spread their understanding to others throughout the world.
This knowledge will be for many a deeply held vocation and purpose, spreading in turn its ancient ethics, values and insights to others, in all parts of the globe, and in pursuit of a common goal of individual happiness and the restoration of peace and harmony to the world.
In pursuit of this, the Academy believes it can offer a new type of approach to learning, a pedagogy based upon the synthesis of scholarship with the application of that learning and knowledge beyond the confines of the classroom.
This Academy of Sinology is envisioned by the wisdom, insights and learning of the Venerable Master Chin Kung, and sponsored by the Chin Kung Multicultural Education Foundation.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/confucius-institute:
Confucius Institute: Enriching Lives through Chinese Language and Culture.
Serving the Welsh heartlands across Ceredigion, Pembrokeshire, South Powys, and Glamorgan, the Confucius Institute is the doorway to China for students, communities, and businesses.
We aim to enable cultural exchange with China and provide opportunities for study, research, and business cooperation.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/confucius-institute/see-chinese-learn-teach-mandarin-key-stage-2:
See Chinese is a CPD language training course for teachers following the New Curriculum for Wales.
It has been designed specifically for teachers with no prior knowledge of Mandarin Chinese who wish to introduce some simple topic-based language learning to their Key Stage 2 pupils.
The course comes with a complete package of exciting resources that meet the cross-curricular requirements of teaching an international language.
If you would like to see the full potential of the course resources, you can book a teaching demo at your school by emailing confuciusinsitute@uwtsd.ac.uk .
Our ‘See Chinese’ teacher will come to your school and deliver a sample lesson to your students – free of charge!
We’ve called the course See Chinese as the teaching methodology focuses on visual input to reinforce rapid assimilation of Chinese by young learners.
The methodology uses colour-coded sentence builders that immediately relate Chinese language learning to Welsh and English sentence patterns.
In this way it supports the multi-lingual approach to language learning encouraged by the New Curriculum.
The visual learning approach quickly establishes the basic logic patterns of Chinese grammar and syntax which allow young beginners to understand and produce Chinese sentences.
The course is the result of collaboration with Hanzeasy , a website that specializes in teaching Chinese characters with the help of vivid illustrations that aid recognition.
See Chinese consists of 10 themed lessons which can easily be mastered by teachers so that they have all the knowledge and resources for taking the lessons forward with their KS2 pupils.
Many of the topics such as family, animals or numbers are stand-alone units and can be taught by themselves as Chinese language tasters.
These units are also the foundation for further topics and so allow teachers to build a mini-course that can be delivered over a number of weeks.
Taken altogether, the 10 lessons create a solid foundation for a basic grasp of spoken Chinese.
Humanities
Health and Wellbeing
On completion of each lesson of the See Chinese course teachers are given the PowerPoint presentation slides, worksheets and links to other resources for their own use in class.
Each lesson includes:
See Chinese is part of the ‘Learn to Teach Mandarin’ suite of CPD courses for teachers developed by the UWTSD Confucius Institute and is the sister course to ‘Learn to Teach KS3 Mandarin’.
See Chinese can be taught through the medium of Welsh or English, depending on the dominant language of the cohort.
Please indicate your preference in the form.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/our-institutes/institute-education-and-humanities/global-humanity-peace-institute:
The Global Humanity for Peace (GHfP) Institute was jointly launched by the University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD) and the Guerrand-Hermès Foundation for Peace.
It is located in the UWTSD’s Lampeter Campus , supported by global partners.
The Institute carries forward a number of major international research programmes previously developed at the Guerrand-Hermès Foundation for Peace, and is embedded in an excellent research and teaching environment and learning community of the UWTSD.
The Global Humanity for Peace Institute seeks to engage in cutting-edge research aimed at new understandings, innovation, policy change, and social transformation.
The Institute focuses on the following:
All these activities are carried out in partnership with the UNESCO Routes of Enslaved Peoples Project and aligned with UNESCO’s priorities and objectives .
We will offer master’s and doctoral courses and professional programmes in collective healing, health and well-being, social justice, conflict transformation, deep dialogue, positive peace, human-centred education, and community regeneration.
The GHfP Institute facilitates and coordinates the UNESCO Collective Healing Initiative, in partnership with the UNESCO Routes of Enslaved Peoples Project.
Inspired by UNESCO’s medium-term (2022-2029) priorities (e.g.
Africa, gender equality, and youth empowerment), and committed to the UN Decade of People of African Descent (2015-2024), the overarching aims of the Collective Healing Initiative are:
These objectives draw on updated knowledge of the interconnection between collective healing, social justice and global well-being .
Ongoing research highlights that collective healing can contribute to “de-racialising” our vision and “decolonising” our conception of humanity .
It does so by deconstructing racist discourses and ideology, recognising and addressing the harms of slavery’s legacies, transcending the antagonism of ‘us-vs-them’ mentalities, and co-envisaging a common future for all.
More importantly, it can help communities (re)discover the gifts of (indigenous) knowledge, wisdom and practices, and enrich our collective resilience, well-being and co-flourishing with nature.
The GHfP Institute is part of a vibrant research community at the University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD).
The Institute is committed to engaging in high-quality and innovative research on various cross-cutting issues, building on its diverse postgraduate and doctoral programmes, partnership initiatives, and Professors of Practice’s expertise.
The Institute’s Research Team is made up of interdisciplinary researchers, visiting fellows, research associates and research assistants are keen to take part in ongoing dialogue and explorations through regular webinars, symposia, conferences, and other events.
Our research has been focusing on four major domains, including and Collective Healing, Well-Being, Governance, Positive Peace and Human-Centred Education.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/our-institutes/institute-inner-city-learning:
The Institute of Inner City Learning is passionate about widening participation and raising aspirations of students from diverse backgrounds by maximising their potential.
Students and the provision of a friendly, supportive and tailored learning environment are at the centre of all we do, inspiring students to successfully achieve their personal and professional goals.
By using our collective skills and knowledge, we equip our students to meet the challenges of studying, living and working in inner cities with flexible study options either during the week or at weekends
The Institute of Inner City Learning delivers an employment focused portfolio of courses at our London and Birmingham campuses.
Focusing on business and applied skills for the workplace, you’ll develop your skills in a place teeming with global brands, independent business and exciting start-ups.
You’ll be based at our friendly and welcoming campus – and you’ll spend three years living in one of the most exciting cities in the world.
All in a city bursting with opportunities.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/our-institutes/institute-management-and-health:
The Institute of Management and Health (IMH) is committed to developing creative, skilled and employable graduates.
Integrating theory and practice, finding solutions to difficult problems and being able to understand their personal strengths provides each graduate with a skills passport for employability.
Great attention is given to student’s personal, professional and educational journey; providing flexible opportunities for study on programmes created with industry and the public sector.
The Institute delivers programmes across the University’s campuses in West Wales with students following programmes at Swansea Business Campus, at the Carmarthen Campus and our partner colleges.
In addition, the Institute shares many of its programmes with our London campus and at International Learning Centres across the world.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/wahpl/early-childhood-physical-development:
In Wales the play-based curriculum means children have lots of opportunities for moving in their learning.
However, children don’t just magically learn all the skills they need just by playing.
There are some skills that need to be taught, and these skills are also the ones that are needed to play many of the games and sports which support an active healthy lifestyle.
We know from many years of research that if very young children move a lot they will be better movers.
But as they get a little older, start to develop balance and begin to move independently they need to be taught how to move well.
If we teach children to move well they develop the confidence and motivation to lay the foundations for a life of physical activity and better physical and mental health.
Our work here at UWTSD focuses on developing children’s motor skills and is based on over 30 years of research in the field.
Our SKIP Cymru professional development programme has gained national recognition as a recommendation in the Welsh Government Health and Social Care and Sport Committee report on Physical Activity of Children and Young People .
The SKIP-Cymru work has also been highlighted as a case study for the Journey to a Healthier Wales support materials for the Well-being of Future Generations Act.
This work has gained international recognition with Dr Wainwright delivering key note lectures at the International Physical Literacy conference in Toronto and Changing the Game conference in Sweden.
Published research evidence shows the rationale for the development of SKIP-Cymru and also evidence of the impact of this work in Wales
SKIP-Cymru trains adults to analyse children’s movement and then how to teach children the foundational skills they need to be competent movers and so access a range of physical activity.
By recognising the developmental stage a child is at when they are learning to throw and catch, practitioners can use the appropriate equipment and tasks to ensure children progress and develop their skills in a playful fun way.
We research and work on co-operative projects concerning physical literacy.
Our active, engaged team of academic researchers and project leaders collaborate with people of all ages and backgrounds.
Learn more about what we do.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/our-institutes/institute-management-and-health/health-and-ageing:
Assessments and personal programmes are prescribed by our exercise scientists who have many years of experience working with both international athletes and the clinical healthcare of the elderly.
Full aerobic assessment and exercise prescription – £200
VO2max, anaerobic threshold, lung efficiency, exercise prescription, body composition*.
This is a package that delivers all the requirements for athletes and serious exercisers.
VO2max is the gold standard indicator of endurance fitness.
The exercise prescription is personalised to individual needs and essential for optimal improvement of both health and fitness.
Full aerobic assessment, exercise prescription and follow-up assessment – £300
As above, with a subsequent follow-up test.
The importance of a second fitness and health test cannot be overestimated and will show any changes in performance following the first assessment.
Aerobic assessment – £120
VO2max, anaerobic threshold, lung efficiency, body composition.
As above, but excluding the exercise prescription and follow-up assessment.
Full aerobic assessment and follow-up assessment – £200
As above, but including a follow-up test
Clinical assessment  – £120
Ventilatory threshold, blood pressure, lung efficiency, body composition, flexibility, muscle strength.
These tests will measure the health status of individuals who are possibly sedentary or ageing.
Good health is essential for a providing a good health-related quality of life and lowering the risk of medical conditions that can occur as we age.
Clinical assessment and exercise prescription – £180
As above but including a personalised health-related programme designed to improve and maintain health and fitness for the non-athlete.
Muscle strength and power assessment, including resistance training techniques and programme planning – £80
Strength and power are important in many activities, particularly team games and contact sports.
An effective weight/resistance training programme should include optimal intensity, duration, frequency, and recovery times.
Strength and power is also important in later life for the retention of muscle mass, avoiding frailty and maintaining flexibility and mobility.
*A free body composition is included with all assessments
As we go through life our physical activity needs change.
The Centre for Health and Ageing (CHA) builds on internationally acclaimed research by Dr Peter Herbert, developing exercise and health programmes that recognise our changing needs as we age.
CHA provides the opportunity for all members of the community who are over 50 years of age to have access to personalised exercise programmes and one-to-one expert advice on aspects of health, fitness nutrition and lifestyle.
We run classes throughout the year and have online videos to support exercising at home.
We cater for all abilities of participants.
We support people who have not exercised due to health-related conditions, lack of motivation or opportunity, as well as those who are already active or masters athletes to maintain and improve levels of fitness and strength.
Being physically active on a regular basis is a positive move to achieving better health and fitness.
Studies have shown that exercise provides numerous health benefits and that older adults can improve their quality of life by staying physically active.
Even moderate exercise and physical activity can improve health and fitness.
Lack of physical activity can lead to more visits to the doctor, more hospitalizations, and more use of medicines for a variety of illnesses.
Staying physically active and exercising regularly can help prevent or delay many diseases and disabilities.
In some cases, exercise is an effective treatment for many chronic conditions.
Studies show that people with arthritis, heart disease, or diabetes will benefit from regular exercise.
Exercise also helps people who are overweight, have high blood pressure, balance problems, or difficulty walking.
Regular, moderate physical activity can help manage stress and improve your mood.
And, being active on a regular basis may help reduce feelings of depression.
Studies also suggest that exercise can improve or maintain some aspects of mental function.
Being physically active can help you stay strong and fit enough to keep doing the things you enjoy.
It enables you to benefit from exercise such as jogging, cycling and swimming and many leisure activities such as hill walking, tennis and golf.
Some older adults can be reluctant to exercise and concerned that exercise will be too hard or will harm them.
In fact, inactivity is regarded by many scientists as the greatest cause of ill health in later life.
Physical activity describes activities that get your body moving such as gardening, walking the dog, going to the shops and taking the stairs instead of the lift.
Exercise is a form of physical activity that is specifically planned, structured, and repetitive such as weight training and aerobics.
Including physical activity and exercise in your life will provide you with health benefits that can make you feel better and enjoy your life much more as you age.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/our-institutes/wisa:
WISA offers its students the opportunity to explore the innovative potential of art and science that drives our world.
The focus of the Institute is on developing employment-ready graduates who can be change makers in their chosen field of study.
The WISA portfolio is delivered in Swansea , Carmarthen , and Cardiff .
Academics in the Institute are research active with many artists, designers and critical thinkers recognised as being at the cutting edge of their fields.
Our research is cross-disciplinary, and covers a broad scope of work in Automotive Engineering, Logistics and Manufacturing Engineering, and Applied Computing.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/creative-industries-carmarthen:
Carmarthen offers a rich and vibrant hub of creativity that draws together a unique subject combination of the creative and performance-based arts with hi-tech digital film and media processes, to create a learning community that is dynamic, innovative and exciting.
The campus is a creative melting-pot for practitioners and entrepreneurs located within striking and iconic buildings.
Carmarthen is home to our BA Acting, BA Set Design and Production and our BA Adventure Filmmaking degrees, striking a unique balance between outdoor activities and media creation based in a location that can support and offer ample opportunities.
These programmes work hand in hand, creating employable workforces who have gained the hands-on experience needed to thrive in the industry.
As a student at Carmarthen, you will have access to workshops and theatre spaces on campus allowing you to combine your academic study with practical experience.
We provide an environment to nurture the best creative talent in Wales, offering rewarding experiences and work opportunities for talented individuals wishing to work within the creative industries.
Creative energy and flair is generated by a blurring of traditional discipline boundaries and barriers and individual passion is both encouraged and developed by an industry-ready approach to learning and study.
Whether you are an actor, an artist or designer, you will find yourself working alongside, and with, creative writers, filmmakers, new media producers, puppet-makers and directors.
We subscribe to the idea that everywhere is a classroom within our creative community.
The learning opportunities in workshops, lecture theatres, rehearsal studios and locations are where ideas are formed, discussed, and acted upon – these are spaces for reflection, discussion, enquiry and opportunity.
Our workshop is one of the most alternative classrooms we have.
Not only does it host taught sessions about prop making, set building, puppet construction and scenic art but it also is the beating heart of the Set Design & Production course.
Students use the space to develop their craft over the three years studying with us and can use the specialist equipment and materials as often as they want.
It is a space graduates fondly reminisce about as a place where many adventures began.
Expeditions and field excursions are central to our Adventure Filmmaking degree.
They allow students to experience filming in a variety of locations and conditions, utilising the landscapes of West Wales and the wide range of outdoor pursuits that take place in the region.
The creative industries are built on collaborative relationships.
This is the future.
Your future, our future.
We collaborate with creative colleagues every day, on both professional and creative levels.
Collaboration gives voice to individual ideas, respects broad design opinions and embraces differences to build a confident, creative community.
Our Summer Shows are a showcase of the exceptional work of our graduating students across a wide range of creative disciplines.
The exhibitions and performances are held in Swansea College of Art, Carmarthen, Cardiff and London throughout May, June, and July.
These events provide a fantastic opportunity for established and aspiring artists, designers, and performers to experience the innovative and inspiring work produced by our students.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/stem:
STEM stands for science, technology, engineering and maths and refers to any subjects that fall under these four disciplines.
Courses that utilise skills from these areas dominate the league tables for graduate prospects in terms of salaries and professional employment and are jobs critical to the UK economy.
Contrary to common misconceptions STEM is not ‘hard’ or ‘boring’ but opens up a world of possibilities where you have the opportunity to shape the future and change lives, designing that eco home, advancing computer technology, engineering new solutions and helping to tackle the environmental crisis.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/swansea-college-of-art:
An art college education is unlike any other form of university education.
Its uniqueness lies in the way in which it fosters, directs and encourages individuality, creativity and innovation.
The UK has an amazingly rich and diverse range of art colleges with a distinguished heritage of producing globally recognised artists, designers, animators, filmmakers, and performers.
Swansea College of Art, as the oldest and most established art college in Wales, is a well-respected part of that tradition.
All of our courses share a common philosophy; to enable individuality, creative freedom and academic flexibility, all of which we believe are essential in finding your own voice within your chosen creative field.
Our MA Contemporary Dialogues Portfolio creates a unique learning platform from which students are encouraged to broaden their creative experience through experimentation, collaboration and interdisciplinary discourse.
Swansea College of Art at UWTSD is recognised as one of the UK’s centres of excellence in stained glass.
The department has a rich heritage in stained glass education and has an impressive archive of designs spanning 80 years, providing an invaluable teaching resource.
Running throughout the year our Art After Dark programme offers courses in a range of creative disciplines, including ceramics, photography, and illustration.
The Architectural Glass Centre (AGC) is the commercial arm of the renowned glass department at Swansea College of Art, University of Wales Trinity Saint David.
University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD)  Illustration graduate Ellie Loren has been recognised as one of the Top 10 UK Graduates to Watch in 2025 by the Association of Illustrators (AOI) – the UK’s leading body for the industry.
UWTSD’s Swansea College of Art is proud to celebrate the remarkable achievements of its final year students at the second week of New Designers 2025 in London, one of the UK’s most prestigious showcases of emerging creative talent.
The BA Illustration course at the University of Wales Trinity Saint David’s (UWTSD) Swansea College of Art, has welcomed 40 students from Wuhan University of Technology as part of the wider UWTSD Chinese Summer School, an initiative designed to offer international students a dynamic and immersive experience in UK higher education.
Katie Rees, a BA (Hons) Graphic Design graduate from Swansea College of Art at the University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD), has been honoured with The Old Dy’vorians Association President Prize at the university’s graduation ceremony held at Swansea’s Brangwyn Hall.
Congratulations to UWTSD Swansea College of Art BA Illustration graduate Nancy Akuffobea, whose striking mural unveiled in the heart of the city centre outside the University’s Dynevor Building, is already bringing bold colour and cultural richness to public space and marking a major milestone in a deeply personal and powerful creative journey.
A once unremarkable concrete wall at Woodland Trust’s Brynau Farm in Neath has been transformed into a vibrant and inspiring piece of art, thanks to Ellie Jones, who graduates today with a BA in Illustration from the Swansea College of Art, University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD).
New Designers: Week 2
Goodwood Festival of Speed
Fine Art & Photography Exhibition - Copeland Gallery, London
Residuum International Conference 2025
Architecture - End of Year Show
Automotive & Transport Design  - End of Year Show
New Designers: Week 1
Join Us at Our UWTSD Swansea College of Art Open Day

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows:
Summer Shows | Find Your People | News | Previous Shows
Swansea College of Art: An Art School Experience In A Contemporary University.
Creative Industries Carmarthen: A Different Kind of Classroom
Wales Academy of Voice & Dramatic Arts, a unique environment offering specialised industry-focused programmes.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows/summer-show-acting:
The BA(Hons) Acting Programme Team would like to congratulate the graduating creatives of 2025.
It has been a joy and an honour to work with them all over the last three years.
They are an exciting and determined company of individuals.
We cannot wait to see what they do next.
Good luck, Class of 2025!
Timothy Charles Benning
Abbie Bowsher
Reuben Buechler
Shalynn Buys
Jules Claes
Ieuan Evans
Lee Earl
Chloe Fowler
Jaimee Fraser-Ivett
Elahe Ghamat
Katie-Lou Griffiths
Heather Hawkins
Alex Haycock
Tommi Hewitt
Ellie Hooker
Karen Hyomoto
Dionne Loren James
Calon Llewelyn
Kyriaki Mantas
Eddie Matheus
Olivia Steele
Rosie Trueman
Summer Show Acting Showcase.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows/summer-show-architecture:
The BSc Architecture Graduate Show of 2025 showcases the exemplary work produced by our students, exploring dynamic proposals for a range of community projects working exclusively in the historic town of Caerphilly.
The students produced a series of urban design and town centre redevelopment strategies in close context to the historic castle at Caerphilly to enable further investigation and develop a suitable design brief supporting the needs of this traditional, post-industrial valleys community.
This year’s projects span a wide range of proposals, including Caerphilly School of Culinary Arts, an ecological research laboratory through to a castle market venue and a theatre.
The briefs were developed independently by the students.
The work on display also includes a developed understanding of construction methods, technical appraisal, and practical application to support the students’ progression into the workplace and set them up for a career in architecture.
All the staff at Swansea School of Architecture wish them all the very best in their future endeavours.
Staff Team BSc(Hons) Architecture
Moynul Ali
Jimmy Cho
Cole Evans
Hashim Izzidien
My journey here began on the open day, where I had the opportunity to meet the lecturers and students.
Thanks to that experience, I chose to study this course at UWTSD.
Over the past three years, I have learned a lot and gained extensive knowledge in the field of architecture, all thanks to the lecturers, who have been incredibly supportive throughout.
One of the aspects I really appreciated about the course was the one-to-one feedback on my designs from the lecturers.
The facilities at the Swansea Campus have also been excellent; having access to the studio even on days off was especially helpful and greatly contributed to my learning.
I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the university staff from the canteen and security teams to, of course, all my lecturers for making these years at UWTSD so memorable and rewarding.
Hello, my name is Jimmy and I’m a mature student.
I moved from Toronto, Canada to Swansea due to my wife’s psychiatric training, and I feel incredibly fortunate to have joined the Architecture course at UWTSD.
While raising a child during my studies meant I couldn’t spend as much time in the studio, the friendly and flexible staff and colleagues helped me achieve a great deal over the past three years.
The small cohort size and strong professional network within Wales have been major strengths of the course, offering me practical training that has prepared me well for my career.
Now Part 1 qualified and with a fast-growing child, I’m beginning my architectural journey with a practice in Central London.
UWTSD will always remain a significant part of my path to becoming an architect.
Studying Architecture at UWTSD over the past three years has been an incredibly rewarding journey.
The supportive and approachable staff have played a key role in my development, always ready to offer guidance and push me to reach my full potential.
The course offers a rich and varied learning experience, covering everything from architectural history and theory to practical design and the business aspects of the profession.
This holistic approach has equipped me with a broad set of skills and a deep understanding of architecture.
I now feel confident and well-prepared to take the next steps in my career, with a strong foundation in the creative, technical, and professional sides of architecture.
Studying architecture at UWTSD Swansea has been a mix of creativity, chaos, and caffeine.
Over the past three years, I’ve learned how to design spaces, survive crits, and turn last-minute ideas into portfolio pieces.
It’s been an intense but rewarding journey, full of late nights, great people, and more cardboard models than I care to admit.
Ready for the next chapter, preferably with more sleep.
Architecture Summer Show Exhibition.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows/summer-show-automotive-and-transport-design:
Elliott Barrow
Christian John Engelbrecht
Joshua Glaser
Phil Rawlins-Grundy
Lewis Haines
William Hamilton
Jan Mikko Mangaspar
Ben Mills
Henry Radburn
Archie Ritchie
Project Zora: A New Era for Performance EVs Rimac is known for pushing the boundaries of electric mobility, blending innovation with world-class performance.
Project Zora continues that legacy as Rimac’s first four-seater performance car—a sleek, all-electric shooting brake designed for both speed and practicality.
With integrated wind turbine technology that generates electricity while driving, Zora enhances efficiency without sacrificing power.
It’s a bold step toward a smarter, more sustainable future—true to Rimac’s vision of redefining the performance car for the electric age.
Christian John Engelbrecht
The year is 2065, and humanity has arrived at an avoidable fate—one it imposed upon itself.
Entire regions have become uninhabitable; our bodies cannot cope with unbearable conditions.
No matter how much we sweat, our cores are far too hot.
However, within these hellscapes, there are vestiges protecting monuments of immense importance to humanity.
Although the climate is beyond repair, we can preserve what remains.
Spanning across the vast deserts of the Arabian Peninsula is a network connecting the habitable areas to the cultural sites through lethal hotspots.
Braving the heat is the Lexus LO, the Lexus Long-range Overlander.
Traversing the network, it shields its occupants from solar radiation, allowing them to reach the sites that bring them identity and unity as a people.
Based in a fictional Science-Fiction scenario in 2060, PEUGEOT SHIRO is a machine for Carbon Capture focusing on regeneration, sustainability and user wellbeing.
During journeys between facilities, SHIRO transforms carbon dioxide in the atmosphere into solid carbon, used for 3D printing infrastructure, vehicles, cybernetic implants, and terraforming.
Climate change and resource scarcity have degraded the biosphere, causing the environment to collapse and making the world unsuitable for humans, who need Gene Therapy to survive.
Society has clustered into concentrated, secure facilities far apart from each other, and is divided between those who indulge in cognitive and physical enhancements, and those who choose to preserve themselves and contribute to the planet’s regeneration.
SHIRO helps address the ongoing climate crisis and the societal issues surrounding eugenics.
F.R.O.G, an acronym for future racing oxygen generation, is my vision for an eco friendly racing event taking place in the year 2O5O.
With F.R.O.G, I am proposing a worldwide motorsport event that is not just sustainable but actively rejuvenating the environment via carbon extraction, accelerated reforestation, and biofuel sourced from a portion of the trees grown at the venues, playing a role in tackling global warming.
My project is names Porsche Finden (German for find).
This vehicle has been specifically designed for the purpose of commuting across the desert to archaeology sites.
The reason we need a vehicle for this; History shows that the Sahara Desert used to be much more diverse and humid landscape.
It was home to rivers, lakes, and a variety of vegetation, supporting hunter-gatherers and eventually pastoralist.
Below the sand hides forgotten history we must recover.
I have sculpted my design out of clay as a first step toward a career in clay design.
I love the creative process of turning a 2d sketch into a physical 3d form using this traditional hand on approach.
The Centris Z celebrates 100 years of Nissan with a return to pure driving.
Honouring the Z’s legacy of connection and budget performance, it features a long bonnet, wraparound windows with simple yet striking forms.
As a nod to tradition, it wears heritage yellow paint but adds a modern twist with an electrified hybrid powertrain.
The Centis Z is built for the track and sculpted for the streets; it rejects overcomplicated designs in favour of an analogue-inspired soul with modern comforts.
It’s a true evolution of the Nissan Z being felt not just driven.
Jan Mikko Mangaspar
My final major project named the “Honda Triton” was undertaking the task of designing a safer solution to enjoying the thrilling and one-off experience of riding a motorcycle.
This began by identifying key areas of what makes riding a motorcycle dangerous such as the exposure of the rider to harsh forces that are present in the event of a crash/collision.
From then, I was able to focus on designing the incorporation of impact protection directly into the vehicle’s design as well as preserving the feeling of exposure to the elements and the ability to lean into the corners, both unique sensations to the motorcycle experience.
I aim to be working in automotive design industry, although I am passionate for all types of design.
What makes MINI… MINI?
In 1959, it meant being on the cutting edge of FWD and packaging technology.
Driving a MINI meant driving the most advanced small car on the road.
Fast forward to now, though, and the brand is merely retro bodies atop crushingly conventional platforms.
There’s no aspect in which a MINI is leading the way.
Y75 brings the brand back on course through an innovative hydrogen powertrain and a world-first material for the body: the sustainable, ultra-strong and ultra-light Galvorn.
Just the ticket to turn hydrogen power from niche novelty to everyday convenience.
And the name?
It stands for ‘Year 75’ – 2034 marks three quarters of a century since the beginning of the MINI revolution.
It’s time for another.
ALPINE’S HIGH-PERFORMANCE SPECIALISED STEALTH POLICE PURSUIT VEHICLE IS DESIGNED FOR MAXIMUM SPEED, AGILITY, AND PRECISION IN URBAN ENVIRONMENTS.
DELIVERING EXCEPTIONAL CONTROL AND RAPID RESPONSE, COMBINING ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY WITH ALPINE’S MOTORSPORT HERITAGE TO HANDLE HIGH SPEED PURSUITS AND COMPLEX CITY ROUTES WITH EASE.
My major project is titled Astreá, a 100m superyacht designed to meet the needs of a new generation of ultra-high-net-worth individuals.
With the name taken from Astraea, the Greek goddess of justice, purity, and the stars, this yacht concept is meant to embody the same status and vision.
The new clientele mainly consists of young entrepreneurs or social media personalities, who are more active and value privacy, capability, and elegance over ostentation.
Unlike traditional luxury yachts designed for spectacle and entertaining, this concept yacht is meant to express performance, resilience, and refined simplicity.
The sleek design and narrow hull with a flared bow help to enhance hydrodynamic performance.
In combination with its compact nuclear reactor, ASTREÁ enables unparalleled global exploration without sacrificing luxury or efficiency.
Automotive and Transport Design Summer Show Exhibition.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows/summer-show-commercial-dance:
The BA (Hons) Commercial Dance programme team would like to congratulate the Class of 2025.
We have enjoyed getting to know them over the last three years, and watching their confidence grow, their skills develop, and their individual identities emerge.
They have proven themselves to be versatile and talented dancers and we cannot wait to see what they go on to do as graduates.
Good luck, Class of 25!
Honey Boughey
Finlay Carter
Phoebe Clark
Maisie Jacka
Kirstin Mills

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows/summer-show-creative-music-technology:
The Creative Music Technology team is excited to celebrate the Class of 2024 and their final Degree Show, Loop to Launch .
This year’s work spans everything from immersive installations to tightly produced tracks, reflecting a generation of artists who aren’t afraid to experiment, challenge expectations, and push sound in new directions.
We’ve seen their ideas evolve into ambitious projects, their technical skills grow sharper, and their creative voices come into their own.
Highlights include a full-length album release, immersive sound experiences, and a curated listening post showcasing the range and originality of their work.
Loop to Launch is more than a final showcase, it’s a springboard into the next chapter.
Whether heading into the industry, further study, or forging new paths entirely, these artists are ready.
Massive congratulations to the Class of 2024, we can’t wait to hear what’s next.
Joel Awad
Mike Clinton
Brook Fox
Apollo Heap
Tomos Hopkins
Sam King
Alex Owens
Matt Williams
Grace Wolfe
I am a confident and dedicated sound technician and musician who strives for the best results.
Through my life I have been invited to tech and perform for many shows and concerts, proving my love for working alongside others, and for delivering what is expected of me.
Throughout my time studying music technology at UWTSD, I have been able to refine my skills in sound engineering, mixing and mastering, music composition, and videography.
My opportunities have been extensive, ranging from ‘teching’ in Swansea Arena, to creating whole sound worlds for visual media; My strongest projects being developing music and sound design for digital contentusing techniques such as Foley, Booming, and audio-visual editing.
Play video: Summer Show: Creative Music Technology Joel Awad - Field Recording Behind the Scenes
My name is Michael Clinton, I’m a composer, producer, and multi-instrumentalist with over a decade of experience in writing and recording music.
I’ve been a musician for as long as I can remember, it’s all I’ve ever wanted to do, and I’ve spent most of my life studying and developing my craft; from high school music courses, a Diploma in Music Performance, all the way to my current university degree in Creative Music Technology.
My approach to composition is rooted in storytelling.
Whether I’m working with a band, scoring a film, or producing a standalone piece, I always aim to create music that moves people, feels honest, powerful, and emotionally driven.
Play video: Summer Degree Shows: Creative Music Technology Mike Clinton - Sinner Man
Brook Fox is a rising singer-songwriter and BBC Radio Wales A-Lister, hailing from the coastal town of Burry Port in Southwest Wales.
While now known for his raw, authentic lyricism and storytelling, Brook’s journey into music was far from conventional.
Originally destined for a career in professional sport, he was a promising young rugby talent progressing through the local academy ranks.
However, a life-altering head injury forced him to re-evaluate his path and ultimately led him to music.
With new material in the works and a packed gig calendar ahead, 2025 is shaping up to be his most defining year yet.
His fourth single, “Wonderful”, is out now on all streaming platforms.
Play video: Summer Degree Shows: Creative Music Technology Brook Fox - When You Fall Official Lyric Video
Reaching out from the depths of South Wales, 23-year-old self-taught artist Apollo Heap creates genre-bending and unconventional tracks, pushing the boundaries of hardstyle, gabber, drum and bass and electronic music with a signature style for ethereal and emotional melodies glued together with hard hitting and punchy basslines.
After signing a deal with the label ‘broke records’ in early 2025, Apollo does not show any signs of slowing down, taking an all gas no breaks approach to their career and continuing to turn heads with their raw and explosive tracks.
Tomos Dafydd Hopkins is a multidisciplinary creative whose work fuses music technology, holistic wellness, sound art, and community engagement.
Blending a passion for healing frequencies and streetwise lyricism, his artistic identity is a fluid conversation between science and spirit, nature and machine.
Whether creating immersive ambient soundscapes through plant biofeedback or producing conscious hip-hop under the moniker Eska-mo , Tomos explores how sound can communicate, transform, and heal.
Play video: Summer Degree Shows: Creative Music Technology Tomos Hopkins - R P O
Sam King is a singer/songwriter, technician and producer currently based in South Wales.
Coming from Newport, Sam began his journey as a solo guitarist in secondary school.
Starting with a lunchtime cover performance of “Are you Gonna go my way” (Lenny Kravitz), Sam went on to perform in ‘The Manhattan Project’ band as guitarist and lead singer, drawing influence from the Beatles, Hall + Oates and R.E.M for his vocals, and Mark Knopfler and Lindsay Buckingham for his guitar playing.
Following the Move to Swansea for university, Sam began playing solo with his original music in the local venues, recording in the studio in collaboration with other young musicians, and began organising his own gigs.
Producer | Engineer | Technician
Based in South Wales — Available worldwide With over 15 years of experience in music production and live audio, I specialise in creating immersive music experiences.
I’ve worked with artists including Mal Pope, Steve Balsamo (Jesus Christ Superstar), Rankin’ Roger (The Beat), Who’s Molly?, Scarlet Rebels and as a band technician supporting McFly, Sam Ryder and Scouting For Girls.
Studying for a degree in Creative Music Technology, I bring a blend of technical mastery and musical intuition to every project.
Whether you’re an artist, label, or event organiser, I will help bring your vision to life with a tailored, professional approach.
Let’s make something real.
Something powerful.
Something musical.
Play video: Summer Degree Shows: Creative Music Technology Brook Fox @ Sessions
I grew up surrounded by music, I have vivid memories of my dad playing artists like The Eagles, The Black Keys and Bob Marley whilst driving back from beaches on holidays.
I got my first guitar at 6 and had lessons every week for 10 years after that.
I recorded my first song when I was 11 with my dad on Reaper, with acoustic guitar and vocals (which I never want to listen to again!).
When I started university, I was shown different aspects to working with audio that I’d never thought of before.
We made tracks for library music, created music for film and tv and sound design for video games, using foley to redo the audio from video clips.
Location recording and of course studio engineering.
Grace Wolfe is a Producer and Selectress currently based in South Wales.
Grace’s relationship with music has been lifelong, with her parents being firmly rooted in the late 90s rave scene in and around London.
She recently completed her degree in Creative Music Technology at UWTSD - presenting ‘MODERN RAVE CULTURE - An Immersive Experience’ as her final portfolio.
This involved co-producing the forthcoming debut EP on The Wob Mob, then singlehandedly mixing it to 4.1 surround and presenting it as a 20 minute exhibition in tandem with hand curated and arranged rave footage, posters, and photography.
She loves long blends, chopping pitched up vocals, and bouncing between a gritty amen break and clinical ghettotech drum patterns.
You can often find her floating at 160 BPM, combining jungle techno rhythms and acid infused basslines with her extensive footwork collection.
Play video: Modern Rave Culture Video and Stereo Mix
Creative Music Technology Summer Show Exhibition.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows/summer-show-design-crafts:
BA Design Crafts Degree Show 2025
A rich exploration, as always in this year’s Design Crafts show at Swansea College of Art.
Artwork ranges from hand-painted and bonded glass inspired by drum and base rhythms to kiln-fused coloured glass bubbles that explore mindfulness and fluidity.
In ceramics, there is a strong theme of nature and the natural environment in this year’s graduating cohort.
Traditional processes in ceramics have been used to explore concepts around environment and sustainable practice, experimenting with wild clay from Welsh locations.
Experimental glazes and thrown vessels that mimic pattern and multiples in nature.
These sit alongside large-scale sculptural pieces that have dark tales to tell.
In addition to this, you will see natural material innovation where anatomy-like forms have been grown from seed to root, commenting on the transience of life.
Design Crafts gives students the opportunity to learn the creative 3D-making skills they need to work professionally with glass, ceramics, and jewellery.
Our students discover their creative voice while developing traditional hand-making skills and contemporary digital approaches.
We encourage each individual voice and passion, this is evident again in the diverse range of work at this year’s show.
The academic and technical teams would like to congratulate our graduates of 2025.
We wish you the best for your future creative journeys, It has been our pleasure to have worked closely with you.
@designcraftsuwtsd
Michael Brown
Julie Doel
Emily Jones
Angus Pattison
Marie Risser
Steven Shears
Kiera Steel
Clair Tompkins
As a ceramic artist with a conservation background, I explore the intersection between objects, history, and the environment.
Using wild clay sourced from derelict industrial sites in Wales, my work embraces spontaneity and sustainability, transforming abandoned materials into art imbued with sentimentality and a deep sense of place.
My practice is rooted in the emotional resonance of Hiraeth a longing for connection to landscapes and histories.
By reclaiming forgotten materials, I aim to create vessels that embody the essence of the land while fostering a dialogue between past and present.
Inspired by nature and heritage, my work invites viewers to experience the profound relationship between memory and material, bridging the tangible and the intangible.
Storytelling is where my work begins and ends.
Tales, characters and lore from old Welsh mythology and historical narratives inspire me to create.
I seek out the voices of the overlooked and the forgotten, letting their stories guide my drawing and those illustrations inspire my making.
These tales are historical, cultural, mythical.
I am drawn to the grotesque, the unexpected and the mysterious.
I use my drawings as a blueprint, developing them into sculptural works that bring imagined ideas into physicality.
These are classic yet at the same time unconventional, perhaps disturbing, yet inviting the viewer to look closer inviting them to embark on a journey, through stories hidden within my creations.
Historical, social themes emphasising the passing of time and backdrops that reflect industrial, traditional, architectural, or iconic, all mixed surreally.
My sculptures are like portraits of the stories they originate from.
They celebrate resilience, unity, strength, and hope.
Embracing and finding beauty in what is strange and odd.
Weaving themes of death and the sublime, serving not only as a remembrance of forgotten legends but as an exploration of the power of narrative, magic and memory being beautifully different.
Emily Jones is a ceramic artist whose practice is defined by relentless curiosity and a passion for pushing the boundaries of glaze.
Throughout her time at university, she immersed herself in every aspect of ceramics, from the precision of wheel throwing to the alchemy of glaze chemistry.
Her work fuses craft, science, and nature in pursuit of a bold goal: to harness the psychological and physiological benefits of nature through ceramic art.
During her dissertation research on biomorphism, Emily discovered that humans experience measurable health benefits not only from direct contact with nature, but also from exposure to nature-reminiscent patterns, colours, and textures.
With this insight, she set out to capture nature’s essence in glaze.
Her latest series is a study in experimentation, combining glaze chemistry and kiln unpredictability to create organic, evolving surfaces that mimic the textures and hues of the natural world.
Each palm-sized vessel is thrown, trimmed, and offered as a canvas for the glazes to flow and transform — an intimate object designed to restore the human connection to nature in a digitally saturated world.
Emily’s work challenges the limits of ceramics, positioning it as both material innovation and a tool for emotional and sensory well-being.
The purpose of this project was to create a physical representation of my experience of hiking around the Pembrokeshire coast path.
This journey was completed through June of 2024, and was truly one of the greatest achievements of my life.
Using references that were collected along the way in my diary, each of these eleven pieces have been made as an embodiment of this journey.
The size of each piece was dictated by the distance of miles cover in a day, and the colour of each vessel comes from the wild clay that has been collected within that day’s mileage.
This project has re-connected me to the land I grew up in, taught me more about it, and let me truly explore the notion of “hiraeth”.
All eleven of these pieces have been coil-built, in a slow methodical way that mimics the walk itself.
I was initially inspired by vessels of the early Britons, before distorting and evolving into their wonky bulbous forms.
The foraged clay was processed and made into a usable material, before being transformed into the ancient method of sealing ceramic, terra sigillata.
To accompany the main eleven pieces, I have also made a range of thrown vessels, as a reflection of the larger pieces.
This smaller form is where the initial shape of the larger pieces came from, and has let me create a set of more functional objects.
Lastly, to show the clays true personality, each location has a matching dorodango.
This technique captures the raw characteristics of the clay, standing as a stark contrast to the fired pieces.
Emotional Echoes in Glass explores the shifting, often unpredictable nature of human emotion, drawing on the principles of neurographic art to create flowing, organic patterns.
Avoiding rigid structure, the sandblasted linework captures the complexity of lived experience through soft, undulating forms.
The kiln-pressed glass introduces layered depth and movement, mimicking the fluidity of watercolour.
Each piece incorporates a thoughtfully considered palette that responds to emotional resonance, ranging from turbulent and intense to calm and uplifting.
Guided by personal reflection and a deep interest in visualising the internal landscape, this work proposes a dialogue between material and emotion.
Through texture, pattern, and colour, the collection invites contemplation on how our feelings move, overlap, and evolve.
Rhythm within glass is an exploration of the sounds and rhythm of the heavy, solid and powerful drumbeat found within drum and bass music portrayed within glass.
Depicted differently in each individual piece, the power of the drum is meant to come through and hit you, fill you with energy and a sense of life.
All the glass has been painted by hand to the beat of the drum, and the shapes, colours and textures that have materialised are conceived from the music.
Black triangular shapes are what I visualise the beat to look like and these are constructed to visually seem to float within the atmosphere around them.
The juxtaposition between dark heavy forms and the misty sandblasted atmosphere is presented in each piece.
In my most recent collection of artworks, I use plaster hands to examine the connections between decay and vitality, with each piece featuring small, intricate paints that encourage reflection.
These hands represent both fragility and strength, and they are purposely worn and aged to convey this.
The dilapidated façade symbolises the passage of time, whilst the vivid, colourful interiors indicate a secret inner world of life and creativity waiting to be uncovered.
My love of painting small figurines has a strong influence on my work.
I appreciate paying attention to detail and creating smaller stories in small settings.
By extending this method to larger, sculptural forms, I can create a dialogue between the delicate and the bold, with vibrant colours.
This transition from tiny to larger pieces allows me to experiment with new ways of telling tales and question established notions of scale in art.
The brilliant colours that emerge from rotting surfaces represent strength and beauty in imperfection.
Each colour signifies a particular emotion or experience, demonstrating that even when things appear to be shattered, there is still hope for brightness and rejuvenation.
I wish to modify people’s perceptions about deterioration, encouraging them to see it as a natural part of life rather than something to be avoided or feared.
Through this collection, I wish to promote the idea of metamorphosis, where decay and colour can coexist together.
I believe that art has the power to inspire emotions and provoke thought, and I want to produce pieces that strike a deep chord with viewers.
My art encourages viewers to notice the beauty in both the faded and the brilliant, reminding them that life is full of surprising contrasts.
I want my art to be a mirror, inspiring contemplation and inviting discussions about life’s complexities, reminding us that each layer is a narrative waiting to be discovered
Vitae Vestigia – Traces of Life
Vitae Vestigia is a collection rooted in transformation—of material, memory, and meaning.
By guiding the growth of wheatgrass roots within latex moulds cast from human skeletal forms, I explore the tension between life and death, control and unpredictability, presence and absence.
The five pieces in this series take the form of the sternum, spine, foot, forearm and hand, and skull.
These skeletal parts are instantly recognisable, yet rich with layered symbolism—movement, identity, protection, and the fragility of the human condition.
As the roots grow, they interact with these forms, softening them, reshaping them, allowing nature to reclaim what once was fixed.
This body of work draws on philosophies of dark ecology and the uncanny, as well as the tradition of memento mori, reimagined through an ecological lens.
The roots become living collaborators, shaping and softening the contours of the body, revealing the resilience of organic matter and the inevitability of decay.
Working with living materials has required patience, vulnerability, and a willingness to let go.
This project has challenged my expectations of control and perfection, teaching me to embrace discomfort and trust the process of change.
Vitae Vestigia is not just a series of objects—it is a conversation between the body and the earth, between decay and regeneration, between what was, and what continues to grow.
Design Crafts Summer Show Exhibition.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows/summer-show-fine-art-studio-site-and-context:
The world continues to be a challenging, and somewhat inexplicable experience built upon instabilities and uncertainties… WHAT A MESS!
The very nature of contemporary visual arts is to place this world into sharp focus; hence we are realising a resurgence of reactive energy within our subcultures.
This positive energy is recognisably prevalent amongst our students of 2025 and witnessed in their community and exhibition.
The studios hold a vital clue to this energy and retort to world perplexities, it is the core of stability and community, where individual voices are listened to, dialogues are extensive, and freedom of speech is explored and celebrated.
AMESSWHA is a merging of words, poignant and poetically creative, alluding to global turbulence, Eton Mess and a choice take-away menu… to embrace AMESSWHA in its full embodiment you take-away a varied portion of critical discourse (all allergies are catered for) that is deeply rooted in our graduating students.
We wish our students of 2025 a positive future with their incorrigible reactive and dynamic voices, adding to the global fight to secure the arts and the freedom of expression.
Professor Sue Williams.
Sez Amber
Luke Cotter
Robyn Evans
Sam Hamblet
Megan Jenkins
Alicia Olejniczak
Ian S K Riby
Stav Shoval
Gabriela Szczygiel
Athiwolf (Athena Usluer)
Amelie Warner
Ciara Williams
Hollie Wilkins
‘Open Wide’
Mixed media installation “The ever-present watcher peering through the keyhole, peering through the keyhole in your own head, if nowhere else.
You are a woman with a man inside watching a woman.
You are your own voyeur.” - Margaret Atwood
Behind every woman is an all-consuming void, ready to eat her, then itself.
‘Looking Forward to the Weekend’
Sculptural installation A sandwich of church iconography and pub aesthetic.
Cotter aims to find the middle ground between two seemingly separated spaces, the church and the pub.
‘Asystole’
Mixed media installation Robyn Evans has created this particular line of work in order to commemorate her best friend Amy, that died in September of 2023.
The artwork presented in this exhibition portrays the isolation and grief that stems from no longer having someone so important there.
‘Ritualistic’
Mixed media installation Hamblet explores the deep bond between women and nature.
By pushing boundaries and challenging taboos, she celebrates the power of the feminine body and the Earth’s spiritual strength.
‘H U S K’
Mixed media installation Haunting, distorting, stretching, decaying.
It clings to skin and peels away like old wallpaper in a house that remembers too much.
Stitching together remnants of memory - some fragile, some rigid - shaping spaces that exist between comfort and claustrophobia, presence and absence.
‘Time and Everything In Between’
Video, sound and Super 8 film A video installation exploring time, perception, and memory.
Olejniczak’s work with expired Super 8 film becomes a vessel for ghostly, ephemeral works that possess strands of decay and recollection.
‘Merger’
Oil on mixed surfaces
Studio effects.
/ All for what / Of a practice of unknowing.
‘Transparency Beyond Boundaries’ Acrylic on Perspex Shoval’s work is a series of work that doesn’t imply any specific themes but instead encourages its audience to share their opinions to create diverse conversation and a sustained form of expression
‘Synchronicity’
Mixed media installation Szczygiel develops her practice around the concept of preserving the uniqueness of every human being, which becomes the basis of the value of freedom.
Focusing on the process becomes a transformative narrative, using mixed media and materials that constitutes a remarkable language of art in which “the living word” serves a pivotal role.
‘I’m Just a Girl’
Mixed media installation Moving through pain, pleasure, chaos, and rebirth.
Athiwolf’s work captures the messy, unfiltered essence of being.
It speaks to the relentless repetition of “slayy” and survive, of breaking and becoming.
In a world that tries to define and confine, this is an unapologetic declaration of presence, resilience, and the beautifully brutal rhythm of being.
‘Wrong Way Up’
Mixed media installation A taste of a future without humans.
Warner’s immersive post-human world is filled with domestic materials under UV light.
A new ecology is realised where these materials have come together to become something new.
‘03112001.JPEG’
Mixed media Toying with the inability of capturing the human essence within the machine; A portable scanner and its versions of the identity it distorts, is in constant conversation.
‘Auntie Bee’
Mixed media installation Wilkins’ collection of work excavates classical path making, dry wells and undetermined damp spots, to explore the constant nature of ephemeral, reproductive nodes.
Fine Art Studio Site and Context Summer Show Exhibition.
Play video: Summer Shows: Photo & Fine Art London walk through

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows/summer-show-foundation-art-and-design:
This year’s Foundation students have worked from various perspectives and broad specialist areas such as Fine Art, Textiles, 3D and Visual Communication to produce work that relates to the title Ffactri .
A Ffactri in its purest sense is a building (or buildings) with facilities for manufacturing.
The meaning of Ffactri in the very simplest of terms is ‘to make’.
When considering Ffactri there are a number of potential interpretations that can be considered that extend the idea beyond the limitations of its’ dictionary definition.
By exploring these nuances, our students have uncovered infinite creative opportunities.
The Foundation team would like to take this opportunity to wish all our students the best of luck on their new adventures.
Gail Allen
Emily Birolini
Sasha Buckley
Daisy Cartwright
Kai Coles
Georgia Day
Lila Lawes Davies
Jasmine Flores
Ffion Green
Megan Hitchmough
Sian Jones
Anwen Knox
Manaf Karim
Yasemin Koyuncu
Abigail-Faye Macdonald
Demi-Lee Myles
Lisa Page
Tommy Roberts
Birtukan Shugi
Tenebeyu Slase
Quinn Skinner
Joseph Thompson
Sioned Thomas
Tallulah Timm
Natalia Wilczynska
Laila Woodward
My work highlights the impact of altered perceptions, enthusing viewers to examine their own perceptions and consequential judgements on everyday situations.
The word perspective can mean a multitude of things.
From the viewpoint of a photographer, perspective can be the visual illusion of three dimensions or the viewer’s perception of space and distance.
A psychologist’s perception may be of perceiving a situation or understanding an idea from an alternative point of view.
This piece, entitled ’ Really See ’ strives to illustrate the concept of perception and how alternative viewpoints can be sought.
Our minds instinctively process and categorise information, which is a cognitive reflex more commonly known as judgment.
Good health to you.
Life is a blank canvas – choose the colours you love to paint your dreams!
Life is flow - connection - vitality.
Certain things nourish our inner light; others deplete us.
Disconnected from our instincts and our bodies, we spend too much time in our heads worrying about money and success, often neglecting what we truly long for.
Like pebbles in a stream, our actions send invisible ripples out into the world.
We can’t see them, but their impact is real.
Music, mindful movement, and art connect, using colour to trace the embodiment of joy or emotion in the present moment.
My work is a narrative piece with a focus on humanity and overworking, represented by black ink drawn with a dip pen.
Human imperfection is represented through ink spots and blotches, as well as giving depth to the illustrations.
Other themes include the replacement of humanity by machines, represented through cleaner, more mechanical drawings made with brush and fine liner pens.
These are drawn with a ruler to reflect the precision of machines; they may look perfect, but they lack depth.
This creates a quiet contrast between the styles.
The work also explores the guilt of inaction, sitting just under the surface of the story.
This work originated with a 3D scan of a mundane object - a shoe - not chosen for meaning, but dismantled through process and experimentation.
The idea of journeys emerged later, as a byproduct of working with the form.
Material exploration led to new structures, in both two and three dimensions.
The shoe no longer exists - it has been replaced by a new form: a container for movement, memory, and thought.
The work reflects my experience of time-space synaesthesia, a condition where time is perceived spatially - for example, days or months may appear as shapes or paths.
The work moves between inside and outside, past and present, physical and virtual.
The piece could be relevant today, maybe not tomorrow, but possibly in the future.
I produce sound; ranging from soundscapes designed to create immersive experiences to more tuneful melodic pieces.
My work explores how sound can affect us emotionally, psychologically, and even physically.
This sound piece aims to recreate the feeling of being in the womb; a space of warmth, rhythm, and protection.
Distorted voices and manipulated real-world sounds - like the ocean - introduce a distant sense of the outside world, heard from within.
The result is an artificial womb space, shaped by sound, memory, and feeling.
The work reflects on the transition from complete safety to the unknown, and the emotional weight of that first rupture.
I believe that capitalism and consumer-culture have produced a society that is now detached from any authentic way of living.
Society has become a spectacle of misplaced values, devoid of real human meaning.
What does this breed within us at an individual level?
Amongst this ridiculousness, we find pockets of purity and authentic joy that are evoked from within rather than from outside.
We must recognise what this means for each one of us, in order to live an authentic life.
By using collage inspired by the DIY-style of punk ‘zine culture, and the use of détournement inspired by the Situationists, I have recontextualised found material by overlaying it with my own personal vignettes filmed over the last 5 years.
Lila Lawes-Davies
My work explores the impact of social conditioning on both men and women.
Through themes like mental health and dating expectations, I try to highlight shared issues of men and women while empowering viewers to challenge expectations, personal biases and the reactions of ourselves and others.
This piece aims to address self-expression and identity, opening dialogues which question where the boundaries of authenticity and social expectations merge.
My work reflects the unintentional but gradual erosion of my original cultural identity.
Born in the Philippines and having lived in both China and Wales, I have been shaped by multiple influences, making my sense of origin harder to define.
I use images and motifs drawn from personal experience - like the lotus flower and traditional Chinese cloth - distorting them into pixelated abstractions.
This series mirrors the anonymity of a factory line - each print is nearly identical yet slightly altered.
Like fading ink or shifting memory, it reflects how identity quietly transforms through repetition and routine.
As a population, we share a disconnect from nature, being trapped in busy schedules and work.
In order to survive, we spend our lifes working, with the workplace itself acting as a barrier, restricting our time amongst nature.
I kept thinking about how unnatural it feels to spend hours inside cold, lifeless buildings, like some factories.
In my design, the factory appears plain and stripped back to reflect a sense of emotional flatness.
The inner space imagines where workers might long to be - somewhere softer, more free, offering a more ‘magical’ contrast to the reality many people face in industrial settings.
The conceptual themes explored in this work are psychogeography and memory.
Each block is a cast of the negative space inside a room - each room tied to a memory of a place I’ve spent time in.
What is usually an empty, traversable space is made solid in plaster, allowing no light through.
This solidity reflects the physical presence of the place itself.
The latex layer represents our experience of the place.
While plaster holds the structure, latex holds the memory, reflecting how we shape spaces and how they shape us in return.
Its fluid quality mirrors the shifting, unstable nature of memory and lived experience.
I explore the aspects of our lives that reflect on, and impact on, our inner self.
For me, it is hearing disturbance that mashes up what I think I hear.
I have lost silence.
Differences are obliterated and covered in a custard of manufactured sound.
My work examines the impact of these things which muffle, change and obscure our perception and experience of the present and of being present.
This new reality defines things differently.
As an extension, my work also delves into catastrophic sight loss and visual disturbance.
I do this by creating my version of others’ experiences.
I set out things which interfere with our here and now, and question whether these things add or take away from our lives.
Sorry, what did you say?
Exploring research and rights surrounding uteruses and the way men have traditionally had control over women’s bodies.
Attempting to take away the sexualised version of reproductive organs and stereotypes surrounding motherhood.
As a woman, I have always felt weighed down by, and tied to my uterus, like I am a birthgiver before I am a human.
My art allows me to express how I feel inwardly in relation to my reproductive organs and my personal frustrations with reproductive rights, not only in the past but in this day and age, across the world.
I’ve always been fascinated by how cars are designed and built.
To me, they represent movement and originality, which inspired me to explore them in more depth.
For this project, I combined digital images with sound with each part of the project connecting back to my interest in cars—not just as machines, but as creative forms with their own character.
Play video: Summer Show: Foundation Art and Design Manaf Karim Film
My work explores the emotional and physical toll of labour, particularly in the service industry.
Using multimedia, I began by saving my order pads from the restaurant where I work, recording passing thoughts and sketches between tasks.
These moments, usually buried under the pressure of constant service, were later transferred through drawing onto boards layered with the original orders themselves.
Rooted in the exhaustion that builds unnoticed over time, the work invites viewers to glimpse the often-unseen emotional landscape behind everyday service, exploring the tension between working for money and working as an artist.
With a touch of humour, I highlight the private, unfiltered thoughts that are usually set aside in the rush to meet expectations.
This work represents my first time working with puppets and clay.
I usually work in two-dimensions in my sketchbook.
I wanted to explore movement and was inspired by the biology of people and animals.
Wes Anderson’s Fantastic Mr Fox (2009) helped shape my puppets, while the set took influence from Tim Burton’s Alice in Wonderland (2010).
I began with a simple fox sketch and moved on to model my own pets.
Starting with basic clay ceramics, I developed their faces, movement, clothes, and most importantly their unique characters.
This piece explores how women’s bodies are treated like factory products; created, shaped, used and discarded.
Seven white garments represent key stages in a woman’s life, from birth to old age.
As they progress, each piece becomes more stained and worn, reflecting how society increasingly sexualises, controls and devalues the female body over time.
The word factory becomes a metaphor for the systems that mass-produce expectations of womanhood.
This piece questions how early and deeply this objectification begins and when, if ever, it ends.
I use filmmaking as a way to express my thoughts, feelings and perspectives.
By experimenting with light, colour, composition and sound, I capture the thoughts that often race through my mind.
To better understand these thoughts, I use symbols and signs representing different emotions or experiences, creating work others can identify with.
Through film, I translate feeling into form, hoping to find answers to my own questions along the way.
In this piece, I use traditional filmmaking techniques to reflect on the YouTube trend of ‘Morning Routines’.
By framing them through a critical lens, I explore their artificiality, highlighting the pressure to conform and the toll that can take on a person.
Play video: Summer Show: Foundation Art and Design Lisa Page Film
This animation reflects on the ways in which trauma affects our journey through life.
It’s inspired by the way in which our conscious mind reacts to trauma and its disintegrating effects.
It has little to do with memories – rather, how lived traumatic experiences disorder our reality after the fact.
After such experiences, it’s up to our unconscious mind to restore itself to its natural order.
The animation was created using the ‘Source’ engine.
This software is outdated, buggy and cumbersome.
These limitations have been embraced to give a digital representation of the process of recovering from trauma.
Play video: Summer Show: Foundation Art and Design Tommy Roberts Film
This final project began with the endeavour to create a garment, with the main aim to explore colour, crochet, and cloth.
I began by creating a simple patchwork pattern with these elements, connecting crochet with colour, which are fashioned from a variety of materials.
I created it this way to combine elements in an organic way, without a structured pattern.
I have been influenced by the design work of Zoe Paul, Amy Twigger Holroyd and Lara Schnitger, bringing together various elements in my own dress.
In opposition to highly manufactured clothing, I am interested in hand-made process.
This work is inspired by fashion designer Alexander McQueen’s Clamshell Dress (2001).
I was particularly interested in the construction and shape of this garment using clamshells as a precious and fragile material which also communicates strength and femininity.
I used this example as a starting point to then develop my own concept.
I used paper since this was an accessible, neutral and easy material to cut, manipulate and repeat.
I assembled cut-outs of elongated ovals (loosely based on the clam shape), then developed these into a design on the mannequin.
In the future, I am interested in developing my pattern cutting skills, through sustainable fashion and textile methods.
Gender is a social construct, a factory template rooted in misogyny and stereotypes.
I have used the familiar comfort of plush toys, to recontextualise, provoke and explore this, twisting and distorting the concept of gender, to express fluidity and challenge stereotypes through textile sculpture.
The genderless fox is an expression of my own sense of never fitting into either box.
The work has been inspired by artists Le Fil and Leigh Bowery who challenge gender constructs.
Additionally, the artist Mike Kelley’s Eviscerated Corpse (1984) alongside other stuffed animal artworks have been a major influence.
My work explores the abstraction and fragmentation of the human form to express feelings of discontent and existential dread one may feel when contemplating their role and value within whichever system or society they belong to.
I use my own body as a base - the one variable that unequivocally represents my identity - to create layered, mixed-media pieces.
Prints derived from my body provide an unbiased record, while drawings and mark-making overlaid reflect emotional responses to the instability of modern life.
Omission of the face is deliberate; anonymity provides relatability and invites viewers to project their own feelings.
This work is a raw expression of resentment toward the lack of power the individual bears in society, an anger that is universal yet suppressed.
This project has both a personal and environmental meaning.
My family recently lost a close friend, and I decided to honour and remember him by creating his favourite bird, the Resplendent Quetzal, a bright and beautiful bird that mirrored his happiness and intelligence.
The second bird is dedicated to my Taid, whom we lost about 2 years ago, and whose spirit I see in the Red Kites flying around Wales.
The shadows on the walls echo their lives and the freedom they both now have.
Furthermore, I created the Red Kite using mostly plastic to represent the harm to animals due to plastic pollution.
This portrait uses CMYK (an analogue print process allowing for cheaper, larger prints) by sending an image through a digital filter before returning it to analogue by hand-painting each circle.
The subject in the painting wears a ‘Creeper’ mask: a character from the game Minecraft .
Just as the ‘Creeper’ mask brings a digital character into the physical world, the hand-painted process brings a digital image into physical form.
While the digital world allows for people to connect and interact through gaming, it also creates a disconnect between the user and the physical world.
This work explores the tension between connection and disconnection, physical and digital, reflecting on how we navigate relationships in an increasingly screen-based world.
This project explores the concept of a factory, not as a physical site, but as a metaphysical construct within our minds.
The work explores the brain as psychological machine where the mass production of thoughts drives human experience.
Black & white imagery strips away distraction, reducing the world to construct and form.
It highlights the silent operations of internalised systems - capitalism, productivity, routine - that shape our thoughts and behaviours.
“Factory” is not just a metaphor for the mind, it is a reflection on the psychological consequences of living in a culture that measures worth with output.
Throughout Foundation, I’ve explored my love of ceramics and used this passion in my final piece.
My work blends abstract, surrealist painting with vibrant ceramics, connecting environmental research with creative expression.
This piece focuses on marine life - particularly small organisms like barnacles - and explores how we can create art sustainably.
I’m inspired by the ocean’s textures and rhythms, and by natural dyes from the world around us.
My aim is to express both the urgency and beauty of ecological change; to deepen my sustainable art practice by using low-impact materials and exploring how organic resources can be adapted to reduce environmental harm.
Foundation Art and Design Exhibition.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows/summer-show-graphic-design:
Graphic Designers, with some exceptions of course, are not natural exhibitionists.
We prefer the idea of our work doing the talking for us as we blend into the background.
Visual communication, as the words suggest, often functions silently and anonymously, proving its success without need of explanation.
However, this is no time for modesty.
It is a time to see and be seen, to show one’s colours and to celebrate the uniqueness of each voice in the choir.
Anyone who recalls their early attempts at mixing different colours of paint will probably recall the bland greyness of the end result.
The twenty individuals represented here display a mixture of projects reflecting a colour palette ranging from soft and subtle to brash and bold.
You will see a mixture of the quirky, the questioning and the commercial, but even when blended together, the group dynamic becomes a bright, vibrant, ambitious orange shouting out proudly.
Staff team BA(Hons) Graphic Design
Jodie Bond
Marcus Carr
Jodie Chung
Connor Davies
Lucy De-La-Haye
Kaycie Doble
Jackson Fyler
Lewis Hill
Haoming Huang (Simon)
Jess Isaac
Lowri James
Harry Jimpson
Ellie Jones
Jess Jones
Ffion Lavington
Sophie Lewis
Rebecca Palmer
Katie Rees
Jake Smith
Dafydd Wilson
Jodie is a graphic designer who enjoys exploring the world of branding and packaging design.
She thrives on crafting unique visual identities, using illustrator to bring her ideas to life.
With a keen eye for detail and a love for bold, modern aesthetics, Jodie creates designs that leave a lasting impression.
Quick on his feet with ideas, constantly exploring new design methods and pushing creative boundaries.
With an ability to think outside the box and put a fresh perspective on every project.
A passion for graphic design drives him to work harder, making him versatile and adaptable in his creative output.
Design is a way to communicate and speak for those who cannot.
Jodie is a designer who is passionate about creating impactful designs through the use of colour and type.
She is constantly looking to dive deeper and to learn more, through each design experience.
Connor Davies is a passionate creative in multiple branches of art, thriving on creating visually engaging content that communicates ideas effectively.
His work allows him to develop unique designs tailored to various projects.
Connor is excited to showcase his journey at Swansea College of Art - UWTSD, and his growth in the field through his graduate portfolio.
Lucy is a versatile and innovative designer with a keen eye for detail and a passion for visual storytelling.
Specialising in branding, illustration and typography, Lucy combines creativity with strategic thinking to craft compelling visuals.
Her time in Swansea College of Art - UWTSD showcases her journey of experimentation, bold ideas, and artistic growth.
Kaycie specialises in crafting unique, visually striking designs that elevate any brand to a higher level of professionalism and make a lasting impact.
Whether you’re looking for a bold new logo, eye-catching marketing materials, or a complete visual identity overhaul, Kaycie can bring your vision to life allowing you to create something amazing together!
Jackson is a Graphic Designer who is heavily inspired by underground elements.
Focusing on making design work for projects he is passionate about, as he can express himself more freely, Jackson is also looking to make connections with his world and everyone else’s to express further creativity.
Lewis Hill has developed talents in a variety of areas over his time studying Graphic Design and is now proficient in many facets of design.
He has concentrated on branding and sports design and is currently searching for opportunities to further his knowledge and abilities in the industry.
Simon is a Graphic Designer who enjoys exploring anything new and enjoys branding and poster design.
Simon specialises in creating custom logos, websites, magazines and more from scratch using Procreate, Indesign and Adobe XD.
With his professional skills and unique ideas, Simon aims to impress.
Jess would describe herself as an experimental and curious designer, eager to explore various approaches to elevate her designs and expand her skill set.
She is a versatile Graphic Designer, who aims to merge traditional and digital techniques to infuse creativity in her projects.
As a bilingual Graphic Design student based in Swansea, Lowri draws inspiration from storytelling films, books, and Welsh mythology shaping visually compelling narratives.
Influenced by Annie Atkins, Lowri blends heritage with design, celebrating Welsh culture in her work.
Passionate about storytelling through visuals, she crafts designs that resonate with depth and authenticity
Harry is a new creative force in the graphic design world connecting elements of graphic design and illustration throughout his designs.
Harry creates a unique blend of styles and colours throughout his designs.
Harry wants to reshape the design landscape, bringing exciting new creations to life within his designs, ranging from branding to character design.
A passionate graphic designer with a special interest in typography.
Her skills range from corporate brand identity to mini-passion projects as well as digital advertising and website design.
Jess has always had an interest in graphic design and has recently developed a particular passion for social media design.
Specialising in branding, logo design, and content creation, she will be using her creativity to help businesses build their identities.
Jess is focused on creating designs that are both visually appealing and memorable.
Ffion Lavington is a graduate Graphic Designer who specialises in publication design.
She particularly likes redesigning book covers into special edition versions and enjoys creating layouts and designing magazines.
Ffion’s portfolio shows her versatility with different graphic design mediums - showcasing skills in typography, print and digital to create intriguing visuals.
Sophie is a creative Graphic Designer with a particular passion for illustration, drawing inspiration from personal experiences.
She uses colour to bring emotion and vibrancy to her designs, often exploring quirky, eccentric styles.
Her love for experimentation drives her to push creative boundaries, ensuring her work remains innovative and full of character.
With each project, Rebecca aims to create meaningful work that connects and resonates on a personal level.
Intrigued by diverse cultures and countries, she draws inspiration from global perspectives, creating thoughtful designs that reflect a rich blend of influences and tell unique stories.
Katie is a graphic designer with a passion for creating meaningful designs that make a lasting impact.
Katie’s specialties include social graphics, book design, and branding.
She also works with different disciplines, such as photography and illustration, and often combines these to create engaging and impactful designs that resonate with others.
Jake Smith is a designer who is passionate about music and social graphics with intense visual distortion, blending styles such as grunge, minimalism and brutalism for dramatic effect.
His graphics go for maximum impact with a dynamic style.
You can check him out on.
Studying Graphic Design at Swansea College of Art - UWTSD, Dafydd has explored how traditional techniques, such as letterpress and mark-making, can be combined with digital design to influence his practice.
Dafydd enjoys using these processes to investigate his unique interpretations and observations as a Deaf Designer.
Arddangosfa Sionc Summer Design.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows/summer-show-illustration:
The ‘What’s the time?’ exhibition, celebrated the culmination of three years of work by BA(Hons) Illustration students.
This showcase highlighted the rich diversity of creative practice within the Illustration field, featuring everything from concept art and character design to children’s books, packaging design, editorial, advertising, and graphic novels.
Visitors explored a wide range of commercially relevant artwork, created through both traditional and digital media, including 2D, 3D, and moving images.
The exhibition offered an exclusive glimpse into contemporary illustrative practices, with portfolios filled with innovative, experimental, and client-focused work all crafted with individuality and prepared for the world of visual creativity in a wide range of areas such as concept art, editorial, advertising and book Illustration.
Nancy Akuffobea
Ellie Ball
Megan Ballard
Rhys Boland
Kate Clement
Jane Delve
Sadie Ford
Abigail Larson
Awel Mari
Devon Nash
Kate Paddock
Faye Picken
Lauren Rees
Caitlin Rowlands
Libbi Sherman
Taylor Washington
Keeley Weston
Alice Willow
Ruby Woolner
Chi Zang
Born in Ghana and raised in Palermo, Italy, Nancy’s passion for art began at a young age, shaped by the sunshine, nature, and rich culture around her.
To her, colour isn’t just something to use, it’s something to feel.
A versatile illustrator, she works with bold, unexpected colour combinations to create beautifully balanced illustrations.
Ellie is an illustrator from South Wales.
She is passionate about creating vibrant characters and romanticises everyday scenes infused with her unique decorative style.
Ellie begins her creative process with hand-drawn sketches, believing that it is this foundational step that adds life to her work.
She sells her artwork and products at various artisan markets, conventions, and pop-up events.
Thriving in these face-to-face sales environments, cherishing the opportunity to connect with customers.
Her interest thrives in work like editorial, advertising and licensing.
Megan is a collage/photomontage artist with a striking visual style, drawing inspiration from Surrealists, Ernst and Magritte.
They source images from museum and gallery collections to create her conceptual illustrations, taking images out of their original context to invent her own unique world.
Rhys strives to create art that leaves an impression with his bold, conceptual style and fantastic themes.
He has an innate understanding of colour and body language which he utilises to explore character and concept.
Inspired by classic storytelling his work has an ethereal and dreamlike quality that drives his storytelling.
Kate is an author-illustrator with a keen interest in history.
She creates characters whose stories could not have been told before.
Her beautiful textured style fits into her filmic comic structure, and pairs wonderfully with her, sometimes, tragic storytelling.
Jane, aka Bobbie Sheppard, is a children’s book illustrator with a passion for stories that shine a light on those often overlooked.
Through her art, she brings warmth, empathy, and a touch of magic to books that help young readers understand and connect with people on the fringes of society.
Whether it’s children facing terminal illness or the elderly who feel forgotten.
Jane believes that picture books can make a difference, opening hearts and starting conversations that matter.
Sadie is an illustrator based in South Wales, she creates detailed artwork, primarily digitally, with a focus on emulating the textures and qualities of traditional mediums.
Symbolism is deeply rooted in her work, drawing inspiration from music industry illustrators and tattoo industry artists, both of which have influenced and informed Sadie’s artistic identity.
Sadie’s creativity thrives while listening to music, which fills her working days.
Ellie is a passionate illustrator with a focus on wellbeing and mindfulness, themes that continuously inspire her creative process.
Working primarily with Procreate and occasionally Photoshop, she brings her ideas to life through digital illustration.
As she completes her Final Year of her BA Illustration Degree, she is eager to explore opportunities that allow her to use illustration as a tool for connection, reflection, and positivity.
Abigail works mainly in watercolor and inks, drawn to the fluidity and expressiveness of these mediums.
Her work is inspired by illustrators like Quentin Blake and Arnold Lobel, and she hopes to capture the same energy and whimsical nature in her own illustrations.
Children’s picture books are her main area of interest.
Nature and the world around her play a huge role in her creative process.
Growing up in Montana, she has always been inspired by its wildlife and landscapes, and she loves creating illustrations that feel endearing and bring a smile to people’s faces.
Awel Mari is a Welsh speaking illustrator who enjoys experimenting with unconventional ways to display femininity, Welshness and culture.
Her work mainly focuses on feminist values and character design for animation.
She concentrates on deconstructing the sexualization of femme presenting characters within media, which predominantly influenced her design and research work.
Devon is a freelance illustrator from the Welsh valleys.
Some of their main inspirations for drawings come from the scenic landscapes and imagery their surroundings have to offer.
They incorporate representations of both the pastoral and more urban elements into their work and seek to draw upon environmental and architectural subjects.
Devon often opts to work on site or with primary research, which they then translate into their narrative works that weave together the use of architecture and environmental themes.
They seek to engage their viewers through storytelling, inviting them into their visuals.
Kate’s illustration practice focuses on creating editorial pieces that reflect the human mind.
Their surreal artworks are based on their own struggles and experiences, featuring strong elements of realism that bring these gory visions to life.
Faye Pickin
Faye is an illustrator who loves to create images featuring vibrant colours and interesting textures, embracing authentic characters and celebrating individuality and uniqueness.
Her passion is to create everyday moments that resonate with her audience, inviting them into a world that feels familiar.
She is passionate about advocating for the rights, social consciousness and wellbeing of her generation.
Lauren is primarily a digital illustrator who works on Procreate.
Obsessed with storylines, she inserts her characters into narratives of her own; from the overthrowing of a cult in a medieval fantasy setting to a botanical Victorian purgatory inhabited by the murdered.
Themes of nature and anthropomorphism often appear in her pieces, with Inspiration stemming from the likes of franchises such as Shrek and Tinkerbell.
It’s no wonder her fixations revolve around Fairytale and fae.
Caitlin is an illustrator from the Lake District, currently based in Swansea, South Wales.
Her art is inspired by comic books, with her own feminine twist.
She enjoys illustrating her own comic books, creating her own characters and worlds.
Her art style is fun, fresh and she features a wide range of themes in her work from cute animals to wild action scenes.
Libbi Sherman is a digital artist based in Wales with a deep passion for storytelling, weaving rich narratives into every piece she creates.
Inspired by films, books, and video games, she strives to craft immersive worlds and compelling characters.
Her work often embraces a dark colour palette, influenced by her love of horror and fantasy.
With a keen interest in both book cover design and concept art, Libbi is currently focused on character design, exploring how visual storytelling shapes and defines a character’s presence.
Taylor Washington aka ‘Woshyn10’ works across multiple platforms and media and specializes in observational drawing, including portraits of human and animal models.
He also produces stylised work of the fantasy genre, including character designs and environmental art.
There is usually a theme or message within his more intimate work that he incorporates through visual metaphor or semiotics.
Keeley, aka Into Blossom, works in tactile and process driven traditional media.
Drawing influence from nature, landscapes, and literature, her work explores ideas of place, connection, and time, with a focus on investigating the relationships people have to their surroundings and how memory affects how they relate to it.
She produces delicately detailed work no matter the medium, whether it’s printmaking, painting, or her recent foray into the world of paper miniatures, her art is carefully crafted.
Alice Willow is a Welsh illustrator whose work explores themes of feminism and identity.
Drawing inspiration from the world of Welsh folklore and the imagery found in literature, her illustrations evoke deep emotional connections that invite viewers to reflect upon the complexity of human experience through the lens of mythology and gender.
Using traditional media, including oil pastel and charcoal, her techniques create textured and atmospheric pieces that honour the subjects she illustrates.
Alice continues to seek out the stories important to Welsh culture, bringing them to light through her illustrative practice.
Ruby is an artist specialising in comics and pin-up illustration, with a strong emphasis on gesture in their work.
Their style is influenced by anime such as Kill la Kill, Gurren Lagann, and One Piece, as well as cartoons like The Grim Adventures of Billy and Mandy.
Working digitally in Clip Studio, Ruby strives for a clean, polished look in their illustrations.
Chi’s artwork combines elements of reality and fantasy to create unique characters and fantastic worlds.
His inspiration comes from what he sees around him day to day, making his work easily accessible to the viewer.
He likes to express his feelings and opinions through his artistic process and hopes his work can stir the emotions of those that see it.
Illustration Summer Show Exhibition.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows/summer-show-ma-contemporary-dialogues:
Illumine/Goleuo is a multidisciplinary exhibition of works by artists and designers completing MA Contemporary Dialogues on the part time programme.
As the name proposes, Illumine/Goleuo shines a light on ideas and entities otherwise unseen, and in so doing, seeks to spiritually or intellectually enlighten through its encounter.
Work presented in the exhibition represents the specialist areas of MA Fine Art, MA Design Crafts, MA Photography, MA Illustration, MA Graphic Design, MA Glass, MA Surface Pattern, MA Product Design, MA Textiles and MA Moving Image.
Rachel Cortazzi
Lara Davies
Chris Harrendence
Tia Howells
Gerald Isiguzo
Carole Jones
Dione Jones
Kelly Jones
Emma Martin
Courtney Mitchell
Katie Nia
Zoë Noakes
Eleri Richards
Katie Richards
Leigh Sinclair
Seren Willicombe
MA Fine Art
Framed by Imperium
What is our mark in this world?
Our identity is far more complex than the ancient handprints left in dark caves.
From history, we ask: who are we?
How is our culture shaped by place and experience?
The détournement of the golden frame—once a symbol of prestige and status—lures us in.
But the truth it surrounds is made from fragments of domestic life: broken toys, discarded jewellery, the overspill of unseen labour.
These ‘debris frames’ transform the domestic into the monumental, confronting systems—parenting, beauty, politics—that consume while promising fulfilment.
How are we shaped by the cultures and narratives we absorb?
Framed by Imperium includes painting, collage, sculpture and installation to unravel how power is coded into the everyday.
Popular culture and mass media imagery thread through the collages like tentacles—seductive, delicate, but ultimately entangling—echoing the quiet danger of the jellyfish.
MA Illustration
Life with Leyla
Life with Leyla is a children’s book project that aims to inspire and to help communicate complex emotions and hope to children.
The work is inspired by my faith and each illustration has been poured over as an act of worship and discovery.
Inspired by a number of illustrators and theorists, such as Makoto Fujimura, C.S.
Lewis, J H.
Schwarcz and M.
Bang, my practice explores the origins of creativity in humanity through the Christian lens, while discovering what it means to worship through art.
Chris Harrendence’s illustrative work takes a slightly absurd view, focusing on childhood, belonging and the nonsense of trying to understand his place in the world.
Exploring the boundaries of illustration, by pushing beyond the traditional means of image making, Chris brings his narrative to a three-dimensional plane.
Through the use of costume, mask making and props, his illustrations become performative as well as interactive.
He continues the quest to build a world where the boundaries of the real and unreal are blurred and coexist on both the page and the physical.
MA Textiles
Rooted in a deep connection to nature, my practice bridges the outdoors and interior spaces through eco-printing, natural dyeing, and lighting design.
Inspired by India Flint and Kim McCormack, I treat eco-printing as a way to capture fleeting moments—transferring the textures and pigments of leaves and petals onto fabric.
Guided by Glenn Adamson’s ideas on craft and materiality, I see these textiles as tactile records of time and place.
Light, influenced by designers like Tom Raffield and Moooi, plays a transformative role—activating surfaces and shaping immersive, atmospheric experiences.
My process is grounded in Thinking Through Making, where hands-on experimentation with natural materials guides each stage, from foraging to fabrication.
Through integrating eco-printed surfaces into lighting and interior design, I aim to create pieces that bring nature’s presence indoors—evoking stillness, memory, and connection.
Gerald Isiguzo OP
ARTFAR
The acronym ARTFAR issues from a personal journey of faith and reason and represents a trajectory of artistic enquiry that explores “Art’s Response To Faith And Reason” which resides in the interplay between theology and the arts.
ARTFAR aims to be expansive in exploring the scope, depth, and relevance of theological possibilities in contemporary art, experimenting new ways of re-presenting the quest for truth and meaning which are of vital significance to the human experience.
Biblical themes of Creation, the Fall, and Redemption form a three-fold analogy in the practice, which takes “the used and dumped” as an overarching metaphor for rethinking historical and contemporary narratives about the social and spiritual conditions of our common humanity, while using discarded materials that bear social, economic and political structures.
In this exhibition, Gerald deploys the concept of ‘Kenosis’ - the Greek word for self-emptying - as a universal language that transcends medium-specific and site-specific boundaries to speak to “the used and dumped ‘empty” spaces, places, and things in ways that reference Biblical narratives about creation, the Fall, and redemption, creating a context for an interdisciplinary collaboration, participatory art, and contemporary dialogues.
In Praise of Shadows
‘On the far side of the screen at the edge of the little circle of light, the darkness seemed to fall from the ceiling, lofty, intense, monolithic, the fragile light of the candle unable to pierce its thickness, turned back as from a dark wall.’ Tanizaki.
Influenced by the book In Praise of Shadows by Tanizaki, this work explores the themes of chiaroscuro, geometry and existence using patchwork and repetition.
It is inspired by the effects of light on materials, the transitions between seasons, and the natural recurrent patterns which surround us.
The purpose of the black patchwork was to measure existence between the Autumn Equinox and the Winter Solstice, to visualise and transform time into a tactile and tangible object.
The light patchwork is a response to the encouraging signs of Spring and the increase in light at the start of the new year.
It also signifies the launch of further exploration into the inherent link between geometry and the process of pieced patchwork.
Repurposed clothes, fabric remnants, collected and donated were used in the creation of both pieces.
MA Photography
A Fragile Container
A Fragile Container explores the leaky, unstable realities of the feminine body - its ruptures, thresholds and raw flesh.
Often positioned as the abject and Other, the feminine body is central to the inquiry.
Drawing upon research of historical medical wax figures of female anatomy (such as the Anatomical Venus), the work investigates how these sculptural forms have shaped cultural perceptions of gender, desire, and decay.
Informed by Julia Kristeva’s theory of abjection, A Fragile Container evokes a body which has ceased to have boarders, a body that leaks and threatens the symbolic.
It is within this body that horror, desire and intimacy enmesh.
Luce Irigaray’s theory of the caress informs an approach to touch as a relational, unknowable gesture that resists harm – the caress is both tender and violent, unravelling flesh with perverse desire and without resistance.
Within this organic terrain, desire and decay entangle, destabilising fixed identities and revealing the monstrous power of the abject feminine body.
thread, bare flesh hand placed, one on hip other on face, pulling all of herself out from her navel life umbilical cord returning
This quilt is a reflection on legacy, loss, and the resilience of women.
One side, a digitally printed family tree, maps my lineage – one that ends with me - due to chronic illness.
As I traced my ancestors, I discovered a history of craft: wool felters, milliners, glass cutters, toolmakers.
Yet, the women’s labour was often invisible, recorded only as “unpaid domestic duties” or omitted entirely.
This erasure fuelled my desire to honour their presence through textiles – a medium historically tied to women’s work.
The reverse side, a cyanotype of lace and Welsh lovespoons, becomes an act of tribute.
Lovespoons, symbols of devotion and care, frame the embroidered names of the women who have lifted me up, supporting me when I could not support myself.
Their strength, like the intricate lace, is woven into my life.
By layering craft, history, and resistance, this quilt reclaims the narratives of unseen women, asserting that their work, their love, and their legacies endure.
MA Glass
My work explores ways of expressing complex traumatic feelings in glass and textiles.
It is an outlet for dealing with the nightmares and flashbacks that trauma uncovers.
The work embodies sensory elements of touch, feel and texture to explore trauma.
I hand dye wool in bodily colours and then use that wool to hand sew lines from poetry I write onto fabric.
Through the sewing and the manipulation of fabrics, the structures echo bodily forms whilst encoding the poetry.
The translation of ductile materials into glass, a solid form, obscures the writing whilst creating transparency.
The emotions are captured in the glass – a moment in time.
MA Product Design
Sustaining Change
Sustaining Change: Integrating Communication, Data, and Psychology for a Greener Future is a series of papers that explores sustainability and our relationship to it, as both consumers and as manufacturers and designers.
The papers in this series are designed to reflect on the different ways that we can interact with sustainability according to three distinct areas.
The works in this series offer a look at the past use of sustainability, as well as the current state of play and what we can do in the future to improve it.
The papers are reflecting on how communication, data and psychology can be used to enable governments, designers and consumers to work together to create a more sustainable future and increase our environmental awareness and positive environmental impact.
Escapism
“A tendency to seek distraction and relief from unpleasant realities, especially by seeking entertainment or engaging in fantasy” (Oxford English Dictionary)
Escapism reflects upon a childhood experience growing up with an abusive father in a place that did not always offer the security associated with home.
Instead, safety was found in places of escape, specific locations that for a moment made everything else disappear.
The work revisits those places, and through the exploration of mixed media and fabric processes, aims to convey some related feelings and memories.
A homemade shelter embodies the comfort and warmth the space offered through the use of comforting fabric.
The home the artist made for herself, the images reflecting the beginning of her journey, invite us to escape to the space with her.
The accompanying book represents one of Nia’s many explorations of the space, attempting to walk in the footsteps of her younger self as she revisits the locations that brought her the most comfort and wonder.
Many Hands Make Light Work , by et al.
This work explores pattern, materiality and meaning through the motif of line, as it flows between a patchwork of experience, objects, images and text, working with cloth, glass, video and light to form an immersive installation in the stairwell of the building.
Following a sudden illness during the pandemic and subsequent mobility issues, the poignancy of this archetypal, architectural non-place is elevated in recognition of its inaccessibility and limitations to a wheelchair user.
The installation aims to reflect the forces of production acting on the materiality of the artist’s body and the pattern (or encoding) of disability being inscribed on it.
Nothing is truly equal, everybody is different - as are the bodies of our institutions and artworks – this work pays respect to complex embodiment while asking the audience to reflect on the overlooked and mundane ways disabled bodies are denied access to learning and knowledge across the UK.
Er Cộf Annwyl
At the forefront of this praxis, consideration to working sustainably with textiles has been applied.
Er Cộf Annwyl is a body of work that marks a personal identity with family customs in textiles.
Ethnographic traditions have been explored surrounding materials that are custom to the Welsh Woollen Industry: fleece, spinning, wool, thread.
Through researching into native methods of textile making, the work delivered in the form of mini quilts, evoke memory of past life around ancestor’s cottage industry, Melin Llech, Bannau Brycheiniog, now a ruin.
The images presented capture the theme of hauntology paying homage to family members no longer present.
REFLECTIONS (I)(O)N (O)F WATER
In this collection, I have explored the physical and symbolic characteristics of reflection and fluidity of the most essential element for all lifeforms, Water.
It is an invitation for the audience to contemplate the duality and sublimity of water, life affirming yet destructive, calming and yet powerful, as well as its beauty and our subconscious connection with this powerful lifeforce.
The work considers Water both as a medium and as the subject for this artwork.
As a universal solvent, water dissolves binders and pigments to create paints (the medium) which embody its properties of fluidity and motion.
I have experimented with paint on glass through a collage of tiles, manipulating the surface through processes of mark- making, paint pouring, fritting and screen printing to reveal the interplay of light off reflective surfaces, and as the subject through a series of abstract paintings of waterfalls and reflected images to convey energy, spirituality and connectedness.
REFLECTIONS encourages one to contemplate the fragility of water - just as one drop of water can cause a ripple, so too one individual action can evoke change.
Meaning Deferred
Mechanical and real time oscillate, a familiar place becomes temporally abstract, the more I learn the less I know, meaning is deferred.
My research has brought me back to the 6 acres of post agricultural, post-industrial farmland that remain in my family.
It is a landscape with a narrative.
Scrape back the topsoil and you will see the remnants of the industrial past, time has homogenised its chronology though, through the gorse, nettles, birch and oak that now occupy the area.
No longer can a linear understanding of its history be perceived.
Appropriating materials more commonly associated with industry and subverting them to represent the organic and impermanent, Meaning Deferred presents this fragile relationship between the organic and non-organic, time and the brevity of matter.
The work is created in a state of high entropy, materials combine, resist, flow and dehydrate, creating a surface full of tension and fragility.
The process is a recording of energy and time, what remains is the inert traces of activity, a temporal artifact.
This project utilises photography and 3D printing to explore the local coal mine in Craig Cefn Parc.
This project also uses layers as a representation the cycle of organic life and industrialism.
The layers also let the audience view the different aspects of the project depending on the layer they focus on.
By focusing on objects specifically the unique and rare mushrooms that grow in the shadow of the mine, this project explores the effect of the mines on the physical and metaphorical landscape of the area.
One of the main influences on my practice is Mika Rottenberg and the main themes and theories are hauntology and landscape.
MA Contemporary Dialogues Summer Show Exhibition.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows/summer-show-photography:
“The subconscious is ceaselessly murmuring, and it is by listening to these murmurs that one hears its truth.”  - Gaston Bachelard, 1971.
The word murmur evokes poetic visions of large groups of migrating starlings in flight—individual birds collectively oscillating, twisting, turning, and swirling into geometric spheres in the sky at dusk.
Furthermore, a murmur can be understood as a sound that resides at the edges of our perception—a gentle hum that evolves and resonates the more attention we give it.
These metaphors serve as the foundation for the class of 2025, where individual artistic voices come together to form a collective whole.
Each body of work in Murmur holds its own space, addressing urgent social, political, and environmental concerns while also contributing to a shared desire to shape contemporary discourse through practice.
Their works challenge the boundaries between the seen and the unseen, the audible and the imperceptible, inviting us to attune ourselves to the subtle frequencies that shape the world around us.
The staff of the Photography Department at Swansea College of Art, UWTSD, wish to thank the class of 2025 for the harmonious organisation and deft execution of their graduate show, to congratulate them as emerging artists on producing such engaging bodies of work, and to wish them every success in their future endeavours.
Ryan L.
Moule Head of Undergraduate Photographic Studies Swansea College of Art, UWTWD.
Saskia Bartlett
Cristina Castro
Harvey Childs
Hektor Leon Dierzuk
Eszti Fulop
Saba Humayun
Nia Jane
Kelsey Jones
Serena Killen
Ezme Littlechild
Cerian Haf Lloyd
Rhys Morgan
Karsten Obrietan
Molly Pearce
Will Steadman
Joshua Williams
Nia Williams
Kai Samuel
Through the careful examination of the phantasmagoria of time, we can come to understand a meaning of an entity.
The reality of definition therefore lies in the in-between state, the comfort in uncertainty.
A Symphony of Chaos urges the spectator to pause, interact with the work before them and to question every aspect of its creation, to unlock the messages within.
When we look at the night sky, we are not just seeing stars; we are witnessing time itself.
This project explores the relationship between light, time, and memory, drawing from hauntology - the traces of what once was and the echoes of the past that remain.
Using cyanotype, a process that captures images through sunlight exposure, and patchwork fabric, this body of work reflects how we piece knowledge together through fragmented histories, materials, and experience.
Taking the form of a sculptural “observatory”, it invites the spectator to reflect on our local and universal place in space and time.
The Sublime occupies the oscillating space between distance and proximity.
Diagnosed as autistic later in life, Childs ’ work communicates the unseen sensory perception of the neurodiverse community.
Through non-vocal communication, he reflects on misinformed ideals of the atypical and the current stigma which leaves us in a realm of isolation and uncertainty.
Veil self-documents Childs’ neurodiverse identity, which resides in a society with the neurotypical in mind.
Applying methods of sound visualisation, Veil acts as a conduit for the body’s response to overstimulation.
Combining live feeds and processes, non-representative forms disrupt the course of neurodiverse existence.
Veil embodies what is invisible, externalises what is concealed and frowned upon.
Hektor Leon Dierzu
Kataphraktos
It is for the first time in modern history that discrimination and violence against transgender people have been widely accepted in society.
We are living under constant surveillance, forced to conform to visibility in order to negotiate our human rights, while being told that our identities, the very essence of our being, are better eradicated from existence.
Kataphraktos is an act of resistance in which I reclaim my right to privacy without making myself invisible.
Utilising medical equipment and ancient chainmailling techniques, I created pieces of armour symbolising a self-assured identity.
Eszti’s work explores the hauntological aspects of the punctum through family archives and how photographs carry a trace of an absent past that no longer exists.
Images sourced from the artist’s personal family archives are printed as cyanotype on fabric.
Small details such as eyes, mouths, and hands, are cut from the fabric and displayed opposite, creating a tension between the separated images.
Saba’s portraits highlight the value of diverse ethnicities to society.
Saba avoids simplistic representations, instead bringing together and photographing people from a different backgrounds.
The new composite portrait presents the viewer with a hybrid portrait, reflecting diverse features, colour, ethnicity, with their own voice, as a series that slots together a single human face.
Because the portraits illustrate the various cultures, ethnicities, and languages embedded in some of the organisations Saba have been involved with, the project is deeply personal to her & Saba believes Diversity encourages empathy and collaboration between individuals.
Her work with Diversity is core to her career as a photographer and an activist.
Drawing from the daydreams and imagination of a younger self, Nia Jane rediscovers the light-hearted freedom of following the artistic whim, in Innate Stellate.
Within this project, Jane strives to satisfy some of the hazier dreams of past whims, reflecting a childhood spent acknowledging instances of visual stimuli through synesthetic responses.
Reflections, textures, shapes and shadows all earning a gratifying response; later manifesting themselves into dreams, artworks and babbling rhapsodies.
Like many artists however, she would not be able to accurately represent these emotions through her work until later on in life – thus, Innate Stellate was born.
Instagram @niawithacamera
Residual Imprints explores the human response to connection.
Looking at the traces relationships leave behind, how they shape identity through fragmented moments, emotional imprints, and the echoes of connection.
Existing in the space between intimacy and distance, the work captures the lingering presence of others—both their absence and their lasting impact.
Residual Imprints speaks to the fleeting nature of relationships, questioning how experiences with others embed themselves within us by shaping our habits, actions, and sense of self.
Serena Killen is a documentary photographer focused on revealing the often-overlooked aspects of the world.
Her “Memory in Pixels” project explores modern music culture by highlighting grassroots bands and local venues.
Through her lens, she captures the vibrancy and determination of these spaces as they face challenges like rising costs and limited late-night transportation.
By sharing these stories, Serena showcases the resilience of the music community and emphasises the need for support for these venues.
Organisations like the Music Venue Trust help provide security, enabling venues to navigate difficulties with strength and resilience.
Extracting and unravelling the interpersonal connection between feminine beauty and family heritage, the multi-disciplinary project Vessels invites you to reflect on societal conformities that have a tangible seize over our relationships with our bodies.
Esme Littlechild has recognised these pressures in the development of her own body, while also dwelling on the inevitable hereditary anxieties of physical ageing.
Our bodies are the vessel we live, breath, move and experience through, curated by features of generations before us that we now inject, modify, uproot and remove, creating a disconnect and trauma in the chase of ever-changing conformity.
Echoes in silence
Echoes in Silence is a deeply personal body of work that explores the deaf experience, reflecting Cerian’s own journey.
Through this collection, she seeks to share the complexities of growing up deaf and the challenges of missing something fundamental to communication while navigating a world that doesn’t always understand.
This project invites viewers into the C_e_r_i_a_n_’s_ _life, offering a glimpse into the quiet moments that define the deaf experience, often overlooked or misunderstood.
It fosters empathy and awareness, sparking a broader conversation about the struggles of living without full hearing capacity and advocating for inclusion.
Rhys Morgan’s ongoing work reflects on how humans occupy, alter, and leave impressions on the spaces they pass through.
Partnered with themes of Hiraeth and materiality, his artwork studies the conceptual relationship of space and human inhabitancy.
Using materiality as a visual anchor to highlight the intricacy of a location’s presence.
Naturally using areas that have personal ties which in turn greatly affects his composition, evoking a dialogue between permanence and decay.
How do physical environments shape our identities, and how does our movement through them inscribe meaning?
That continues to be explored.
Karsten Obrietan is a visual artist based in Wales, currently working with the mediums of charcoal, oil paint, natural dye and textile design.
The body of work DANCING N01 has been made and continues to evolve as a project from constant dancing.
Regardless of if Obrietan is happy with the end result of an artistic experiment, he continues dancing and the work changes with each of those dances.
This process of nonstop dancing is what has made the work what you see today.
Each piece has been cut, dyed, sewn, painted and cut again in a process of construction from deconstruction.
Each dance with these natural materials has created a therapeutic exchange between the material and the artist.
Finally, DANCING N01 attempts to interact with what it means to make marks on this planet and what it means to be a human in the material world in which we live.
The artists work explores the connection between body image and the natural world, emphasising the parallels between human form and nature’s cycles of growth, decay, and renewal.
Just as nature resists categorisation, so does the body, with each mark and curve telling a unique story.
By blending organic materials with human forms, It is to challenge conventional ideals of beauty and celebrate the body’s resilience and imperfection.
Through this, the goal is to claim self-acceptance and a deeper connection to both the body and the natural world.
Will Steadman’s photographic practice examines the interwoven relationship between human infrastructure and nature’s inevitable resurgence.
By capturing industrial sites and overlaying AI-generated natural elements, his work envisions a future where nature reclaims the built environment.
Using a custom-trained AI model, he integrates organic growth seamlessly into these spaces, reinforcing the certainty of ecological regrowth.
This fusion of photography and AI challenges perceptions of technological dominance, asserting nature’s quiet but unstoppable resilience.
Through this process, Steadman presents a meditation on impermanence, regeneration, and the enduring power of the natural world to reclaim what was once human-made.
Joshua WIlliams
Joshua WIlliams project ‘ I cope’ intended to address societal issues that are commonly misrepresented.
Mental health is often distant from the realities that the lens decides to depict.
To offer a new narrative to this subject, Joshua intends to use alternative processes to create and photograph in his body of work.
Joshua invites the audience to see his struggles with mental health and transcend the current fixed discourse around this subject through the complex, fractured nature of his work.
He recognises our collective experiences are marked by persistent psychological suffering.
Williams’ work explores the human body, reflecting the struggles of body dysmorphia.
Finding struggles with her body image, Williams creates a series of images which reflect this idea.
The work is from her point of view and looks through her personal struggles that she faces.
It focuses on the body and the details that stand out most.
Her work also explores how women are often sexualised, leading to these feelings of our appearance.
Photography Summer Show Exhibition.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows/summer-show-product-and-furniture-design:
From design innocence and naivety to becoming resilient, versatile and creative problem solvers, we are proud to present the Class of 2025.
Through times of laughter and frustration, deep reflection and spirited debate, this exhibition marks the culmination of a three-year journey of exploration, innovation, and dynamic design thinking.
It showcases how our graduates have reimagined the role and value of everyday products and furniture.
We hope you find the Exhibition, Signed, interesting and inspiring.
Staff Team BA/BSc (Hons) Product & Furniture Design.
Patrick Harry
Luke Jones
Lewis Morgan
Lewis Parry
Dylan Reis
Leigh Yule
I’m Patrick Harry , a product and furniture designer with a hands-on approach and a focus on creating useful, well-considered solutions.
Whether it’s developing modular, tool-less van furniture or refining ideas in Fusion 360 and Adobe, I enjoy turning practical challenges into thoughtful design outcomes.
Collaborating with Brands like Cerebra, Iterate, and the IKEA has helped shape a process that’s both creative and technically driven.
Outside of work, I find balance in skiing and football, where quick thinking, coordination, and flow often reflect the way I approach design.
Clikkit is a modular, tool-free furniture kit designed to make van life more accessible and customizable, especially for people who aren’t expert builders.
Play video: Summer Show: Product & Furniture Design Patrick Harry
From a young age, I’ve always loved solving problems, and that’s where design found me.
I’ve never liked being beaten by a challenge, and that drive pushed me to spend hours exploring solutions, refining ideas, and evolving as an iterative designer.
At the core of my work is design thinking, as it guides every decision I make.
Function is at the heart of my designs — every concept I create is driven by purpose as much as aesthetics.
I’m equally passionate about the technical aspects, like CAD and graphic design as I am about the research and strategy behind every idea.
Morphis Nova is an advanced ergonomic chair designed to revolutionise workplace seating through AI-driven automation and biometric adaptability.
I’m Lewis, with a passion for education, creativity, and making a difference.
I aspire to be a product design teacher because I believe in empowering others and giving everyone an equal chance to succeed.
For me, teaching isn’t just about passing on knowledge, it’s also about inspiring creativity, encouraging curiosity, and creating inclusive spaces where everyone can thrive.
Design has always been a core part of who I am.
I enjoy the process of taking ideas and refining them into something functional and meaningful.
My work reflects my values of accessibility and inclusivity, and I strive to create designs that have a positive impact on people’s lives.
Chatimals is a product designed to help ASD learners develop, communicate and regulate their emotions.
With a strong foundation in furniture and cabinetmaking, my move into product and furniture design felt like a natural progression.
My hands-on craftsmanship, combined with advanced CAD skills, allow me to navigate the traditional design process effortlessly.
This blend enables me to create aesthetically striking and commercially viable products ready for market.
Whilst I prioritise aesthetics, I never lose sight of functionality, ensuring each design is grounded in the practicalities of manufacturing.
My unique combination of handcraft expertise, understanding of modern technology and a deep personal connection to the consumer and product design, form the basis of my design ethos.
In collaboration with Westminster Abbey, the Edwards Chair blends mid-century contemporary aesthetics with Gothic grandeur creating a harmonious fusion of heritage and modernity.
I’ve always been intrigued by design—especially the chance to create or draw something new.
As a product designer, I’m most inspired by work that embraces eco-conscious thinking, whether through sustainable materials or products designed to support the environment.
My design philosophy is “function follows form,” finding beauty first and allowing utility to follow naturally.
Nature is a huge influence in my process, as is quietly observing how people move through their everyday lives.
Curious and open to all l kinds of projects, I thrive on discovering thoughtful, human-centred solutions that connect people to the world around them.
My project re-imagines the traditional Tesla turbine by replacing flat discs with custom-engineered hyperbolic funnels to optimize flow dynamics and energy efficiency.
I’m a designer with a passion for creating functional products and visually striking graphics.
As the founder of FlyFlex, I specialise in blending creativity with practicality to deliver impactful designs.
Whether it’s product design or graphic work, my goal is to turn ideas into designs that not only look great but work flawlessly.
FLYFLEX is an evolved economy seat aimed at improving mobility, comfort, and overall well-being on long-distance flights.
FLYFLEX’s double seating position enables the user to switch between a seated and supported standing posture, easing stiffness and fatigue.
Arddangosfa Gŵyl Haf Dylunio Cynnyrch a Dŵrn.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows/summer-show-surface-pattern-and-textiles:
Congratulations to the Surface Pattern and Textiles Class of 2025!
We have enjoyed watching you grow as designers and grow in confidence; we feel very proud to see you all now.
You have been resilient and hardworking; you have shown great commitment to your own creativity and your determination to succeed is impressive.
We will remember you fondly as collaborators in the live projects that have defined your journey with us; Idott, Biophilic Living, Monki and Rolls Royce.
Between you, you have explored every corner of our Surface Pattern and Textiles department and enjoyed the freedom and welcome you have found elsewhere across Swansea College of Art.
In doing so you have produced beautiful work.
Wherever you go next, we know you are going to thrive, we hope you will keep in touch with us, and always feel the sense that you are part of our much treasured SP&T community.
Jasmine Brindley
Susan Down
Emily Elias
Emerald Goldsworthy
Nia Lloyd- Jones
Faye Kennedy
Mini Sharma-McLachlan
Laura Miller
Aimee Rayner
Lily Staniforth
Freya Henderson- Wright
BA (Hons) Surface Pattern and Textiles .
“Leves Erbere” is a spring/summer collection inspired by the Bloomsbury Group and the inspiration they have on art and fashion.
This highlights heritage, luxury, art, nature and freshness.
With an interest in a career in trend and forecasting, Jasmine enjoys gathering information through current or archive exhibitions.
Exploring the links between art, interiors, fashion, colour and her surrounding space and location, showcasing information through visuals or analytics.
Jasmine enjoys every element; from research, design, experimentation to final creations, seeing the evolution of her project and where it takes her.
MDes (Hons) Surface Pattern and Textiles .
“Beneath Familiar Skies” reflects on returning to Thailand, a place Susan once called home, through a renewed perspective.
The collection weaves together childhood memories and the experience of revisiting, capturing the culture, mood and essence of the place.
Her designs explore the contrasts between nostalgia, identity and heritage.
Susan is driven by exploring textiles, materiality, and pattern making within fashion and interiors.
Enthralled by the escapism that design and creativity provide, she combines traditional skills such as painting and drawing with digital processes to push the boundaries of design and creative expression.
The enjoyment she finds in painting and drawing, specifically in seeing her initial sketches transform into completed patterns, which then come together to form a cohesive and captivating collection.
Motivated by capturing a timeless design language, Emily’s practice focuses on embracing contemporary processes with a classic flare.
Influenced by the principles of the Arts and Crafts movement, she is driven to produce highly decorative outcomes that uphold a sustained life trajectory beyond trend cycles, to increase circularity.
In this collection denim is reimagined as an innovative interior furnishing and Emily’s creative enquiry celebrates the empowering qualities of the contemporary feminine.
The motifs adorning the collection, take provenance from the ancient craft and symbolic language of Kilim.
Through addressing themes of strength, protection and good luck to produce modern heirlooms, that promote deeper intrinsic connections and sense of belonging.
Emily is fascinated by the power of pattern and print, and it’s translational potential across differing materials.
Immersed into a world of visual wonder, she is empowered by the breadth of skillset and versatility being a surface pattern designer offers.
BA (Hons) Surface Pattern and Textiles.
“Botanical Heritage” is based on the grandeur and highly detailed ornamentation of baroque design.
Emerald is drawn to the border designs of frames and mirrors and is inspired by the structure of those patterns built from natural imagery.
The aim was to create a print wallpaper collection based on experimentation with new techniques.
Emerald is inspired by nature and the environment and uses this to create motifs.
She enjoys using the variety of equipment and techniques to produce outcomes from the different resources available.
Emerald is always interested in how different colour palettes can elevate a collection of patterns.
Emerald particularly enjoys the wide range of projects involved in surface pattern including interiors and fashion.
Each project demands a different area of expertise enabling Emerald to promote herself as a multidisciplinary designer.
Nia Lloyd-Jones
Nia’s final major project explores the lifecycle of botanicals, particularly the idea that nature always finds a way to regenerate following loss which has personal connotations.
The rich and opulent colour palette brings the designs to life for functioning wallpaper, fabric, and decorative elements for commercial prestigious interior spaces.
Nia is proud of her Welsh language, heritage and creative lineage, having used the creative skills passed down and advanced these with contemporary techniques and innovation studied during the course.
Nia now wishes to fulfil her passion as a collection designer for interiors creating beautifully designed repeat patterns for a multitude of different surfaces.
Nia is a maximalist designer who embraces mixed media surfaces to playfully tell stories about personal life journeys.
She has a strong inclination toward reusing fabrics, breathing new life into materials with sentimental value by giving them a fresh purpose through thoughtful design.
She enjoys layering techniques which include dyeing, screen, digital and UV printing, laser cut and embroidery to create contemporary pattern designs.
‘Echoes of Absence’ invites viewers to look up at surrounding architecture and consider it’s history.
It is a celebration of ornamentation, exploring the disconnect between architecture and decoration and how it has changed over time.
Faye has focused on sentimental buildings that have been destroyed and rebuilt brick by brick, such as Groes Chapel in Port Talbot.
Her motifs were inspired by the decoration that has survived within the architecture and extends the details within chinaware used in this time period, such as Wedgwood china.
Her ambition is to create a space for the echoes to speak once more.
Faye’s practice is often influenced by contemporary society as well as nature.
She loves surrounding herself in nature and the outside world, which is often very present within her work.
She focuses on combining both digital and analogue processes.
With a passion for Laser cutting and screen-printing, she loves to see her patterns evolve through process.
Faye feels empowered being a surface pattern and textiles designer.
It allows her to explore her creativity and apply it to patterns at an industry level.
Faye enjoys the versatility of surface pattern and how it can be applied across multiple disciplines and products, with focus on colour, materiality and narrative.
‘Wild Waters and Highland Wonders’ is derived from Mini’s Scottish heritage and recent adventures through Scotland’s rural landscapes.
Inspired by the abundance of beauty seen within the highland mountains and surrounding wetlands, Mini has designed an interior collection consisting of wallpaper and furnishing fabric that emphasise Scotland’s rich profusion of wildlife.
Specialising in printmaking, Mini’s practice is driven by the connection between craft and wellness as she uses hand driven processes throughout her work as a form of meditation.
Inspired by fauna and flora, the natural world underpins Mini’s designs as she emphasises the importance of our connection to rural environments.
Mini loves being a surface pattern and textile designer as it enables her to see her ideas come to life and how they can be used within industry, fuelling her passion for design further.
She particularly enjoys how traditional artisan practices such as lino carving and printmaking can be translated into pattern.
“Inis” (pronounced in-ish), is a tribute to Ireland’s rich storytelling tradition.
Irish folklore is intrinsically tied to the land, and through Inis, Laura explores this bond, translating the myths and narratives of her heritage into tactile, evocative textile designs.
Originally from Derry, Northern Ireland—a city with a rich textile heritage, through her work, she explores the intersection of heritage and innovation, crafting designs that honour tradition while embracing modern aesthetics.
Her practice is multidisciplinary which enables her to create innovative and adaptable designs, although primarily designing for a fashion context, but her portfolio also includes interiors.
Her expertise includes lino and screen printing, as well as appliqué, and hand embroidery.
Drawing inspiration from nature, folklore, and abstract textures, Laura translates these influences into tactile, modern surface designs that engage both visually and texturally.
‘Flow and Flourish’, captures forest bathing and wellbeing walks in an immersive display of sensory textiles.
Combining biophilic design, and colour psychology, this work translates Aimee’s creative state of flow into beautifully wild artwork fit for public installations, mood boosting fashion prints, and playful interiors, encouraging feelings of calm, comfort and wellbeing.
For her own wellbeing, Aimee is inspired by humanity’s symbiotic relationship with the natural world, and how nature can heal and repair our minds and bodies as we take care of it as a community.
Driven by her experience as a Health Care Assistant during Covid, Aimee wants others to feel a sense of belonging and feel cared for, as they explore her immersive and tactile work.
Weaving the joy that Aimee feels when she creates, into designs that bring joy to wear, live in and experience, is what Aimee loves most about being a surface pattern designer.
If, through her work, she can make you to feel that happy sigh when your toes first touch the sandy beach, or when you surround yourself in a carpet of bluebells in spring woodlands, she feels she has done her job well.
‘Tales from the Tides’ delves into the intricate relations women have with the sea, drawing rich inspiration from her childhood spent along the Yorkshire coast.
Through her unique illustrative style and vibrant colour palette, she reimagines tales and memories from the sea, transforming them into lively and expressive pattern designs that resonate with a contemporary lifestyle brief.
Lily’s love for patterns is evident in her creations, as she captures the essence of the British coastlines which inspires her.
She embraces techniques such as screen and lino printing, skilfully blending traditional craftsmanship with modern aesthetics.
Lily loves to bring joy to the viewer, bringing them a sense of happiness through her designs, her vibrant colour palettes and drawing style.
Lily finds empowerment in traditional skills such as painting and drawing, valuing the rich history and techniques that accompany them.
She is particularly fascinated by the process of transferring her designs onto fabric and the exciting possibilities of working with various materials.
Freya Henderson-Wright
‘The Morbs’ is a textiles project aimed at the fashion runway which has been inspired by the Victorian era.
Elements of this collection include a hybrid of morbid curiosity, superstitions and romance which has been inspired by aspects from the era.
The collection uses an array of luxurious textured fabrics that complement each other when layered.
Freya’s main design drive is storytelling.
They believe every collection and pattern should have a strong narrative similar to fine art.
Freya is often inspired by storytellers in fashion for example Alexander Mcqueen.
With a passion for fashion, textures are important to their practice.
Freya believes that tactile touch tells a story within itself.
Freya thrives on learning new things such as techniques and always wants to learn more.
Freya’s favourite thing is the process of design, they enjoy how an initial mood board can turn into a collection, which then becomes an exhibition.
Freya feels a proudness when they see progress from start to finish.
Surface Pattern and Textiles Summer Show Exhibition.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows-2024/summer-show-architecture:
The BSc Architecture Graduate Show of 2024 showcases the exemplary work produced by our students, exploring dynamic proposals for a range of community projects working exclusively in the historic town of Merthyr Tydfil.
The students produced a series of urban design and town centre redevelopment strategies to enable further investigation to develop a suitable design brief to support the needs of the traditional, post-industrial valleys community.
This year’s projects span a wide range of proposals, including a vertical community farm, a health and wellbeing centre through to sporting activities and a theatre.
We at Swansea School of Architecture wish them all the very best in their future endeavours.
Ben Harris
Ben Steward
Bethan Davies
Callum Arnold
Jacob Davies Hannen
Olivia Rowland
Victoria Weeks
Ben Harris
Acting as a permanent residence for the stagecoach theatre school in Merthyr Tydfil who currently use local schools during evenings and weekends., this theatre will give local children a place to learn and experience what the performing arts can be.
With a mix of spaces for both dance and acting, students are able to perform and showcase what they have learnt in the building’s theatre.
This will also be used by local performers such as small bands, drama groups, or even comedians.
As part of a wider masterplan which contains restaurants, bars, and outdoor performance spaces, the theatre school acts as part of a new quarter in Merthyr Tydfil with the aim to add to and enhance the historic town.
The use of local slate on the ground floors act as a base for the contrasting upper floors to sit upon with their white finish.
A large amount of landscaping has also been introduced to promote wildlife and create an inviting space for visitors.
See the full design
Ben Steward
A vehicle and technology centre based on the concept of how sponsorship in Merthyr from an electric car or bike business could help create jobs, community, education, leisure, and sustainable solutions.
The design is based on the concept of Sir Clive Sinclair, inventor of the Sinclair C5, whose family business sponsors development in Merthyr.
The C5 has recently been redeveloped by his nephew to compete against today’s eBikes, creating the IRIS eTrike.
The design of the Armitage is intended to be part of a pedestrian and cyclist friendly cityscape, so eBikes can be a safe alternative in the near future and reduce carbon emissions.
Facilities include a large exhibition hall, workshops for vehicle manufacturing, a car lift, laboratories, a café, disabled and child friendly facilities, and a Circuit Hall for teaching electronics for all ages.
Throughout my time at UWTSD I have really enjoyed the whole experience.
The course supports employability, skills development, builds confidence, and prepares you for the work environment.
–Ben Steward
Bethan Davies
A new fashion house will be introduced to the heart of Merthyr.
It will showcase some of works of Julien McDonald (a strong Merthyr boy); for example, some shiny, glamorous and newer works that he has created through the years.
Inside the building, it will include moving shop fronts that can change to showcase any fashion brand held in Merthyr.
This will give you a hint as to what the building will provide.
The Fashion Theatre is a place where the community comes together to welcome all.
The building will include spaces for younger generations and older generations to study fashion, hang out, and explore a catwalk full of displays of fashion.
There will be space for a restaurant to take in the breath-taking views.
Callum Arnold
Located adjacent to the River Afan, Port Talbot, this project aimed to create a creative arts centre, accessible to all, sprouting new life in the heart of the town.
With Port Talbot’s art culture thriving, this project aimed to become a place to host and share the town’s creativity.
The colourful bridge, conjoining office space and education space, became the main feature of the project, allowing the colours to change due to layered glazing, depending on the user’s perspective.
The building provides a culturally sensitive and vernacular design, focusing on the steel works in materials used.
Drew Dennehy
This design reformats the horizontal nature of traditional farming and applies it to a vertical building to produce strong extruded floor planes enclosed with a curtain wall system.
This idea of transparency aligns with the concept to reveal the aquaponic farming processes to the public, allowing them to see into the building and provide opportunities for education.
The building is designed based on a journey where the water services are used as a guide, bringing the public up through the core with each floor representing a different stage in the process: fishery, seedlings, mature crops, and restaurant.
The course has been incredibly engaging, encouraging strong personal development and becoming something I thoroughly enjoyed throughout my time at UWTSD.
–Drew Dennehy
Jacob Davies Hannen
A new theatre in the heart of Merthyr’s town centre creates a new home for the musicians, choirs, and performing arts of Merthyr, offering studios for rehearsals, a restaurant, and a café.
The principle was to make the building accessible and open to the public.
The building will have a large glass front under an overhang protecting the entrance.
Its basic geometry is designed like a bridge.
This allows for access around the building and through it, while retaining the functionality of two blocks connected by mezzanines.
The rusted steel shell unifies the mass of the building holding the new large public square and aims to reconnect the scattered art communities and form a new social hub for Merthyr.
Olivia Rowland
A new art gallery facility, at the heart of Merthyr Tydfil town.
The purpose of the development will be to display the history of Merthyr through historical art pieces and new art pieces by local artists that are unable to be displayed at the local art gallery and museum, Cyfarthfa Park, and castle.
With the ambition to bring in more students from the surrounding towns, the art gallery provides opportunities for local students and members of the public to be able to work closely with local artists and professionals, through either running workshops or classes in large studio spaces.
Inside the gallery, there is a permanent gallery and a temporary exhibit that is changed regularly.
The art gallery is designed to showcase three different facades, with each material being chosen for its sustainability and visual appeal, providing a simple but unique design.
The building’s main art gallery on the second floor is on a cantilever that extends out seven metres.
To support the cantilever there are large lattice beams hidden in the parapet wall on the balcony.
The second floor is stepped back allowing for a large balcony space and has a steep north-facing pitch roof with skylight to allow for the north light to access the studio space at all times of the day.
I have developed a wide range of knowledge, software and drawing skills, and I am glad to be a part of UWTSD.
–Bethan Davies
Victoria Weeks
Introducing the Matchstick Arena, a state-of-the-art sports and wellness centre located in Merthyr Tydfil, designed to honour the legacy of the renowned local boxer, Johnny Owen.
Spanning four floors, this innovative facility blends robust functionality with beauty and nature.
The Arena features a dynamic range of fitness and therapeutic spaces, including a fully equipped gym, specialised therapy rooms, and tranquil mindfulness pavilions on the rooftop garden.
Emphasising sustainability, the building incorporates energy-efficient technologies, green roofs, and biophilic design elements that foster a deep connection with nature.
Timber louvres envelop the structure, enhancing its energy efficiency while offering a natural aesthetic that promotes health and wellbeing.
Designed to serve as a community hub, the Matchstick Arena is not just a gym, but a cornerstone for revitalisation, aiming to boost local health, wellness, and economic prosperity.
It’s a testament to sustainable architecture, driving forward a legacy of wellness and community engagement.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows-2024/summer-show-art-and-design-foundation:
This year’s Foundation students have worked from various perspectives and broad specialist areas such as Fine Art, Textiles, 3D and Visual Communication to produce work that relates to the title INTERCHANGE.
Interchange is the point at which the ordinary becomes extraordinary.
The start of the creative process often involves the certainty of familiar ideas and practices.
Interchange is when we take these elements and then combine them with the unexpected.
At this point an idea can transform from the presumed into the profound.
Agnieszka Nowak
Al Attala
Amy Megan Smith
Annika Hanson-Carlson
Anya May
Ari James
Charlotte Davies
Chloe Duggan
Daniel Rees
Emily Ellard
Emma Millington
Eve Slatter
Georgia Day
Hannah Flint
Izzy Green
Jazz Owen
Jess Morton
Joseph Nash
Joseph Thompson
Keanu Markoff
Leanne Pepper
Niamh Hill
Noah Richards
Osian Hallgarth
Patrice Hutchings
Romany Timm
Roxy Bender
Scarlett Hegarty
Shannon Jones
Sophia Hixson
Tim Evans
Todd Richards
Tyler White
Yasmin Warrey
Agnieszka Nowak
Touch.
Fear.
Shame.
Loneliness.
This work explores touch and what it means to reach out for help.
The fear and shame that comes with personal problems that we cannot deal with alone.
How loneliness can impact our decisions and how physical connection can make these problems disappear, or help us deal with them.
The stigma around certain problems (rape and sexual assault, drug addiction, abuse) will often be enough to stop a person from reaching out for help or even talking about them.
Can affection and touch be substituted?
Can we give ourselves all the love we need?
Al Attala
This work shows and inhabits a fictional world as a method of examining the removal of possibility.
In depicting civilisations and the logics they run on, the paint calcifies the carpet, freezing its folds in place.
In applying cultural meaning, the potential of an item is removed and it becomes mundane.
The digital aspect of the work lets viewers step into the world depicted and experience its cultural rules, systems of oppression, and logics.
Through mimicking repetitive entertainment and playing with presented choice, it explores how anything can become mundane, specifically violence.
Amy Megan Smith
The pieces displayed are created with various chain maille techniques: the hand coverings use a European 4-in-1 pattern, the earrings use a Japanese 6-in-1 pattern, and the necklace uses a Persian 4-in-1 pattern.
While the European 4-in-1 pattern is the most common for making larger-scale items, Japanese and Persian patterns are typical when creating jewellery as they adapt better to intricate designs.
Through experimental process, the work explores how different base patterns can be adapted to make various unique jewellery designs.
Annika Hanson-Carlson
Anticipation.
While I love silent films, I realize they might not as accessible to a modern-day audience, not used to the medium due to the lack of colour and dialogue that we have grown used to in modern cinema.
I wanted to draw the viewer’s attention to the film, not through sound but loud colours.
Each frame was printed and coloured by hand, a choice inspired by both early filmmaker George Melies and the rotoscoped segment of Yellow Submarine (1968).
The constantly shifting colours and patterns in this film capture the character’s excitement leading up to the kiss.
Anya May
Throughout life I have had a challenging relationship with identity, and an unclear, shifting self-image.
This is due to having borderline personality disorder.
This collection of sculpture and videos actualises the progression of my identity as I have aged.
Having the view that everything happens for a reason gives me the confidence that everything will eventually be okay despite life’s challenges.
Although I have struggled at times with self-image and personality, my safe space and ‘ideal self’ has remained constant.
Ari James
As a response to the Interchange brief, my work has appropriated and updated an existing illustration of mine, which was a character I named ‘Ink’.
Drawing on the techniques I have learnt and developed throughout my time on this course, and working with themes including creation and destruction, I have explored the fragmented limitation of using 24 frames per second in a short, animated film.
The concept art pieces presented as part of this exhibition were used to assist the animation process.
Charlotte Davies
Repeatedly, I find myself drawn to Picasso’s ‘Girl with A Dove’ for inspiration.
This piece resonates with me, evoking a sense of innocence and tranquillity amid turbulent times.
In my current work, I’ve taken cues from the painting, utilising its colours and incorporating the traditional Korean sewing technique known as ‘Bojaji’ to construct shapes and hues.
My intention was to reimagine a liminal space where natural light ebbs and flows, reflecting the passage of time and emotions.
The making process of these textile sculptures was a deliberate, methodical process involving cutting, arranging, pinning, pressing, and draping within my creative environment – a family room bustling with a mix of serenity, disorder, ideas, playfulness, illumination, connection, and motion.
Chloe Duggan
An Ordinary Love.
In search for the essence of the person I love, I have instead found beauty and significance in the small moments that go unnoticed.
While observing and journaling, I have captured the magic in the mundane and the joy in the routine.
Our ordinary relationship with moments that are only ours are what make us extraordinary.
Daniel Rees
For this work I focused on the idea of change or transition, primarily in a personal sense but also broadly.
This year has brought a lot of change both in terms of environment and in my personal life.
I wanted to portray that change isn’t always a bad thing, but can still be incredibly jarring and often difficult to deal with or adjust to.
It can take a lot out of us, both physically and emotionally.
Emily Ellard
An exploration of branching systems and fractal patterns; veins, branches, roots and cells enabled me to examine networks inherent to both the human body and nature.
For this, I considered ways in which humans are intertwined with nature through structures embodied by both human and plant life, questioning our relationship with nature.
For example, the destruction of coral gardens bleached by human touch, essentially contaminated.
I have produced a conceptual garment that is intentionally organic in nature, informed by my research, whilst also alluding to the problem of coral bleaching, visible in the natural, washed out, raw and undyed yarns used.
I wanted the wearer and the viewer to observe this conflict through the garment itself.
It demonstrates both a connection to but also a disconnect from our environment, in turn, provoking the idea of ‘interchange’ as an overarching theme.
Emma Millington
Change is inevitable, but it’s not all bad when surrounded by the people you love.
When you have each other everything seems to fall in place.
Life is full of change but should still be celebrated.
Life is a very long road that can be cut short at any moment.
So, for my piece I decided to honour the recent changes in my family’s life; I have created an archive of my Uncle and Auntie’s married life.
Eve Slatter
This work is a reflection and collection of moments spent with my dad before he died.
Photographs, video footage and journals serve as a timeline for his life before I knew him and when I did.
The video showcases environments and experiences he documented that are so unfamiliar to me.
I question things I didn’t know about my dad, his own personal thoughts and feelings, and how it shifts my perspective on things I remember of him.
Through narration, I pay homage to him as a person and as a father and my growing relatability to him outside of the person I was aware of.
This piece began as an exploration into my own creative process, along the way evolving into an investigation regarding what is and might be perceived as ‘art’.
I have experimented with textures and imagery that are not conventionally considered to be ‘art’, and in sharing how I view the world, realised my own aesthetic satisfaction in the vernacular.
Hannah Flint
This work explores gender expression through wearable accessories, developed through the ideas of ‘anti-beauty’.
My pieces were made to promote transhuman imagery in favour of discovering self, through taking inspirations from acrylic nail extensions and more current trends such as tooth gems, recreating them in a more grotesque, intense way.
This is to allow the viewer to see through the lenses of how I view my personal gender experience, in its own unique and almost aggressive way.
When pushing small aspects in fashion, such as accessories, to almost unwearable ways, like by widening my mouth, exposing my imperfect teeth, I felt a sense of relief and joy, to present as ‘ugly.’ Having the control to intentionally present unnervingly has been very liberating.
Izzy Green
“A primary architectural failing; a systematised, consistent approach to a world of total “wonderful” chaos.”
Gordan Matta-Clark
A reflection on modernism and the ideologies of Le Corbusier, this large-scale photographic piece explores repetition within architecture.
Through a procedural process of construction, the work questions the ability of these structures to cater to individual human experience.
Jazz Owen
This work was made to share the experiences of women in the 21st century.
Its purpose being to make the viewer feel uncomfortable, and to recognise what some women are made to feel when being approached: catcalled, grabbed, hit.
I personally, along with countless other women, have experienced this sort of unwanted attention.
We are told, “it’s because of what you are wearing.”
Jess Morton
Our Truth
This piece represents a defining event, experienced from three different perspectives.
His, Hers, and ‘reality’.
It draws on the blurred lines between memory, bias and delusion, and how they are used to embellish ‘Our Truth’.
Joseph Nash
This collection of work is inspired by the weekly walks I go on with my Nan and our dogs, enjoying the Gower coastline.
I decided to explore three routes in the area, which overlap and interchange.
I tracked the statistics of the walks on the application ‘Strava’, which is used to enhance the experience of endurance sports by recording and analysing the distance, duration and steps taken.
After recording the routes, I created a series of posters designed to inform and encourage others to walk, which display the interchanging routes I took, combined with minimalist, flat image interpretations of moments with my most playful dog, Kiko, and the stunning scenery that surrounded him.
There’s a certain tranquillity to be found in the repetition of simple processes, repeated, over and over again.
In this piece I wanted to explore the meditative practice behind the development of repeat patterns, and how simple lines and shapes evolve into complex structures when they are multiplied and then arranged in particular ways.
Keanu Markoff
This work explores the idea of ‘Interchange’ through the concept of play and interactivity.
Using a composite material called Valchromat, which is strong and offers variety in colour, it presents the possibilities of dual-function accessories, using magnets to enable designs to be switched and adapted according to the aesthetic choices of the wearer.
Leanne Pepper
Have a seat and rest a weary heart.
Allow the glass to cast warmth and clarity upon body and mind, to softly burn away hopelessness and resignation.
Today’s media may condemn, demand self-flagellation, but here, the natural world welcomes and wonders at you.
Sit, and wonder in return.
This piece invites you to look beyond defeatism, to rise above the masses of negative climate information, and believe we can change for the better: to appreciate and reconnect with the natural world.
The rush for progress has deluded humanity into thinking we are separate from nature, when in fact, we are interchangeable.
To sit and look upon this piece acts as a prayer to yourself and the natural world: ‘‘I see myself in you and I am not resigned.’’
Niamh Hill
Interchange through fragmentation.
I wanted to explore the idea of physical decay and fragmentation and how materials and textiles respond to different processes which distress and change their shape and form.
Disintegration is a key theme of this piece and is a response to visiting the derelict copper works at Hafod.
The work explores the patinas and textures of the decaying structures - the colour palette is informed by the copper ore that was such a fundamental element of Swansea’s past.
Copper pins link to the experience of materiality that I am conveying through my work and link to the topography of place, accentuating the fragility and distressed nature of the work, but also our environment.
Interchange in this context is used as an overarching theme which examines these precarious qualities.
Noah Richards
Through digital repetition, this work demonstrates the process of degradation.
Human actions are speeding up existing rates of degradation within the natural world, with fifty of every 20,000 species going extinct each year.
Through fifty digital repetitions of 20,000 pixels, this work makes rates of degradation more visible, reflecting on how human actions are bringing us closer to environmental catastrophe.
Osian Hallgarth
The fable of Icarus encourages us to consider how we should fly: if we fly too high our wings will melt in the sun and if we fly too low, we will end up drowning in the sea.
The moral is to fly with these considerations, to find a balance, and to understand our place in the world.
I made this work to share the story of Icarus in relation to contemporary design, through the construction of hand-crafted wings, using modern-day materials including plastic, paper, MDF and glue in place of the candle-wax and feathers used in Icarus’ original iteration.
The work invites us to consider our trust in the mechanisms that support us, and to recognise the benefits and consequences of our choices.
Imagine yourself wearing these wings: take flight, and be responsible with the course of your journey.
Patrice Hutchings
The work on display is a series of textile experiments that address memory.
The work utilises fabric taken from the clothing of family members, including those recently passed.
It was inspired by the artist Louise Bourgeois, who used her own clothes to make art pieces, fabric sculptures and books as a way to document her experiences.
In my work, the garments have been unpicked, then cut into shape.
This has been symbolised by the hand, which suggests the act of making itself, but also is an embodiment of other students and staff on Foundation Art and Design.
Each hand template signifies that of an individual student, which they have inscribed with a personal message.
I asked, “what has been your favourite memory of the course?” I wanted to be able to capture, then contain this, in an experimental book piece, which can be turned over and handled by the viewer.
It acts as a reminder of my time spent this year on Foundation.
Romany Timm
Америка Здарова (What’s up America)
This small collection is inspired by a stylistic exchange between modern America and Post-Soviet Eastern Europe.
I decorated these secondhand clothes with my own modifications to represent a visual interchange of Americana and Eastern Europe using grunge ‘distressions’, hand-made elements, and an emphasis on small details.
Throughout the collection I wanted to represent the prevalence of counterfeit brands during the Soviet Union due to their restrictions on capitalist marketing, particularly Adidas, which became a cultural symbol of Russia and Eastern Europe.
Alongside the collection is a mix of Eastern European and American hip hop.
Roxy Bender
The ring of a windchime, carried by a wan wind through her kitchen on a heavy, midsummer day.
This piece exists as a memorial and a processing of feelings for the passing of a very dear friend’s mother.
The makeshift nature of the components (a combination of found objects, and constructed objects made from readily available materials) reflect an acutely urgent need to respond in the moment by using what is immediate and practical as instruments of articulation, as well as an understanding of the impossibility of translating ineffable, ephemeral memories and emotions encountered through life and death.
Scarlett Hegarty
I am subconsciously drawn to the structure in the everyday, and the patterns that create themselves in my life.
Over the past few months this way of thinking has revealed itself in my making process, feeding into my aesthetic decisions instinctively, almost like second nature.
This work reflects the aspects of an ordered nature of life while still holding on to that sense of chaos and unpredictability that are imminent in life.
Informed by the Minimalist movement, the work’s aesthetic is purposely restrained, creating emphasis on line and form.
Through order, structure and repetition the work has helped me understand my own creative tendencies, learning more about myself in the process.
Shannon Jones
The instantly recognisable design of a chandelier is associated with luxury, extravagance and beauty.
This work blends ideas of opulence with discarded litter to arrive at a shocking contrast, prompting a consideration of how we utilise single-use plastic for convenience: putting wealth before sustainability.
Echoing the enticing effect of light on plastic underwater, the work uses a similar technique to tempt you in.
Once inside, you are entrapped, surrounded by single-use plastic, confronted with the idea that there is a choice.
Although it is common knowledge the sea is being choked by plastic, it’s a distant concept, one we cannot see.
By shining a light on this subject, this installation brings the danger to the surface, challenging you to grasp the harsh reality of our impact upon the world and our home.
Sophia Hixson
My Floral Garden is a collection of three conceptual outfits and accessories that demonstrate the meaning of soft femininity through floral designs and an analogous colour scheme.
With these three conceptual outfits, I have displayed three significant flowers: Sakura Blossoms, Orchids and White Lilies.
Being my favourite flowers, they symbolize various meanings to me personally, but one in common: beauty.
I have cultivated my own feminine style, inspired by the work of both Valerieivi Milano and Shushu/Tong, producing a short film of my garments worn by Haowei Zhang.
Tim Evans
Voices
This installation explores amplification and silencing of political utterances.
The megaphones are the voices of the unheard becoming audible.
The redacted police briefing documents represent the intervention of the state to enforce silence.
The silencing of political voices has taken place in this process, and it is this intervention which is the real point of interchange, where art and political realities collide.
The state silences, art amplifies.
Todd Richards
Some of these pieces have been made using reclaimed broken glass which has been added to the clay to create something new and original.
Some of these experiments explore texture and layering glazes.
The textures created are meant to be handled and enjoyed both physically and visually.
These handmade pieces are to be used, not just to sit gathering dust.
This idea was instilled in me at an early age, spending time with my great-grandmother whose ceramic works were used every day.
If they broke, then they broke having fulfilled the purpose for which they were made.
The reclaiming of disposed materials and utilising discarded objects is both an environmental and essential part of my practice.
Tyler White
As I stand before my creations, I am reminded of a fundamental truth: while facts and charts may inform, true learning comes from immersion in the world, from exploration, creation, and the sheer joy of living.
This philosophy underpins my artistic journey.
Venturing into the world, I capture its essence through the lens, blending photography and filmmaking.
Each image is a testament to the richness of experience found beyond textbooks and classrooms.
Through my art, I invite others to join me in embracing life’s wonders, igniting curiosity, and celebrating the beauty of existence.
Yasmin Warrey
You Can’t Go Home is a look at interchanging culture and immigration through the story of my grandparent’s interracial relationship.
It’s both a record of their experiences and a political statement about the beauty of multiculturalism that made me who I am, made up of family photographs and writing inspired by conversations with my grandparents.
In their own words:
“Given that we come from very different backgrounds (one of us from the Yorkshire coalfields, the other from an ancient city on the edge of an Iranian desert), we have each been able to teach the other much in the years before and after our marriage – lessons about how different cultures affect one another and how some values (like love and beauty) transcend political and religious distinctions and boundaries.
“Being together has made us alert to places which are full of – indeed, made out of – intercultural history; places in which one encounters layers of cultures on top of one another, places like Istanbul, Sicily, Cordoba, Toledo and Rome.
“We have learned not to think of our own cultural backgrounds as inherently superior or unique in value, while each being proud of what is best in our own heritage (and perhaps ashamed of what is worst).
Consciously and unconsciously, we have encouraged our children and grandchildren to value the diversity (and the interconnectedness) of different cultural traditions; to regard the world, rather than just the place of your birth, as your heritage.”
(Parvin and Glyn)

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows-2024/summer-show-automotive-and-transport-design:
The class of 2024 welcomes you to the culmination of creativity and innovation in automotive and transport design!
As we gather to celebrate the achievements of our talented students, it is with extraordinary pride that we acknowledge the countless hours of dedication and hard work poured into their projects.
From sleek and futuristic concepts to designs inspired by nature’s elegance, this degree show is a testament to the boundless imagination and technical prowess of our aspiring automotive and transport designers.
Prepare to be captivated by the diverse array of concepts on display, each offering a unique perspective on the future of transportation.
Join us as we embark on a journey through the exciting world of automotive and transport design, where passion meets precision, and dreams take shape.
Sergio Fontanarosa Programme Manager BA(Hons) Automotive and Transport Design
Opening night: 15 June, 6pm to 9pm
Open to the public: 17–21 June, 10am to 5pm
Location: IQ Waterfront Campus
Find us at SA1 8EW
Benjamin Voak
Benjamin Wilson
Ben Mount
George Battin
Harry Bolton
Harry de la Riviere
Jacob Grigalashvili
Oliver Rye
Olly Frost
Sam Partridge
Benjamin Voak
I named my major project ‘The Future that Never Arrived’, a quote by Frank Whittle explaining how the gas turbine showed so much potential but never got the traction it deserved.
My project focuses on how BAC, a low volume sports car manufacturer, could take the idea of gas turbine propulsion to the next level.
Major features of my design are based on the idea of ‘form follows function’, where the key functionality of performance is unlocked by reducing weight.
This spawned a unique design element of my vehicle, the hubless front wheel.
My passion is the automotive industry; however it is the design process that inspires me and through my future career I hope to explore many areas of design.
Benjamin Wilson
Lexus isn’t afraid to diverge from the norm.
In a not-so-distant future, the automotive industry will be ruled by the hum of electricity.
Electric technology is rapidly evolving, and with its advantages, it leaves one disadvantage, sound.
Sound makes up one of three key senses a car can provide.
Without it, one third of the driving experience is lost.
This project aims to take a step in a different direction, straying away from a primarily electric future and delving into a more analogue approach, minimising the screens, and allowing you to focus on the world around you.
I am passionate about the journey of design from start to finish and enjoy all design media whether it be physical or digital.
I titled my project ‘The Death of Traditional Power’.
As the world’s stance on sustainability transforms from an ideal to a necessity, envisioning a future where high-performance supercars remain relevant becomes challenging.
In this project, I explored how McLaren could secure the future of supercars in a sustainable world.
By focusing on synthetic fuels and taking inspiration from engineering marvels (such as the Concorde), I designed a McLaren supercar that seamlessly transitions “petrol heads” into the new era of propulsion.
George Battin
The Airbus V105 addresses the major issue of congestion, faced every day whilst commuting, and all the negative effects it has on people and the environment around them.
The hydrogen powered, bladeless VTOL aims to provide an alternative transportation option for inner city travel that not only shortens journey times but also utilises unused space within the city, providing an alternative option.
In the next few years, I aim to be working within a design studio with a focus on the digital modelling of the design process.
I aspire to be working on the next generation of automotive concepts shaping the future of transportation.
Harry Bolton
For my final major project, I decided to focus on the world of motorsports – especially the aspect of safety.
I have created a Lotus-designed hypercar for the 2040 season of Le Mans that incorporates neurological technology to monitor and enhance the driver to help ensure the driver’s safety inside and out of the cockpit.
The main design feature of my concept involves aggressive aero tunnels running through the vehicle to provide the required downforce, eliminating the need for a rear wing.
The aim was to produce a concept that enhances the safety of the drivers and maintains the thrill of motorsports whilst conveying the Lotus design in the form of a hypercar.
Harry de la Riviere
The current electric era offers performance and stats that were previously not possible.
For the driver, however, their experience is predominantly through the medium of sight and the sense of g-forces.
To date, sounds and vibrations haven’t been developed to enhance the driver experience.
This project sets out to challenge conventions and develop the principle that considers each component as an instrument in an orchestra.
At its core, OTO consists of four air columns that form the chassis.
Each produces a sound similar to a wind instrument, manipulating the air to create unique individual sounds, together with disruptive airflow from the wheels and body, mixing to create a visceral harmony of noise.
Concerns over climate change and the environmental impact of cars have created a panic within the automotive industry as we move towards all-electric vehicles.
While this transition seems inevitable, many questions remain.
How will society adapt to electric cars becoming the norm and when will this major transition occur?
Are electric cars truly the ultimate and final solution to these problems?
The 915 concept seeks to challenge this question.
Embodying Porsche’s tradition of daring innovation and unconventional design, as we search for ways to move into a new era of transportation.
Oliver Rye
Natural disasters and global conflicts are increasing.
Using naval vessels to solely complete aid and relief is an outdated idea.
FAR is an aid and relief vessel concept and example of versatile humanitarian support efficiency, through the use of private vessel ownership.
An aid and relief vessel not only delivers supplies, but also evacuates people and restarts societies.
Versatility becomes imperative, meaning ordinary vessels may not be enough.
When commissioning a new superyacht, ‘ordinary’ is something to avoid.
A crane rated to lift four tonnes of supplies is also capable of lifting a hypercar.
Olly Frost
My major project, Störta, which in English means to overthrow, takes the principles of the Koenigsegg brand, and combines them into a debut front engine vehicle for the company.
The overall design is inspired by the the RAW concept by Esa Mustonen, which is then combined with the goal to achieve more practicality than the already surprisingly spacious Gemera, whilst also retaining all the performance that is associated with a Koenigsegg.
In five years, I aim to be working in an automotive design studio, to be helping to keep the passion of cars alive within the fast changing and environmentally conscious world, producing vehicles that appeal to petrol heads whilst also being kind to the environment.
Sam Partridge
With the climate crisis becoming an increasing threat to humanity, it is fair to theorise that soon world governments could come together over this shared fear to find potential salvation for humanity.
This project focuses on the possibility of humans becoming a multi-planetary species.
The backstory for the design project assumes that Mars will start with a small community of twelve of the world’s best scientists, doctors, engineers, and pilots.
In the initial months and years on the planet, they will need a vehicle for research purposes, allowing them to explore the tough terrain of Mars further.
It should be capable of shuttling two crew members with basic sampling equipment over expansive rocky and sandy surfaces away from the main research base and back.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows-2024/summer-show-creative-advertising:
This year, we are celebrating the achievements of our third-year students for more reasons than usual.
From starting university post-pandemic, these talented individuals have negotiated a changed world where very little has remained the same.
In their three years of study, they have experienced a technological and cultural revolution which has seen digital technologies and artificial intelligence become a reality in a breathtakingly short period of time.
Through this, our students have seamlessly and confidently adapted to these once-in-a-lifetime changes.
They have been brave and bold in creating audacious creative advertising campaigns that have embraced new digital platforms, and reinvented many of the traditional formats.
This is sadly the final year of the BA(Hons) Creative Advertising course at Swansea College of Art.
Throughout the last 15 years our talented students have won many creative accolades, including D&AD Awards, New Designers Awards and Student Marketing Awards.
Many of our alumni now work in senior creative positions for internationally acclaimed agencies such as Droga5, Grey, and Saatchi & Saatchi.
On signing off for the last time, our final ambition is that this years’ cohort will continue to achieve the same professional success that has been the defining attribute of this course.
We would like to share a big thank you to every member of staff who has taught on the programme over the years, and to every single student who has studied with us.
We celebrate and thank our parting third year students for signing us out on a such high note indeed.
Well done all!
😁
Martin Bush Programme Manager
Alexandra Craciun
Kerstin Wilson
Sharmin Begum
Sophie Wyatt
Alexandra Craciun
Alexandra Craciun is a mature UWTSD Swansea BA Creative Advertising student.
Her Romanian heritage complements her creativity succeeding in tough conditions with persistence.
Alexandra’s portfolio demonstrates her skill and determination.
Shows strength, passion, and determination in every triumph and loss!
Kerstin Wilson
Kerstin is an experimental and creative designer who loves to involve mixed media in her work.
She starts with a solid foundation of research to develop a great understanding of the project, draws thumbnails, sketches, and brainstorms ideas.
She enjoys working on integrated campaigns showing the variety of formats a singular advertising campaign can take.
After completing her degree, Kerstin hopes to become an advertising creative and work towards becoming an art director.
See the full design ➩
Sharmin Begum
Sharmin is a driven creative who can adapt to any brief to solve a problem using a variety of disciplines.
She draws upon a spectrum of skills learned from university, such as lateral thinking.
Guided by a passion for storytelling, she integrates psychology, technology, and culture to create effective campaigns.
Her strategic mindset, attention to detail, and dedication to excellence enable her to push boundaries and craft moving narratives, as well as collaborate and innovate.
She aims to create an impact in advertising and become a creative director.
Sophie Wyatt
Sophie is a creative advertiser based in South Wales.
During her time at Swansea College of Art, she has expanded her knowledge of advertising and developed her creative work.
She is most confident creating digital outcomes as it elevates her ideas.
She also loves to create modern pieces of work.
Sophie gathers her inspiration from anything that may have captured her interest, whether it be from social media, music, upcoming trends, or art styles she has come across.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows-2024/summer-show-design-crafts:
Our students discover their creative voice while developing traditional hand-making skills and contemporary approaches such as laser waterjet cutting and 3D printing.
The programme offers a diverse range of material and process practices, including ceramics, cold and kiln-formed glass processes, wood, metal, plastics, fibre glass and resins, textiles, jewellery, mould making, laser and waterjet cutting, CAD/CAM, 3D printing and scanning.
This sits alongside theory, digital, professional and enterprise skills ready for the creative industries beyond graduation.
This year’s graduating cohort have explored a wide range of processes and have specialised in ceramics, stained glass, cast glass, jewellery, mixed media and even wearable augmented reality.
Matter: Material matters.
Craft matters.
You matter.
Congratulations to the year of 2024, it has been our pleasure to work with you.
Staff Team BA(Hons) Design Crafts
Charis Constantinou
Dabrowka Kornas
Diane Wilson
Elwyn Barnes
Nancy Farrington
Oliwia Kaczmarek
Tazmin Baldwin
Tony Stephens
Play video: BA(Hons) Design Crafts – Summer Show 2024
Charis Constantinou
My collection of work, taking stylistic inspiration from the Victorian Arts and Crafts movement, is a reflection on how Britain has transformed and diversified over the last two centuries.
The imagery was influenced by traditional British textiles such as flannel and patchwork quilting as well as textiles that have been brought to Britain from afar, such as delicately embroidered saris or traditionally printed African fabrics.
Alongside this, the details in my design allude to cultural symbolism from across my hometown Birmingham, including religious buildings and modern cultural artwork.
The triptych uses the patchwork quilt as a metaphor for the patchwork of cultures that make up a modern, ethnic, religious, and LGBT+ diverse nation.
The image of the draped tartan, a traditionally British fabric, alludes to how these identities are the fibres that weave together to make our nation, which is constantly shifting and growing.
After I leave Swansea I plan to start my own stained glass business, working on bold and unique commissions for clients with a modern aesthetic.
Dabrowka Kornas
My major project, “Biblically Accurate Tea Set” explores the interplay between my culture, tradition, religion and identity.
Its form, while non-functional in a conventional sense, invites introspection, mirroring the complexity of identity in face of influences and persuasions of the majority.
Working with porcelain, the tea set features lustres as well as oxide painted details in reflection of Polish folk art.
I aim to further my exploration and representation of culture in a contemporary sense in my further ceramic work.
Going forward, I plan to continue making functional and non-functional pieces which will inspire thought and conversation.
Diane Wilson
Diane is a designer maker from Wales and owner of ‘At the edge of the sea…’
Born in North Wales, she has spent much of the last two decades in South Wales; it is the dramatic and contrasting landscapes of this coastal nation that have been a continued inspiration for her work.
Her career and education have previously focused on wellbeing and supporting those with barriers to learning, in addition to studying Astrology, Parapsychology and ‘Japanese Holistic Healing Practitioner’.
These combined influences impact on her practice and drive research into spiritual wellbeing through our connection with the sea.
The wellbeing of our planet is also an important factor and she strives to remain aware of current environmental issues and to adopt sustainable practices.
Diane explores these themes in a contemporary craft setting through a selection of materials.
Material preferences include glass, copper, pewter, and enamels; preferred techniques are traditional hand-cutting, mould-making, sandblasting, and casting.
Whilst preferring to adopt and promote these traditional processes, Diane has embraced the assistance of technology in selected projects and has experimented with photographic decals, 3D print, laser engraving and waterjet cutting.
Elwyn Barnes
My major project is called ‘Parallels and Addresses: stereotypes and how harmful and limiting they can be’.
I create ceramic sculptures depicting animals with human traits and emotions often with illustrative decoration.
I work with stoneware clay that can be moulded and carved by hand to reveal the animals that are hiding within.
Underglazes provide colour and a means to add illustrations to my pieces.
The narratives of my work are inspired by my own lived experience as a transgender man touching on themes of dysphoria, acceptance, love, yearning and freedom of expression.
Neurodivergence influences every piece I make, using my sculptures to spark understanding and help others see the unique outlook of autistic individuals.
My artwork is for anyone who wants a unique piece, be that for galleries, collectors or just for the home!
Nancy Farrington
I work with kiln casting to explore the materiality of glass through a textile lens.
Using fabric manipulation techniques such as smocking and gathering, I have developed my own processes to translate textiles into glass, allowing me to explore the interplay between opposing material qualities – soft and hard, transparent and opaque, fragile and robust.
Working with both the natural drape of fabric and the constraints of casting, I enjoy allowing my sculptural forms to arise spontaneously during the making process, resulting in an eclectic mix of shapes with aesthetic links to geology, confectionary, and bodily forms.
The cultural histories of stitching imbue my work with conceptual themes of femininity, women’s work, historical fashion and nostalgia, which reflect my own personal interests and research.
Oliwia Kaczmarek
Oliwia Kaczmarek is a contemporary jewellery designer, specialising in mixed reality and augmented reality jewellery.
Pushing the boundaries between the real and digital, Oliwia’s work poses the question ‘can reality expand past the point of physical?’
Oliwia’s work is heavily inspired by the limitless potential of the future of jewellery in a technology-driven society.
With an uncertain future, and resources becoming more limited, the one constant that remains is the advancement of technology.
The origins of traditional jewellery making will need to evolve in order to survive.
Tazmin Baldwin
My artistic journey revolves around exploring the intricate interplay between light, colour, and psychology, all through the fascinating medium of glass.
I work in a conceptual way, I am intrigued by the sensory and psychological aspects of art, exploring themes of memory, identity, loss, and the senses, these are the driving factors behind my creative endeavours.
My practice encompasses a diverse range of glass techniques, from screen printing and sandblasting to fusing and polishing, theses allow for detailed imagery and layering, creating depth and new perception in 2D glass.
I also incorporate digital practices, using them to enhance my designs and improve my practical techniques.
By combining digital skill I seamlessly blend my core themes with innovative craftsmanship.
The vibrant interplay of light and colour within glass offers endless possibilities for artistic expression.
Through ongoing experimentation, I strive to create pieces that captivate viewers, inviting them into a sensory experience that mirrors my fascination with this dynamic medium.
Glass is constantly in flux, its fragility and strength drawing me into its complexities and pushing the limits of my craft.
My work is an ever-evolving journey, revealing new dimensions and opportunities in the world of glass art.
Tony Stephens
An artist and maker currently exploring the potentials of smoke fired ceramics.
This is an exciting and unpredictable firing process, that always produces surprises and wonder – even if things go ‘wrong’.
Every firing is an event!
Inspiration comes from looking at the more primitive ways of making, and an interest in the magic of the natural world.
I have been lucky enough to live in some beautiful parts of the UK, and some of these places are termed as ‘thin places’.
They are elemental places where you feel the presence of nature and see how small we actually are and how we impact on the natural systems around us.
These places have left a spiritual mark on me that often materialises in my thinking and practice.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows-2024/summer-show-film-and-tv:
Our BA Film and TV graduate showreel showcases a range of creative work from our talented young filmmakers – a culmination of their studies with us.
This selection of shorts delivers a masterclass in storytelling, using the medium of short film to address important themes from isolation to body image, utilising the transformative power of the visual language of film in a variety of thought-provoking ways.
Good luck to all the class of 2024 in their future filmmaking journeys.
Staff Team BA(Hons) Film and TV
Caitlin Francis
Callan Stewart
Flynn Banham
Grace French
Ingune Batjargal
Jasmine Senior
Joe Williams
Kieran Owen
Matthew Harmar
Rhys Chafey
Sophie Wighton
*This is the creative work of the students themselves, and therefore the University has no control over the content.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows-2024/summer-show-fine-art:
In an age increasingly characterised by an emphasis on surface appearances over substance, and external attributes over intrinsic qualities, it would be easy to become disconnected or apathetic to the sense of depthlessness that pervades the contemporary condition.
Artists have and will always continue to use the contemporary contexts that surround them as the raw material for peering beyond the façade of appearance to the complexities of the human experience that lies beneath.
Unpeeled brings together a collective of artists from the graduating cohorts of BA (Hons) Fine Art: Studio, Site and Context, BA (Hons) Documentary Photography and Visual Activism, and BA (Hons) Photography in the Arts programmes at Swansea College of Art, UWTSD.
The artists involved reflect upon their personal and collective experiences, exploring themes of history, the Anthropocene, trace, memory, myth, identity, technology and politics through an embracing of the ever-expanding dialogue between Fine Art and Photographic practice.
Staff of the Fine Art and Photography programmes at Swansea College of Art, UWTSD wish to thank the Unpeeled collective for the harmonious organisation and deft execution of their exhibition and congratulate them on producing such engaging bodies of work.
We wish them every success with their future endeavours.
Professor Sue Williams Head of Fine Art: Studio, Site, Context Swansea College of Art, UWTSD.
Moule Head of Undergraduate Photographic Studies Swansea College of Art, UWTWD.
Amber Marsh
Cheye Williams McFarland
Chloe Rees
Daniel Lewis
Ewan Coombs
Heidi Lucca-Redcliffe
Isabella McWilliams
Jessica Phillips
Lola Preston
Max Hughes
Megan Kane
Nada Najar
Oisín McDaid
Pamella Gomes
Tamara Amato
Amber Marsh
Amber Marsh’s current practice delves into the realms of introspection and emotional processing through the lens of the natural and immediate landscapes that surround us.
Through a combination of watercolour, photography, and handmade books, she documents emotional connections with found objects, views, and ephemera that cross her path as she navigates new locales and experiences.
Marsh’s work is an invitation to explore the depths of our connections, both interpersonal and with the world around us, challenging us to see beyond the surface and appreciate the profound interactions that define our existence.
Cheye Williams McFarland
Mcfarland’s multidisciplinary practice explores themes of abandonment through the exploration of place.
Drawing upon the psychological impact of those living amongst such deprivation, his practice takes influence from the post-war architecture of the local environment surrounding him in South Wales.
Chloe Rees
Walk Through is built around the complexity of gender stereotypes, femininity and internalised misogyny.
Drawing upon feminist art history, her own personal experiences and those of people around her, Rees conveys her lived experience.
This establishes a relatable and confrontational commentary on societal stereotypes and expectations of femininity.
Rees’s multidisciplinary practice confronts the male gaze, revealing other people’s realities of navigating the construct of gender, femininity and misogyny in today’s society.
Daniel Lewis
Within his current practice, Daniel Lewis explores the intricacies of his experience with internalised homophobia and queer life in a heteronormative environment.
Through a blend of introspection and social commentary, Lewis explores the nuances of the male nude and other imagery adopted by the queer community, keen to understand how and when something that isn’t innately sexualised or gendered become perceived as “gay” and challenging those ideologies.
Ewan Coombs
Ewan Coombs/ Sid Lloyd’s ongoing body of work Dirty Being draws on human interaction with sites of degradation, sedimentary build-up, and places where life forms out of man-made detritus.
Incorporating clay, installation, and drawing, this multidisciplinary practice is born from material explorations.
The work explores the destruction of the environment and our role within it; thus the viewer is invited to imagine a symbiotic rather than parasitic relationship with nature.
Heidi Lucca-Redcliffe
Lucca-Redcliffe is a multi-disciplinary artist, whose practice is a continuous exploration of portraying the self through the colour red.
Working with the colour red removes security and comfort, replacing it with an intense provocation.
Lucca-Redcliffe embeds honesty and a rawness through the process of deconstructing a material to reveal intimacy and the sensitivity from within.
This enables her to communicate a response through touch, between body and material.
Isabella McWilliams
‘Borrowed Eyes’
The title of this series comes from Cormac McCarthy’s novel The Road which contemplates the ephemerality of parts of our lives that we would consider permanent.
This series of paintings addresses the temporality of our relationships, as well as the acceptance of their absence.
By painting on unprimed canvas, these works are vulnerable to decomposition.
There is potential for decay, UV light deterioration, cracking and other factors that will ultimately leave the painting irrevocably changed from how it once was.
Jessica Phillips
Phillips’s multidisciplinary practice incorporates self-portraiture and has risen from a strong interest in Victorian and contemporary architectural design.
Exploring notions of femininity, her self-portraiture deconstructs the concept of the male gaze within both historical and contemporary debate, through a feminist perspective.
Lola Preston
As society advances at an ever-increasing pace, the disposable nature of not only material objects, but the groups of people within it have been heightened.
Through her multidisciplinary practice, Lola Preston aims to humanise and bring a sense of reality back to these individuals, challenging the typical conventions inflicted upon us by the current consumerist nature of the world.
Max Hughes
Hughes is exploring the intertwined nature of sound and mark-making through abstract expressionist techniques like action and colour field painting.
Hughes creates visceral marks and textures through the use of traditional and handmade tools, while actively listening to an eclectic range of music genres to influence his actions.
Megan Kane
Grappling with society’s use and abuse of the animal world, Kane’s work draws attention to the unnecessary suffering of millions of animals in a world defined by an increased demand for animal products, irrespective of their welfare.
Large-scale drawings and sculptures challenge notions of abjection and repulsion by reflecting on the invisible violence that permeates the meat and dairy industries.
Nada Najar
Nada’s practice explores a variety of contexts related to global politics, such as conflict, activism, and nature.
Her paintings and sculptures explore the materialities of the mediums she uses, to infer a response to our proximity to nature, highlighting the shrinking existence of greenery in cities and a disturbing disconnection from nature in modern life.
Her most recent sculpture is a new departure where she wishes to represent women who are actively and politically involved in our changing society.
Oisín McDaid
Oisín McDaid’s work focuses on identity and perception, blending A.I.
image generation with traditional painting techniques to challenge our humanity in an age of advancing technology.
McDaid’s current body of work has shifted away from the use of self-portraiture and has instead focused on using ‘found’ imagery in order to create his large-scale mixed media collages, that incorporate A.I.
as a collaborative tool.
The work produced by McDaid aims to spark conversations about technology’s role in shaping our understanding of identity and what it truly means to be human.
Pamella Gomes
Gome’s multidisciplinary practice is led by conceptual and cultural research into actions such as gardening and the use of technology.
This communicates the sense of “interbeing” where Gomes finds the links between art, audience, life itself, and the everything in-between.
She reflects upon the importance of art practice when dealing with a specific site, through installation, performance and time-based media.
Tamara Amato
Tamara Amato’s body of work “Reveal” explores the sentimentality held in the objects and the locations of the home.
Inspired by her surroundings, she constantly looks for comfort and peace.
Through the recollection of familiar people and places she hopes to translate the beauty and the importance of simple moments, especially in a world of constant movement.
Using her collection of family photographs and watercolours, her work continuously instigates feelings of nostalgia and melancholy and lets the viewers travel in her own little world.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows-2024/summer-show-graphic-design:
Looking, and looking deeply is becoming less common than we might assume.
The world, or a less sensual representation of it, exists on a small screen at arm’s length.
This parallel dimension, in which the fear of missing something has become a new normal, means we are in danger of missing everything.
As visual communicators, we must look at ourselves and others if we aspire to make our words and images combine successfully.
We must look at things from someone else’s point of view, look at problems from different angles.
Look through an infinity of distraction and noise to truly connect.
Look at the bigger picture.
Look at all the possibilities there are.
We look into the eyes of our students and much is revealed.
Eyes narrowed in determination or wide in joy at a moment of discovery.
There have been memorable moments this year in which our own, older eyes have widened with pleasure at the heart and soul so evident in many projects.
Personal politics, social injustice and hard-fought software battles sit comfortably with unabashed aesthetic indulgence and solid commercial clout.
Whatever their motivations, today’s new designers must show great bravery in revealing themselves through their work.
To find one’s unique visual voice is its own challenge but using it to shout or sing requires a greater leap of faith.
Take a moment, Blink , enjoy.
Staff Team BA(Hons) Graphic Design
Abbie Wilson
Beth Morris
Ceri Thomas
Connie Foreman
Erin Harvey
Gabi Skrzyniarz
Grainne James
Hunter Hare
Jacob Ferriday
Jess Pritchard
Jiayi Zheng
Joe Edwards
Kisha Dibba
Laura Wade
Lauren Kelly
Melicia Evans
Rebecca Hodgson
Sameeksha Jayram
Sky Joce
Thomas Bennison
Yasmin Prior
Abbie Wilson
Abbie is an artist who enjoys the use of geometric and unique shapes to create abstract designs, sampling funky visuals that come from pattern exploration and mark-making.
Producing art through traditional methods and with a hands-on approach fuels her passion for design, allowing her to creatively explore ideas, partially through ‘happy accidents’, that are both visually appealing, innovative and experimentative.
She continuously strives to create an impact with her work, aiming to leave a lasting impression on the viewer.
Beth Morris
Bethan, a self-proclaimed perfectionist, possesses a keen eye for detail and a design approach characterised by meticulous alterations until achieving her desired outcome.
Firmly believing in the profound impact of small changes, Bethan’s ethos drives her pursuit of excellence.
During her final semester, she collaborated with Swansea City AFC Foundation, refining her skills in design experimentation and promotion.
Bethan aspires to channel her talents into brand development, packaging, and typography, envisioning herself as a valued member of a graphic design team within a vibrant design studio.
Her passion for design is matched only by her dedication to creating impactful visual experiences.
Ceri Thomas
Ceri is a graphic designer based in South Wales.
Her graphic design work includes infographics, branding, packaging, and event promotions.
Ceri prefers to use digital software for her designs, but when using traditional techniques, she favours Riso printing.
During her studies, Ceri has learned to dive into her work and challenge herself by working outside of her comfort zone.
Ceri’s design style is usually minimalistic and simplistic, incorporating bright, eye-catching colours with a bold and memorable look.
Ceri would like to work for companies that specialise in design.
Connie Foreman
Connie is a budding graphic designer who is poised to leave her mark on the creative world/industry through her passion for all things design.
Enthusiastic about blending aesthetics with functionality, both through illustration and typography, Connie’s work reflects her innovative spirit and keen attention to detail.
With a portfolio showcasing her keenness to tackle new challenges and push the boundaries of design, she eagerly anticipates diving into professional projects where she can bring visions to life and shape engaging narratives through her creative problem-solving and artistic vision.
Erin Harvey
Erin, an aspiring graphic designer with a fervour for creativity, thrives on embracing new challenges.
Her passion fuels her enthusiasm for design, and she eagerly anticipates diving into professional projects.
Erin’s university experience has equipped her with the skills needed for the professional world.
With a genuine love for design, she’s eager to bring fresh ideas to her work.
Erin is excited to make her mark in the graphic design industry, showcasing her dedication and creative flair as she steps into the next phase of her career.
Gabi Skrzyniarz
Gabriela would describe herself as an experimental and curious designer, eager to experiment with various approaches to elevate her designs.
A versatile Graphic Designer, she aims to merge traditional and digital techniques to infuse creativity into every aspect of her projects, embracing every opportunity to expand her skill-set.
Gabriela is always looking for new creative means of expression, fuelled by a thirst for knowledge and innovation.
Studying Graphic Design remains one of the best choices she has made.
Grainne James
As a conscientious designer, Grainne delves beneath the surface to infuse profound meaning into every project.
She enjoys in-depth research, ensuring that each design is not only visually striking but also intellectually stimulating.
Her work is illustrative and minimalistic, often using soft muted colours that are easy on the eye.
Each project she creates serves as a platform to take a stand and to spark thought-provoking conversations, and by incorporating humour and wit, she adds layers of complexity to her work, engaging the viewer on multiple levels
Hunter Hare
Hunter is a graphic designer who combines typography, minimalism and photography, producing eye-catching and modern designs.
He favours packaging, branding and marketing design.
At UWTSD, Hunter found his style shift from an illustrative and cluttered approach to a more considered and minimal style.
As well as gaining technical knowledge and experience, Hunter has also gained confidence in his work.
Hunter hopes to have a career in graphic design with big brands such as Formula 1 or Myprotein.
Jacob Ferriday
Jacob is an emerging graphic designer, drawn towards web design, UX-based graphics, and magazine layout.
Ready to embark on his career journey, he skilfully merges aesthetics with functionality, crafting visually appealing digital experiences.
His forte lies in creating user-friendly interfaces and captivating layouts that resonate with audiences.
Jacob’s commitment to excellence shines through his meticulous attention to detail and innovative problem-solving approach.
He remains dedicated to pushing creative boundaries, consistently delivering solutions that elevate brands and engage users in the digital realm.
Jess Pritchard
Jess is a designer who puts a great deal of care into each of her designs.
Her priority is to produce work which makes a difference and contributes towards making the world a better place.
Whether that’s through creating something impactful, challenging the way we think or simply putting a smile on people’s faces and brightening their day.
Jess loves mixing print-based and digital work to bring her ideas to life.
She is a Welsh speaker and loves having the opportunity to use Welsh in her designs.
Jiayi Zheng
Jiayi, renowned for her innovative thinking and strong problem-solving abilities, excels in graphic design, prioritising creativity and user experience.
Accepted into prestigious programs at the University of the Arts London and Goldsmiths, Jiayi aims to tackle societal issues through design, focusing on social justice and sustainability.
With a compassionate approach, she envisions herself as a visual storyteller, crafting impactful experiences for the community.
Jiayi’s dedication to her craft and her commitment to addressing pressing issues make her an invaluable asset for innovative projects.
Joe Edwards
Joe is a personable and approachable graphic designer, excelling in collaborative team environments and showcasing strong independent work capabilities.
He possesses a keen eye for improvement, consistently refining his craft.
Joe adeptly navigates both grungy, chaotic aesthetics and clean minimalism, highlighting his versatile and unique design approach.
His commitment to continuous growth and adaptability establishes him as a skilled contributor in the field of graphic design.
Kisha Dibba
Meet Kisha Dibba, a passionately creative graphic designer known for creating visually stunning designs that go further than purely aesthetics.
Specialising in positive impact, awareness and problem-solving, Kisha’s creations are both functional and aesthetically pleasing.
Seamlessly blending visual appeal with effective communication, her portfolio showcases various skills, from thoughtful branding to captivating print and campaign-led graphics.
Kisha’s outgoing, adventurous, bubbly personality adds a unique charm to her work.
Dive into her vibrant design world, where each creation narrates a story of creativity, purpose, and a touch of adventurous spirit.
Laura Wade
Laura is an ambitious and innovative designer who has a keen eye for detail; she favours bold corporate branding and campaigns where she can get fully stuck in!
She enjoys utilising colour and typography to create thought-provoking designs that have a clear message.
This approach meant Laura was shortlisted for the 2023 Creative Conscience Awards for her ‘Ring’ campaign.
When Laura isn’t found behind her Mac, she can normally be found on the cricket field and in the future she hopes to find herself designing in the sporting industry.
Lauren Kelly
Lauren is a designer who has a love for minimal, abstract, and high-end graphics.
Lauren’s passion for fitness has landed her a job with a sportswear company designing rugby and football kits while managing social media accounts.
With the industry experience and the knowledge she has gained at UWTSD, she has become an excellent and multifaceted designer, and her work resonates with a sense of joy and optimism, leaving a lasting impression on all who encounter it.
Melicia Evans
Melicia is a unique and creative designer with a love for anything bold, colourful and quirky.
Melicia describes herself as a perfectionist who is a particular fan of clean, sharp, slick designs.
She favours social media design and branding and loves to illustrate.
Studying at UWTSD has helped her combine her creativity with technical skills.
Melicia is open to employment in different areas other than graphic design, such as social media and marketing, bringing her design talent and sensibilities where they’re needed.
Rebecca Hodgson
As a designer, Rebecca likes experimenting with traditional printing methods and art styles, whilst looking into alternative mediums like glass painting.
Her design style encompasses old and modern processes aiming to produce projects that fulfil their requirements but also provide a sense of meaning and bring a smile to the viewer.
Currently, she’s working on historical building signage and 1940s repro documentation for a multi-period event in the south of England.
Rebecca aspires to explore design for film and television, making reproduction art and props for set designs.
Sameeksha Jayram
Sameeksha is an international student from Mumbai who has a passion for visual storytelling and creative problem-solving.
Her portfolio showcases a diverse range of projects, demonstrating a keen eye for aesthetics.
She always makes sure to incorporate her passion for illustration and painting in her design projects.
With a relentless pursuit of learning, this student brings a fun and creative potential to any project.
She is currently doing an internship with ARAAD atelier where she has designed the company’s branding.
Apart from art and design, she also plays football.
Sky Joce
As an up-and-coming graphic designer, Sky Joce brings a unique touch to each project.
With a knack for design and a sharp eye for detail, they stand out in the field.
Always eager to explore new ideas and push creative limits, Sky is on a mission to reimagine visual storytelling.
Even though they’re just starting out, their passion and commitment shine through.
With every project, they make a mark, ready to carve out their space in the dynamic world of design.
Thomas Bennison
Thomas is a creative designer who is fuelled by his love for illustration and minimalism.
Through a passion for brainstorming and sketching ideas, he continuously finds new ways to approach his designs and to develop the ones with the most potential, until he is satisfied with the result.
Through studying with UWTSD, he has been able to further his capabilities and understanding of design to be a more confident graphic designer.
He hopes to use his understanding of graphic design to enter the field of teaching art.
Yasmin Prior
Yasmin is a talented and determined graphic designer who has faced and overcome many challenges in her life.
She possesses a unique perspective on the world and is driven by her passion for creating visually stunning and impactful designs.
Yasmin continuously challenges herself to explore new creative possibilities and showcases that design can craft solutions that address real-world problems.
She is committed to learning and growing as a designer and is confident that she will continue to drive her success in the future.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows-2024/summer-show-illustration:
Welcome to the Pick ‘n’ Mix exhibition that celebrates the culmination of three years’ work by the BA(Hons) Illustration students.
The show highlights the wide diversity of creative practice within the Illustration discipline from concept art, character design, children’s books, packaging design, editorial, advertising, and graphic novels.
Come and view the range of commercially relevant art created using a wide range of media, both traditional and digital, 2D, 3D and moving image, and gain an insight into contemporary illustrative practice.
Browse portfolios of experimental and client-focused artwork created with innovation and individualism ready for the world of visual creativity.
Staff Team BA(Hons) Illustration
Alice Patterson
Alice Snow
Amy Thomas
Anais Gauci
Blaine Henderson
Chelsea Morgan
Chloe Booton
Ellie Rehmatulla
Evan Elias
Kaitlin Richards-Tang
Kaleb Slade
Kate Joseph
Link Fisher
Louis Burrows
Neve Morgan
Nia Hopkins
Nico Wayles
Rosie Banks
Sammy Turner
Sophie Haggett
Thomas Cole
Viktorija Elertaite
Alice Patterson
Alice Patterson is a London-based illustrator who strives to make work that makes people happy.
She uses both digital and traditional techniques to create fun and playful pieces that can be enjoyed by children and adults alike.
A cat enthusiast, her work often features cats in human-like scenarios where they can be seen enjoying a cup of tea or celebrating at a birthday party.
Her work spans many different areas of illustration such as editorial illustration, greeting cards, and stationery design.
Alice Snow
Alice is an English artist currently living in Wales.
Going by her pen name Eleanor Quin, she creates dynamic and colourful illustrations.
Working with both digital software and traditional pen and paper, she observes and captures real people and creates vibrant and compelling snapshots of their daily lives.
Her influences include anime and indie rock music and these occasionally inspire and inform her work.
Amy Thomas
Amy Rachel is an illustrator from Swansea.
She is a fun loving, caring character with great ambitions to create beautiful artwork in all mediums.
She enjoys creating reportage illustrations and her attention to detail is apparent in all art especially her architectural pieces which also highlight her unique line work.
Her artwork is primarily based on her travels and various places she enjoys exploring across the globe.
She prefers to work traditionally, by sketching on site, and further developing her ideas in the studio.
Anais Gauci
Anais Gauci is an illustrator that specialises in character design and concept art, creating stories and worlds to be explored.
She has a keen interest in relationships and how they evolve over time to lead the narrative and develop her characters.
She appreciates and adores the ideas, illustrations, and original concepts used in different media, particularly video games and animated movies.
Anais is inspired by a range of genres, from fantasy and sci-fi to horror and the macabre.
Working mainly digitally, she also uses traditional methods such as pencil and water colour.
Blaine Henderson
Blaine, aka Very_Blank_Canvas, is an illustrator who creates mixed media characters and illustrations.
His love of experimentation allows him to explore both traditional and digital forms of art, expressing his passion for mark-making using a wide range of media.
His inspiration is derived from various sources including both Eastern and Western cultures, ranging from manga to abstraction and impressionism.
Through his research of semiotics, Blaine aims to convey meaning and a subtle narrative/theme in his illustrations and character concepts.
Chelsea Morgan
Chelsea is an illustrator who uses watercolour and ink to create lively, fun illustrations.
Her work ranges from picture books and licensing to reportage.
She has a love of storytelling which is evident even in her wedding event illustrations as she creates a narrative from start to finish to give guests a unique keepsake to remember their special day with their loved ones.
Her portraits of wedding guests really capture their personalities, as do her picture book characters.
Chloe Booton
A lover of watercolour, Chloe Kathleen Booton paints the surreal with elements from the Art Nouveau period.
Raised in the Rhymney Valley, she explores the use of flowing, organic lines and natural elements with her figures, creating decorative images that bring together beauty, symbolism and emotion.
Ellie Rehmatulla
Tired.Ellie is a Swansea-based illustrator, who works predominantly with acrylic paint pens and fine liners.
A keen interest in symbolism adds depth to her images, whether editorial or narrative illustrations.
Her work, although imaginative, has an authenticity that draws inspiration from dark literature, personal experience, and observations of people and places.
Evan Elias
Evan Elias is an illustrator based in Swansea.
His bold and colourful designs are defined by their graphic, geometric style, creating a flat, two-dimensional world.
Evan’s practice is rooted in taking a minimalist approach, prioritising shape and composition in an effort to simplify his designs.
His characters live awkwardly in their clunky world and can be found burdened with indecision.
Or sat in chairs too small for them.
Kaitlin Richards-Tang
Kaitlin is an illustrator who loves playing with emotion and atmosphere in her work, to create imagery that will resonate with those who view it.
She has a particular love of nature and animals (particularly cats) and her illustrations, from narrative to editorial pieces, embrace this.
She primarily works digitally, often utilising ambient lighting and intricate flowing shapes to guide the eye through each piece.
Kaleb Slade
Kaleb is an artist who works digitally in the comic and graphic novel genre, filling the world with all sorts of cute and colourful characters.
Taking inspiration from eighties Shounen Manga and cryptids they aim to create works full of extraterrestrial whimsy that also help foster compassion and understanding through their narratives in the hope of making the world a brighter place.
Kate Joseph
Kate Joseph is an artist from Swansea, South Wales.
She uses traditional sketches with digital Risograph brushes to create striking, colourful and bold paper-cut style illustrations.
Inspired by her love of animals and bright colours, Kate’s work is highly decorative and her characters can often be seen bursting through the borders of her  art.
She enjoys exploring the complexity of human emotions in a fun and relatable way.
Link Fisher
BlueSquid.png, aka Blue, is a character-based illustrator who focuses on creating narrative driven characters.
It is important to Blue that a character’s design reflects their personal story and setting.
With worlds ranging from a magical supermarket to a bleak dystopian city with a societal decline, Blue is keen to explore wide range of themes within their work.
They are inspired by video game series and the related concept art.
Blue is a digital illustrator, using a pencil-like texture within their work.
Louis Burrows
Louis Burrows is a Welsh illustrator who takes his inspiration from his love of old school video games, books and films.
This can be seen in his character designs, backgrounds, and creature designs.
Louis is predominantly a digital illustrator and, as a concept artist, has a keen interested in character design.
The one thing he wants most from his work is to put a smile of people’s faces.
Neve Morgan
Neve is an illustrator based in Wales.
Greatly inspired by concept art and world building, the main focus of her work is character design and narrative illustration.
Although she usually works digitally, she likes working traditionally too and is experimenting with lino printing.
Her use of textured brushes and overlays is a strong feature of her work.
Nia Hopkins
Nia Hopkins is a Swansea-based illustrator with a passion for character design.
With a wide range of inspiration, from the animal kingdom and phobias to mythology and video games, she works digitally using Procreate to effectively realise her vision.
Nia is narrative driven and loves telling stories with, and through, her characters.
Nico Wayles
Nico Wayles (aka Kalahuso) is a Nottingham-based illustrator who works mainly digitally.
Her fondness for using fun and bright imagery draws in people of all age groups.
Nico’s inspiration comes directly from the fantasy world which she spends her free time exploring, whether through films or sitting down for a session of Dungeons and Dragons.
Rosie Banks
Rosie Banks is an illustrator who explores the world of picture books and visual storytelling.
Being heavily influenced by the books she read as a child, she enjoys the concept of educating young people and encouraging creative thinking.
Her traditional style reflects her love of children’s books and the impact they had in her own childhood.
Using both digital and traditional media, she likes to design wonderful worlds with fun characters.
As well as writing and illustrating her own stories, she focuses on subjects that empower and enlighten young people.
Sammy Turner
Sammy Turner is a trans nonbinary illustrator based in Swansea who focuses on character design, narrative illustration and animation.
Their creations primarily showcase digital depictions of both natural and anthropomorphic animals engaging in crazy adventures.
These are accompanied by a blend of serious lore-based backgrounds that explore LGBTQ+ and disability topics.
Their practice involves indie animation which they aim to use as a means of inspiring aspiring animators and illustrators.
Their goal is to demonstrate that it is possible to produce one’s own show without the backing of a major animation company by utilizing a vibrant, lively and cartoony art style reminiscent of the early 2000s.
Sophie Haggett
Sophie Haggett is a product design artist and illustrator who creates packaging and advertising for products that interest and intrigue her.
She creates a narrative through original and unique designs that enhance the visuals of the product.
For Sophie, product design has always been a way of utilising her passion for art in a way that tells a story.
Sophie uses a mixture of watercolour, ink, and Procreate to create her vibrant illustrations.
Thomas Cole
Tom Cole is an illustrator based in South Wales who enjoys creating visually striking creatures, characters and rich worlds inspired by his love of fantasy, mythology, and folklore.
Working traditionally and digitally to produce artwork that communicates emotion and depth whilst injecting an exaggerated style serves to accentuate the artist’s creations and breathe life into them.
Tom is working towards a career in visual development for media.
He is influenced by TTRPG rulebook art, concept art, graphic novels, fantasy maps, and anything that features a dragon.
Viktorija Elertaite
Vik’s (aka ConsideringEyes ) work is heavily influenced by graphic novels.
Often found daydreaming of other worlds and the stories they tell, they find inspiration in the work of other artists and everyday life, twisting and shaping concepts to make them that bit darker.
The media ConsideringEyes uses to achieve this varies from traditional such as ink and watercolour to digital, often combining them to create striking pieces.
Their work can be described as dark, moody and slightly unhinged with desaturated colour and a focus on detail and textures.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows-2024/summer-show-ma-contemporary-dialogues:
MASH-UP is the interdisciplinary exhibition that celebrates the developing work of the MA Contemporary Dialogues students who are working towards their final graduate exhibition which opens in December 2024.
This ‘work-in-progress’ exhibition, gives a taste of the varied creative practices being explored for further development towards the confirmative phase of the programme.
The work presented in the exhibition is sourced from the specialist areas of MA Fine Art, MA Design Crafts, MA Photography, MA Illustration, MA Graphic Design, MA Glass, MA Surface Pattern, MA Product Design, MA Textiles and MA Moving Image.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows-2024/summer-show-photography:
Artists have and will always continue to use the contemporary contexts that surround them as the raw material for peering beyond the façade of appearance to the complexities of the human experience that lies beneath.
Unpeeled brings together a collective of artists from the graduating cohorts of BA (Hons) Fine Art: Studio, Site and Context , BA (Hons) Documentary Photography and Visual Activism, and BA (Hons) Photography in the Arts programmes at Swansea College of Art, UWTSD.
The artists involved reflect upon their personal and collective experiences, exploring themes of history, the Anthropocene, trace, memory, myth, identity, technology and politics through an embracing of the ever-expanding dialogue between Fine Art and Photographic practice.
We wish them every success with their future endeavours.
Professor Sue Williams Head of Fine Art: Studio, Site, Context Swansea College of Art, UWTSD.
Chloe Marie
Dominic Brewster
Ellie Thomas
Holly Morris-Price
Sheba Yashica
Ollie Stewart
Rosie Kent
Zee Ahmed
Dominic Brewster
Dominic Brewster’s practice explores and responds to space and architecture.
Actively attributing works to the collaborative initiative, Curb Collective, his practice currently focuses on documenting life, capturing skate-surf subculture, and the experiences within both new and familiar environments.
Brewster’s work is introspective and explorative, immersed in the process of observation of his surroundings – he engages with all senses to distil the essence of a ‘flow state’, through an embracing of the present.
Zee Ahmed
Ahmed’s immersive installation, (احساس – Ehsaas ), explores the internal struggle between the primal and rational aspects of the human mind and our connection to the natural around us.
Through a multi-sensory experience incorporating photography, ceramics, projections, sound, and sculpture, Zobia invites viewers to engage with the concept of Sentire – to feel.
Thanks to its interactive character, participants are encouraged to take part in the process of the installation’s disintegration by cutting away at a beaded curtain to unveil the image beneath.
The ceramic bowls which catch the beads are crafted with clay from the Kashmir region and symbolise the comfort and support that home provides.
Chloe Marie
Chloe Marie’s practice focuses on three main contexts – motherhood, place and her relationship with her daughter.
Marie’s ongoing body of work “What Mothers Do Best“ is an exploration of unconditional love.
Using black and white photography, the body of work documents the family dynamics of growth, both physically and conceptually.
Ellie Thomas
Ellie Thomas focuses on symbolising how individuals handle and manage an undiscovered illness that has a significant impact on their lives.
Using a medium that traditionally renders the world as fixed and static, Thomas explores the therapeutic  possibilities for photography to show us a world in fragments.
Holly Morris-Price
‘An irreversible chronic dissociation of the physical body, resulting in it slowly fading away’ (Sportskeeda.com, A, Halder.
2024)
Holly Morris-Price’s practice explores the psychological effects of shape and colour to create an experience for the audience that allows them to feel detached from the current reality we live in.
By taking inspiration from the games Morris-Price plays, she creates site-situated works that create relationships between reality and abstraction.
‘In time, the world becomes blurry, and the body ultimately fades away’ (Sportskeeda.com, A, Halder.
Sheba Yashica
Sheba Yashica’s work takes interest in the nuances and ambiances of the urban environment, within which we are presented with countless non-spaces.
Typically considered to be aesthetically unpleasing, these fringes and corners of man-made spaces are still able to occupy our conscience, even if only for fleeting intervals of time.
By intentionally engaging with these spaces, Yashica looks to explore the atmosphere that is created and evoked by these often overlooked and neglected fragments of our built environment’s make-up.
Ollie Stewart
Ollie Stewart’s photographic series, Changing channels delves into the complex history of queer representation in media, a landscape often dominated by stereotypes and invisibility.
This photographic series explores the impact of these historical portrayals on the formation of contemporary queer identities.
Each image features a member of the LGBTQ+ community in a place they feel comfortable, juxtaposed with a vintage television on their heads.
The static crackle and grainy image reflect both the fragmented history and the ongoing search for self-understanding within these limited portrayals.
It celebrates the act of unearthing forgotten narratives while acknowledging the need for a more nuanced and authentic portrayal of queer experiences across time.
Changing channels is a call to action, urging viewers to engage with the past and create a future with richer, more diverse representations of LGBTQ+ identities.
Rosie Kent
Rosie Kent’s work follows their diary entries during their journey of self-discovery concerning their gender.
Kent’s self-portraits capture the struggles of not conforming to societal standards and gender roles and how we have been brought up in a world that has strict expectations of how you should behave based on the sex you were assigned at birth.
Kent’s work looks deeper into the negative impact these standards can have on a person’s mental and physical state when they feel pressured to comply with the modern societal expectations of gender.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/summer-degree-shows-2024/summer-show-surface-pattern-and-textiles:
The Surface Pattern and Textiles programme team would like to congratulate the Class of 2024 on their beautiful Degree Show and final collections.
We have enjoyed getting to know them over the last few years, and watching their confidence grow, their skills develop, and their individual design identities emerge.
Highlights for this group include incredible Live Projects with Mini Moderns and Biophilic Living Swansea.
They have proven themselves to be versatile and talented surface pattern and textiles designers and we cannot wait to see what they go on to do as graduates.
Good luck, Class of 24!
Anna Eynon
Caryl Bulman
Charlotte Keiller
Emily Phillips
Isobel Maloney
Jessica Jones
Jojo Bishop
Luca Hawkins
Niamh Morgan
Safiyyah Altaf
Shakira Shaikh
Solene Parker
Sophie Larcombe
Susan Down
Anna Eynon
The Water’s Edge celebrates the importance and beauty of British Wetlands, with a strong focus on the abundance of life within the ecosystems.
The project explores both home interiors and public space, using the same narrative and imagery but for different applications.
The Water’s Edge consists of a collection of fabrics and wallpapers for home interiors and furnishings, as well as a three-dimensional stitched wallpaper for public spaces with the intention to immerse us within nature.
Both collections aim to reconnect humans with nature and bring happiness inside of our spaces.
Caryl Bulman
My project draws inspiration from my rural upbringing on a countryside farm, fostering a deep connection with nature.
I seek to create a conversation between print and quilt, demonstrating my versatility as a maker across various mediums.
Tailored for interior textiles, my collection encompasses bed coverings, curtains, cushions, and wallpapers ideal for country homes.
By uniting the tactile warmth of naturally dyed fabrics with the captivating visual textures of print, I aim to encapsulate the richness of rural landscapes.
Through my creations, I aim to inspire others to cultivate an appreciation for their surroundings.
Charlotte Keiller
For my final major project, I drew inspiration from the captivating allure of the oceans and the mesmerising depths of the North Atlantic Ocean, immersing myself in its vibrant hues and captivating forms.
Through my artistic exploration, I meticulously crafted a captivating collection of mixed media textiles wall hangings.
This piece showcases an array of diverse textile techniques and processes, resulting in a multitude of textures that pay homage to the oceans enchanting beauty.
Emily Phillips
I am a designer and maker from Somerset, which is surrounded by natural beauty and is the main source of inspiration for my project ‘Enchanting Garden’.
This collection is a celebration of the beautiful parks and gardens found throughout Britain, including Hestercombe gardens and The Newt in Somerset, extenuated through colour, texture and illustration.
There is a prominence of hand-printing throughout my collection, weaving craftsmanship with modern day creativity.
My work is about embracing the tangible beauty of the hand-made, the subtle variations and imperfections that make every piece unique.
I hope to leave a lasting impression through storytelling and curating beautiful pieces.
Isobel Maloney
My project aims to capture mutual feelings of nostalgia and joyful memories.
I have been inspired by photos I found of my childhood garden, and it encouraged me to explore memorable places.
Most people are likely to have fond recollections of day trips to the pier, spending time at the arcade and picnics at the park.
I have produced a series of scarves and prints suitable for a ‘Spring/Summer 25’ fashion collection.
I hope that the work I have produced captures this in a fun and playful way, sparking happy memories and creating a talking point for others to share their nostalgic childhood stories.
Jessica Jones
The theme of my personal project is to discover and show a variety of different types of florals and plants found around Britain.
I have created two unique collections consisting of some of Britain’s most beautiful native flowers.
I will be painting contrasts from the most perfect homegrown rose from an English cottage garden to the smallest wildflower hidden away in a forest.
All of these natural forms contribute to what’s so special about the wildlife in the UK.
Jojo Bishop
‘Wandering’ is an interiors collection centred on our connection to the surrounding local landscape, from windswept beaches to dense forests.
Each piece is naturally dyed with foraged and gathered plant material and screen-printed in experimental processes involving iron, copper, and soda ash.
The sensitivity of the dyes are emboldened with strong, defined prints, influenced by Scandinavian and Japanese design.
Accompanying the collection is a ‘Colour Library’, showcasing the sumptuous range of hues achieved throughout the project.
I chose to embed a sustainable approach into my practice, proposing alternative strategies that can contribute to a greener, more eco-friendly industry.
Luca Hawkins
Gothic Architecture was most popular between the twelfth and sixteenth centuries, being described by many as flamboyant and expressive.
The style has strong symbolism and key features such as gargoyles and statues, as well as grand stained-glass windows, often featuring trefoil or quatrefoil formations.
Inspired by the symmetry and grand scale of the buildings, along with the geometric perfection, my aim is to translate “gothic” into a range of wallpapers and wood pieces.
The collection will take on the key elements and symbolism of gothic, using a gothic-inspired palette of dark reds, purples, and blues.
Niamh Morgan
‘Signs of Spring’ is an interior collection comprised of sophisticated wallpapers and material samples that will rejuvenate and complement living spaces with an indulgence of colour, meticulously arranged to highlight the multiplicity of techniques used.
To provide an instructive approach, I documented organic components through the studying of a plant’s life, striving to depict their future development through a translucent material.
During my winter recordings at Aberglasney Gardens, I discovered an array of perennials, particularly hellebores and their wide-ranging foliage, which created a joyful ambiance and an indication of an emerging spring sequence, inspiring my collection.
Safiyyah Altaf
Wonder through the abundant interiors and lifestyle collection ‘Earthly Delights’ where esoteric florals as told by the beautiful mind of Sherezade in the epic tale of the 1001 Nights come to life through sensuous textiles.
Paying homage to storytelling, fate, and the pursuit of earthly delights.
‘Earthly Delights’ is presented as a colourful, mystical collection through the virtue of screenprint, hand dyed cloth and embroidery.
The romantic designs aim to encapsulate the ephemeral moments of nature where luscious imagery with gentle celestial hints note to a wider spiritual and earthly narrative in which we are all connected.
Shakira Shaikh
‘Skin cures and remedies’ draws inspiration from my childhood, where my parents grew medicinal and herbal plants in our garden and kitchen.
I vividly recall using the aloe vera plant to soothe sunburn by extracting its gel substance from the leaf.
This experience sparked my curiosity about the healing properties of other plants that could potentially treat various skin conditions such as eczema, bites, and wounds.
For my final collection, I am focusing on creating garden interiors using materials such as metal and wood.
I am interested in using the work as an educational opportunity as well as a design opportunity.
Solene Parker
‘The Town of Hullabaloo’ is a project about an imagined place expressed through architecture, figures, and objects from different countries around the world, creating a town of merging cultures.
This eclectic interiors collection highlights different parts of the town and characters that live within it.
I’ve deliberately chosen cultural artefacts and aspects of architecture that aren’t normally placed together, trying to find patterns with surprising juxtapositions.
I am a global citizen having lived all over the world.
These designs reflect objects and places that I’ve seen and, in some ways, relates to my own global experience and portrays my journey, which has sometimes felt part of communities and sometimes disconnected.
Sophie Larcombe
My interior collection was inspired by the blooming florals, foliage and gold detailing featured within porcelain pottery from South Wales, found in museums.
The pottery decorated throughout history has an abundance of floral blooms and a rich colour palette documented across various porcelain forms.
I was captivated by the type of florals used and explored the decorative repeat prints found within the objects which inspired my collection.
I have used both cloth and wallpaper to bring my collection to life, using my initial ink/watercolour motifs to portray the strong pigmentation from flowers but also looking at the blends found in nature.
An urge to reconnect with nature inspires this floral story, taking inspiration from renowned botanical gardens.
‘The Botanist’ explores nature’s fleeting moments of growth and change.
The newness of vibrant wild florals incorporated with faded blooms imbues a sense of permanence and lasting beauty amidst the evolving cycle of nature.
This influence is reflected in the motifs, patterns, and colour palette of the collection.
Within my practice, I explore the integration of watercolours, inks and paint media with digital method.
These resulting paintings explore concepts of nature, at the edge of abstraction.
This collection focuses on fashion, lifestyle accessories, and textiles, bringing the allure of florals to fabrics.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/swansea-college-of-art/swansea-college-art-about-us:
Although we place great importance on developing employability skills, we also recognise that an art and design education is a voyage of self-discovery.
We believe passionately in allowing our students time and space to explore and find their own direction and it really is amazing what evolves.
Our friendly campuses are a great place to study, and our studios are a hive of activity.
We invite our students to make themselves at home and encourage them to surround themselves with their work and inspiration.
All of our courses share a common philosophy: to enable individuality, creative freedom and academic flexibility, all of which we believe are essential in finding your own voice within your chosen creative field.
We respect and celebrate our traditions.
This is why we have retained traditional equipment and processes in the areas of ceramics, printmaking and photography.
But we are also forward looking, and our buildings are bristling with the latest technology.
We encourage our students to investigate a wide range of processes throughout their time with us.
Many of our facilities are open access, and available to all students, no matter what course you are on.
Many of our course areas also benefit from specialist facilities such as our Automotive clay studio.
These offer students a rare opportunity to learn the true craft behind their subject.
Swansea is a seaside city, a great place to live and study.
It’s full of possibilities and like-minded people.
Whether your inspiration comes from bustle of city life, or the tranquillity of the beautiful outdoors, we have it all.
Our city is home to multiple galleries hosting major exhibitions as well as supporting emerging talents from the local area.
Our campus is also a short walk from a wide range of independent bars and creative spaces such as The Elysium, artist-led Gallery, Studios and Club & Volcano Arts Theatre.
Swansea College of Art is situated across a number of city centre locations.
Our Dynevor and Alex buildings are just five minutes’ walk to the town centre, and our IQ and Y Fforwm buildings are positioned in the vibrant maritime quarter.
Swansea’s beautiful beaches are just a short stroll away.
Our student-staff contact hours are among the highest in the country, and through formal lectures, seminars, or informal one-to-one chats in the studios, we really take time to get to know you.
Our small class sizes ensure our staff are approachable and available to help, aiming to give each individual student the right balance of challenge and support.
Our teams are research active, whether that be through exhibiting nationally or abroad, or through their involvement in projects with their industry connections.
Swansea College of Art is a closeknit campus within a wider university; big enough to offer you the space you need and small enough to make you feel that you belong.
Being part of our creative community offers wonderful opportunities to forge friendships, collaborators, and connections in the industry you step out in to.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/swansea-college-of-art/swansea-college-art-about-us/swansea-college-art-professors-practice:
Swansea College of Art at UWTSD has a number of high-profile Professors of Practice.
Each of our practice-based professors works with the University to bring their professional experience to benefit our students.
Sir Peter Blake’s contribution to British Pop Art is unparalleled: he is particularly well known for his use of collages and assemblages.
His work is inspired by his love affair with icons and the ephemera of popular contemporary culture, including posters of film and music stars, badges, photographs, advertising and postcards.
He has worked with famous bands and rock stars, producing seminal cover art for music albums including The Beatles, Paul Weller, Band Aid and The Who.
He continues to work prolifically from his studio in west London, maintaining his reputation and popularity.
UWTSD’s Vice-Chancellor Professor Medwin Hughes, DL said: “I’m delighted to appoint Sir Peter as a Professor of Practice at the University, Sir Peter joins a number of exceptional individuals who are working with the university to bring their unique and professional expertise to benefit our students.
“The role of Professors of Practice is relatively new to the University and allows us to work with partners with specific expertise related to our strategic aims who sometimes do not come through the traditional academic route.
Through their involvement in our provision we can enhance the access to a range of defined skills to support academic delivery and build upon our rapidly improving reputation for delivering graduate skills in the context of employability, sustainability and work-related education and training.”
Jenni was born in St Clears, brought up in Port Talbot, and studied at Cardiff University, Manchester University, Trinity College Dublin and currently Swansea University.
Glynn Vivian Art Gallery (1999–2018) Swansea
Jenni Spencer-Davies is an experienced art gallery curator, whose role was transformational in redeveloping Glynn Vivian Art Gallery in Swansea, when Gallery Curator.
With a focus on bringing this much-loved city art gallery into the 21st century, the project sensitively conserved and developed the original 1911 Grade II* listed building to meet the gallery’s needs today, successfully introducing full access to facilitate participation and engagement for our local communities.
The future vision for the redeveloped gallery includes dynamic programmes of contemporary exhibitions, collection displays and learning programmes, working creatively with art and artists in a local, national and international context.
Glynn Vivian is a flagship gallery for the city of Swansea, presenting projects by artists working internationally, whilst promoting artists from Wales.
The £9 million project was supported by the City and County of Swansea, Arts Council Wales, Welsh Government, CADW and the Heritage Lottery Fund.
Glynn Vivian is a Plus Tate partner and an MLA accredited museum.
Oriel Gallery (1989–1998) Cardiff
Prior to working at the Glynn Vivian, Jenni was Head of Gallery at Oriel, the Arts Council of Wales Gallery in Cardiff, where she led the creative programmes, curating exhibitions with established and emerging Welsh artists such as David Nash, Terry Setch, Keith Arnatt and Helen Sear, and presenting national and international artists such as Albert Irvin, Hannah Collins, Bill Viola, Kazuo Katase and Louise Bourgeois.
The Douglas Hyde Gallery (1980–1987) Dublin
In the 1980s, following a period at the National Gallery of Ireland, Jenni began her curatorial career as Exhibitions Organiser at the Douglas Hyde Gallery in Trinity College Dublin, then the leading gallery in Ireland for national and international exhibitions, working with Edward Kienholz, Joan Miro, Camille Souter, James Coleman, Brian Eno and A.R.Penck, amongst others.
During this period, she also taught part-time for the BA Art History degree course for continuing education at the National College of Art & Design, Dublin, and in 1982 established the first Arts Administration course in Ireland, now under the auspices of University College Dublin.
MacKinnon, made an MBE in the 2019 Queen’s Birthday honours, has been working as an international curator based in Wales for the past sixteen years, including roles at Glynn Vivian Art Gallery, Swansea and Chapter, Cardiff.
During that time she has organised and curated contemporary and historical exhibitions and has developed a specific interest in the relationships between local and global, place and locality.
More recently, she has been working in a number of different contexts both on and off site, working with socially engaged practitioners as well as those whose work is gallery based.
In 2005 she curated the exhibition Somewhere Else Wales at the Venice Biennale which included the work of Peter Finnemore, Laura Ford, Paul Granjon and a residency with Bedwyr Williams.
In 2008 she co-curated with Maria Clara Bernal the exhibition Displaced: contemporary art from Colombia which showed the work of 15 artists including artists such as Oscar Munoz, Jose Alejandro Restrepo and Maria Elvira Escalon.
Mal Pope was born in Brynhyfryd, Swansea.
Following a performance on a BBC Radio show as a teenager, Professor Pope was signed to Elton John’s Rocket Record Company and would work alongside him for the next six years.
Professor Pope studied at Christ’s College Cambridge where he graduated with a degree in Land Economy.
He has written songs for Cliff Richard and The Hollies, duetted with Elton John and Bonnie Tyler, toured with Art Garfunkel and Belinda Carlisle and produced records for Aled Jones.
As a broadcaster, Professor Pope has presented shows on all of the BBC Network stations and hosted the BAFTA award-winning music programme ‘The Mal Pope Show’ for ITV Wales.
His documentary about the roots of Black Gospel Music, ‘Heaven’s Sound’, won a major prize at the New York Television Awards.
In 2005 his Musical ‘Amazing Grace’ was featured in the Cardiff International Festival of Musical Theatre and at the Wales Millennium Centre a year later.
Professor Pope’s next musical, ‘Contender’ based on the life of the boxer Tommy Farr, opened in Spring 2007 and stared West End stars Mike Doyle as Tommy and Peter Karrie as Joby Churchill.
In 2009 Mal set up the ‘Grand Slam Theatre Company’ to produce his latest musical ‘Cappuccino Girls’.
The show toured across the UK before setting up a 24-week residency in the purpose-built ‘South Wales Evening Post Theatre’ on Swansea’s High Street becoming the longest-running musical outside of the West End.
In 2012 Mal set up YJB Films and his first Feature Documentary Film ‘Jack to a King’ was premiered at the Empire Leicester Square, London in September 2014, receiving 3 Bafta Cymru Awards a year later.
Born and living in Wales, Marc Rees is an interdisciplinary creative with an established track record of delivering ground-breaking, provocative and risk-taking projects.
For the last fifteen years he has developed a number of more architecture-driven artworks; notably the location specific projects En Residencia and For Mountain, Sand & Sea, commissioned by Teatro de la Laboral and National Theatre Wales respectively.
Adain Avion was Professor Rees’ most ambitious project to date, selected as Wales’ flagship project for the London 2012 Cultural Olympiad and London Festival 2012.
His work Tir Sir Gâr, made in collaboration with writer Roger Williams for Theatr Genedlaethol Cymru was the most nominated production in the Theatre Critics of Wales Awards 2014, with five nominations.
In 2014 Professor Rees created a re-imagining of the world of Dylan Thomas’ much celebrated Under Milk Wood, entitled Raw Material: Llareggub Revisited for National Theatre Wales and BBC Wales that incorporated the whole of the township of Laugharne as part of the DT100 Festival.
He is also the founder and curator of LLAWN (Llandudno Arts Weekend) an annual festival that celebrates the North Wales seaside town’s Victorian heritage.
In 2015, he united Wales’ two national companies Theatr Genedlaethol Cymru and National Theatre Wales (along with S4C) for the very first time with a site-specific, multi-platform event that commemorated the 150th anniversary of the founding of Y Wladfa, the Welsh colony in Patagonia, Argentina.
In May 2016, Professor Rees presented a brand new site-specific work entitled Digging for Shakespeare commissioned as part of the 50th anniversary of Brighton Festival curated by Laurie Anderson.
Born in Swansea, South Wales, Edward had a keen interest in art and the theatre from an early age and in his teenage years he became a member of The West Glamorgan Youth Theatre.
He completed a foundation course with a distinction in Art at Swansea College of Art in 1989 and went on to graduate from Wimbledon School of Art with a First Class BA (Hons) degree in three Dimensional Theatre Design in 1992.
His career in theatre began at the Royal Opera House as Assistant Designer on the production of ‘Turandot’.
Edward was involved in various commercials before breaking into films.
His first film experience was on the period feature – ‘The Mystery of Edwin Drood’, an adaptation of Charles Dickens unfinished detective story.
With his new found passion for film Edward completed a further 12 feature films over a 6 year period, including historical, Sci-Fi and fantasy genres.
Mostly shot in South Africa, he gained extensive experience and expanded his reputation as a production designer.
On his return to Wales, he fulfilled his dream to work at home with Russell T Davies on ‘Doctor Who’ (Series 1–5) and the spin off series ‘Torchwood’ (Series 1–3), The ‘Sarah Jane Adventures’ and the pilot for ‘Sherlock’ for the BBC.
His reputation for creating new worlds took him back to South Africa in 2010 to work with Kudos on a British television science-fiction drama serial called ‘Outcasts’.
He went on to work with World Productions on ‘United’ which explored the story of the Munich air disaster and then the BBC2 critically acclaimed police drama ‘Line of Duty’.
In 2012 Edward was instrumental in bringing Hollywood to his home city of Swansea with the historical fantasy drama series ‘Da Vinci’s Demons’ created by David Goyer for Starz TV.
He assisted in setting up Swansea’s Bay studios and was co-producer and designer on seasons 1 to 3.
His next project was ‘Set fire to the Stars’ the Dylan Thomas biopic starring Elijah Wood.
He also exec produced the documentary feature film ‘Jack to a King the Swansea Story.’ In 2014 Edward was nominated for no less than 18 BAFTA Cymru nominations for his role in the fore mentioned productions.
Edward consulted on the design of the ‘BadWolf’ studio in Cardiff and it was not long before Africa was calling again.
He returned to work on several projects including, ‘Resident Evil – The Final Chapter’ with highly acclaimed director Paul W S Anderson on ‘The Escape Room’ for Sony pictures with Adam Robitel and producer Neal Moritz and YouTube Originals latest Sci-Fi thriller Series ‘Origin’.
Edward has received much recognition for his work: BAFTA Cymru and RTS Award nominations for Best Design and a National BAFTA nomination for Break-through Talent.
In 2006, he won a BAFTA Cymru Award for Best Design for his work on ‘Torchwood’, and in 2010 Best Design for ‘Doctor Who – Waters of Mars’.
In 2015 Edward won the BAFTA Cymru award for best design for his work on ‘Set Fire to the Stars’.
He also won the Arts and Culture Category of the IWA Inspire Wales Awards and won the top vote for the 2015 WalesOnline Arts Power List.
Edward has always been a great supporter of emerging talent and is a director of the training scheme ‘Its My Shout’.
He is Vice President and a Fellow of the Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama and a Fellow of the University of Wales Trinity St David.
In 2019 Edward was made a professor of practice.
When he is not creating other worlds around the world he resides in Swansea with his wife Nathalie and his daughters Nell and Macy.
Roger Williams is an award-winning writer and producer working in both the Welsh and English languages.
His drama series BANG won the Bafta Cymru Award and Celtic Media Festival Award for best drama series in 2018, and he was nominated for a Writers’ Guild of Great Britain award for his work on the show.
He wrote and produced the feature film – THE FEAST – which premiered at SXSW in 2021 and has won awards at the BiFAN, Motel X and Neuchatel film festivals.
It was released in North America in 2021 and in the UK in 2022.
Roger has won the BAFTA Cymru screenwriting award twice for TIR (2015) and CAERDYDD (2010).
He has written dramas for BBC, Channel 4 and S4C.
Roger is the CEO and Founder of production company JOIO and was the Chair of the Writers’ Guild of Great Britain 2012-2015.
He is a graduate from the University of Warwick where he studied Comparative Literature (1992–95).
John Wood is Emeritus Professor of Design at the Goldsmiths University of London.
In his student days, in the mid–1960s, he attended Manchester Art School, now called Manchester Metropolitan University.
During his Fine Art studies, he built interactive electronic installations and sound toys.
After graduating with first-class honours, he worked for a further two years at their Institute of Advanced Studies, creating his ‘Machine for Saying Sorry’ and a computer-assisted play with 27 characters (‘King of Shouting House’), which was performed at London’s ICA.
By this time, he had acquired a strong concern for environmental matters and had invented several solar energy devices, which drew some press attention.
In 1975 he became a founder-member of the 1970s cult band Deaf School, which went on to win the national Melody Maker Rock and to secure a USA record deal with Warner Brothers.
John continues to record, write and perform on stage in the guise of his alter ego ‘The Reverend Max Ripple’.
Professor Wood has taught Fine Art at a number of universities in the UK and Asia, although mostly at Goldsmiths, the University of London, where he served as Deputy Head of Fine Art, from 1978–1988, when the main YBA cohort was gathering.
After this time he wrote and launched several radical design degrees which subsequently formed the basis for the current Department of Design.
In collaboration with Dr Julia Lockheart, Professor Wood co-edits the Journal of Writing in Creative Practice (Intellect).
Since the mid-1970s he has written several books and many book chapters, articles, papers and given keynote talks, most of which reflect on the role of designers in confronting environmental crises, such as global warming and biodiversity losses.
His (AHRC and EPSRC funded) research findings on metadesign can be accessed via the Metadesigners website.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/swansea-college-of-art/facilities-workshops:
But we are also forward looking, and our buildings are bristling with the latest technology.
Find out more about our specialist facilities below:

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/swansea-college-of-art/facilities-workshops/art-design-foundation-facilities:
The Foundation course is based in a beautiful large open plan studio in the recently renovated ALEX Design Exchange which is where the course originated over 100 years ago.
We work across the Alex and Dynevor Campuses offering our students full access to purpose-built workshops, facilities and resources in the art school.
The art school boasts some of the best facilities in the area with both traditional and state of the art equipment available for all students to take advantage of.
Foundation students obtain access to specialist study areas such as; Printmaking, Photography dark rooms, Construction in a fully equipped workshop, 3D Printing, Laser-cutting, Ceramics and Glass, Mac and PC Digital work spaces.
We maintain the ethos and magic of Foundation, allowing students to build a bedrock of experience and skill whilst discovering new areas they might not have had a chance to explore previously.
This, we believe is essential to success at degree level and vital in terms of making the right decision for a future career in the creative industries.
Our Foundation students enjoy access to traditional printmaking facilities across our two art and design city centre campuses, such as:
These help students develop traditional craft skills in image making and letterform, alongside our bespoke digital provision.
Once Swansea’s old public library, we are based in an architecturally inspiring building that was originally built in 1887.
Our extensive Foundation studio spaces specialise in the four distinct practice strands of three-dimensional design, visual communication, fine art and textiles.
Each have their own dedicated studio space.
Our Alex Building workshops specialise in material based three-dimensional construction and design and include extensive facilities that support both traditional hand tool and machine processes.
Students have access to resin and plaster casting, glass forming and processing, sandblasting, enamelling, cutting, turning, and 3D printing.
In our Dynevor campus students also benefit from access to a ceramics block, a photography studio and darkroom, fabric printing and laser cutting facilities.
Our Alex Building basement workshops specialise in material based three-dimensional construction and design and include extensive facilities that support both traditional hand tool and machine processes.
With specialist support from our experienced and knowledgeable technicians, students have access to resin and plaster casting, glass forming and processing, sandblasting, enamelling, acid etching, cutting, routing, milling, turning, thermo-forming equipment and 3D printing.
Access to other areas of the Faculty is arranged through workshops, however, Swansea College of Art has a policy of allowing students shared access to all of our facilities.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/swansea-college-of-art/facilities-workshops/automotive-transport-design-facilities:
Fibreglass layup and spray facilities, professional automotive clay tables and surfacing tools, traditional hand tools, laser cutting, milling, turning, CNC machining & 3D printing (Ultimaker, Objet & Stratasys machines) and digital scanning technologies (Artec, Roland).
Our Wacom Cintiq workstations run the latest versions of industry-standard 3D design and visualisation software Autodesk Alias Autostudio, V-Red, Gravity Sketch VR and the Adobe Creative Suite.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/swansea-college-of-art/facilities-workshops/creative-music-technology-facilities:
Specialist facilities for our Music Technology courses include the BBC Hall, two industry-standard recording studios, an analogue mixing facility, and a Dolby Atmos 9.1.4 Mixing Studio.
The historic BBC Hall, rebuilt in 1951, is one of the finest acoustic spaces in the UK, utilising tuneable Helmholtz Resonators.
It can be used to record everything from popular music, orchestras, opera singers, jazz bands and singer-songwriters.
The studios have hosted artists as varied as Dylan Thomas, Peter Sellers, Catatonia.
Intensive training is offered in a wide range of music technology related skills and activities.
The suite of studios at the university are fully equipped offering a wide range of industry standard software and hardware and purpose-built recording and performance spaces.
Our studios are run on an Apple workstation, software includes a wide range of plugins and audio applications which includes:
Our students can loan equipment to support their studies.
This includes audio interfaces, microphones, location recording equipment, headphones, and much more.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/swansea-college-of-art/facilities-workshops/design-crafts-facilities:
The Design Crafts department boasts a broad range of specialist making and processing facilities for glass, ceramics and jewellery, supported by a comprehensive array of general workshops.
Glass kilns for fusing, slumping, casting, enamelling and painting
Acid bay - hydrofluoric acid for polishing and etching
Plaster room for mould-making and prototyping
Wax working
Gelflex / rubber moulding facilities
Screen-printing facilities - dedicated workshop for screen-printing on glass
Sand-blasting - two dedicated sandblasters for glass (one pot-blaster)
Cold-working facilities - a range of cold-working facilities including lathes, linishers/edge finishers, hand-grinders, diamond flat-bed grinders, hand engravers, diamond saws and glass drills.
Glass cutting room
Leading room
Glass painting room
Glass studios
Ceramic kilns
Fully equipped glaze room
Throwing wheels
Slip casting facilities
Jewellery benches and specialist hand tools
Fully fitted jewellery workshop for soldering, finishing & polishing

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/swansea-college-of-art/facilities-workshops/film-tv-facilities:
As a BA Film & TV student you will have access to Adobe Suites equipped with Macs and the Creative Cloud including Adobe Premiere and After Effects.
We are based in the Dylan Thomas Centre – a beautiful building which houses a cinema sized screen and theatre for student’s use.
The perfect location to get creative.
With location partners in and around Swansea we frequently shoot on location in venues such as Plantasia Tropical Zoo, The Grand Theatre, Swansea Museum, Mumbles Pier, Dylan Thomas’ Birthplace and Brangwyn Hall to give students hands-on experience of working on location to tell stories.
Kit Summary
1 RED Cinema Camera (RED ONE)
1 Netflix Grade Camera (C70)
A range of small form factor Cine Cameras used for documentary filming and Hollywood movies (Blackmagic and Sony)
A range of DSLRs
A plethora of Different lenses, from 1940s vintage lenses to brand new Hollywood grade anamorphic lenses
5 sets of Professional Grade Sound recording equipment
Green Screen Set up
Lights for both stage and screen, ranging from classic tungsten all the way up to high end LEDs
A variety of motion equipment from dollys, gimbals and sliders
TV / Live Streaming set ups

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/swansea-college-of-art/facilities-workshops/fine-art-facilities:
All Fine Art students have dedicated studio spaces.
Our excellent facilities include Sculpture workshops focusing on metal, wood, and ceramic workshops, alongside specialist equipment such as laser and water-jet cutters, VR, digital studios/photographic darkrooms, sound and video studios, and printmaking facilities.
The printmaking area is equipped for etching, linocut, monoprinting and silkscreen printing.
The metal workshop has plasma cutters, welding and sandblasting equipment.
The resin workshop includes a plaster and mould making area and uses industrial processes.
The kilns in the ceramics studio are also used for fusing glass.
The water jet cutter allows for even greater exploration and experimentation with metal, stone, glass, wood and felt.
As well as the life room, the department also includes large and flexible studios for all year groups.
We are unique in emphasising the importance of life drawing as part of the weekly schedules, learning not just about drawing but the importance of ‘looking’.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/swansea-college-of-art/facilities-workshops/graphic-design-facilities:
The Graphic Design programme is well supplied with the latest Apple computers and professional software, which are regularly renewed and updated.
We are fortunate to have a fantastic working space for our students with a specific studio for our third years.
Computers
The main teaching suite has 25 computers and there is an open access suite of 14 machines.
These are all networked to a range of printers from double sided A3+ to large format banner printers
Cameras and Lighting
Digital cameras and video cameras, as well as a portable lighting setups are available for students to use to produce their own video and photography.
There is a lasercutter dedicated to Visual Communication students, as well as traditional Letterpress and Riso Printers.
Printers
There is a lasercutter dedicated to Visual Communication students, as well as traditional Letterpress and Riso Printers.
Access to other areas of the Faculty is arranged through workshops, however, Swansea College of Art and Design has a policy of allowing students shared access to all of our facilities.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/swansea-college-of-art/facilities-workshops/illustration-facilities:
The Illustration department is fully equipped to explore a broad range of materials and processes for both traditional and digital works.
Three lively Illustration Studios.
Printmaking studio for Lino, Screenprint, Etching & Collagraph.
Letterpress studio with four Adana letterpress machines and bookmaking equipment.
Risograph Printing
Laser cutter
A dedicated digital illustration suite with iMacs, Wacom tablets and Cintiq screens.
Key software packages such as Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign and After Effects.
An extensive collection of printed resources, books and journals.
A comprehensive electronic resource-base providing thousands of online e-journals and e-books.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/swansea-college-of-art/facilities-workshops/photography-facilities:
As a student at Swansea College of Art, you will have access to industry standard facilities and store facility.
In addition to extensive traditional photography facilities and darkrooms, our digital provision includes a specialist colour-managed digital suite running the latest Adobe software.
This includes high resolution Hasselblad film scanners, medium and large format portfolio and exhibition printing.
Traditional photography facilities:
Photography Digital Suite:
Photographic Studio:
Equipment available for loan:
Digital Cameras:
Analogue Cameras:
Other equipment:
Other Photography Department Spaces:
Workshops:
We believe that its essential for your work to have a professional finish and to this end practical projects are supported by workshops.
Having access to additional practical knowledge ensures that you can use the University’s excellent facilities with confidence, make informed choices about method and equipment, and ultimately produce work to an exceptional standard.
Workshops cover:

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/swansea-college-of-art/facilities-workshops/product-furniture-design-facilities:
The workshop facilitates a broad range of equipment for you to master: traditional machine and hand tools.
The main studio is large and airy with individual desks and spaces.
Traditional hand tools, fibreglass layup and spray facilities, resin and plaster casting, sandblasting, acid etching, cold glass processing, warm glass forming, enamelling and electro-plating, cutting, routing, milling, turning, thermo-forming equipment, CNC routing centre and 3D printing.
Our Digital Studio has Wacom Cintiq workstations running the latest versions of industry-standard 3D design and visualisation software: Autodesk Fusion 360, SketchBook Pro, Solidworks and Adobe Creative Suite.
You can also access laser cutting equipment, ceramics, screen printing and photography in our Dynevor Centre for Art, Design & Media just two minute walk from ALEX.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/swansea-college-of-art/facilities-workshops/surface-pattern-and-textiles-facilities:
The programme is housed in a lively, light and airy studio that accommodates all years of the course making it the heartbeat of our Surface Pattern and Textiles community.
You have a personal desk space for the duration of your studies.
Either side of the studio are our well-equipped workshops where you can explore a broad range of materials and processes, enabling participation in relevant methods of design practice.
Surface Pattern Design & Textiles Studio
Dye Lab
Textile Print Room

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/swansea-college-of-art/sca-education-outreach:
Swansea College of Art, UWTSD offers a wide range of engagement activities that provide an introduction to the art college experience in a modern university setting.
In addition to University Open Days and Taster days in individual departments, we offer:
Get in touch to see how we can work together if you:
For further information please contact amanda.roberts@uwtsd.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/wavda:
Developing secure technique along with a broad understanding of the creative industries in Wales and beyond.
Our programmes are dedicated to train and develop performers of the future.
Based in the heart of Cardiff, these innovative and challenging degrees offer industry-standard training alongside relevant experiences to prepare students for a career in the arts.
Welcome to Haywood House, the Cardiff base of the Wales Academy of Voice and Dramatic Arts.
Take a tour round the different floors with our 360° videos.
Play video: UWTSD | Wales Academy Of Voice & Dramatic Arts

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/about/jobs-and-working-uwtsd/job-applicant-privacy-notice:
Data controller: University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD), Carmarthen Campus, Carmarthen, SA31 3EP
Data protection officer: Paul Osborne ( foi@uwtsd.ac.uk )
We are committed to being transparent about how we collect and use your data and to meeting our data protection obligations.
We collect a range of information about you.
This includes:
We collect this information in a variety of ways.
For example data might be contained in application forms, obtained from your passport or other identity documents, or collected through interviews or other forms of assessment which form part of the selection process.
We will seek information from third parties about a successful applicant.
We will seek information only once a job offer has been made and with your permission.
We collect personal data about you from references supplied by former employers and for certain roles verification of criminal records undertaken by the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS).
Data will be securely stored in a range of different places, including in HR management systems and on other IT systems (including the email system).
We may need to process data to take steps at your request prior to entering into a contract with you, for example about your availability to commence employment.
We will also need to process your data to enter into a contract with you if you accept a job offer.
In some cases, UWTSD needs to process data to ensure that we are complying with our legal obligations.
For example we are required to check a successful applicant’s eligibility to work in the UK before employment commences.
UWTSD has a legitimate interest in processing personal data during the recruitment process and for keeping records of the process.
Processing data from job applicants allows us to manage the recruitment process, assess and confirm an applicant’s suitability for employment and decide to whom to offer a job.
We may also need to process data from job applicants to respond to and defend against legal claims.
We process special categories of data, such as information about ethnic origin, sexual orientation and religion or belief, to monitor recruitment statistics.
We also collect information about whether or not applicants consider themselves to be disabled in order to make reasonable adjustments during the recruitment process.
We process such information to carry out our obligations and exercise specific rights in relation to employment.
For some roles, UWTSD is obliged to seek information about criminal convictions and offences.
Where we seek this information, it is because it is necessary for us to carry out our obligations and exercise specific rights in relation to employment.
Your information may be shared internally for the purposes of the recruitment exercise.
This includes members of the HR team, interviewers involved in the recruitment process, and IT staff where access to the data is necessary for the performance of their roles.
Managers involved in shortlisting candidates for interview do not have access to the personal details and monitoring section of your application form.
UWTSD will not share your data with third parties unless your application for employment is successful and we make you an offer of employment.
We will then share your data with your former employers to obtain references for you.
We will also share your data with our chosen Identity Service Provider (IDSP) in order to complete a Right to Work check on our behalf.
For certain roles, we will share your data with the Disclosure and Barring Service to obtain necessary criminal records checks when you will also need to read the DBS’s privacy policy.
UWTSD takes the security of your data seriously.
We have internal policies and controls in place to ensure that your data is not lost, accidentally destroyed, misused or disclosed, and is not accessed except by our employees in the proper performance of their duties.
If your application for employment is unsuccessful, we will hold your data on file for six months after the end of the relevant recruitment process.
At the end of that period, or once you withdraw your consent, your data is deleted/destroyed.
This period may be extended in order to meet UKVI requirements for a particular vacancy.
We retain special categories of data about job applicants, such as information about ethnic origin, sexual orientation and religion or belief which enables us to monitor recruitment statistics, for example to publish in the Annual Equality Report.
Data published in reports is anonymised.
If your application for employment is successful, personal data gathered during the recruitment process will be transferred to your personnel file and HR management systems and retained during your employment.
Our Employee Privacy Notice informs staff members about the retention of their personal data.
You are under no statutory or contractual obligation to provide data to UWTSD during the recruitment process.
However, if you do not provide the information, we may not be able to process your application properly or at all.
UWTSD recruitment processes are not based solely on automated decision-making.
As a data subject, you have a number of rights.
You have a right to access your personal information, to object to the processing of your personal information, to rectify, to erase, to restrict and to port your personal information.
If you have given consent for UWTSD to process any of your data then you also have the right to withdraw that consent.
If you would like to ask any questions, or raise any concerns or objections to the processing of your personal data, or to exercise any of your rights as a data subject, please contact Paul Osborne the University’s Data Protection Officer ( foi@uwtsd.ac.uk ) in the first instance.
If you remain dissatisfied then you have the right to apply directly to the Information Commissioner for a decision.
The Information Commissioner can be contacted at:
Information Commissioner’s Office
Wycliffe House Water Lane Wilmslow SK9 5AF ico.org.uk
This privacy notice was published on 25th May 2018 and will be reviewed before we make any changes to our data practices or there is a change in data protection regulations.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/study/clearing/clearing-faqs:
We understand that sometimes unexpected twists and turns can occur during your university application journey, whether it’s unexpected exam results, changes in your chosen course choice, or unforeseen circumstances.
There is support available to help you successfully navigate through Clearing.
View this as an opportunity for growth and success.
Stay positive and adaptable and you’ll find a course to best suit your needs.
You’ve received your exam results and they are higher than predicted.
Firstly congratulations, you will be perfectly positioned to stick to your original course choice.
However, in an exciting plot twist, you may now want to explore other options or course pathways.
Take your time to consider your options, However, if you do decide that you want to change your original university or course choice then you will need to decline your existing offer via UCAS and enter Clearing.
We offer a wide-range of course options across Art, Science, Engineering, Education, Humanities, Management and Health, all designed to prepare you for your chosen career.
This could be the perfect time to expand your horizons, Whether you choose to continue as planned or embark on a new journey with us at UWTSD, your future is bright.
Our friendly Clearing hotline will be available to talk through your options.
Clearing can be useful if you have changed your mind about what you want to study at university.
It opens up exciting opportunities for you to consider, with courses that might better match your career goals and aspirations.
Life is full of unexpected turns.
It is perfectly normal to reconsider your choices, including your university offer.
If your circumstances have changes, perhaps you have decided that you want to study at a different university, or need to study closer to home, it is important to carefully consider your options.
If you do decide to decline your existing offer, the Clearing process is designed to help you find an alternative course that may better suit your needs.
We offer flexible courses across our campuses.
Talk to our trained team about the best course option for you .
Once you’ve received your exam results, take a deep breath and stay calm.
Remember that getting your results is just the start of your higher education journey and many exciting paths remain open to you.
Universities clearly understand that your potential is not just based on exam grades.
Firstly contact your firm and insurance choice to see if there is any flexibility on their side.
They may still be able to offer you a place on your chosen course or offer an alternative.
Otherwise, you are able to enter Clearing, where you can discover different courses that also match your interests.
Clearing isn’t about finding a second option, it is about finding new opportunities that might suit you even better than your first choice.
For example, perhaps a Foundation course might be of interest to you to help you to further build on your skills and experiences.
This is a great time to reflect on what you want from your higher education experience.
Often unexpected results open doors to great new options that you may not have previously considered.
Keep an open mind and stay positive, you might find that unexpected results in fact lead you to exactly where you are meant to be.
Throughout Clearing, there will be a wealth of advice and support available to help you to make the best decision for you.
Contact our UWTSD Clearing hotline to discuss your options .
If you find yourself not meeting the entry requirements for your firm or insurance choices, don’t worry.
There will be other paths to take on your higher education journey and it might be an opportunity to explore new possibilities.
Firstly check with your firm or insurance institutions as there may be some flexibility for them to accept you or your original course choice.
However, if your original choices don’t work out then you will automatically be entered into Clearing, where you can find alternative courses to study .
Be flexible, perhaps consider options to study a different subject or study at a different location.
Clearing can open many new doors and help you to find an exciting path that perhaps you hadn’t considered before.
UWTSD has a diverse range of courses across our campuses and we would encourage you to explore our course offerings as you may find something that perfectly suits your interests and goals.
Remember that sometimes unexpected paths can lead to rewarding and positive new experiences.
Search our range of courses on offer this Clearing .
Deferring your university entry for a year is a common option and will allow you to plan and prepare for university at your own pace.
If you have already met the required entry requirements for your chosen course, then talk to your firm institution to help you to understand the options and processes to defer.
Perhaps you have deferred and are now reconsidering your academic plans.
If you have deferred and have your results then Clearing is a good option if you want to reconsider your original course choice and perhaps now want to reapply elsewhere.
Talk to UWTSD about our diverse range of courses across our 6 campuses and find something to meet your future career aspirations.
Clearing is open to both BTEC and A Level students.
Results are published on 15 August 2024.
However, if you are planning to go through Clearing, you can give yourself a a head-start by preparing early .
Research courses and universities that might best suit your learning style and career aspirations.
Reflect on your BTEC or A Level experiences and how they might influence your preferences for future study.
When you are ready to begin your Clearing journey, the UWTSD Clearing enquiry form is an excellent starting point .
As soon as you have your results then our dedicated team is here to support you, and find a course to match your ambitions.
We offer diverse range of subjects , many of which incorporate the vocational and practical elements you’ve already experienced during your BTEC or A Level studies.
Your BTEC or A Level qualifications are highly valued by universities with available places for September.
If you’re an Access student considering university, Clearing provides an opportunity to find a university program that matches your ambitions and academic interests.
It’s designed to help you navigate your options smoothly and effectively, ensuring you find a place where you can thrive.
With your Access qualifications, you’ve already demonstrated commitment and capability in pursuing higher education.
Universities value the diverse perspectives and robust skill sets that Access students bring.
Our helpful team will help you to explore your options through Clearing, including flexible entry, part-time courses and distance learning options.
If you are keen to start university this September, but haven’t submitted a UCAS application, then there is good news.
Once you have your results then you can apply directly through Clearing.
This is a great opportunity for you to find a course and university to suit you.
If you need advice or guidance during this process, our Clearing hotline is ready and waiting to support you.
Once you have secured a placement at a university, you can look forward to the exciting educational opportunities that await you.
As a mature student, perhaps with no recent formal qualifications then talk to our friendly team about your options .
We can discuss any qualifications and work experiences that you do have and find the best course pathways to meet your needs.
Our dedicated team can support you to find the best accommodation option to suit your needs.
Email accommodation@uwtsd.ac.uk
All first years studying at our Carmarthen campus are guaranteed accommodation in halls of residence.
Once you have secured your place at UWTSD, you can complete an accommodation application via Hallpad (uwtsd.ac.uk)
Across our Swansea campuses we work in partnership with private accommodation providers.
There are a wide range of purpose build student accommodation options available.
For help and advice, contact accommodation@uwtsd.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/news/swansea-college-art-graduate-ellie-loren-named-one-uks-top-illustrators-watch-2025:
University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD) Illustration graduate Ellie Loren Jones has been recognised as one of the Top 10 UK Graduates to Watch in 2025 by the Association of Illustrators (AOI) – the UK’s leading body for the industry.
Ellie, who recently graduated with a First Class Honours in BA (Hons) Illustration from UWTSD’s Swansea College of Art, won the prestigious AOI Spotlight Award at New Designers in London.
The award celebrates an illustrator with an industry-ready portfolio and a fresh, innovative creative voice.
For Ellie, aged 22, illustration is more than an artform – it’s a way to connect people with wellbeing, mindfulness and the natural world.
Her visual storytelling is infused with warmth and personality, and her distinctive use of colour and texture gives her work an instantly recognisable style.
“I’m honoured to receive the AOI Spotlight Award and to be named among the UK’s top illustration graduates,” said Ellie, who lives in Pontypridd.
“The support I’ve had from Swansea College of Art has been amazing, and this recognition gives me real confidence as I start to build my career in illustration.”
During her time at Swansea College of Art, Ellie achieved a number of creative milestones, including:
Most recently, her recognition by the AOI has placed her firmly among the UK’s most exciting new illustrators – an achievement that reflects both her talent and her dedication.
Celebrating Ellie’s success, Caroline Thraves, Academic Director Art & Media at UWTSD, said:
“We’re incredibly proud of Ellie and delighted that her creativity and hard work have been recognised at a national level.
To be named as one of the UK’s top illustration graduates by the AOI is a significant achievement and reflects the high standard of talent nurtured here at Swansea College of Art.”
With projects ranging from picture books and editorial work to large-scale murals, Ellie’s work continues to grow in scope and impact.
She hopes her illustrations will inspire others to pause, notice and enjoy the little things in life – something she strives to do every day.
Ellie now joins an exclusive list of the UK’s most exciting emerging illustrators, with her award marking her as one to watch in the creative industries.
Executive Press and Media Relations Officer Corporate Communications and PR Email: rebecca.davies@uwtsd.ac.uk Phone: 07384 467071

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/news/swansea-graduate-silvio-lisciandrelli-cooks-success-uwtsd:
After more than a decade in the hospitality industry, Silvio Lisciandrelli has traded the heat of the kitchen for the spotlight of academic achievement.
This summer, the Italian-born chef celebrates his graduation from the University of Wales Trinity Saint David’s (UWTSD) BA (Hons) International Gastronomy Management programme in Swansea, marking a transformative journey from restaurant floors to lecture halls and onto a future shaped by both practical expertise and academic excellence.
Silvio, who has worked in the hospitality industry since 2013, first honed his skills in Italy before relocating to Swansea in 2018.
He spent several years gaining hands-on experience in a variety of kitchens, including at the renowned Marco Pierre White restaurant, where he encountered a pivotal influence: Dr Jayne Griffith Parry, Academic Director, from UWTSD’s International Gastronomy Management course.
“Meeting Jayne gave me the confidence I needed to return to education,” said Silvio.
“I wanted to complement my practical experience with theoretical knowledge and finally complete my academic journey.”
Silvio enrolled in the course at UWTSD, determined to push past his insecurities about studying in a second language and unfamiliar academic environment.
“When I started, I was afraid I wouldn’t even finish the first year,” he admitted.
“But with the incredible support of my lecturers, I found the confidence to succeed.”
Over the course of the programme, Silvio gained a deep understanding of sustainability, marketing, and provenance, while his favourite aspect remained the real-world placements.
A standout moment was his placement at The Beach House, a Michelin-starred restaurant in Oxwich Bay, which he describes as “the apex of my personal and professional development,” and where he is now employed full-time.
“Being immersed in such a high-standard environment was a true challenge and it became my career,” he said.
Silvio now plans to pursue a master’s degree while working in the industry and saving toward launching his own business.
Teaching is also on his radar, with a desire to inspire the next generation by sharing his experience.
“I would absolutely recommend this course to anyone looking to deepen their professional knowledge,” said Silvio.
“Don’t be afraid to challenge yourself.
It’s more than worthwhile.”

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/news/uwtsd-motorcycle-engineering-student-builds-custom-racing-part-honda-motorbike:
Second-year Motorcycle Engineering student Harry Rogers is already making his mark at the University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD) with a project that blends precision engineering, motorsport performance, and collaborative learning.
Working alongside Ian Henshaw, a motorcycle technical demonstrator and Lee Pratt’s teams from the Advanced Manufacturing Skills Academy, Harry has designed and manufactured a custom steering head assembly for a Honda NSF250R racing motorcycle – an innovation that transforms the machine’s handling potential.
The original Honda part is a cast, non-adjustable component.
Harry’s redesigned version, however, enables the bike’s geometry to be fine-tuned for racing performance.
This allows riders and engineers to adapt the machine’s responsiveness for different tracks and conditions – a major advantage in competitive motorsport.
The project has been a complete end-to-end engineering build:
Harry said: “Working on this project has been a brilliant experience.
Taking an idea from design through to machining and assembly has given me real insight into what it’s like to work as a design engineer in motorsport.
Throughout the project, I’ve gained experience across many areas of engineering, including the use of CAD/CAM software, finite element analysis, and machining principles, to name a few.
I’ve learned so much from the MADE+ team, and it’s incredibly exciting to see my work being used on the MotoEng NSF250R race bike.”
Harry’s work exemplifies the ethos of the University’s MADE+ team, which champions collaboration and cross-disciplinary learning.
Students, academics, and industry experts worked together to combine advanced design with practical workshop skills, ensuring the final product meets the high standards of racing applications.
Reflecting on the achievement, staff praised Harry’s professionalism and attention to detail, noting that his contribution has already attracted recognition within the university community.
Ian Henshaw said: “An ongoing collaboration between the engineering students and the production facilities based at the IQ campus is essential.
For the students to see their ideas go from digital designs and software simulations to 3D printed items is good, but to then have finished parts manufactured to tolerance and tested within the UWTSD Motorsport teams is crucial to the development of our future engineers.
It helps our graduates to have something that distinguishes them when moving into industry.”
Dr Mark Cocks, Dean of the University’s Institute of Science and Art said:
“Harry’s project is a brilliant example of the kind of real-world innovation our students are capable of.
By taking an existing racing component and re-engineering it for adjustability and performance, he has demonstrated not just technical skill, but also the creativity and problem-solving ability that motorsport demands.”
With specialist facilities, industry-focused teaching, and opportunities for students to work on live engineering challenges, UWTSD’s Motorcycle Engineering degree continues to provide the perfect platform for aspiring engineers like Harry to turn passion into practice.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/news/degree-apprentice-digital-transformation-leader-uwtsd-graduate-sam-jacksons-success-story:
At just 25 years old, University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD) Digital Degree Apprentice Sam Jackson is now the Power Platform Manager at Velindre University NHS Trust, where he leads the development of scalable and secure digital Power Platform solutions across the Trust and in collaboration with NHS Wales.
Sam has combined full-time work in the NHS with academic study to achieve career progression and professional recognition.
Sam joined UWTSD’s BSc (Hons) Degree Apprenticeship in Applied Software Engineering (Cloud Computing pathway) in 2020, while already working in NHS Wales.
For him, the programme offered the perfect balance between academic study and workplace application.
“I was looking for a way to build on my practical experience with a qualification that supported my career goals,” said Sam, who is based in Cardiff.
“The course offered a flexible and relevant route to do just that.
One of the biggest highlights was seeing how the theory connected directly to my work.
I remember being asked technical questions during an IT upgrade and realising I could answer confidently thanks to what I’d learned in my modules.”
Sam’s motivation for joining the programme was clear: to strengthen his technical expertise while developing the leadership and problem-solving skills needed to become a strategic leader in digital transformation.
The Degree Apprenticeship allowed him to:
“Professionally, the course gave me the tools to take on more strategic roles and played a part in securing my promotion to Power Platform Manager,” Sam explained.
“Personally, it encouraged me to keep learning and to consider further academic opportunities in the future.”
Looking ahead, Sam plans to continue his academic journey alongside his professional role, furthering his expertise in digital transformation.
Matthew Wicker, Head of the University’s Degree Apprenticeship Unit said: “Sam’s journey is a fantastic example of how our Degree Apprenticeship programmes can transform careers.
By blending academic study with real-world application, apprentices like Sam are not only gaining qualifications but also making an immediate impact in their industries.”
Pic caption: Sam Jackson is pictured with UWTSD Apprentice Liaison Officer Steve Hole.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/news/uwtsd-designated-itt-centre-excellence:
The University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD) is proud to announce that it has been officially recognised as a Centre of Excellence by the Institute of Travel and Tourism (ITT), the UK’s leading professional body for the travel and tourism industry.
This prestigious designation takes effect from 1 August 2025 and is valid for three years.
Following a successful application led by Jacqui Jones, Programme Manager for International Travel, Tourism, Events & Festivals Management , UWTSD joins a select group of institutions acknowledged for delivering outstanding standards in travel and tourism education.
The recognition comes after a unanimous approval from the ITT Education and Training Committee, reinforcing UWTSD’s reputation for academic excellence, industry engagement, and commitment to shaping future leaders in the tourism and hospitality sectors.
As part of its new status, UWTSD will:
Jacqui Jones said: “This designation is a reflection of the hard work and dedication of our students, staff, and industry partners.
We are honoured to become one of the 10 ITT Centres of excellence for Travel and Tourism and excited to contribute even more to the development of future tourism professionals through this partnership.”
Claire Steiner, Chair of the ITT Education and Training Committee said : “We are delighted to welcome UWTSD as our newest ITT Centre of Excellence.
Their commitment to student development and industry collaboration makes them a perfect fit for this accolade.
We look forward to working closely with the team at Swansea and seeing their continued impact on the sector.”
The designation further solidifies UWTSD’s position as a leader in tourism education and highlights the University’s strategic focus on employability, innovation, and industry relevance.
Gareth Davies, Dean of the University’s Management and Health said: “We are delighted by this prestigious recognition, giving due credit to the staff and students for the quality of their work and their contribution to the sector.
It reflects the industry-led education opportunities offered by UWTSD, developing opportunity and impact across the region, Wales and internationally.”
Pic caption from left to right: Claire Steiner, Chair of the ITT Education and Training Committee and Jacqui Jones, Programme Manager for International Travel, Tourism, Events & Festivals Management , with graduates Ethan Scriven and Sinead Edwards on the House of Commons Terrace.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/events/trinity-college-carmarthen-80s-reunion:
On August 30, 2025, alumni of Trinity College Carmarthen who left in the 1980s will reunite to celebrate four decades of memories and friendships.
The event promises to be filled with fun, laughter, and enjoyment.
The group will also honour and toast the cherished memory of fellow students from the 80s who are no longer with us, ensuring their spirit remains a part of our celebration.
UWTSD College Road Carmarthen SA313EP United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/events/winter-graduation-swansea:
Tuesday, 25th November 2025 Time TBC
A copy of the Graduation Brochure will be available to download.
If you wish to attend a Graduation Ceremony, you are required to wear full academic dress appropriate to the award to which you will be admitted.
You are responsible for ordering this yourself at Ede & Ravenscroft .
You should place your order at least 21 days prior to the ceremony as Ede & Ravenscroft will not guarantee the order if placed any later.
Do not wait until the final assessment results are known.
Refunds are available for any reason you are not able to attend, but you must notify Ede & Ravenscroft within seven days prior to the Ceremony.
Their cancellation policy is available on their website .
Ede & Ravenscroft will acknowledge receipt of your order when processed but you may not receive this until 10 days before your Ceremony.
To place an order please enter ‘UWTSD’ when asked to ‘Select Your Institution’.
You will also need to know your head circumference, chest and height measurements.
Your robes will be available for you to collect from the venue on Graduation Day.
Please return your gowns here after the ceremony.
Two guest tickets per student will be allowed but you can request additional tickets if you wish.
Once the number of students graduating has been confirmed a decision will be made on whether extra tickets can be allocated.
Please do no telephone Registry querying the availability of additional tickets.
The tickets will be available for collection on the day of the ceremony, but you will receive an email in advance confirming the number of tickets you will receive.
The ceremonies are not appropriate for children under the age of 5 years due to the formal nature of the proceedings.
We recognise that limiting guest tickets in this way may cause some disappointment, but you will appreciate that the seating capacity in the main venue is limited.
Should you or any of your guests have a disability or specific access requirements that we need to know about, please give details in the relevant section of the Graduation Booking page on MyTSD .
Orders for formal photographs should be made in advance directly through Ede & Ravenscroft .
Tell your friends and family that they can watch a live stream of your ceremony on the University’s YouTube Channel.
The Winter Graduation ceremony will be held in the Brangwyn Hall, Swansea.
The team will check your record and re-send your invitation if appropriate.
You will need to arrive two hours before the ceremony commences in order to allow you time to collect your robe, seat number and guest tickets.
You will need to be seated 45 minutes before the ceremony is due to start during which time you will be seated in your allocated seat and briefed by the Chief Marshall.
Should you or any of your guests have a disability / specific access requirements that we need to know about please give details in the relevant section on MyTSD and we will endeavour to meet your needs.
Please make staff aware so that assistance can be provided.
Doors will open for guests approximately one hour before the start of the ceremony.
All attendees normally wear relatively formal attire.
Following a welcome, you will be addressed by the Vice-Chancellor and/or other senior officials of the University.
You will be prompted by staff to move forward in the order you are seated.
You will then leave the stage and return back to your seat.
You should “doff” in response and remain standing to receive the University’s Greetings.
Other than for your presentation you and your guests are required to remain in your seat for the duration of the ceremony.
Please contact the Finance Office immediately to discuss your options.
If you have outstanding academic debts and have not made arrangements with the Finance Office to clear them, you will be excluded from the graduation ceremonies.
‘Alumni’ simply means ‘graduates’ and you’ll automatically join our community of UWTSD graduates - or the Alumni Network - after you complete your studies.
You’ll receive a welcome email soon after graduation so make sure your contact details are up to date via MyTSD .
Those without access to MyTSD should complete our Update your details form.
For more information on the Alumni Network, visit: Alumni | University of Wales Trinity Saint David (uwtsd.ac.uk)
Certificates will be posted to graduates within approximately eight weeks of the Award Board.
Certificates will not be released to students who have not made arrangements with the Finance Office to clear outstanding debts.
From hoodies to ties, teddy bears and coasters, you can purchase a variety of UWTSD merchandise at the Graduation Shop on the UWTSD Shop or visit the merchandise stall on Graduation Day.
Brangwyn Hall Guildhall Swansea SA14EP United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/accessibility:
This accessibility statement applies to the University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD) ‘s main website, [ https://www.uwtsd.ac.uk ].
The University of Wales Trinity Saint David runs the website.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
If you have a disability, AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
If you need information on this website in a different format, such as an accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording, or braille, please email web@uwtsd.ac.uk.
We’ll consider your request and get back to you in 5 working days.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact:
Web Services Email: web@uwtsd.ac.uk
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
The University of Wales Trinity Saint David is committed to making its websites accessible in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 .
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.2 AA standard due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
The full guidelines are available at:
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
The following items do not comply with the WCAG 2.2 AA success criteria:
We are working together as a university to manage better the PDFs we produce and ensure that staff members are given the proper guidance to create accessible and usable PDFs.
This issue will be resolved by the end of March 2026.
We are currently working to eliminate these link issues and resolve them by the end of March 2026.
The issues above will be resolved by the end of March 2026.
The issues above will be resolved by the end of March 2026.
Some pages of this website feature content authored using Microsoft Sway.
Please follow the links below to find out more.
We are not currently claiming that any accessibility problems would be a disproportionate burden to fix.
This statement was prepared on 19 September 2024.
It was last reviewed on 4 March 2025.
The University of Wales Trinity Saint David’s Web Services team frequently test this Website using the following automated and manual methods:
We use Siteimprove , which scans our pages for accessibility errors and tells us which ones are the highest priority to fix.
We use an accessibility checklist to check a representative sample of pages across our Website manually.
The tests include checking that our pages can be navigated using only a keyboard and testing any colour contrasts that could not be automatically checked.
The team tested on a range of different mobile, tablet, laptop, and desktop devices using different screen resolutions and web browsers.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/privacy-and-cookie-policy:
Data Protection and Privacy
The University of Wales Trinity Saint David supports the protection of internet privacy as required by UK legislation and recognises that personal privacy is an important issue.
The University is legally obliged to comply with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) which came into force on 25th May 2018
The personal details collected through our website and provided by you, the user, will be processed in line with the legislation.
We will not sell, license or trade any personal information to others.
We do not provide personal information to direct marketing companies or other such organisations.
It is also possible to make credit or debit card payments to the University of Wales Trinity Saint David through the website.
These payments are handled by a third party e-commerce company and they have their own privacy statement.
Cookie Policy
The standard cookie policy for University of Wales Trinity Saint David website is to allow all cookies.
This website makes use of cookies to help provide the user with certain features.
This helps to ensure the user has the optimal experience.
If users would like to continue with the optimal website experience, no changes need to be made, however if they would like to restrict or block the use of cookies, this can be done through using the settings in the web browser.
Also see Do I need Cookies?
Please note that restricting or blocking cookies used by UWTSD will prevent essential services from working - e.g.
Moodle and MyTSD.
Cookies are small text files that when visiting a website save to your computer hard drive when you navigate through their webpages.
They are widely and commonly used to make websites function properly and to make them function more efficiently, as well as to provide different types of information to the website owners.
They are designed to hold a modest amount of data specific to a particular client and website, and can be accessed either by the web server or the client computer.
Some of the ways cookies are used include:
Cookies can be grouped into four categories:
The first three types of cookies in the above list are used to allow the website to remember the choices a user makes (such as user name, language or the region the user is in) and provide enhanced, more personal features.
For example, a website may be able to provide local weather reports or traffic news by placing a cookie stating the region in which the user is currently located.
These cookies can also be used to remember changes that have been made to text size, fonts and other parts of web pages that can customised.
The information these cookies collect can be anonymised; they cannot track browsing activity on other websites.
Yes and No – depending on what sites you are using!
Use of cookies by the University of Wales Trinity Saint David
The standard cookie policy for the University website is to allow all cookies.
The privacy and security of your personal information is very important the University so we do not use cookies to save or share any personal information about users.
Disabling Cookies
The University of Wales Trinity Saint David uses cookies to enhance the on-line experience.
Disabling cookies when using the UWTSD website will mean you will not be able to enjoy and take full advantage of the University website’s functionality and services.
It is important to note that some services that the University provides require cookies to function.
If the settings are configured to prevent cookies, it is likely the user won’t be able to login to services such as Moodle, MyTSD and others that use cookies as part of the authentication process.
Moodle and MyTSD use session based cookies which are only ‘alive’ during that browser session and are forgotten once the browser is shut down.
More information about cookie management can be found at All About Cookies .
If you would like to restrict or block cookies which are set by a website, this can be done by amending the browser settings.
Most browsers can be configured to refuse cookies, or to provide a warning before they are accepted by a computer.
The help function within the browser should state how to configure it to refuse cookies or to alert the user when they are used.
However with that being said, cookies can have their advantages: in many cases they enhance the user experience on-line.
Example areas of the website where cookies are used:
Functionality cookies
The University uses a range of external services within its website, such as YouTube, Facebook and Twitter.
These third party cookies are categorised as functionality cookies.
The University is aware that the following third party services make use of functionality cookies:
By using third party services on the University website, you are likely to come into contact with other cookies used by providers.
These third parties provide details on their own websites how to opt out of using such cookies.
University of Wales Trinity Saint David will normally make use of the cookies that fall into the following categories:
Both Moodle and MyTSD use session cookies – if these are disabled then it is not possible to login
Use of targeting cookies will be used only in exceptional circumstances.
When using targeting cookies, the University will always seek consent prior to a placing it on a device.
Google Analytics uses cookies to collect information about how visitors use our site.
The university uses this information to compile reports and to help improve the site.
Examples of information collected includes the number of visitors to the site, the link used by visitors to reach our website and the pages they visited when there.
The information is collected and kept anonymous.
Please visit the Google privacy policy for additional information.
Google has a browser add-in that prevents google analytics from collecting data.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/terms-and-conditions:
This Disclaimer applies to all Web-site(s) published by the University or by organisations associated with the University, that use variations of University of Wales Trinity Saint David domain names in the URL (including but not exclusive to *.uwtsd.ac.uk/*, *.ydds.ac.uk/*, *.tsd.ac.uk/*, *.pcydds.ac.uk/*).
Whilst all reasonable care has been taken by the University of Wales Trinity Saint David when providing material in electronic form, the University cannot take responsibility for errors, quality, or accuracy of the information and other material provided on the University Website (s).
University of Wales Trinity Saint David reserves the right to make changes to the University website (s) without notice.
Material made available on the University of Wales Trinity Saint David website (s) does not form any basis of any contract with readers and users of it.
In no event will the University be liable for loss or damages suffered by any person, directly or indirectly, using or relying on any material provided on the University Web-site(s) and/or Intranet.
University of Wales Trinity Saint David is not responsible for the content, presentation, and links therein, of any external internet sites to which it may link, including external pages which link to the University Website (s) or those created by any other organisation associated or not associated with the University.
The University cannot guarantee the availability of these links at all times.
Unless stated otherwise, all material published on the University of Wales Trinity Saint David website (s) is Copyright © University of Wales Trinity Saint David.
All rights reserved.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/contact-us:
Campus Contact

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/astudio:
Gall deall yr opsiynau sydd ar gael i chi fod yn ddryslyd.
Rydyn ni yma i’ch helpu chi i wneud y dewis iawn i chi, p’un a ydych chi erioed wedi gwybod beth rydych chi am ei astudio neu os ydych chi’n dychwelyd i addysg ac eisiau cymryd pethau’n raddol.
Dewch i ddysgu mwy am astudio yn PCYDDS ac archwilio ein rhestrau cyrsiau i ddod o hyd i’r dull astudio sy’n gweithio i chi.
Dysgwch am lwybrau astudio amgen fel rhaglenni sylfaen neu brentisiaethau gradd a chael cyngor gan yr arbenigwyr ar bob cam o’r broses ymgeisio.
Edrychwch ar ein clystyrau pwnc ac archwiliwch beth a gewch gyda ein meysydd pwnc yn PCYDDS.
Rydyn ni wedi trefnu ein cyrsiau’n glystyrau pwnc i’ch helpu i adnabod rhaglenni cysylltiedig a allai hefyd fod o ddiddordeb i chi.
Dewch i’n hadnabod ni, a’r lle y byddwch yn ei alw’n gartref tra byddwch yn astudio gyda ni, a chwrdd â’r arbenigwyr sy’n arwain ein cyrsiau a chlywed gan ein myfyrwyr presennol ynglŷn â’r hyn maen nhw’n ei garu am astudio gyda ni.
Play video: Croeso i fyd o wneuthurwyr penderfyniadau.
Mae gradd-brentisiaethau’n ddewis amgen yn lle astudiaeth draddodiadol mewn prifysgol ac yn dod yn fwyfwy poblogaidd.
Cynlluniau hyfforddi seiliedig ar waith ydynt.
Byddwch yn cael profiad gwaith yn y byd go iawn ac yn ennill cyflog, gan weithio ar yr un pryd tuag at gymhwyster gradd wedi i chi gwblhau’r brentisiaeth yn llwyddiannus.
Cymhwyster Lefel 6 lle byddwch fel arfer yn astudio yn llawn-amser am dair blynedd*.
* Mae rhai graddau dwy flynedd ar gael.
Cymhwyster Lefel 5 sy’n cyfateb i ddwy flynedd gyntaf rhaglen lawn-amser.
Cymhwyster Lefel 4 sy’n cyfateb i flwyddyn gyntaf rhaglen lawn-amser.
Cymhwyster Lefel 5 sydd wedi’i gynllunio i fod yn gysylltiedig â gwaith ac yn alwedigaethol ei natur; mae’n gyfwerth â dwy flynedd gyntaf rhaglen radd llawn-amser.
Cymhwyster Lefel 4 sydd wedi’i gynllunio i fod yn gysylltiedig â gwaith ac yn alwedigaethol ei natur; mae’n gyfwerth â blwyddyn gyntaf rhaglen radd lawn-amser.
Mae Gradd Meistr Integredig yn gymhwyster Lefel 7 sydd fel arfer yn gofyn am bedair blynedd o astudio llawn-amser.
Cymhwyster Lefel 7 ar ôl cwblhau 180 credyd.
Cymhwyster sy’n cynnwys 60 credyd ar lefel 7, a 60 credyd ar lefel 6.
Cymhwyster Lefel 7 ar ôl cwblhau 120 credyd.
Cymhwyster Lefel 7 ar ôl cwblhau 60 credyd.
Cymhwyster lefel 8, prosiect ymchwil a gaiff ei gwblhau fel arfer dros 3-4 blynedd os ydy’n amser llawn neu 6-8 blynedd yn rhan-amser.
Cymhwyster lefel 8, fel arfer gyda blwyddyn o fodylau a addysgir a 2-3 blynedd am brosiect ymchwil os ydy’n amser llawn, neu 2 flynedd (a addysgir) a 4-6 blynedd (prosiect) yn rhan-amser.
Cymhwyster lefel 8 sy’n cynnwys dadansoddiad adfyfyriol a detholiad o weithiau cyhoeddedig a adolygwyd gan gymheiriaid rhyngwladol yn flaenorol, a gaiff ei gwblhau fel arfer mewn blwyddyn yn amser llawn neu 2 flynedd yn rhan-amser.
Cymhwyster lefel 7, sy’n gyfwerth â’r 2 flynedd astudio gyntaf ar gyfer PhD, a gaiff ei gwblhau fel arfer mewn 2-3 blynedd yn amser llawn neu 4-6 blynedd yn rhan-amser.
Cymhwyster lefel 7, â 60 credyd o fodylau a addysgir a phrosiect ymchwil, a gaiff ei gwblhau fel arfer mewn 2 flynedd yn amser llawn neu 4 blynedd yn rhan-amser.
Cymhwyster lefel 7 heb unrhyw fodylau a addysgir, a gaiff ei gwblhau fel arfer dros 1-2 flynedd yn amser llawn neu 2-4 blynedd yn rhan-amser.
Rhaglenni lle mae myfyrwyr yn dysgu ar y campws drwy gydol y cwrs, ac eithrio elfennau ar-lein cefnogol, a fydd yn llai na 25% o gynnwys y cwrs.
Rhaglenni lle mae myfyrwyr yn bresennol am fwy na 50% o gyfanswm eu horiau cyswllt.
Rhaglenni lle nad yw myfyrwyr yn bresennol yn gorfforol yn ystod y cwrs.
Mae myfyrwyr fel arfer yn astudio 120 o gredydau bob blwyddyn academaidd
Mae myfyrwyr fel arfer yn astudio llai na 120 o gredydau bob blwyddyn academaidd, ond gall union nifer y credydau bob blwyddyn amrywio.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/astudio/clirio:
Mae’r cyfnod clirio yn adeg gyffrous pan fo digonedd o gyfleoedd ar gael i chi.
Efallai eich bod wedi gwneud penderfyniad hwyr i fynd i’r brifysgol, wedi newid eich meddwl am eich pwnc, neu ddim wedi cael y canlyniadau yr oeddech  chi’n eu disgwyl; os felly, mae gan y system Glirio ystod eang o gyrsiau i’ch ysbrydoli.
Efallai eich bod ar fin gadael y coleg neu’r chweched dosbarth, neu wedi penderfynu ei bod yn hen bryd i chi newid gyrfa a dychwelyd i fyd addysg.
Defnyddiwch y System Glirio i weld beth sydd ar gael i chi ac i gadw lle ar un o’n cyrsiau.
Play video: Guide to Clearing
Ar ôl i chi gael eich canlyniadau, os nad ydych wedi bodloni gofynion naill ai eich dewisiadau cadarn nac wrth gefn gallwch wneud cais trwy’r System Glirio.
Edrychwch ar ein cyrsiau i weld pa rai sydd o ddiddordeb i chi.
Ffoniwch y llinell gymorth bwrpasol ar gyfer Clirio neu llenwch ffurflen ymholiadau Clirio .
Trafodwch pa opsiynau sydd ar gael i chi gyda’n tîm cyfeillgar a chefnogol.
Sicrhewch eich lle trwy dderbyn eich cynnig clirio yn eich cyfrif UCAS.
Os ydych wedi cael eich canlyniadau ond bod eich amgylchiadau personol chi wedi newid a’ch bod yn ailystyried eich dewis o brifysgol, gall y system Glirio fod yn gyfle i chi ganfod rhywle sy’n eich gweddu chi.
Dechreuwch chwilio am gyrsiau cyn gynted ag y gallwch chi.
Gwnewch yn siŵr eich bod yn bodloni gofynion mynediad y cyrsiau sydd o ddiddordeb i chi.
Cysylltwch â’n llinell gymorth Clirio i gael cyngor ar sut i drosglwyddo o un sefydliad i’r llall a derbyn cynigion newydd.
Ar ôl i chi benderfynu ar gwrs newydd, gallwch ryddhau eich hun o’ch sefydliad presennol drwy UCAS a derbyn eich cynnig newydd gyda ni.
Os ydych chi wedi cael eich canlyniadau ac yn awyddus i fynd i’r brifysgol ond ddim wneud cais UCAS, dydy hi ddim yn rhy hwyr i wneud cais i ymuno â ni trwy’r system Glirio.
Dod o hyd i’ch cwrs .
Gofynnwch am wybodaeth a chyngor gan ein llinell gymorth Clirio .
Cwblhewch gais UCAS
Unwaith y byddwch wedi sicrhau eich lle bydd ein timau arbennig yn eich cefnogi wrth i chi baratoi ar gyfer eich astudiaethau.
Os ydych eisiau dychwelyd i fyd addysg a dechrau cwrs prifysgol, ond ddim wedi sefyll unrhyw arholiadau yn ddiweddar, gall y system Glirio eich helpu chi hefyd.
Cysylltwch â’n llinell gymorth Clirio i drafod y cyrsiau sydd o ddiddordeb i chi a’ch dyheadau o ran eich gyrfa.
Dewiswch gwrs ac gwnewch gais i ni.
Byddwch yn cael pob cefnogaeth gan ein tîm arbennig wrth i chi baratoi i ddychwelyd i fyd addysg.
Rydym yn deall y gall Clirio fod ychydig yn frawychus, ac mae yna gymaint o gwestiynau.
Bydd ein Cwestiynau Cyffredin Clirio yn eich helpu i ymgyfarwyddo â’r broses, yn barod ar gyfer y diwrnod canlyniadau.
Canllaw defnyddiol i lety myfyrwyr y Drindod Dewi Sant trwy glirio.
Canllaw i’r System Glirio: Cyllid Myfyrwyr
Darllenwch ein canllaw cynhwysfawr i ddefnyddio eich canlyniadau Safon Uwch i ddiogelu lle trwy Glirio.
all cymwysterau BTEC fod yn sylfaen wych wrth wneud ceisiadau i’r Brifysgol, ac mae croeso mawr i fyfyrwyr sydd â’r cymwysterau hyn wneud ceisiadau trwy’r system glirio.
Mae cyrsiau mynediad yn darparu llwybr i’r brifysgol ac addysg uwch.
Darllenwch ein canllaw i ddefnyddio eich Cymwysterau Mynediad i astudio mewn Prifysgol.
Canllaw i’r System Glirio: Rhieni, Gofalwyr a Chefnogwyr

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/programme-search:
Os byddwch yn dewis opsiwn, bydd y dudalen yn ail-lwytho.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/astudio/ein-pynciau:
Edrycha ar ein clystyrau pwnc ac archwilia beth a gei di gan ein meysydd pwnc yn PCYDDS.
Rydym wedi trefnu ei cyrsiau’n glystyrau pwnc i dy helpu i adnabod rhaglenni cysylltiedig a allai hefyd fod o ddiddordeb i ti.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/astudio/cyrsiau-israddedig:
Cymrwch reolaeth o’ch dyfodol trwy astudio cwrs gradd gyda ni.
P’un a ydych yn chwilio am gwrs gradd 3 blynedd draddodiadol, gradd gyda blwyddyn dramor neu mewn diwydiant, neu ddewisiadau amgen modern fel prentisiaeth gradd, bydd gennym rywbeth at eich dant.
Gyda dewis o chwe champws, gallwch astudio gradd sy’n gweddu mewn lleoliad sy’n addas i chi.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/prentisiaethau:
Byddwch yn cael profiad gwaith yn y byd go iawn ac yn ennill cyflog, gan weithio ar yr un pryd tuag at gymhwyster gradd wedi i chi gwblhau’r brentisiaeth yn llwyddiannus.
Gwnewch fuddsoddiad yn natblygiad eich gweithwyr gyda Phrentisiaethau Uwch a Gradd-brentisiaethau a arweinir gan ddiwydiant a thrawsnewid eich busnes.
Rydym yn deall yr heriau bob-dydd mae eich busnes yn wynebu ac o ganlyniad, mewn partneriaeth gyda chyflogwyr, gwnaethom greu Rhaglen Brentisiaeth dan arweiniad Diwydiant.
Pan gaiff hon ei chyfuno gyda chymorth profiad ymarferol bydd myfyrwyr yn cymhwyso’r wybodaeth a geir yn uniongyrchol i’r gweithle.
Mae’r Drindod Dewi Sant yn un o brif ddarparwyr Gradd-brentisiaethau prifysgol.
Ar hyn o bryd rydym yn darparu gradd-brentisiaethau i dros 100 o gyflogwyr yng Nghymru a Lloegr.
Rydym wedi sefydlu perthnasoedd cryf gyda sefydliadau sector preifat a chyhoeddus gan gynnwys Busnesau Bach a Chanolig (BBaChau), Awdurdodau Lleol ac Ymddiriedolaethau’r GIG.
Mae ein Gradd-brentisiaethau’n cynnig cyfle i gyflogwyr feithrin eu talent eu hunain.
Gall cyflogwyr ddewis uwchsgilio neu ailsgilio gweithwyr cyfredol, neu recriwtio a hyfforddi gweithwyr newydd trwy ein Prentisiaethau at lefel gradd.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cyrsiau/cyrsiau-ol-radd-tar:
P’un a ydych wedi cael eich gradd yn ddiweddar, yn dilyn diddordeb gydol oes, neu’n awyddus i newid gyrfa neu ddyrchafiad yn eich swydd, gallwch ddewis o’n hystod o wahanol gymwysterau ôl-radd, ac mae llawer ohonynt ar gael trwy ddysgu rhan-amser, llawn-amser neu ar-lein/o bell.
Gyda llawer o'n rhaglenni rhan-amser ac ôl-radd (ac eithrio rhaglenni TAR llawn amser), bydd angen i chi wneud cais uniongyrchol i'r Brifysgol yn hytrach na thrwy UCAS.
Mae gennym rwydwaith o asiantau ar draws y byd yn barod i'ch helpu gyda'ch cais.
Mae'r Brifysgol wedi penodi cynrychiolwyr/asiantau lleol a all gynnig cyngor, gwybodaeth a chymorth gyda cheisiadau gan ddarpar fyfyrwyr.
Rhaid defnyddio gwefan UCAS i wneud ceisiadau i ymuno â rhaglenni TAR Cynradd ac Uwchradd.
Os ydych eisiau gweud cais i ymuno â chwrs Ymchwil Ôl-raddedig neu Ôl-raddedig a Addysgir arall, gwnewch hynny yn uniongyrchol os gwelwch yn dda.
Darllenwch y wybodaeth ganlynol cyn mynd ati i wneud eich cais.
Efallai bod gofynion ychwanegol yn berthnasol ar gyfer rhai rhaglenni, felly darllenwch dudalennau’r rhaglenni unigol.​ Bydd ceisiadau’n cael ei ystyried yn ôl eu rhinweddau eu hunain.
Er y gall dewis astudio mewn gwlad wahanol ymddangos yn anodd i ddechrau, rydym yn ymroi i sicrhau fod y broses yn un rhwydd i chi.
Canolfan ar gyfer rhagoriaeth mewn dysgu a datblygu arfer yw ACAPYC, sy’n cynnig rhaglenni/DPP pwrpasol, o gyrsiau byr i ddoethuriaethau, ar gyfer gweithwyr proffesiynol a’u sefydliadau.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/astudio/ffioedd-chyllid:
Ein ffioedd dysgu ar gyfer myfyrwyr israddedig amser llawn yn y DU yw £9,535 y flwyddyn ar gyfer 2025/26.
Am yr holl wybodaeth arall am ffioedd dysgu israddedig, gan gynnwys cwrs rhan-amser, ewch i’n tudalen ffioedd dysgu israddedig.
Mae hyfforddiant ôl-raddedig ar gyfer myfyrwyr sydd eisoes â gradd israddedig neu gyfwerth, ac mae gwybodaeth fanwl am ffioedd dysgu ar gael ar y dudalen ffioedd dysgu Ôl-raddedig.
I unrhyw un o’r UE neu dramor, gellir dod o hyd i ffioedd dysgu rhyngwladol ar ein tudalen ffioedd dysgu rhyngwladol.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/sut-i-wneud-cais:
P’un a ydych chi’n bwriadu astudio ar gyfer gradd baglor, gradd meistr neu ddoethuriaeth, rydyn ni yma i helpu i wneud y broses ymgeisio mor hawdd â phosib.
Gallwn roi cyngor ar wneud cais drwy UCAS, neu roi cyngor ar wneud cais yn uniongyrchol neu drwy asiant.
Gallwn roi awgrymiadau gwych i chi ar ysgrifennu datganiad personol gwych a hefyd eich cynghori os ydych yn cynorthwyo ymgeisydd.
Trwy’r adnoddau rydyn ni wedi’u casglu, fe gewch chi gamau gweithredu, awgrymiadau uniongyrchol, a phrofiadau myfyrwyr presennol.
Mae’n bwysig sicrhau eich bod yn darparu cyfeiriad e-bost dilys ar eich cais fel nad ydych yn colli unrhyw negeseuon pwysig gan y Brifysgol, neu gan UCAS lle bo’n berthnasol.
Os oes gennych unrhyw anableddau neu gyflyrau iechyd, nodwch hyn ar eich ffurflen gais.
Yna gallwn weithio gyda chi i ystyried pa gymorth ac addasiadau y gallai fod eu hangen er mwyn i’ch astudiaethau fod yn hygyrch a’ch galluogi i wneud y gorau o’ch profiad prifysgol.
Ffôn: 0300 500 5054 E-bost: admissions@uwtsd.ac.uk
Swyddfa Dderbyniadau Y Gofrestrfa PCYDDS Llawr 1af Adeilad Dewi Heol y Coleg Caerfyrddin SA31 3EP
Swyddfa Dderbyniadau Y Gofrestrfa PCYDDS Technium 1 Heol y Brenin Abertawe SA1 8PH
Ffôn: 0300 373 0651 E-bost: homerecruitmentwales@uwtsd.ac.uk
Ffôn: 0121 229 3000 E-bost: birminghamadmissions@uwtsd.ac.uk
Ffôn: 0207 127 7404 E-bost: londonadmissions@uwtsd.ac.uk
Derbyniadau Rhyngwladol Birmingham
BirminghamInt@uwtsd.ac.uk
Derbyniadau Rhyngwladol Llundain
LondonInt@uwtsd.ac.uk
Derbyniadau Rhyngwladol Cymru
WalesInt@uwtsd.ac.uk
Ffôn: 01267 676849 E-bost: RegistryPGR@uwtsd.ac.uk
Os oes gennych unrhyw ymholiadau’n ymwneud â’ch cofnod cofrestru myfyriwr, arholiadau, graddio neu os ydych am wneud cais am drawsgrifiad/tystysgrif mewn perthynas â’ch astudiaethau yn PCYDDS, cysylltwch â Thîm Gwasanaethau’r Gofrestrfa.
Rhaid i bob myfyriwr gofrestru cyn y gallant ymuno â’r Brifysgol yn swyddogol.
Cofrestru yw’r broses sy’n sicrhau eich bod yn:
Os na fyddwch chi’n cofrestru, ni fydd gennych yr hawl i:
Dylai’r broses gofrestru barhau am tua 15 munud.
Bydd angen y wybodaeth ganlynol arnoch:
Dechreuwch gofrestru

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/astudio/profiad-chyfleusterau/llety:
Ydych chi’n bwriadu byw oddi cartref tra byddwch chi’n astudio?
Beth am greu’r profiad prifysgol rydych wedi breuddwydio amdano?
Mae ein llety i gyd yn ddiogel ac yn annibynnol -  felly p’un ai eich bod yn rhywun sy’n mwynhau bwrlwm bywyd cymdeithasol neu’n os oes well gennych chi fywyd tawel, mae yna lety sy’n addas i chi ym Mhrifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant.
Neuaddau Preswyl
Gallwch ddewis o ystafelloedd en-suite neu rai lle byddwch yn rhannu cyfleusterau, sy’n eich rhoi yng nghanol bywyd myfyrwyr – byddwch hefyd yn elwa o fod yn agos at ein gwasanaethau ar y campws.
Oddi ar y Campws
Os byddai’n well gyda chi fyw oddi ar y campws neu ddod o hyd i’ch llety eich hun, gallwch ddewis rhwng llety rhent preifat ac, yn y rhan fwyaf o’n lleoliadau, neuaddau myfyrwyr sy’n cael eu rhedeg yn breifat.
Mae ein lleoliad yng Nghaerfyrddin yn cynnig llety i fyfyrwyr ar y safle, gyda llawer o’r ystafelloedd hyn yn cael eu blaenoriaethu ar gyfer myfyrwyr blwyddyn gyntaf fel chi.
Gwnewch y campws yn gartref i chi, trwy fyw ychydig funudau o’ch dosbarthiadau, y llyfrgell a phopeth sy’n ymwneud â’r brifysgol.
Mae gan Abertawe, Caerdydd, Llundain a Birmingham lety preifat pwrpasol yn agos i’n campysau.
Gwnewch y ddinas yn gartref i chi, mwynhewch y diwylliant a’r cyfleoedd - a phrofwch wefr bywyd yn y ddinas.
Ble bynnag y byddwch chi’n astudio, byddwch yn dod yn rhan annatod o gymuned groesawgar, lle byddwch yn cwrdd â ffrindiau oes a chymeriadau anhygoel ar hyd y daith.
I ddarganfod mwy am eich opsiynau, dilynwch y ddolen ar gyfer y campws penodol isod.
I gael arweiniad a chymorth cysylltwch â’r tîm llety.
Lluniwyd y Cod Ymarfer Llety fel datganiad o arfer da sy’n gallu newid a chael ei fireinio yn sgil profiad ac sy’n annog rheoli llety’n well.
Mae’r cod yn sicrhau bod preswylwyr yn elwa ar bolisïau a gweithdrefnau clir sy’n ymwneud â’r canlynol:

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/astudio/profiad-chyfleusterau:
Darganfyddwch ystafelloedd seminar ac ystafelloedd cyfrifiaduron tra modern, a mannau cydweithredu newydd sbon – yn ogystal â chyfleusterau anhygoel eraill fel theatrau ar y campws, stiwdios artistiaid, gweithdai arbenigol, campfeydd a neuaddau chwaraeon wedi’u hailwampio, ardaloedd ymchwil, a chymaint mwy.
Archwiliwch ein casgliad o astudiaethau achos myfyrwyr i weld teithiau byd go iawn ein myfyrwyr, sy’n amlygu eu profiadau, ceu yflawniadau a’u heriau unigryw.
Mae'r straeon hyn yn dangos sut mae ein rhaglenni'n cefnogi myfyrwyr i gyrraedd eu nod a chael effaith yn eu meysydd dewisol.
Dewch i wybod mwy am PCYDDS a dechrau ar eich antur drwy astudio ar gyfer gradd israddedig yn PCYDDS.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/lleoliad:
Dewch â’ch egni prif gymeriad i PCYDDS.
Dewch yn arwr eich stori eich hun, gan greu’r profiad prifysgol rydych wedi bod ei eisiau erioed.
Gyda dewis o chwe lleoliad campws a channoedd o gyrsiau yn barod i ysbrydoli, mae’n bryd dal gafael yn eich dyfodol â’ch dwy law.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/astudio/profiad-chyfleusterau/cymorth-lles-myfyrwyr:
Mae gwasanaethau cymorth myfyrwyr mewn prifysgol yn chwarae rhan ganolog wrth sicrhau bod myfyrwyr yn cael profiad academaidd llwyddiannus ac wrth eu bodd.
Mae ein Hwb Myfyrwyr wedi’i greu i fod yn bwynt cyswllt cyntaf er mwyn darparu gwasanaeth gwybodaeth cynhwysfawr ar bopeth sy’n ymwneud â myfyrwyr.
Mae ein tîm gwasanaethau myfyrwyr proffesiynol a phrofiadol wrth law i roi’r wybodaeth, y cyngor, yr arweiniad a’r cymorth i chi er mewn eich helpu i wneud y mwyaf o’ch profiad yn y brifysgol – a gwneud eich taith mor esmwyth â phosibl.
O gefnogaeth academaidd sy’n rhoi arweiniad ar fodiwlau a sut i gofrestru i wasanaethau myfyrwyr sy’n cynnig cefnogaeth emosiynol ac iechyd meddwl i fyfyrwyr.​
Mae bywyd prifysgol yn gyfle anhygoel i ddysgu pethau newydd a dod i adnabod eich hun, ond gall ddod â rhai heriau yn ei sgil.
Mae Gwasanaethau Myfyrwyr yn gasgliad o wasanaethau proffesiynol ymarferol sydd wedi’u cynllunio i alluogi a chefnogi ein holl fyfyrwyr i gyrraedd eu llawn botensial .
Trwy ein gwasanaethau, gall myfyrwyr gael gafael ar wybodaeth, cyngor, arweiniad, cyfleoedd  a chefnogaeth o ansawdd uchel yn ymwneud â chymorth llesiant, cymorth ariannol, cymorth dysgu, gyrfaoedd a diogelu.
Rydyn ni’n deall y gall pryderon ariannol fod yn rhan fawr o fywydau ac o addysg myfyrwyr
Mae ein llyfrgelloedd yn cynnig ardaloedd agored, golau gydag amrywiaeth eang o gyfleusterau a mannau astudio, sydd wedi’u creu er mwyn bod yn addas ar gyfer pob ffordd o ddysgu.
Rydym wedi ymrwymo i'ch llwyddiant academaidd ac yn credu bod taith addysgu pob myfyriwr yn unigryw.
Mae ein Tîm Cymorth Dysgu wedi'i gynllunio i'ch grymuso â'r offer a'r adnoddau sydd eu hangen arnoch i ragori yn eich astudiaethau.
Rydym wedi ymrwymo i feithrin amgylchedd addysgol cynhwysol a hygyrch lle gall pob myfyriwr ffynnu.
Ein nod yw darparu’r offer i fyfyrwyr sydd angen cymorth i'w galluogi i weithio i’w potensial a dangos gwir lefel eu gallu fel myfyriwr israddedig neu ôl-raddedig.
Mae gwasanaethau cymorth myfyrwyr mewn prifysgol yn chwarae rhan ganolog wrth sicrhau bod myfyrwyr yn cael profiad academaidd llwyddiannus ac wrth eu bodd.​ Mae ein Hwb Myfyrwyr wedi’i greu i fod yn bwynt cyswllt cyntaf er mwyn darparu gwasanaeth gwybodaeth cynhwysfawr ar bopeth sy’n ymwneud â myfyrwyr.
Ydych chi’n barod i fynd amdani er mwyn ceisio cyrraedd eich nod?
P’un ai a ydych wedi gosod eich bryd ar astudiaeth bellach, gyrfa lwyddiannus neu sefydlu eich busnes eich hun hyd yn oed, byddwn yn eich cefnogi wrth i chi ddilyn eich breuddwydion.​
Ni yw Undeb y Myfyrwyr, elusen annibynnol ar gyfer pob myfyriwr ym Mhrifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant,
Ydych chi eisiau ffordd hyblyg o ennill cyflog wrth astudio?
Ymunwch â Thîm Llysgenhadon Myfyrwyr PCYDDS.
Campysau a Lleoliadau
Yn Y Drindod Dewi Sant rydym yn poeni am holl aelodau ein cymuned, ac rydyn ni yma i wrando arnoch chi a'ch cefnogi.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/diwrnodau-agored:
Mae ein Diwrnodau Agored a’n Nosweithiau Agored yn gyfle perffaith i ddarganfod beth sydd gan ein cyrsiau a’n campysau i’w gynnig i chi.
Bydd diwrnod agored yn rhoi blas i chi o astudio gyda ni, a chyfle i gwrdd â myfyrwyr presennol a rhai o’r tîm addysgu.
Mae’r digwyddiadau hyn, a gynhelir trwy gydol y flwyddyn, yn rhoi cyfle i chi ofyn y cwestiynau sydd bwysicaf i chi, wrth benderfynu beth a ble i astudio.
Cofrestrwch eich manylion heddiw i ddarganfod mwy am ein digwyddiadau sydd ar ddod.
Bydd Rhaglen ein Noson Agored yn rhoi blas i chi ar Noson Agored nodweddiadol gyda ni, gan eich helpu i nodi gyda phwy fydd angen i chi siarad er mwyn cael ateb i’ch cwestiynau.
Mae mynychu Diwrnod Agored neu Noson Agored gyda ni yn hawdd, sut bynnag rydych chi’n bwriadu teithio.
Mae cysylltiadau da i’n campysau mewn car, ar drên, bws neu feic, gan wneud eich taith yn syml.
Pam dylwn i ddod i ddiwrnod agored prifysgol?
Gwelwch drosoch eich hun sut y gallai PCYDDS fod y lle iawn i chi.
Cynhelir ein Diwrnodau Agored a'n Nosweithiau Agored drwy gydol y flwyddyn, maen nhw’n gyfle perffaith i ddarganfod beth sydd gan ein cyrsiau a'n campysau i'w gynnig i chi.
Rydym yn deall y gall dewis prifysgol fod ychydig yn frawychus, ac mae yna gymaint o gwestiynau.
Bydd ein Cwestiynau Cyffredin Diwrnodau Agored yn eich helpu i gael y wybodaeth ddiweddaraf, er mwyn gwneud y penderfyniad cywir ar eich cyfer chi.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/profiad-chyfleusterau/rhyngwladol:
Rydym yn credu yng ngrym addysg i drawsnewid, gan uno myfyrwyr o bob cwr o’r byd i gychwyn ar daith o archwilio deallusol a throchi diwylliannol.
P’un ai a ydych yn ceisio ehangu eich gorwelion, rhyddhau eich potensial, neu feithrin cysylltiadau a fydd yn para am oes, mae ein cymuned amrywiol a chynhwysol yma i’ch arwain at lwyddiant.
Darganfyddwch addysg heb ffiniau, lle mae gwybodaeth y byd ar flaenau eich bysedd, a phosibiliadau diddiwedd yn aros amdanoch.
Ydych chi’n fyfyriwr rhyngwladol sy’n bwriadu astudio mewn gwlad wahanol?
Beth am fwrw golwg ar ein hadran Bywyd Myfyrwyr Rhyngwladol lle cewch weld popeth sydd gennym i’w gynnig?
Neu a ydych chi’n fyfyriwr o’r DU sydd am deithio’r byd ac astudio’n rhyngwladol?
Edrychwch ar ein cyfleoedd Astudio Dramor a Chyfnewid.
Gallwch deithio, ymgolli mewn diwylliant newydd, cwrdd â ffrindiau newydd a blasu bwydydd newydd, a hynny i gyd wrth weithio tuag at eich gradd.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/profiad-chyfleusterau/rhyngwladol/astudio-dramor-chyfnewid:
Teithiwch, ymdrochi mewn diwylliant newydd, cwrdd â ffrindiau newydd, a rhoi cynnig ar fwydydd newydd.
Mae cyllid ar gael i fyfyrwyr PCYDDS ar gyfer amrywiaeth o gyfleoedd rhyngwladol ar draws y byd, megis astudio tramor, lleoliadau gwaith a gwirfoddoli, a theithiau grŵp.
Ar ôl i aelod academaidd o staff gwblhau Ffurflen Geirda Go Global, uwchlwythwch hi gyda’ch Cais Go Global.
Credwn fod profiadau dramor yn rhan o addysg gytbwys.
Dyna pam rydym wedi ffurfio partneriaeth ag ystod amrywiol o brifysgolion ledled y byd i gynnig cyfle i chi ehangu eich gorwelion, ymgolli mewn diwylliannau gwahanol, a chael persbectif newydd ar eich maes astudio.
Mae’r cyfle am semester dramor ar gael ond i fyfyrwyr sydd wedi cofrestru ar raglen sy’n cynnwys y modwl Cyfle Symudedd Rhyngwladol wedi’i ddilysu.
Fodd bynnag, i’r rheini nad ydynt ar raglen gymwys, mae amrywiaeth o brofiadau byd-eang i’w archwilio, yn cynnwys teithiau grŵp a lleoliadau haf.
P’un a ydych yn dymuno profi tirweddau amrywiol Gogledd America, ymgolli yn ninasoedd prysur Tsieina, neu blymio i hanes cyfoethog Ewrop, mae ein prifysgolion partner yn darparu cyfle unigryw i gyfoethogi eich taith academaidd.
Pwy all wneud cais i astudio tramor am dymor tra’n astudio yn PCYDDS?
Myfyrwyr ar raglen sy’n cynnwys Modwl Symudedd Rhyngwladol wedi’i ddilysu.
Cymerwch y cam cyntaf tuag at antur fythgofiadwy drwy archwilio ein rhestr o brifysgolion partner.
Siapan: Prifysgol Rikkyo
Tsieina: Prifysgol Y Bedyddwyr Hong Kong
Mae cymryd rhan mewn rhaglen wirfoddoli yn rhoi cyfle i chi helpu i wneud gwahaniaeth, ennill rhywfaint o brofiad, ac archwilio gwlad arall.
Mae gennym gysylltiadau â nifer o sefydliadau gwirfoddoli moesegol, cyfrifol yn ogystal â lleoliadau gwaith.
Byddwch yn gallu rhoi’r wybodaeth rydych wedi’i dysgu dramor ar waith mewn nifer o ffyrdd, a gadael y rhaglen gyda sgiliau hynod gyflogadwy fel y gallu i weithio fel rhan o dîm, i gyfathrebu’n dda, ac i weld pethau o safbwynt gwahanol gyda dealltwriaeth ddyfnach o ddiwylliant gwahanol.
Gwaith / Interniaethau
Ymwadiad:
Gan mai darparwyr lleoliadau allanol yw’r rhain, rhaid i chi wneud cais uniongyrchol i’r cwmni yn ogystal â chyflwyno cais gyda Thîm Go Global.
Sicrhewch eich bod yn bodloni’r holl ddyddiadau terfyn perthnasol.
Ceir nifer fawr o ddarparwyr lleoliadau a chyfleoedd haf eraill sydd ar gael yn fyd-eang.
Os oes diddordeb gennych mewn archwilio’r opsiynau hyn, rhaid i chi gynnal eich diwydrwydd dyladwy eich hun ac ymgeisio yn uniongyrchol i ddarparwr y rhaglen yn hytrach nag i’r brifysgol.
Eich cyfrifoldeb chi fydd unrhyw gostau cysylltiedig na fyddant yn gymwys i dderbyn cyllid Taith na Turing.
Mae Teithiau Grŵp dan arweiniad Rhaglenni ar gael gydol y flwyddyn academaidd.
Eich darlithwyr sy’n rhedeg y rhain ac maent fel arfer yn para am 1-2 wythnos.
Mae Teithiau Grŵp yn caniatáu i fyfyrwyr deithio gyda ffrindiau ar eu cwrs ac yn canolbwyntio ar brofiadau cwrs-benodol.
Chwefror 2023
Myfyrwyr Perfformio i Brifysgol Rio Grande, Ohio
Ebrill 2023
Myfyrwyr Twristiaeth a Lletygarwch i Aspen, Colorado
Mawrth 2024
Myfyrwyr T.G.
a Chyfrifiadura i ISEP Paris
Mai 2024
Myfyrwyr Twristiaeth a Digwyddiadau Rhyngwladol i Goleg Douglas, Vancouver a Choleg Camosun, Victoria
Mehefin 2024
Myfyrwyr yr Academi Chwaraeon i Brifysgol Rio Grande, Ohio
Bydd pob myfyriwr PCYDDS sy’n cyflwyno Cais Go Global yn cael eu hystyried yn awtomatig ar gyfer cyllid.
Bydd y Tîm Go Global yn eich rhoi naill ai dan gyllid Taith neu Turing, yn dibynnu ar eich amgylchiadau personol.
Ni fydd angen i fyfyrwyr sy’n mynd dramor wneud cais am y cyllid hwn.
Ni fydd y cyllid hwn yn talu’r holl gostau, y bwriad yw helpu drwy ychwanegu at gynilion personol, benthyciadau, a ffynonellau ariannol eraill myfyrwyr i fynd dramor.
Cyllido Ehangu Cyfranogiad
Gallech dderbyn cyllid ychwanegol gan gynllun Taith neu Turing os byddwch yn bodloni un o’r meini prawf canlynol:
- Cyfranogwyr ag incwm cartref blynyddol o £25,000 neu lai.
- Cyfranogwyr sy’n derbyn Credyd Cynhwysol neu fudd-daliadau sy’n gysylltiedig ag incwm - Ymadawyr gofal a chyfranogwyr â phrofiad o fod mewn gofal.
- Cyfranogwyr sydd â chyfrifoldebau gofalu - Cyfranogwyr wedi ymddieithrio.
- Ffoaduriaid a cheiswyr lloches
Mae angen tystiolaeth o hyn i ddyfarnu’r cyllid ychwanegol.
Gellir dod o hyd i ragor o wybodaeth ar y ffurflen Gais Go Global.
Dyddiadau Cau Ceisiadau
Sylwch ar y dyddiadau cau canlynol ar gyfer ceisiadau Go Global.
Mae’n bosibl na fydd ceisiadau a gyflwynir y tu allan i’r dyddiadau hyn yn cael eu hystyried.
15 Ionawr | Cyfnewid Semester yr Hydref (Myfyrwyr BA Actio, Dylunio a Chynhyrchu Setiau, a Throseddeg a Phlismona yn Unig)
15 Mawrth | Lleoliadau Gwaith Haf, Lleoliadau Astudio, neu Leoliadau Gwirfoddoli (Yn agored i’r holl Fyfyrwyr Cyfredol ar Unrhyw Raglen)
15 Gorffennaf | Cynllun Cyfnewid Semester y Gwanwyn (Holl Raglenni â Modwl Astudiaeth Annibynnol Ryngwladol a Ddilyswyd).
Fe all fod yn anodd deall a defnyddio UCAS.
Mae UCAS wedi dyfeisio’r rhestr jargon handi hon i alluogi darpar fyfyrwyr i ddeall diben UCAS yn llawn.
Addasiad (‘Adjustment’) – mewn cais Israddedig UCAS, un o’r gwasanaethau y gallwch eu defnyddio i chwilio am gyrsiau amgen.
Mae’r un hwn rhag ofn eich bod wedi bodloni a rhagori ar eich amodau ac fe hoffech weld a allech chi gael lle ar gwrs â gofynion mynediad uwch – a hynny gan ddal gafael ar eich lle gwreiddiol a gadarnhawyd.
Ymgynghorydd (‘Adviser’) – rhywun sy’n rhoi gwybodaeth, cyngor, a chefnogaeth i chi gyda’ch cais.
Gall hyn fod yn athro, tiwtor, cwnselydd, neu asiant.
Apply – enw ein system ymgeisio ar-lein.
(Ar gyfer cyrsiau ôl-raddedig, mae Apply yn cael ei gyfuno gyda Track.)
Gradd baglor (‘Bachelor’s degree’) – cwrs tair neu bedair blynedd y gallwch ei wneud mewn addysg uwch israddedig ar ôl i chi orffen addysg bellach – gelwir hefyd yn ‘radd gyntaf’ neu’n ‘radd israddedig’.
Mae’r rhan fwyaf o gyrsiau naill ai’n Faglor yn y Celfyddydau neu’n Faglor yn y Gwyddorau.
Gair arbennig (‘Buzzword’) – ar gyfer ceisiadau Israddedig UCAS, bydd eich ysgol, coleg, neu ganolfan yn rhoi gair arbennig i chi fel y gallwch gysylltu eich cais iddyn nhw.
Mae’n air y gallwch ei ychwanegu i’ch cais pan fyddwch yn cofrestru i wneud cais UCAS Israddedig (oni bai eich bod yn gwneud cais yn annibynnol).
Canolfan (‘Centre’) – ysgol, coleg, neu sefydliad sy’n gallu helpu myfyrwyr i wneud cais i addysg uwch.
Newid cynnig cwrs (‘Changed course offer’) – yn eich cais, efallai y cewch chi un o’r rhain os nad ydych chi wedi bodloni eich amodau, neu os yw’r brifysgol neu goleg wedi gwneud newidiadau i’r cyrsiau maent yn eu cynnig.
Fe all olygu dyddiad dechrau neu fan mynediad gwahanol, neu gwrs gwahanol yn gyfan gwbl.
Dewis (‘Choice’) – dewis yw cwrs rydych yn gwneud cais amdano ar eich cais – mae llawer o fyfyrwyr yn gwneud nifer o ddewisiadau i wella eu cyfle i gael lle.
Clirio (‘Clearing’) – mewn cais UCAS Israddedig, mae Clirio yn wasanaeth arall y gallwch ei ddefnyddio i chwilio am gyrsiau amgen.
Os na chawsoch le ar gwrs – p’un ai na chawsoch gynigion, gwnaethoch wrthod eich cynigion, neu na chawsoch y graddau roedd arnoch eu hangen – mae Clirio yn caniatáu i chi wneud cais am gyrsiau sy’n dal i fod â lleoedd gwag.
Coleg – darparwr addysg bellach ac uwch.
Os byddwn yn defnyddio’r term ‘prifysgol’, mae hwn yn aml yn gyfeiriad generig sy’n cynnwys colegau hefyd.
Er enghraifft, pan fyddwn yn dweud ‘gwneud cais i brifysgol’, golygwn ‘gwneud cais i brifysgol neu goleg’, ond mewn ffordd fwy cryno.
Cynnig amodol (‘Conditional offer’) – yn eich cais, cynnig o le ar gwrs yn amodol ar amodau.
Er mwyn cael eich derbyn ar y cwrs, bydd angen i chi fodloni’r gofynion – sydd fel arfer yn gysylltiedig â chanlyniadau eich arholiadau.
Mae hyn yn fath cyffredin o gynnig i fyfyrwyr sy’n gwneud cais yn uniongyrchol o addysg bellach.
Cadarnhad (‘Confirmation’) – yn eich cais, canlyniad cynnig amodol rydych wedi’i dderbyn.
Os ydych yn bodloni’r amodau, bydd eich lle yn cael ei wneud yn ddiamod (sy’n golygu bod gennych le ar y cwrs) – os na, bydd y cynnig yn cael ei wrthod.
Conservatoire – darparwr cyrsiau cerdd, dawns, sgrîn, a drama seiliedig ar berfformio.
Cwrs – mae llawer o gyrsiau gwahanol ar draws gwahanol lefelau, pynciau, a lleoliadau – o raddau sylfaen i PhD.
Darparwyr cyrsiau a hyfforddiant (‘Course and training providers’) – prifysgol, coleg, conservatoire, ysgol ‘School Direct’, neu ddarparwr arall sy’n cynnig cyrsiau addysg uwch.
Gohirio (‘Deferral’) – yn eich cais, dyma beth rydych yn ei wneud os hoffech gario cynnig drosodd i’w ddechrau yn y flwyddyn academaidd ganlynol.
Gofynion mynediad (‘Entry requirements’) – dyma mae’r darparwr cwrs yn argymell sy’n rhaid i chi ei wneud/gael i gael lle ar y cwrs – o gymwysterau a phynciau neu raddau penodol, i gyfweliadau, profion derbyn, a gofynion meddygol.
Does dim gwarantu y cewch gynnig os ydych eisoes yn bodloni neu’n meddu ar y rhain.
Extra – mewn cais UCAS Israddedig, mae Extra yn wasanaeth y gallwch ei ddefnyddio i wneud cais am leoedd amgen os nad oes gennych gynnig gan eich dewisiadau cyntaf.
Y Glas (‘Fresher’) – term ‘slang’ am fyfyrwyr yn eu blwyddyn gyntaf yn y brifysgol.
Dewis cadarn (‘Firm Choice’) – yn eich cais, cynnig rydych yn ei dderbyn yn ddewis cyntaf.
Myfyriwr graddedig – myfyriwr sydd wedi cwblhau a graddio o gwrs israddedig – gallant nawr wneud cais am gyrsiau ôl-raddedig os hoffent wneud hynny.
Addysg uwch (AU) – lefel yr addysg y gallwn eich helpu i wneud cais amdani – o gyrsiau israddedig pan fyddwch wedi gorffen addysg bellach, i gyrsiau ôl-raddedig y gallwch symud ymlaen iddynt ar ôl graddio o radd israddedig.
Dewis yswiriant (‘Insurance Choice’) – yn eich cais, cynnig rydych yn ei ddewis yn ail ddewis – rhag ofn na fyddwch yn bodloni amodau eich cynnig cadarn.
Rhif adnabod personol (‘Personal ID’) – y rhif deg digid a gewch chi wrth gofrestru i ‘Apply’ – caiff ei ddangos yn y fformat 123-456-7890 ar bob e-bost a anfonwn atoch.
Bydd gofyn i chi ddarparu hwn os byddwch yn cysylltu â’n Canolfan Profiad Cwsmeriaid.
Datganiad personol – darn ysgrifenedig y bydd ymgeiswyr yn ei ysgrifennu i ddangos pam eu bod yn gwneud cais a pham y byddent yn fyfyriwr gwych i ddarparwr cwrs ei dderbyn.
Graddau rhagfynegol (‘Predicted Grades’) – y graddau y mae athro, tiwtor neu ymgynghorydd arall sy’n gymwys i roi sylwadau ar addasrwydd academaidd myfyriwr yn credu y byddant yn eu cyflawni wrth gwblhau eu cymwysterau uwchradd.
Canolwr (‘Referee’) – yn eich cais, rhywun sy’n darparu geirda ar eich cyfer.
Cwrs rhyngosod (‘Sandwich Course’) – cwrs gyda blwyddyn ychwanegol lle byddwch yn gweithio yn y proffesiwn rydych yn astudio ar ei gyfer.
Tariff – Tariff UCAS yw’r system ar gyfer dyrannu pwyntiau i’r gwahanol gymwysterau y gallwch eu defnyddio i gael i mewn i addysg uwch israddedig.
Ni fydd pob cymhwyster yn cael ei gynnwys yn y Tariff.
Dim ond er mwyn derbyn myfyrwyr y caiff ei ddefnyddio ac nid yw’n drosglwyddadwy i’r farchnad waith.
Track – enw ein system tracio ar-lein lle gallwch weld sut mae eich cais yn symud ymlaen.
Yma, gallwch ymateb i gynigion a gwneud diwygiadau, fel newid eich cyfeiriad e-bost ayb.
(Ar gyfer cyrsiau ôl-raddedig, caiff Apply ei gyfuno gyda Track.)
UCAS – Y Gwasanaeth Derbyn Prifysgolion a Cholegau yn y DU.
Mae hyn yn cynnwys ein prif wasanaeth ymgeisio UCAS Israddedig, yn ogystal â’r gwasanaethau eraill a redwn, h.y.
UCAS Conservatoires, UCAS Hyfforddiant Athrawon (‘UCAS Teacher Training’), ac UCAS Ôl-raddedig (‘UCAS Postgraduate’).
Hefyd, rydym yn helpu myfyrwyr o 13 oed ymlaen gyda UCAS Cynnydd ‘(UCAS Progress’).
Cynnig Diamod (‘Unconditional Offer’) – yn eich cais, cynnig o le ar gwrs heb amodau – eich lle chi yw e os ydych chi ei eisiau.
Israddedig – lefel gyntaf astudiaethau addysg uwch.
Os byddwch yn graddio o radd israddedig, gallwch symud ymlaen i astudiaethau ôl-raddedig.
Prifysgol – darparwr addysg uwch.
Aflwyddiannus (‘Unsuccessful’) – yn eich cais, naill ai nid oes cynnig wedi’i wneud i chi neu nid ydych wedi bodloni amodau cynnig amodol.
Tynnu’n ôl (‘Withdrawal’) – yn eich cais, cyn i’r penderfyniad gael ei wneud i gynnig lle i chi ai beidio, gallwch chi neu’r brifysgol neu goleg dynnu dewis yn ôl.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/profiad-chyfleusterau/rhyngwladol/bywyd-myfyrwyr-rhyngwladol:
Mae’r DU yn lle gwych i dreulio’r amser gwerthfawr hwn yn eich gyrfa addysgol, p’un ai a ydych yn dewis astudio ar un o’n campysau yng Nghymru, yn Llundain neu Birmingham.
Mae un peth yn sicr, cewch brofiad cofiadwy.
Mae gennym raglen astudio dramor sydd wedi’i sefydlu ers tro sy’n croesawu nifer o fyfyrwyr rhyngwladol llawn amser bob blwyddyn.
Mae gennym hefyd nifer o raglenni cyfnewid ar y cyd gyda’n sefydliadau partner ar gyfer rhaglenni semester neu ysgolion haf.
Mae penderfynu ble i astudio yn benderfyniad enfawr, ac yn un a allai newid eich bywyd!
Nid yn unig y mae’n gyfle i chi gael persbectif rhyngwladol ar eich astudiaethau, ond byddwch hefyd yn dysgu am ddiwylliant, hanes a ffordd wahanol o fyw.
Bydd astudio rhaglen ryngwladol, wrth gwrs, yn rhoi gwybodaeth academaidd gadarn i chi, ond mae hefyd wedi’i strwythuro i’ch galluogi i fwynhau’r amrywiaeth gyfoethog o brofiadau diwylliannol a chymdeithasol sydd ar gael i chi ym Mhrifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant.
Gallwch ddewis o blith amrywiaeth o gyrsiau ym Mhrifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant.
Cewch fanylion llawn am y cyrsiau sydd ar gael ar ein tudalennau cyrsiau israddedig ac ôl-raddedig ar y wefan.
P’un ai a ydych am gyflwyno cais yn uniongyrchol i’r Brifysgol neu wneud cais trwy asiant yn eich gwlad chi, mae astudio mewn gwlad wahanol yn gallu bod yn anodd, ond rydym yma i helpu.
Edrychwch ar ein hadran Ceisiadau Rhyngwladol i gael cyngor ar sut i fynd ati i wneud cais.
Rydym hefyd yn cynnig cyfle i fyfyrwyr rhyngwladol sy’n chwilio am brofiad astudio byrrach ond sydd eto’n cyfoethogi.
Rydym yn deall na all pawb ymrwymo i raglen astudio dramor llawn amser, a dyna pam rydym yn cynnig yr opsiwn i astudio gyda ni am un semester.
Mae’n gyfnod cywasgedig sy’n caniatáu i chi ymgolli mewn amgylchedd academaidd a diwylliannol newydd heb yr ymrwymiad hirdymor.
P’un ai a ydych am wella’ch persbectif byd-eang neu ddim ond eisiau cael blas ar fywyd yn ein sefydliad, fe welwch fod opsiwn sy’n addas i chi gyda’n cyfleoedd i astudio dramor am semester.
Mae’r Brifysgol yn cynnig ysgolion haf cyffrous yn rheolaidd i fyfyrwyr rhyngwladol ar ein campysau yn ne-orllewin Cymru.
Rydym yn cynnig rhaglen bwrpasol ar gyfer Prifysgolion o bob cwr o’r byd.
Mae’r ysgolion haf fel arfer yn para 3-4 wythnos ac fel arfer mae gan fyfyrwyr yr opsiwn naill ai i ddychwelyd adref neu barhau i deithio ar ôl i’r ysgol faes ddod i ben.
Mae’r ysgolion haf hefyd yn cynnwys rhaglen ddiwylliannol i ymweld â lleoedd diwylliannol o amgylch Cymru ac ardaloedd eraill yn y DU.
Mae Cyngor y DU ar Faterion Myfyrwyr Rhyngwladol (UKCISA), elusen sy’n cynrychioli buddiannau myfyrwyr rhyngwladol, yn rhoi’r wybodaeth ddiweddaraf am Brexit, mewnfudo, bywyd yn y DU a materion tebyg.
Maen nhw hefyd yn rhedeg Llinell Gyngor i Fyfyrwyr ac mae ganddyn nhw ganllawiau defnyddiol iawn cyn i chi gyrraedd y Deyrnas Unedig.
Mae’n ofynnol i bob Myfyriwr Rhyngwladol sy’n ceisio mynediad i’r Brifysgol ddangos ei hyfedredd Iaith Saesneg yn unol â gofynion derbyn y Brifysgol a’r Polisi Iaith Saesneg.y.
Er mwyn sicrhau bod eich profiad yn un di-dor a boddhaus, rydym wedi ymrwymo i ddarparu ystod eang o wasanaethau cymorth a gynlluniwyd yn benodol at anghenion unigryw ein myfyrwyr rhyngwladol.
Cymorth Ariannol
Er mwyn cael eich ystyried ar gyfer cymorth ariannol, rhaid i chi gwblhau ffurflen ‘Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA).
Gallwch wneud cais ar-lein ar Wefan FAFSA.
Bydd angen i chi wneud yn siŵr bod eich porwr gwe yn gydnaws.
Sylwch nad yw PCYDDS yn rhan o’r broses FAFSA.
Os oes gennych ymholiadau ynglŷn â FAFSA, dylech edrych ar Gymorth Myfyrwyr.
Un o’r camau olaf wrth gwblhau’r FAFSA yw darparu cod prifysgol/ysgol ffederal Adran Addysg yr Unol Daleithiau PCYDDS.
Cod ysgol PCYDDS: 012341 00 (neu G12341)
Manylion cyswllt:
Os oes gennych unrhyw gwestiynau, anfonwch e-bost i Gymorth Arian: moneysupport@uwtsd.ac.uk
Cymhwysedd ar gyfer Cwrs
Mae ein tystysgrif cymhwysedd gydag Adran Addysg yr Unol Daleithiau yn caniatáu i ni ddarparu Cymorth Myfyrwyr Ffederal ar gyfer y canlynol:
• Cyrsiau Israddedig
• Cyrsiau Ôl-raddedig
Nid yw rhaglenni tystysgrif a diploma yn gymwys ar gyfer Cymwys Myfyrwyr Ffederal.
Sylwch nad yw rhai cyrsiau’n gymwys ar gyfer Cymorth Myfyrwyr Ffederal.
Byddwn yn rhoi gwybod i chi os mai dyma’r achos wrth i ni asesu eich FAFSA.
Dyma restr o’r mathau o gyrsiau nad ydynt yn gymwys ar gyfer Cymorth Myfyrwyr Ffederal: • Cyrsiau gyda blwyddyn astudio dramor orfodol.
• Cyrsiau sy’n cynnwys lleoliad gwaith gorfodol neu Leoliad Proffesiynol.Mae hyn yn cynnwys cyrsiau ryngosod.
• Cyrsiau a ddarperir mewn sefydliadau partner
• Cyrsiau a addysgir ar gampysau Birmingham a champysau Allgymorth
• Cyrsiau Dysgu o Bell.
• Cyrsiau rhan-amser neu gyrsiau â Chyfnod Preswyl isel.
Efallai bod rhaglenni nad ydynt yn gymwys ar gyfer Cymorth Myfyrwyr Ffederal yn dal i fod yn gymwys ar gyfer Benthyciadau Myfyrwyr Preifat.
Nid yw myfyrwyr sydd yma ar raglen Astudio Dramor sydd wedi cofrestru mewn prifysgol yn yr Unol Daleithiau yn gymwys i wneud cais ar gyfer cymorth ariannol trwy PCYDDS.
Yn hytrach, dylech wneud cais i’ch prifysgol ‘cartref’.
Sut i Wneud Cais
Gellir cyflwyno ceisiadau FAFSA ar gyfer blwyddyn academaidd 2024/25 o fis Ionawr 2024, fodd bynnag, ni fydd PCYDDS yn dechrau ceisiadau FAFSA nes 27 Mai 2024 - byddwn yn ymdrin â cheisiadau yn y drefnu y byddwn yn eu derbyn.
Mae’n rhaid eich bod wedi derbyn cynnig o le ar gwrs gan PCYDDS ac wedi derbyn y lle hwn cyn i ni brosesu eich cais ar gyfer Cymorth Myfyrwyr Ffederal.
Rydym yn argymell eich bod yn cyflwyno eich cais erbyn 31 Gorffennaf 2024 fan bellaf er mwyn i ni allu prosesu eich cais mewn pryd i chi wneud cais am fisa.
Os ydych chi’n fyfyriwr sy’n parhau byddwn yn prosesu eich FAFSA yn ddiweddarach gan fod rhaid i ni flaenoriaethu ymgeiswyr newydd sy’n gwneud cais a fisa myfyriwr am y tro cyntaf.
Gwneud cais am gymorth
Llenwch gais FAFSA
Gwiriwch eich Adroddiad Cymorth Myfyriwr
Unwaith y bydd FAFSA wedi prosesu eich gwybodaeth bydd copi o’ch Adroddiad Cymorth Myfyriwr (SAR) yn cael ei e-bostio atoch.
Gwiriwch y wybodaeth yn ofalus a sicrhewch ei fod yn cynnwys EFC (amcangyfrif o gyfraniad teulu) a manylion unrhyw fenthyciadau blaenorol.
Os oes unrhyw wybodaeth ar goll neu os oes sylwadau’n dweud bod angen gwybodaeth bellach, bydd angen i chi wneud cywiriadau ac ailgyflwyno eich cais.
Os oes C wrth ymyl yr EFC, bydd angen gwybodaeth bellach.
Gwiriwch y codau sylwadau a gwnewch unrhyw newidiadau sydd eu hangen.
Mewn rhai achosion, efallai y bydd angen i ni ofyn i chi ddarparu tystiolaeth ddogfennol (fel prawf o ddinasyddiaeth yr Unol Daleithiau).
Dylai bod y fersiwn electronig o’r SAR ar gael i ni mewn 72 awr (3 diwrnod) ar ôl ei gyflwyno.
E-bostiwch y Swyddog Cymorth Ariannol i roi gwybod i ni eich bod wedi cyflwyno cais fel y gallwn dynnu’r SAR i lawr mewn ffordd amserol: moneysupport@uwtsd.ac.uk
Cyfrifo costau presenoldeb: Os ydych wedi cael cynnig lle ar gwrs Prifysgol ac wedi derbyn y cynnig yn gadarn, byddwn yn anfon cyfrifiad o gostau presenoldeb atoch a manylion y benthyciadau rydych yn gymwys i’w cael, ynghyd â chyfarwyddiadau ar beth i’w wneud nesaf.
Sylwch na fyddwn yn cyhoeddi costau presenoldeb i fyfyrwyr nad ydynt wedi derbyn ein cynnig o le.
Dyma’r benthyciadau sydd ar gael:
Mae uchafswm y benthyciadau â chymhorthdal a heb gymhorthdal fel a ganlyn:
Israddedigion dibynnol (myfyrwyr 24 oed ac iau):
Israddedigion annibynnol (myfyrwyr 24 oed neu’n hŷn neu’r rheiny y gwrthodwyd Benthyciad Parent PLUS i’w rhieni):
Myfyrwyr graddedig a phroffesiynol:
Y cyfansymiau oes yw $65,500 (â chymhorthdal) a $138,500 (â chymhorthdal a heb gymhorthdal wedi’u cyfuno).
Ni chaniateir i chi fenthyg mwy na’r cyfanswm hwn.
Caniateir defnyddio benthyciadau Federal Direct Parent a Benthyciadau Grad PLUS fel cyllid atodol pan gyrhaeddir uchafsymiau benthyciadau â chymhorthdal a heb gymhorthdal.
Fel bob amser, mae’r cyfanswm y cewch ei fenthyg drwy fenthyciadau myfyrwyr ar gyfer unrhyw flwyddyn academaidd wedi’i gyfyngu i’ch costau presenoldeb cyfrifedig blynyddol minws pob ffynhonnell nawdd arall.
Amcangyfrif o Gostau Presenoldeb yn PCYDD
Sylwch nad ydych yn gallu benthyg mwy na chyfanswm eich costau presenoldeb amcangyfrifedig (CoA).
• Fel arfer mae gan gyrsiau israddedig flwyddyn academaidd 39 wythnos.
• Fel arfer mae gan gyrsiau ôl-raddedig (graddedig a phroffesiynol) flwyddyn academaidd 52 wythnos.
Amcangyfrif o gostau presenoldeb.
Enghraifft yn unig yw’r ffioedd dysgu a ddangosir uchod a byddant yn amrywio yn ôl eich cwrs.
Rhoddwn wybod i chi am amcangyfrif o gostau presenoldeb eich cwrs ar ddechrau eich cais wedi’i seilio ar y wybodaeth ar eich adroddiad Cymorth Myfyrwyr.
Gellir hefyd cynnwys ffioedd tarddiad benthyciad yn y costau presenoldeb (rydym yn eu cynnwys yn awtomatig yn y wybodaeth a anfonwn atoch).
* Sylwch fod y gyfradd gyfnewid a ddangosir yn enghreifftiol yn unig a chaiff ei phennu unwaith y flwyddyn ar gyfer costau presenoldeb (fel arfer ym mis Mai).
Bydd yr union gyfradd gyfnewid a ddefnyddir wrth brosesu taliadau yn amodol ar gyfradd farchnad ar y diwrnod u caiff yr arian ei brosesu.
Defnyddiwn y wybodaeth a gyflwynwyd gennych yn eich FAFSA a’ch llythyr cynnig, i bennu eich cymhwysedd ar gyfer Myfyriwr Ffederal.
Caiff y costau safonedig eu pennu yn erbyn eich statws myfyriwr.
Myfyriwr Israddedig Dibynnol, Myfyriwr Israddedig Annibynnol neu Fyfyriwr Graddedig.
Gweler yr adran Mathau o Fenthyciadau ar gyfer diffiniadau o fyfyrwyr israddedig ‘dibynnol’ ac ‘annibynnol’ .
Yn amodol ar eich statws, gallech hefyd fod yn gymwys ar gyfer dyfarniad Benthyciad Direct PLUS.
Os ydych chi’n fyfyriwr graddedig/proffesiynol, gallech fod yn gymwys ar gyfer Benthyciad Direct PLUS; os ydych yn fyfyriwr israddedig dibynnol, gall fod eich rhiant yn gymwys ar gyfer benthyciad Direct Parent PLUS.
Bydd eich cymhwysedd hefyd yn amodol ar eich rhaglen astudio bwriedig, Cyfraniad Teulu Amcangyfrifedig (EFC) a nodwyd ar eich SAR a chyllid arall sydd ar gael i chi fel ysgoloriaethau a ddyfarnwyd.
Unwaith bydd y cyfrifiad wedi’i gwblhau bydd y ddogfen Costau Presenoldeb a’r Dystysgrif Cyfrifiad ar gyfer uchafswm cyfanswm y benthyciadau a ganiateir y flwyddyn hon yn cael eu e-bostio atoch, ynghyd â llythyr cynnig yn manylu eich cymhwysedd ar gyfer y gwahanol fathau o fenthyciad a’r symiau y gallwch eu benthyg.
Bydd y llythyr cynnig yn cynnwys y camau sy’n rhaid i chi eu cymryd er mwyn i’ch benthyciad(au) gael eu prosesu’n amserol.
Darllenwch hwn yn drylwyr.
Bydd angen i chi:
Gadarnhau’r swm rydych yn dymuno ei fenthyg a dychwelyd copi wedi’i arwyddo o’r llythyr cynnig i’r brifysgol
Cwblhau’r cais/ceisiadau am fenthyciad a gwiriad cwnsela a chredyd mynediad (ar gyfer benthyciadau PLUS)
Sicrhau eich bod wedi llofnodi Prif Nodyn Addewidiol ar gyfer Benthyciadau â Chymhorthdal/heb Gymhorthdal Uniongyrchol;
Darparu sgrinlun yn cadarnhau eich bod wedi cwblhau’r Cwnsela Mynediad (sylwch NA allwn dderbyn ‘Cwnsela Ymwybyddiaeth Ariannol’) hyd yn oed os ydych wedi’i wneud mewn blwyddyn flaenorol – mae’n arfer da gwneud hyn bob blwyddyn am ei fod yn eich atgoffa o’ch cyfrifoldebau yn y Cynllun Benthyciadau Uniongyrchol; a
Llofnodi Prif Nodyn Addewidiol a darparu sgrinlun o’r neges derbyn gwiriad credyd os byddwch chi’n defnyddio Benthyciad PLUS,
Gwnewch hyn i gyd ar-lein yn studentaid.gov.
Rydych yn mewngofnodi i hwn drwy ddefnyddio’r un PIN ag i fewngofodi i’ch FAFSA.
Cofiwch, os dyfarnwyd ysgoloriaeth i chi gan y brifysgol i dalu am ran o’r ffioedd dysgu neu’r holl ffioedd dysgu, bydd angen i chi roi gwybod i ni am y dyfarniad ar y cam hwn fel y gallwn leihau swm eich ffi dysgu ar eich costau presenoldeb i adlewyrchu eich dyfarniad ysgoloriaeth.
Nid ydym bob tro yn gwybod ymlaen llaw p’un a dyfarnwyd ysgoloriaeth i chi felly gellir cyfrifo eich costau presenoldeb ar sail eich bod yn gorfod talu swm cyfan y costau dysgu.
Os bydd hyn yn digwydd, cewch eich cam-gymeradwyo am gostau presenoldeb uwch, fodd bynnag, pan fydd eich ysgoloriaeth yn ymddangos ar eich cyfrif yn hwyrach yn y flwyddyn academaidd, yna, bydd rhaid i ni leihau eich benthyciadau.
Nid oes gennym unrhyw ddisgresiwn yn hyn o beth.
Sylwch gan eich bod yn fyfyriwr rhyngwladol, efallai y bydd Gofynion Cynnal a Chadw yn berthnasol i chi.
Os na wnewch chi anfon popeth sydd arnom ei angen, ni fyddwn yn gallu dechrau eich benthyciadau.
Ardystiad benthyciad
Talu’r benthyciad
Bydd myfyrwyr israddedig a graddedig yn derbyn dau daliad (un y semester).
Pan fyddwch wedi cwblhau camau 1 i 3, byddwn yn dechrau eich benthyciadau ar y system ac unwaith y byddant wedi’u cadarnhau, byddwn yn e-bostio tystysgrif benthyciad US Federal Direct atoch.
Er mwyn sicrhau bod eich taliad cyntaf yn cael ei wneud ar amser a bod gennych ddigon o amser i wneud cais am eich fisa rydym yn awgrymu’n gryf eich bod yn cwblhau eich cais am fenthyciad erbyn 31 Gorffennaf 2024 fan bellaf ar gyfer cyrsiau sy’n dechrau ym mis Medi.
Ar gyfer myfyrwyr sydd ar flwyddyn academaidd safonol, sy’n dechrau ym mis Medi, bydd y dyddiadau talu cynharaf fel a ganlyn:
O bob taliad (ar ôl ei gyfnewid i £GBP) byddwn yn didynnu swm tuag at ffioedd dysgu, llety (os ydych chi mewn llety Prifysgol) ac unrhyw daliadau eraill sy’n ddyledus, a chaiff y gweddill ei anfon atoch chi.
Bydd angen i chi agor cyfrif banc yn y D.U.
i osgoi gorfod talu dau daliad cyfnewidfa dramor.
Cewch e-bost i’ch hysbysu tua 14 diwrnod cyn pob taliad, yn unol â rheoliadau Ffederal ynglŷn â’ch hawl i ganslo.
Unwaith bydd y taliad wedi’i wneud ac rydym wedi didynnu eich ffioedd, fe gewch gadarnhad o unrhyw ad-daliad a gaiff ei roi yn eich cyfrif banc ynghyd â dadansoddiad o sut rydym wedi dyrannu’r taliad.
Sylwch y gall gymryd hyd at 14 diwrnod ar ôl dyddiad y taliad i chi dderbyn eich ad-daliad.
Er enghraifft, os mai dyddiad y taliad yw 5 Hydref, caiff unrhyw ad-daliad ei dalu i chi erbyn 21 Hydref.
Rydym yn gweithio gyda Darparwr Cyfnewidfa Dramor i sicrhau cyfradd gyfnewid gystadleuol ar gyfer pob taliad sy’n gysylltiedig â chyfradd y farchnad ar y pryd.
Felly, bydd pob taliad ar gyfer swm gwahanol mewn £GBP.
Pan fyddwch yn derbyn Benthyciadau Myfyriwr Ffederal ar gyfer cyfnod y benthyciad a amlinellir yn eich cais am fenthyciad, mae’n rhaid i chi gofrestru ar eich rhaglen astudio a pharhau i wneud cynnydd academaidd boddhaol.
Ystyr cynnydd academaidd boddhaol yw cael cyfartaledd o raddau C (50%) ar y lleiaf dros y flwyddyn academaidd gyfredol.
Sylwch fod hyn yn safon uwch na marc pasio’r Brifysgol ar gyfer myfyrwyr israddedig.
Byddwn yn gwirio’ch cynnydd cyn rhyddhau arian benthyciadau.
I gael rhagor o wybodaeth, cyfeiriwch at ein Polisi Cynnydd Academaidd Boddhaol.
Os byddwch yn tynnu’n ôl o’ch cwrs, yn gohirio eich astudiaeth neu’n bresennol llai na 50% o’r amser, rhaid i chi roi gwybod i’r swyddfa Cymorth Ariannol (Cronfeydd Myfyrwyr) yn y Ganolfan Bywyd Myfyrwyr heb fod yn hwyrach na phum diwrnod gwaith ar ôl tynnu’n ôl yn ogystal â hysbysu swyddfa eich cwrs.
Os bydd myfyriwr sy’n derbyn cymorth ariannol yn tynnu’n ôl o’u cwrs neu bydd eu presenoldeb yn cwympo o dan 50%, byddwn yn ail-gyfrifo eu cymhwysedd i gael cymorth ariannol yn seiliedig ar eu cyfnod presenoldeb.
Gallai hyn olygu bod rhaid i chi ad-dalu arian a gawsoch gan fenthyciadau Ffederal Stafford neu Plus rydych wedi’u cael.
Efallai bydd rhaid i’r Brifysgol hefyd ad-dalu cronfeydd a gafwyd ar gyfer ffioedd dysgu a/neu lety i Lywodraeth Ffederal yr Unol Daleithiau.
Yn yr achos hwn, gallech chi fod yn gyfrifol am dalu ffioedd ychwanegol i’r Brifysgol er mwyn ailosod y cronfeydd hyn.
Gwneir unrhyw gyfrifiad yn unol â’r rheolau a bennwyd gan Adran Addysg yr Unol Daleithiau ac ni ellir eu diwygio mewn unrhyw ffordd.
Mae’n ofynnol yn ôl y gyfraith i bob myfyriwr sydd wedi derbyn benthyciad(au) Ffederal ac wedi graddio neu dynnu’n ôl o’u rhaglen astudio, neu mae eu presenoldeb wedi disgyn o dan 50%, gwblhau cwnsela ymadael.
Gwneir hyn trwy’r porth Cymorth Myfyrwyr.
Ewch i’r safle a dilynwch y cyfarwyddiadau ar gyfer cwnsela ymadael Stafford Loan a neu fenthyciad PLUS.
Eich cyfrifoldeb chi yw ad-dalu eich benthyciadau, yn yr un ffordd, y mae’n rhaid i chi ad-dalu benthyciad banc neu forgais.
Pan fyddwch yn gadael eich cwrs byddwch yn dechrau cyfnod gras chwe mis (nid yw hyn yn berthnasol i fenthyciadau PLUS sy’n myned i gyfnod ad-dalu yn syth, ond gallwch ofyn am gael ei ohirio.
Mae nifer o opsiynau ad-dalu ar gael i chi a dylech drafod y rhain gyda’ch gwasanaethwr benthyciadau i benderfynu p’run sy’n fwyaf addas ar eich cyfer chi.
Os na fyddwch chi’n dewis cynllun ad-dalu cewch eich rhoi ar y cynllun safonol gydag ad-daliadau sefydlog am hyd at ddeng mlynedd.
Cewch fanylion eich gwasanaethwr benthyciadau ar wefan NSLDS.
Cewch fanylion pellach am gynlluniau ad-dalu, gan gynnwyd cyfrifianellau rhyngweithiol, ar y wefan Cymorth Myfyrwyr Ffederal .
Gall myfyrwyr nad ydynt yn gallu cael benthyciad ffederal yr Unol Daleithiau neu nad ydynt yn bodloni meini prawf benthyciad ffederal yr Unol Daleithiau fenthyg gan fenthycwyr preifat yn yr Unol Daleithiau.
Er enghraifft, myfyrwyr sy’n dymuno astudio cwrs sydd heb ei gymeradwyo ar gyfer benthyciadau ffederal yr Unol Daleithiau (TAR), neu fyfyrwyr ar gyrsiau dysgu o bell wedi’u lleoli yn yr Unol Daleithiau ond wedi cofrestru ar gwrs gradd yn y D.U.
yn PCYDDS.
Os ydych yn gymwys ar gyfer benthyciadau ffederal yr Unol Daleithiau, cynghorwn eich bod yn edrych ar y rhain cyn gwneud cais am fenthyciad myfyrwyr preifat yn yr Unol Daleithiau, gan fod benthyciadau ffederal yn aml yn rhatach ac mae’r rhan fwyaf y myfyrwyr o America yn gymwys ar eu cyfer.
Sylwch nad yw benthyciadau preifat yr Unol Daleithiau yn caniatáu i chi fenthyg mwy o arian na benthyciadau ffederal yr Unol Daleithiau.
Bydd y Brifysgol yn gweithio gyda pha bynnag fenthycwyr preifat y byddwch yn penderfynu ei ddefnyddio, byddwch yn ymwybodol bod nifer y benthycwyr preifat sy’n gwasanaethu ar y D.U.
ar hyn o bryd yn gyfyngedig.
• Os ydych yn dymuno gwneud cais am fenthyciad preifat myfyriwr yr Unol Daleithiau, anfonwch e-bost atom.
• rhaglenni gradd cysylltiedig (yn y DU gelwir y rhain yn raddau sylfaen);
• rhaglenni gradd baglor;
• graddau meistr a rhaglenni doethurol; a
• rhaglenni gradd proffesiynol cyntaf Dolenni defnyddiol:

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/profiad-chyfleusterau/rhyngwladol/myfyrwyr-rhyngwladol-newydd:
Byddwch yn derbyn e-bost gyda manylion penodol eich Digwyddiad Croeso cyn hir.
Gwnewch yn siŵr bod eich cyfeiriad e-bost yn gywir fel y gallwch dderbyn y wybodaeth hon.
Mae dyddiadau ac amseroedd Digwyddiadau Croeso i’w gweld yma nawr ar gael dangosfwrdd HWB.
Bydd angen i chi gadarnhau eich lle yn y digwyddiad trwy lenwi’r ffurflen gais, gofynnwn i chi gwblhau hwn cyn gynted â phosibl.
Abertawe – 18 Medi 2025 Digwyddiadau Croeso.
Caerfyrddin – 19 Medi 2025 Digwyddiadau Croeso.
Rydym yn cynnig gwasanaeth casglu i fyfyrwyr rhyngwladol newydd o Heathrow ar ddechrau pob semester.
Codir tâl o £50 am y gwasanaeth hwn.
Defnyddiwch y ffurflen i roi gwybod i ni pan fyddwch yn cyrraedd.
Rydym wedi trefnu casgliad o Heathrow ddydd Mercher 17 Medi 2025.
Y dyddiad cau ar gyfer archebu yw 5 Medi 2025.
Bydd cofrestru ar-lein yn agor ar MyTSD bythefnos cyn eich dyddiad dechrau.
Pan fydd y cofrestriad yn agor, byddwch yn derbyn gwahoddiad e-bost gyda dolen.
Wrth gofrestru ar-lein, rydych yn cytuno i fod yn fyfyriwr yn y Brifysgol, yn cytuno i gadw at reolau’r Brifysgol, ac yn creu eich cofnod myfyriwr.
Mae Cyngor y DU dros Faterion Myfyrwyr Rhyngwladol (UKCISA), yn elusen sy’n cynrychioli myfyrwyr rhyngwladol.
Maent yn darparu’r wybodaeth ddiweddaraf am fyw ac astudio yn y DU.
Mae’r pynciau’n cynnwys:
Maent hefyd yn cynnig cefnogaeth dros y ffôn .

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil:
Mae ymchwil y Brifysgol yn cwmpasu disgyblaethau peirianneg, gwyddor gymdeithasol, y celfyddydau a’r dyniaethau.
Yn ymdrechu i ymgysylltu, bob amser yn arloesol, mae’n aml yn rhyngddisgyblaethol ac yn gydweithredol o ran ei natur.
Mae ein Strategaeth Ymchwil ac Arloesi 2022-2027 yn canolbwyntio ar naw maes blaenoriaeth:
Ein gweledigaeth ar gyfer ymchwil yw bod ein hymchwilwyr, a’r gwasanaethau proffesiynol sy’n eu cefnogi, yn gyrru arloesi: y broses sy’n troi syniadau gwych yn werth, ffyniant, cynhyrchiant a lles.
Dyma’r weledigaeth a fydd yn gyrru lles ac yn addasu i gyfleoedd a heriau newydd.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/camau-ir-dyfodol:
Mae Camau i’r Dyfodol yn adeiladu ar brosiect a gwblhawyd yn 2020 – eto mewn partneriaeth rhwng Prifysgol Cymru y Drindod Dewi Sant a Phrifysgol Glasgow gyda chefnogaeth Llywodraeth Cymru.
Bu’r prosiect yn gweithio gyda gweithwyr addysg proffesiynol ac yn canolbwyntio ar ddilyniant dysgu wrth ddatblygu cwricwlwm i Gymru 2022.
Dilynwch y ddolen i ddysgu mwy am y prosiect hwnnw, gan gynnwys yr adroddiad interim a therfynol o’r canfyddiadau.
Mae tîm y prosiect yn chwilio am ymarferwyr i ymuno â cham 3 sy’n canolbwyntio ar ddatblygu’r cwricwlwm.
Ym mis Chwefror 2022, ymrwymodd Gweinidog y Gymraeg ac Addysg i sicrhau bod cymorth cenedlaethol ar gael ar gyfer datblygu dilyniant ac asesu yng nghyd-destun y cwricwlwm newydd a’r pedwar diben sydd wrth ei wraidd.
Mewn ymateb, mae’n bleser gennym gyhoeddi lansiad prosiect Camau i’r Dyfodol.
Mae’r prosiect 3 blynedd hwn, sy’n cael ei gynnal mewn partneriaeth â phrifysgol Cymru y Drindod Dewi Sant a Phrifysgol Glasgow, yn cynrychioli ein hymrwymiad hirdymor i gefnogi ysgolion a lleoliadau drwy’r broses o drawsnewid y cwricwlwm, gan ganolbwyntio ar ddilyniant ac asesu.
Mae Camau i’r Dyfodol yn cefnogi ein huchelgais ar y cyd trwy feithrin gallu a dwyn ynghyd arbenigedd a phrofiad y sector addysg i gyd-ddatblygu cyd-ddealltwriaeth o ddilyniant i bob dysgwr sy’n ystyrlon, yn hylaw ac yn gynaliadwy.
Bydd hyn yn cynnwys darparu cymorth drwy ein Sgyrsiau Rhwydwaith Cenedlaethol, sy’n creu gofodau i ysgolion a lleoliadau a phartneriaid addysgol fyfyrio ar ddilyniant ac asesu yng nghyd-destun eu harfer personol eu hunain a rhannu eu profiadau a’u dulliau gweithredu.
Ein huchelgais ar gyfer prosiect Camau i’r Dyfodol a’r sgyrsiau hyn, a’r holl gefnogaeth o ran pwrpas, dilyniant ac asesu, yw:
Wrth i’r sgyrsiau hyn gychwyn ar waith y prosiect, byddwn yn sefydlu grŵp cyd-adeiladu i arwain gweithgareddau, ffocws ac allbynnau’r prosiect, gan sicrhau ei fod yn ymgysylltu â’r holl sector addysg yng Nghymru.
Cadwch lygad ar flog Cwricwlwm i Gymru i gael y wybodaeth ddiweddaraf am waith Camau i’r Dyfodol, a fydd yn cynnwys newyddion am ddigwyddiadau sydd i ddod a deunyddiau cyhoeddedi.
Mae prosiect Camau i’r Dyfodol yn brosiect ar y cyd rhwng prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant a Phrifysgol Glasgow mewn cydweithrediad â Llywodraeth Cymru.
Cynlluniwyd y prosiect i ddatblygu gwybodaeth newydd a chefnogi gwireddu Cwricwlwm i Gymru.
Bydd yn gwneud hyn drwy ddod ag athrawon, partneriaid addysgol, ac ymchwilwyr ynghyd i gyd-ddatblygu gallu, ffyrdd newydd o feddwl ac adnoddau i adeiladu ar arfer presennol.
Yn ganolog i’r broses hon fydd integreiddio dilyniant dysgu, y cwricwlwm, asesu ac addysgeg.
Mae arbenigedd a phrofiad pawb sydd â rolau yn y system addysg yn hanfodol ar gyfer gwaith y prosiect.
Ar yr un pryd, gall pawb ar draws sefydliadau partner a lleoliadau addysg ddysgu wrth i ni gydweithio i ddatblygu dealltwriaeth o ddilyniant dysgu wrth wireddu cwricwlwm i Gymru ar gyfer pob plentyn a pherson ifanc.
Mae gwireddu cwricwlwm cenedlaethol newydd yn broses hirdymor yn hytrach nag yn ddigwyddiad unigol mewn amser.
Mae gan brosiect Camau i’r Dyfodol bedwar cam a fydd yn digwydd dros dair blynedd.
Yng ngham 1, byddwn yn dysgu gan bobl lle maent yn y broses a beth fyddai’n eu helpu i symud ymlaen.
Bydd yn helpu i adnabod blaenoriaethau a thynnu syniadau o ystod o dystiolaeth o ysgolion, ymchwil, ac arfer rhyngwladol.
Yng nghamau 2 a 3 byddwn yn gweithio gydag athrawon a phartneriaid addysgol eraill i gyd-lunio allbynnau prosiect a fydd yn hybu dealltwriaeth ymarferol o ddilyniant dysgu.
Penderfynir ar natur y canlyniadau mewn partneriaeth â chyfranogwyr y prosiect a chânt eu cynllunio i rannu dulliau o ddilyniant sy’n helpu i feithrin hyder a gallu’r rhai sy’n gweithio mewn amrywiaeth o leoliadau.
Yng ngham 4, byddwn yn gweithio gyda chyfranogwyr o bob rhan o’r system i nodi’r hyn sydd ei angen i barhau i feithrin gallu ymhlith gweithwyr proffesiynol ysgolion y tu hwnt i oes y prosiect.
Bydd yr hyn a ddysgwn ar y cyd o bob cam yn bwydo’n ôl i system Cymru ac yn cyfrannu at ddealltwriaeth genedlaethol a rhyngwladol o ddilyniant dysgu a newid addysgol.
Mae cyd-adeiladu a thegwch yn ganolog i brosiect Camau i’r Dyfodol gyda chydnabyddiaeth na all unrhyw un ateb ddod gan unrhyw un partner.
Bydd pawb yn gallu ymgysylltu â’r gwaith hwn boed hynny trwy ddatblygiad lleol mewn ystafelloedd dosbarth ac ysgolion unigol, mewn sefydliadau addysgol, trwy sgyrsiau rhwydwaith cenedlaethol neu’n uniongyrchol fel rhan o weithgaredd prosiect.
Mae ysgolion yn parhau i wynebu amrywiaeth o alwadau yn dilyn y pandemig sy’n golygu bod yn rhaid i ymgysylltu fod yn ystyrlon, yn hylaw ac yn werthfawr i bobl.
Byddwn yn gweithio gydag ystod o bartneriaid addysgol gan gynnwys y rhai mewn ysgolion, rhanbarthau, yr haen ganol, SAUau, Estyn, Cymwysterau Cymru a Llywodraeth Cymru i helpu i gyd-ddatblygu ffyrdd o feddwl, adnoddau cysylltiedig ag allbynnau prosiect.
Mae prosiect Camau i’r Dyfodol yn credu bod newid a arweinir gan y rhai sydd wrth galon y system yn rhoi’r cyfle gorau i rannu arbenigedd, magu hyder, meithrin cydlyniad ar draws y system ac i gefnogi’r gwahanol bobl a sefydliadau sydd o bwys ym myd addysg yng Nghymru i wireddu eu cwricwlwm newydd.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/canolfan-arloesi-technolegau-cynorthwyol-atic:
Mae ATiC yn cydweithio â phartneriaid academaidd, cyhoeddus, preifat, a’r trydydd sector o’r meysydd canlynol y sectorau gwyddorau bywyd, iechyd a gofal cymdeithasol i ysgogidiwylliant o ragoriaeth ymchwil, trosglwyddo gwybodaeth, ac arloesedd ym maes iechyd a lles.
Mae ATiC yn cyfuno dulliau ymchwil dylunio sy’n canolbwyntio ar y defnyddiwr ac offer mesur ffisiolegol gwrthrychol i ddeall anghenion a pherfformiad pobl wrth ryngweithio â chynhyrchion, gwasanaethau, systemau a lleoedd gofal iechyd corfforol a digidol.
Rydym yn defnyddio’r canfyddiadau hyn i helpu ein partneriaid i ddatblygu atebion arloesol newydd ar gyfer iechyd a lles, sy’n trawsnewid bywydau yn ein cymunedau.
Mae ATiC yn gyfrannwr unigryw ac allweddol i’r ecosystem arloesi iechyd yng Nghymru a thu hwnt, gan arwain at gyflawni effaith economaidd gadarnhaol trwy arferion cyd-ddylunio.
Gallwn ni gydweithio â phartneriaid academaidd, diwydiant, iechyd a gofal cymdeithasol ar brosiectau ymchwil ac arloesi a ariennir drwy law UKRI, Llywodraeth Cymru neu ffynonellau eraill, yn ogystal â gwneud gwaith masnachol yn uniongyrchol gyda busnesau a diwydiant.
Mae cyfleusterau labordy Profiad Defnyddwyr Amlfoddol (UX) a Gwerthuso Defnyddioldeb (UE) ATiC yn y byd yn ei gwneud yn bosibl cipio a mesur ymddygiad dynol, symudiad, perfformiad gwybyddol, emosiynol, a chorfforol yn ogystal ag ymatebion goddrychol.
Yn gysylltiedig â hyn mae galluoedd sganio, modelu, efelychu rhithwir 3D, gweithgynhyrchu ychwanegion, a phrototeipio i gefnogi datblygiad cyflym a gwerthuso technolegau iechyd newydd arloesol.
Mae ATiC yn bartner academaidd balch i Sefydliad TriTech , sef menter gan Fwrdd Iechyd Prifysgol Hywel Dda gan gynnig gwasanaethau penodol ym maes atebion gofal iechyd arloesol.
Roedd ATiC yn bartner yn Rhaglen Cyflymu Cymru o 2018-2022, a ariannwyd ar y cyd gan Gronfa Datblygu Rhanbarthol Ewrop (ERDF), Swyddfa Cyllid Ewropeaidd Cymru (WEFO), grŵp Gwasanaethau Iechyd a Gwasanaethau Cymdeithasol Cymru, prifysgolion, Hyb Gwyddorau Bywyd Cymru (arweinydd rhaglen), a’r byrddau iechyd.
Nod Accelerate Cymru yn y pen draw oedd creu gwerth economaidd parhaol i Gymru.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/cymdeithas-ryngwladol-ar-gyfer-ymchwil-cyfryngau-ieithoedd-lleiafrifol:
Crëwyd y Gymdeithas Ryngwladol ar gyfer Ymchwil Cyfryngau Ieithoedd Lleiafrifol (The International Association for Minority Language Media Research - IAMLMR) yng Nghaeredin ym mis Hydref 2019 yn ystod cynhadledd Crowded Out or Limitless Horizons a gyd-drefnwyd gan Etxepare Basque Institute a Phrifysgol Caeredin.
Ers dyddiau cynnar ymchwil cyfryngau ieithoedd lleiafrifol (gweler Jones and Uribe-Jongbloed (goln, 2013) am fanylion) bu pwyslais Ewropeaidd neu Orllewinol ar y maes astudio, yn gysyniadol ac yn gyd-destunol.
Yn ogystal â grymoedd Gorllewinol sydd yn effeithio ar bob disgyblaeth academaidd - ac rydym yn cydnabod hyn yn glir - mae tair elfen benodol a wnelo’r maes hwn, sef:
Fodd bynnag, nid ddylai hyn ddisystyru’r hyn a ddatblygwyd yn Affrica, (De) America ac Asia.
Cyflwynwyd traethodau ymchwil estynedig, traethodau hir a thraethodau ymchwil niferus ar y pwnc.
Yn Affrica,  y cam cyntaf sylweddol oedd cyhoeddi Indigenous Language Media in Africa (Salawu, 2006).
Aeth degawd heibio cyn cyhoeddi Indigenous Language Media, Language Politics and Democracy in Africa a olygwyd gan Abiodun Salawu a Monica Chibita a’r diweddaraf yw Salawu, A.
African Language Digital Media and Communication.
Penderfynodd yr ymchwilwyr a oedd yn bresennol yng nghynhadledd Etxepare Caeredin sefydlu’r Gymdeithas Ryngwladol ar gyfer Ymchwil Cyfryngau Ieithoedd Lleiafrifol (IAMLMR) fel cam cadarnhaol i gysylltu ymchwilwyr cyfryngau ieithoedd lleiafrifol ym mhob rhan o’r byd oherwydd:
Mae diffiniad Y Gymdeithas Ryngwladol ar gyfer Ymchwil Cyfryngau Ieithoedd Lleiafrifol (IAMLMR) yn cynnwys yr holl gyfryngau, gan gynnwys cyfryngau cymdeithasol, cyfryngau nad ydynt yn broffesiynol (gan wirfoddolwyr neu gan ddefnyddwyr), ffeithiol a newyddiaduraeth, ffuglen glyweledol, digideiddio ac ati, ar draws pob platfform ac ym mhob rhan o’r byd.
Mae diffiniad y Gymdeithas Ryngwladol ar gyfer Ymchwil Cyfryngau Ieithoedd Lleiafrifol yn cynnwys pob cymuned ieithyddol sy’n hunan-ddiffinio fel lleiafrif, lleiafrifoledig, anhegemonaidd, gan gynnwys cymunedau sy’n hunan-ddiffinio eu hieithoedd fel ieithoedd brodorol.
Nid yw wedi’i gyfyngu i ieithoedd ysgrifenedig nac i ieithoedd llafar, ac fe gynhwysir ieithoedd llafar (nad ydynt wedi’u hysgrifennu) yn ogystal ag ieithoedd wedi’u arwyddo neu ieithoedd nad ydynt yn rhai llafar.
Wrth i ni ddatblygu ein haelodaeth, ein strwythur a’n gweithgareddau rydym yn croesawu gohebiaeth, syniadau a chyfraniadau gan ymchwilwyr ym mhob rhan o’r byd.
Cynhelir cynhadledd y Cymdeithas Ryngwladol ar gyfer Ymchwil Cyfryngau Ieithoedd Lleiafrifol bob dwy flynedd, gyda’r nesaf gan uned ymchwil Indigenous Language Media in Africa ( ILMA ) ym Mhrifysgol North-West University, Mafikeng, De Affrica rhwng 8 – 11, Gorffennaf 2024.
Cyflwynodd aelodau’r Gymdeithas bapurau a phaneli yn ystod y XIX Cynhadledd Ryngwladol ar Ieithoedd Lleiafrifol yng Nghaerfyrddin ym Mehefin 2023.
Cynhaliwyd cyfarfod wyneb yn wyneb o’r Gweithgor yn ystod y gynhadledd hefyd.
Cynhaliwyd cynhadledd ryngwladol Multi-platform and Connecting Communities: Contemporary Challenges for Minority Language Media gan IAMLMR ac ECMI yn Europa Universität Flensburg 31 Mawrth - 1 Ebrill 2022.
Cynhaliwyd Fforwm Ddoethurol Gyntaf IAMLMR PhD ar 27 Ionawr 2022 am 12pm CET (11am GMT) ar Zoom.
Yn cyflwyno y tro hwn oedd:
Ddydd Mercher 3ydd Tachwedd am 15h CET (2pm Cymru) cynhaliwyd Sgwrs Ar-lein ECMI ‘ Minority languages and media landscapes in Africa, Europe and Latin America: Between global and regional dynamics’.
Cadeiriwyd y sesiwn gan Sergiusz Bober a’r panelwyr oedd Abiodun Salawu, Claudia Soria ac Enrique Uribe-Jongbloed.
Ddydd Mercher 22 Medi 2021 am 16h CEST – cafwyd cyfarfod IAMLMR i groesawu aelodau mnewydd a thrafod rhaglen waith ar gyfer y flwyddyn academaidd 2021-22.
Ddydd Gwener 27 Awst 2021 - IAMLMR ac ECMI ar y cyd.
Modiwl ar ddigideiddio a chyfryngau ieithoedd lleiafrifol / brodorol yn ystod 11th Annual ECMI Summer School on National Minorities in Border Regions – National Minorities and the New Digital Paradigm.
Darlith arlein “Media Landscapes and Minority Languages: ‘How Media Can Make or Break Linguistic Vitality’ gan Elin Haf Gruffydd Jones, Darlith/Gweithdy ‘The Debate around the ‘Indigenous’ for Indigenous Language Media and the Limits of a Cybertarian Utopia’ gan Enrique Uribe-Jongbloed a Chyflwyniad gan Hauke Heyen ar ei waith ar gyfryngau cymdeithasol Ffriseg Gogleddol.
Ddydd Mercher 24 Mai 2021 - 10am EST Lansiwyd llyfr a chafwyd thrafodaeth ar amcanion a heriau creu cyhoeddiadau ‘carreg filltir’ ym maes ymchwil cyfryngau ieithoedd lleiafrifol i nodi cyhoeddi ‘Documentary in Wales’ (goln Dafydd Sills-Jones ac Elin Haf Gruffydd Jones) fel rhan o gyfres y cyhoeddwr Peter Lang Documentary Film Cultures .
Ddydd Mercher 24 i Ddydd Gwener 26 Mawrth 2021 – cyflwynwyd XVIII International Conference on Minority Languages
Ddydd Mercher 24 Chwefror 2021 (16:00-18:00 CET) – Gweithdy ‘Indigenous MLM and indigeneity’ .
Ddydd Iau 28 Ionawr 2021 (16:00-18:00 CET) – Gweithdy Findings of the Covid-19 Minority Language Media blog series ar Zoom.
Rydym yn cyfarfod yn gyson fel Gweithgor i ddatblygu’r gymdeithas ac i gynllunio digwyddiadau a gweithgareddau.
Cysylltwch â’r Athro Elin Haf Gruffydd Jones neu â Craig Willis am ragor o fanylion ar sut i ymuno.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/fframwaith-rhagoriaeth-ymchwil-ref-2021:
Cydnabyddiaeth i’r Drindod Dewi Sant am gynhyrchu ymchwil sy’n arwain yn fyd-eang ac sy’n rhagorol yn rhyngwladol
Mae canlyniadau Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil (REF) 2021 yn dangos bod Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant yn cynhyrchu ymchwil sy’n arwain yn fyd-eang ac sy’n rhagorol yn rhyngwladol.
Hwn oedd y cyflwyniad mwyaf hyd yma i’r REF gan y Drindod Dewi Sant, ac un o’r prif ddatblygiadau i’r Brifysgol yn REF2021 oedd bod y maes Addysg wedi gwneud cyflwyniadau i’w hasesu am y tro cyntaf.
Amlyga hyn y modd y mae ymchwil a wneir gan y Brifysgol yn cyfrannu at ddatblygu a thrafod polisi addysg yng Nghymru ac yn arbennig Cwricwlwm newydd Cymru.
Un enghraifft wych o effaith ymchwil y Brifysgol yw cyfraniad y Drindod Dewi Sant at brosiect CAMAU , sydd wedi bod yn rhan annatod o ddatblygu dealltwriaeth system addysg Cymru o gynnydd dysgwyr.
Roedd y gwaith pwysig hwn mor ddylanwadol fel iddo gael ei ymestyn i ail gam yn ddiweddar.
At ei gilydd, derbyniodd 49% o’r ymchwil radd 4* (sy’n arwain yn fyd-eang) neu 3* (sy’n rhagorol yn rhyngwladol), ym meysydd Celf a Dylunio, Addysg, Ieithoedd a Llenyddiaeth Geltaidd, Diwinyddiaeth ac Astudiaethau Crefyddol, a Seicoleg.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/fideos-cyfarwyddiadol-y-coleg-doethurol:
Play video: 3.
Porth Y Coleg Doethurol - Ffurflen Bwriad i Gyflwyno
Play video: Porth Y Coleg Doethurol - Cyflwyno Traethawd Ymchwil
Play video: Porth Y Coleg Doethurol - PG4 Proses
Play video: Porth Y Coleg Doethurol - Goruchwylwyr Ymchwil
Play video: Porth Y Coleg Doethurol - Cwblhau PG4
Play video: Porth Y Coleg Doethurol - Rheolwr Ymchwil Athrofa

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/unplygrwydd-moeseg-ymchwil:
Mae Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant wedi ymrwymo i gynnal safonau moesegol uchel yn yr ymchwil a wneir gan ei staff a’i myfyrwyr, pa un a yw’r ymchwil yn derbyn cefnogaeth uniongyrchol gan y Brifysgol neu’n cael ei ariannu gan ffynonellau allanol.
Mae’r Brifysgol yn cydnabod ei rhwymedigaethau o dan y Concordat i Gefnogi Integredd Ymchwil i sicrhau bod ymchwil a wneir dan nawdd y Brifysgol yn cael ei gynnal i safonau priodol, ac yn cydymffurfio ag egwyddorion ac arferion moesegol a dderbynnir yn gyffredinol ym maes ymddygiad a llywodraethu.
Goruchwylir y rhwymedigaethau hyn gan Bwyllgor Moeseg Ymchwil y Brifysgol a cheir y manylion yn y Cod Ymarfer Moeseg ac Integredd Ymchwil 2022.
Cred y Brifysgol fod adolygu a chymeradwyo moeseg ymchwil yn bwysig am y rhesymau canlynol:
Mae’r gweithdrefnau a’r canllawiau a amlinellir yn y cod ymarfer hwn yn berthnasol i’r holl staff academaidd a gweinyddol, y rhai sy’n dal swyddi er anrhydedd yn y brifysgol a’r holl fyfyrwyr sy’n gwneud prosiectau ymchwil a gweithgareddau cysylltiedig yn rhan o gyrsiau israddedig, ôl-raddedig a chyrsiau byr a rhaglenni ymchwil y mae myfyrwyr wedi cofrestru arnynt yn y Brifysgol, a/neu’n cael eu goruchwylio gan staff yn y Brifysgol.
Yr eithriad fydd achosion lle mae’r Prif Ymchwilydd wedi’i gofrestru mewn man arall ar yr amod bod y prosiect ymchwil wedi’i gymeradwyo gan bwyllgor moeseg cyfatebol yn dilyn adolygiad moeseg ar lefel gyffelyb.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/wahpl:
Rydym yn gweithio gyda phobl o bob oed a gallu i gynyddu cyfranogiad a chefnogi gweithgarwch corfforol ar bob ffurf.
Mae ein gwaith yn canolbwyntio ar ymchwil gymhwysol mewn ymarfer sy’n effeithio ar ganlyniadau i bobl a chymunedau.
Mae ein holl waith yn seiliedig ar ddull o ymdrin ag iechyd sy’n seiliedig ar gryfderau, gan gefnogi pobl i gynnal iechyd a lles drwy gydol oes.
Credwn y gall pob un ohonom chwarae rhan yn y gwaith o gefnogi llythrennedd corfforol drosom ein hunain ac eraill.
P’un ai a ydych yn rhiant, yn dad-cu neu’n fam-gu, yn athrawes, yn gweithio gyda phlant ifanc mewn cyn-ysgol neu’n oedolion hyfforddi mewn cymuned.
Mae ein tîm amlddisgyblaethol o ymchwilwyr, academyddion a hyfforddwyr yn cynllunio ac yn cyflwyno prosiectau cydweithredol sy’n archwilio iechyd a llythrennedd corfforol mewn amrywiaeth o amgylcheddau.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/ymchwil-dyniaethau:
Yn Y Drindod Dewi Sant, rydym yn falch o’n traddodiad ymchwil cyfoethog, sy’n cwmpasu ystod eang o ddisgyblaethau gan gynnwys diwinyddiaeth, astudiaethau crefyddol, hanes, clasuron, archaeoleg, anthropoleg ac athroniaeth.
Gyda golwg fyd-eang a ffocws ar heriau cyfoes, mae ein gwaith yn ymgysylltu’n weithredol â materion pwysig fel cynaliadwyedd, newid hinsawdd a globaleiddio.
Mae ein hymchwil wedi’i chynllunio i wneud effaith ystyrlon yn y byd go iawn.
Rydym yn meithrin amgylchedd rhyngddisgyblaethol lle mae diwylliannau hynafol a chymunedau modern yn croestorri, gan helpu i gysylltu’r gorffennol â’r presennol mewn ffyrdd arloesol.
O’r cychwyn cyntaf ym 1822, roedd Diwinyddiaeth ac Astudiaethau Beiblaidd wrth wraidd Prifysgol Cymru Ystadegol Deheuol (PCYDDS), ac yn ddiweddarach fe’u hategwyd gan Hanes yr Eglwys a hanes crefyddol, Astudio Crefyddau, Astudiaethau Islamaidd, Athroniaeth, Moeseg, y Clasuron, ac Archaeoleg ac Anthropoleg.
Yn fwy diweddar, mae Astudiaethau Tsieineaidd, Llenyddiaeth Saesneg ac Astudiaethau Rhyng-ffydd wedi’u datblygu.
Mae ein gwaith yn dod â’r gorffennol yn fyw ac yn archwilio’r presennol er mwyn ysbrydoli dyfodol gwell a gwybodus.
Cyflawnir hyn trwy nifer o ymchwiliadau cydblethedig, gan dynnu ar brosiectau yng Nghymru, y DU, Môr y Canoldir, yr Aifft a’r Dwyrain Canol, Affrica, Tsieina ac America sydd gyda’i gilydd yn cysylltu â phersbectif byd-eang o ddynoliaeth.
Mae’r themâu amrywiol, ond rhyng-gysylltiedig hyn, yn caniatáu inni bontio’r gorffennol a’r presennol a bwydo i mewn i’n haddysgu o safon fyd-eang sy’n cael ei harwain gan ymchwil.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/ymchwil-mewn-celf-dylunio:
Mae Ymchwil ac Arloesi wedi gwreiddio’n gadarn yn Athrofa Gwyddoniaeth a Chelf Cymru yn y Drindod Dewi Sant.
Mae academyddion yn yr Athrofa yn weithgar ym maes ymchwil a chydnabyddir bod llawer o artistiaid, dylunwyr a meddylwyr beirniadol ar flaen y gad yn eu meysydd.
Mae’r ymchwil yn cwmpasu ystod eang o fethodolegau a dulliau, o gelf gain a damcaniaeth feirniadol yng Ngholeg Celf Abertawe, ac ymchwil dylunio cymhwysol mewn pedair canolfan ddylunio arbenigol, pob un ohonynt yn ymwneud ag anghenion gweithwyr proffesiynol ym maes iechyd a gwyddorau bywyd.
O’r herwydd mae’r ymchwil yn canolbwyntio ar ddau brif faes:
Dylunio ar gyfer Gwyddor Bywyd, Iechyd a Llesiant
Arfer Celfyddydau Cyfoes
Mae ymchwil sy’n seiliedig ar ddylunio yn canolbwyntio ar gymhwyso ac mae’n seiliedig yn bennaf ar anghenion y sector gwyddor bywyd ac iechyd, gan gynnwys y GIG, elusennau iechyd, diwydiant, darparwyr gwasanaethau yn y sector preifat a gwyddorau milfeddygol.
Mae’r gwaith hwn wedi’i drefnu mewn tair canolfan ymchwil.
Mae’r Ganolfan Arloesi Technolegau Cynorthwyol (ATiC), a sefydlwyd yn 2015, yn cydweithio â’r sector preifat, ymddiriedolaethau’r GIG, elusennau ymchwil, a phartneriaid academaidd i ddatblygu cynnyrch, gwasanaethau a systemau arloesol yn y sector iechyd a llesiant.
Mae Canolfan Arloesi Cerebra (CIC), a sefydlwyd yn 2004, yn fenter ar y cyd rhwng yr elusen genedlaethol Cerebra a’r Drindod Dewi Sant, sy’n cynnal ymchwil cymhwysol i ddylunio a chynhyrchu offer pwrpasol ar gyfer plant sydd â chyflyrau niwroddatblygiadol lle mae diffyg cynnyrch ar y farchnad.
Sefydlwyd Canolfan Gweithgynhyrchu Arloesol ac Arbrofol Cymru (CBM) yn 2014 ac mae’n awdurdod blaenllaw ar weithgynhyrchu haen ar haen gan arbenigo mewn ymchwil sy’n canolbwyntio ar ddiwydiant, datblygu cynnyrch a swp-gynhyrchu.
Mae CBM yn cefnogi arloesedd ar draws ystod eang o ddisgyblaethau a sectorau diwydiant, gan gynnwys meysydd meddygol, milfeddygol, awyrofodol a modurol.
Mae gan Goleg Celf Abertawe hanes hir a sefydledig o ragoriaeth mewn ymchwil seiliedig ar arfer gan dynnu ar fethodolegau ymchwil rhyngddisgyblaethol a chydweithredol.
Mae archwiliadau creadigol o’r fath yn rhoi cyd-destun cenedlaethol i’n hymchwil, gyda chysylltiadau cryf â chelf a diwylliant Cymru, ac rydym yn arddangos ein harferion cyfoes arloesol yn rhyngwladol.
Gan hynny mae’r gwaith yn ymrannu’n dair brif thema, sef ymchwil cydweithredol gyda phroffesiynau a chymunedau gofal iechyd i hyrwyddo iechyd a llesiant, gan gyfeirio’n benodol at hunaniaeth rywiol ac iechyd rhywiol; themâu cymdeithasol-ddaearyddol yn ymwneud â hunaniaeth, cymuned a pherthyn, gyda’r rhain yn amrywio o waith ymatebol yn lleol i faterion geo-wleidyddol byd-eang; a gwaith wedi’i lywio gan ddamcaniaethau sy’n seiliedig ar ganfyddiadau a darlleniadau, er enghraifft perthynas cynulleidfaoedd â ffurfiau a gwrthrychau creadigol, a hefyd waith ar ddarlunio, creadigrwydd, semioteg a beirniadaeth lenyddol.
Canolfan Ymchwil ac Arloesi’r Diwydiannau Creadigol (CIRIC) sydd, ers 2005, wedi bod yn brif gyfrwng datblygu prosiectau trosglwyddo gwybodaeth cydweithredol,  amlddisgyblaethol ac aml-bartner yn y diwydiannau creadigol a diwylliannol, a’r
Ganolfan Ymchwil Metaddylunio (MDRC).
Wedi’i lansio yn 2019, mae’r Ganolfan yn gweithredu fel gofod ymchwil pontio, cydweithredol a chreadigol ar gyfer y rheiny sy’n gweithio ym maes arfer celfyddydau cyfoes a’r rheiny ym maes dylunio ar gyfer gwyddor bywyd, iechyd a llesiant.
Mae gan yr Athrofa ddiwylliant ôl-raddedig bywiog, gyda rhaglenni MA a PhD llwyddiannus ym meysydd celf a dylunio.
Er 2014, mae deugain o fyfyrwyr wedi ymuno â’n rhaglenni PhD a dyfarnwyd ugain o raddau ymchwil.
Un o’r prif flaenoriaethau yn hyn o beth fu datblygu prosiectau a ariennir a phrosiectau cydweithredol gyda diwydiant, y GIG a’r trydydd sector, sy’n cyd-fynd â’n strategaeth ymchwil a throsglwyddo gwybodaeth gref yn ymwneud ag arfer.
Yn hyn o beth, mae gennym saith Ysgoloriaeth PhD ar Sgiliau’r Economi Wybodaeth (KESS) gyda chyllid gan Gronfa Gymdeithasol Ewrop.
Er 2015 mae Canolfan Gweithgynhyrchu Arloesol ac Arbrofol Cymru (CBM) hefyd wedi ariannu tair ysgoloriaeth PhD lawn yn canolbwyntio ar gymhwyso technolegau gweithgynhyrchu uwch yn y sector meddygol.
Roedd 49% o’r ymchwil wedi’i raddio 4* (sy’n arwain yn fyd-eang) neu 3* (sy’n rhagorol yn rhyngwladol), o feysydd Celf a Dylunio, Addysg, Ieithoedd Celtaidd a Llenyddiaeth, Diwinyddiaeth ac Astudiaethau Crefyddol, a Seicoleg.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/ymchwil-seicoleg:
Mae gan yr adran Seicoleg yn Y Drindod Dewi Sant broffil ymchwil cryf a chyffrous ym meysydd seicoleg gymhwysol ac arbrofol.
Gyda hanes cryf o gydweithredu ac arloesi, mae gan y staff sy’n gweithio ym maes Seicoleg ystod o arbenigedd methodolegol gan gynnwys dulliau ansoddol, dylunio arbrofol a datblygu ymyriadau a gwerthuso.
Gellir dod o hyd i wybodaeth am Grwpiau Ymchwil  y ganolfan isod.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/ymchwil-mewn-pensaerniaeth-cyfrifiadura-pheirianneg:
Mae ein hymchwil yn drawsddisgyblaethol, ac mae’n cwmpasu maes eang o waith mewn Peirianneg Fodurol, Logisteg a Pheirianneg Gweithgynhyrchu, ynghyd â Chyfrifiadura Cymhwysol.
Canolbwyntia ein dull gweithredu ar ddatrys problemau agos i’r farchnad sy’n ymwneud â diwydiant, sy’n berthnasol i gwmnïau rhanbarthol, ac sydd yn aml yn gofyn am ddatrysiadau dylunio arloesol a tharged o ran system rheoli amgylcheddol.
Y brifysgol yw’r prif bartner academaidd yng Nghanolfan Ddilysu NDT yn ECM2 Port Talbot a weithredir gan TWI.
Mae cyllid gan Lywodraeth Cymru a’r EPSRC wedi hwyluso caffael offer a chapasiti o’r radd flaenaf, gan gynnwys:
Yn ychwanegol at yr adnoddau hyn, mae gan y  brifysgol ddigonedd o offer microscopeg optegol confensiynol a chyfleusterau fideo digidol cyflymder uchel ac mae’n bartner yn rhaglen ASTUTE (Technolegau Cynhyrchu Cynaliadwy Uwch) i Gymru gyfan sy’n darparu manteision uniongyrchol i fusnesau.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/ymchwilio-ir-ieithoedd-celtaidd-au-llenyddiaeth:
Sefydlwyd y Ganolfan Uwchefrydiau Cymreig a Cheltaidd gan Brifysgol Cymru yn 1985 fel canolfan ymchwil arbenigol yn cynnal prosiectau cydweithredol ar ieithoedd, llenyddiaethau, diwylliant a hanes Cymru a’r gwledydd Celtaidd eraill.
Mae’r Ganolfan wedi ei lleoli mewn adeilad pwrpasol yn Aberystwyth, wrth ymyl Llyfrgell Genedlaethol Cymru, llyfrgell hawlfraint o fri rhyngwladol gyda chyfleusterau ymchwil rhagorol.
Ymchwil yn y Ganolfan
Mae ein gwaith cyfredol yn canolbwyntio ar y meysydd arbenigol canlynol:
Mae rhai o’n staff hefyd yn gweithio ar Lên Merched, Llên Llydaw a Llên Teithio.
Rydym yn croesawu ymholiadau am ymchwil ôl-raddedig ac ysgolheigion ar ymweliad o bedwar ban byd.
Rydym yn cydweithio’n agos â Llyfrgell Genedlaethol Cymru drwy’r Gynghrair Strategol rhwng y sefydliadau, ac yn gyd-gyhoeddwyr ar y Bywgraffiadur Cymreig (gol.
Yr Athro Emeritws Dafydd Johnston) a The Repertory of Welsh Manuscripts and Scribes c800-c1800 gan Dr Daniel Huws.
Er mwyn gwybod mwy am ein gwaith cysylltwch â Dr Angharad Elias am ragor o fanylion.
Mae’r Ganolfan yn cynnig cyfleoedd unigryw i fyfyrwyr ôl-raddedig i weithio gydag arbenigwyr mewn amgylchedd deinamig a chefnogol.
Croesawn ymholiadau am bynciau MPhil/PhD mewn unrhyw un o’n meysydd ymchwil.
Gallwch weld manylion am waith myfyrwyr ymchwil presennol a blaenorol yma .
Am ragor o wybodaeth, neu i gael sgwrs anffurfiol am bynciau posibl, cysylltwch â’n Pennaeth Astudiaethau Ôl-raddedig, Dr Elizabeth Edwards .

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/partneriaethau-dylunio-creu-dysgu-i-gymru:
Mae Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant, mewn partneriaeth â Phrifysgol Glasgow, yn cynnal Partneriaethau Cynllunio: Creu Dysgu ar gyfer Cymru.
Mae’r prosiect tair blynedd, seiliedig ar dystiolaeth hwn wedi’i gynllunio i gefnogi ysgolion ac ymarferwyr wrth wireddu’n gydlynol y Cwricwlwm i Gymru (CiG) yn gwricwlwm sy’n cael ei arwain gan ddibenion ac yn canolbwyntio ar broses.Ein nod yw gweithio’n  gydweithredol â’r proffesiwn addysgu i wella dealltwriaeth ac arfer wrth gynllunio’r cwricwlwm, ei symud ymlaen a’i asesu.
Nod y prosiect hwn yw adeiladu gwybodaeth broffesiynol a chapasiti ar draws y system addysg yng Nghymru.
Ein nodau craidd yw:
Mae ‘Partneriaethau Cynllunio’ yn defnyddio model o adeiladu capasiti proffesiynol a strwythurwyd yn ofalus, wedi’i seilio ar ymchwil ac arfer cydweithredol.
Bydd y prosiect yn datblygu dros gylchoedd o dair blynedd, gyda phob cylch yn ymgysylltu â grŵp newydd o ysgolion.
Ymhlith nodweddion allweddol ein dull, mae:
Gall ysgolion sy’n ymuno â ‘Phartneriaethau Cynllunio’ ddisgwyl profiad cefnogol, cydweithredol sy’n eu cyfoethogi’n broffesiynol.
Dyma enghraifft ddangosol o daith:
Dechrau Arni (Cyn-ymgysylltu a Thymor 1)
Ymestyn Eich Effaith (Tymor 2)
Cyfnerthu Dysgu a Rhannu (Tymor 3 a Thu Hwnt)
Mae’r prosiect hwn wedi’i adeiladu ar sail dystiolaeth gref, gan dynnu ar ymchwil cenedlaethol a rhyngwladol ar ddiwygio cwricwlwm a dysgu proffesiynol, gan gynnwys canfyddiadau Camau i’r Dyfodol cynt.
Rydym yn ymrwymo i ddull cyd-adeiladol, gan weithio mewn partneriaeth ag ysgolion, ymarferwyr, Llywodraeth Cymru, Adnodd, a rhanddeiliaid addysgol allweddol eraill.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/microguide-2:
Dywed Sefydliad Iechyd y Byd mai “ymwrthedd gwrthfiotig yw un o’r bygythiadau mwyaf i iechyd byd-eang, diogelwch bwyd, a datblygiad”.
Prif achos ymwrthedd yw gor-ddefnyddio meddyginiaethau gwrthfiotig, naill ai am eu bod ar gael heb bresgripsiwn meddygol neu drwy or-ragnodi.
Ap yw MicroGuide™ i helpu rhagnodwyr ysbytai ddethol y cyffur gwrthficrobaidd priodol, drwy gyflwyno canllawiau meddyginiaeth ysbytai mewn ffordd hawdd ei defnyddio.
Gall MicroGuide™ greu modylau cefnogi penderfyniadau (DSMs) ar gyfer cyflyrau penodol, fel bod rhagnodwyr yn gallu ateb cyfres o gwestiynau amodol ynghylch ffactorau fel difrifoldeb clefyd, alergeddau, peryglon ymwrthedd a statws beichiogrwydd er mwyn cael eu tywys at ddewis o gyffuriau argymelledig neu mewn rhai achosion neges i geisio cyngor arbenigol microbioleg pellach.
Rydym yn cynnal hap-dreial rheoledig o DSMs MicroGuide ar gyfer pum haint cyffredin (UTI, CAP, HAP, haint y croen ac adeiledd y croen a haint intra-abdomenol) i asesu’r effaith ar batrymau rhagnodi ar lefel ysbyty cyfansymiol.
Nid ydym yn casglu data ar lefel cleifion na chlinigwyr.
Mae gan yr astudiaeth adolygiad moeseg GIG ffafriol, cymeradwyaeth yr Awdurdod Ymchwil Iechyd ac mae wedi’i chynnwys ar y portffolio NIHR.
Ariennir yr astudiaeth gan Merck Sharp and Dohme (MSD) ond nid yw’n gysylltiedig ag unrhyw rai o’u cynhyrchion  fferyllol.
Rydym yn chwilio am ragor o Ymddiriedolaethau GIG i gymryd rhan yn yr astudiaeth.
Yn ystod cyfnod yr astudiaeth, bydd cymorth rhad ac am ddim ar gael gan dîm yr astudiaeth er mwyn adeiladu DSMs syml ond cynhwysfawr i gymryd lle canllawiau naratif traddodiadol.
Os hoffech fynegi diddordeb neu os oes gennych unrhyw ymholiadau pellach, cysylltwch â’n tîm ymchwil mewn e-bost .
Mae’r cynnwys hwn yn deillio o ffynhonnell allanol , ac felly nid oes gan y Brifysgol unrhyw reolaeth dros yr iaith y cyhoeddir y dogfennau hyn ynddi.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cyn-fyfyrwyr:
Croeso i holl raddedigion PCYDDS a’n sefydliadau rhagflaenol.
Rydym ni mor falch o’r gymuned fyd-eang ysbrydoledig hon sydd wedi derbyn graddedigion ers y bedwaredd ganrif ar bymtheg.
Rydym ni am rannu eich straeon, dathlu eich llwyddiannau, a chadw mewn cysylltiad â chi.
Un o’r ffyrdd gorau o gadw mewn cysylltiad yw drwy ddarllen y cyfathrebiadau y byddwn ni’n eu hanfon atoch.
Cyn belled â bod gennym ni eich gwybodaeth ddiweddaraf, byddwn ni’n cadw mewn cysylltiad gyda newyddion, diweddariadau a gwahoddiadau trwy e-gylchlythyrau.
Gallwch chi hefyd gael y wybodaeth ddiweddaraf am yr hyn sy’n digwydd yma trwy ein dilyn ar y cyfryngau cymdeithasol a’n hystafell newyddion .
O bryd i’w gilydd, efallai y byddwn ni’n gofyn i chi gyfrannu at ein gweithgareddau mewn amrywiol ffyrdd fel darparu astudiaethau achos neu ddarlithoedd gwadd.
Os hoffech chi gyfrannu, cysylltwch â ni.
Fel graddedig, rydych chi'n dal i fod yn rhan o'n cymuned - ac mae hynny'n dod â rhai manteision gwych.
Beth bynnag yw eich camau nesaf, rydyn ni dal yma i'ch cefnogi.
Rydym yma i’ch cefnogi a darparu gwasanaeth ar eich cyfer ymhell ar ôl i chi raddio.
Beth am fanteisio ar y buddion niferus sydd ar gael i chi fel cyn-fyfyrwyr.
Mae croeso cynnes yn aros i chi bob amser yn ôl ar y campws lle gwnaethoch astudio.
Boed yn ddigwyddiadau hyfforddi neu rwydweithio, ffeiriau gyrfaoedd, neu aduniadau, rydym wrth ein bodd yn gweld cyn-fyfyrwyr a staff yn dal i fyny.
Mae'r arolwg Hynt Graddedigion yn arolwg cenedlaethol sy'n casglu gwybodaeth am weithgareddau a safbwyntiau graddedigion 15 mis ar ôl iddynt orffen eu hastudiaethau.
Efallai y byddech yn disgrifio eich amser yma fel rhai o flynyddoedd gorau eich bywyd, felly beth am wneud hynny'n realiti i eraill drwy roi rhywbeth yn ôl i'r Brifysgol.
Mae cymdeithasau fel Cymdeithas Llambed yn bodoli i gefnogi gweithgareddau cyn-fyfyrwyr y Brifysgol gyda rhai grwpiau neu gampysau.
Perthyn yw’r cylchgrawn blynyddol ar gyfer cyn-fyfyrwyr PCYDDS a’i sefydliadau rhagflaenol.
Yn y cylchgrawn hwn fe ddewch o hyd i’r newyddion a datblygiadau diweddaraf yn y flwyddyn ddiwethaf, gan gynnwys newyddion ar waith ymchwil, ein campysau, a’n graddedigion.
Lawrlwythwch gopi digidol neu archebwch gopi am ddim trwy’r post.
Mae Perthyn 2025 bron yma!
Cofrestrwch isod i fynnu eich copi.
Heddiw, Prifysgol Cymru y Drindod Dewi Sant yw ein henw ond mae llawer iawn o hanes i’r sefydliad hwn, a gwnaiff y tîm cysylltiadau â chyn-fyfyrwyr wastad anelu at anrhydeddu hyn drwy ddathlu datblygiadau’r gorffennol a’r dyfodol.
Dysgwch fwy am ein sefydliadau rhagflaenol ar ein tudalen Hanes a Llinell Amser.
Mae ein tîm Casgliadau Arbennig ac Archifau hefyd yn coffáu’r hanes helaeth hwn drwy arddangosfeydd corfforol ac ar-lein, ac mae archifau rhai o’n colegau rhagflaenol yn cael eu cadw gan y tîm ar gampws Llambed.
Cysylltwch â nhw â’ch ymholiadau neu os hoffech chi ymweld a’r archifiau.
Oes angen i chi gael copi o’ch trawsysgrifiad, llythyr cadarnhau eich dyfarniad, neu gael tystysgrif newydd?
Cysylltwch â’r Gofrestrfa .
Nodwch y gallai gymryd hyd at wyth wythnos i chi dderbyn eich tystysgrif.
Os na chynhyrchwyd y Dystysgrif/Diploma a roddwyd i chi gan y Brifysgol hon (neu’r colegau a’i rhagflaenodd), bydd angen i chi gysylltu â’r Bwrdd Arholi a gyhoeddodd y dystysgrif yn y lle cyntaf (BTEC, Edexcel, PC, UWE, City & Guilds, CBAC ayyb) am un arall.
Dim ond copïau o dystysgrifau a gyhoeddwyd gan y Brifysgol hon (neu’r colegau a’i rhagflaenodd) y gallwn eu rhoi.​ Os ydych yn chwilio am gadarnhad eich bod wedi derbyn tystysgrif neu ddiploma, gweler y manylion i wneud cais am Drawsgrifiad, sydd hefyd yn berthnasol i geisiadau am Gadarnhau Dyfarniadau neu Bresenoldeb.​ Sylwch na all unrhyw sefydliad ddarparu unrhyw dystysgrif HND/HNC/OND/ONC a gyhoeddwyd cyn creu BEC a TEC (BTEC yn ddiweddarach), gan nad yw’r Cyrff Dyfarnu a gyhoeddodd y tystysgrifau hynny’n bodoli mwyach.
Os gwnaethoch fynychu a derbyn un o’r cymwysterau hyn cyn 1980, dylech wneud cais am lythyr cadarnhau, nid tystysgrif arall.
Dim ond mewn amgylchiadau penodol y bydd Prifysgol Cymru yn cyhoeddi tystysgrifau newydd.
Gellir cael manylion am yr amgylchiadau hynny a ffurflen gais ar wefan Prifysgol Cymru
Gellir cael tystysgrifau newydd oddi wrth Pearson
Gellir cael tystysgrifau newydd oddi wrth CBAC
Gellir cael tystysgrifau newydd oddi wrth City and Guilds
Dim ond mewn amgylchiadau eithriadol y bydd UWE yn cyhoeddi tystysgrifau newydd.
Y Cyngor Dyfarniadau Academaidd Cenedlaethol [CNAA] oedd y corff dyfarnu graddau unigol mwyaf yn y Deyrnas Unedig nes iddo gael ei ddiddymu gan Ddeddf Addysg Bellach ac Uwch 1992 y DU.
Derbyniodd Gwasanaethau Dilysu’r Brifysgol Agored (OUVS) y cyfrifoldeb am ofalu am rai o gofnodion penodol CNAA a’u cynnal ac am ddarparu mynediad priodol iddynt.
Er nad yw’n bosibl i OUVS, nac unrhyw gorff arall, ddarparu tystysgrifau na chyhoeddi copïau dyblyg o dystysgrifau neu gopïau newydd o dystysgrifau yn ymwneud â dyfarniadau CNAA, mae’n cynnig dogfen ddilysu Profforma mewn fformat tebyg i dystysgrif dyfarnu.
Gwybodaeth bellach .
Dim ond o dan yr amgylchiadau a nodir isod y byddwn yn rhoi tystysgrifau newydd.
Nid yw colli tystysgrif dros dro yn cael ei ystyried yn sail ddigonol ar gyfer cael copi newydd.
(DS: Os ydych chi’n chwilio am dystysgrif newydd, edrychwch ar y canllawiau ar gyfer ‘Copi Newydd o Dystysgrif/Diplomâu’)
Mae myfyrwyr yn cael trawsgrifiad academaidd/Atodiad Diploma fel mater o drefn ar ddiwedd eu hastudiaethau ym Mhrifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant.
Bydd un copi yn cael ei roi yn rhad ac am ddim i bob myfyriwr pan fyddan nhw wedi cwblhau eu hastudiaethau.
Fodd bynnag, codir ffi am gopïau ychwanegol neu gopïau newydd.
Bydd angen i chi gwblhau’r Ffurflen Gais am Drawsgrifiad/Cadarnhau Dyfarniad/Presenoldeb, sy’n cynnwys manylion am yr holl ffioedd a’r opsiynau o ran sut i dalu amdanynt.
Bydd hefyd yn gofyn i chi ddarparu’r wybodaeth sydd ei hangen er mwyn i ni fedru rhoi’r dogfennau i chi.
Fodd bynnag, cyn i chi lenwi’r ffurflen, darllenwch y nodiadau isod.
Cais am Gopi o Drawsgrifiad Terfynol/ Cadarnhau Dyfarniad/ Presenoldeb

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cyn-fyfyrwyr/graddedigion-newydd:
Dychmygwch hyn: rydych wedi cwblhau eich astudiaethau, ac mae diwrnod graddio ar y gorwel – neu efallai ei fod eisoes wedi dod a mynd.
Felly, beth nawr?
Nawr rydych yn dechrau ar bennod newydd yn eich taith gyda PCYDDS.
Rydych chi’n dal i fod yn rhan o’n cymuned ar ôl i chi raddio, ac mae hynny’n dod â rhai manteision gwych!
Beth bynnag yw eich camau nesaf, rydyn ni dal yma i’ch cefnogi.
Y rhestr lawn o fanteision sydd ar gael i chi fel graddedig newydd a thu − hwnt y ffordd yma:
Hyd yn oed ar ôl graddio, roedd cael mynediad parhaus i’r gwasanaeth gyrfaoedd yn gwneud i mi deimlo’n fy mod yn cael fy nghefnogi a’m cofio.
Wrth i mi ehangu fy ngyrfa, mae eu cyngor wedi fy helpu i gynnal fy ffocws, i fod yn hyderus ac i gadw mewn cysylltiad â chyfleoedd gwerthfawr.
Un o raddedigion MA Arweinyddiaeth
Pymtheg mis ar ôl cwblhau’ch cwrs, cewch eich gwahodd i gymryd rhan yn yr arolwg Hynt Graddedigion.
Mae’n gofyn beth rydych chi’n ei wneud nawr – gweithio, teithio, neu astudio – a sut helpodd eich cwrs chi.
Mae eich mewnbwn yn ein helpu i wella ein cyrsiau a’n gwasanaethau, yn cefnogi myfyrwyr y dyfodol, ac yn dangos effaith gradd PCYDDS.
Cysylltir â chi dros e-bost, ffôn neu neges destun, felly gwnewch yn siŵr eich bod yn cadw eich manylion cyswllt yn gyfredol drwy MyTSD neu thrwy ein ffurflen Diweddaru Eich Manylion .
Bydd eich tystysgrif - sef prawf swyddogol eich gradd - yn cael ei phostio tua wyth wythnos o’r Bwrdd Dyfarnu.
Byddwch hefyd yn derbyn copi o’ch trawsgrifiad terfynol - cofnod llawn o’ch astudiaeth academaidd gan gynnwys canlyniadau modiwlau.
P’un a ydych chi’n dewis eu fframio, neu eu storio yn rhywle diogel, maen nhw’n ddogfennau pwysig y gallai fod eu hangen yn y dyfodol.
Os bydd angen copïau newydd arnoch chi nes ymlaen, gallwch chi eu harchebu am ffi.
Rydyn yma i’ch cefnogi, nid yn unig fel graddedigion newydd - rydych chi’n rhan o’n cymuned o gyn-fyfyrwyr am oes.
Fe gewch chi e-bost croeso â phopeth sydd ei angen arnoch chi i gadw mewn cysylltiad, yn ogystal â chylchlythyrau digidol parhaus - cyhyd ag yr hoffech chi eu derbyn - a mynediad i’n cylchgrawn cyn-fyfyrwyr blynyddol, sy’n llawn straeon, digwyddiadau, a ffyrdd o gymryd rhan.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cyn-fyfyrwyr/manteision-i-gyn-fyfyrwyr:
Rydym ni yma i’ch cefnogi a darparu gwasanaethau ar eich cyfer ymhell ar ôl i chi raddio.
Beth am fanteisio ar y buddion niferus sydd ar gael i chi fel cyn-fyfyrwyr?
Rydym ni’n parhau i weithio ar y cynigion hyn, felly gwnewch yn siŵr eich bod wedi cofrestru ar gyfer ein e-gylchlythyrau fel eich bod yn derbyn ein gwybodaeth ddiweddaraf.
Ydych chi eisiau astudio ymhellach ar ôl cwblhau eich gradd israddedig er mwyn adeiladu ar eich gwybodaeth a’ch arbenigedd?
I’ch cynorthwyo i fynd ymlaen i ddilyn cwrs Ôl-raddedig yn PCYDDS, efallai y bydd disgownt ffioedd dysgu o hyd at £2,500 yn berthnasol trwy’r Disgownt Rhaglenni Ôl-raddedig a Addysgir i Gyn-fyfyrwyr.
Pwy sy’n gymwys?
Gweler y meini prawf llawn ar dudalen Disgownt Rhaglenni Ôl-raddedig a Addysgir i Gyn-fyfyrwyr
P’un a ydych yn chwilio am gyfleoedd i raddedigion neu wybodaeth am y farchnad swyddi, cewch eich cefnogi mewn nifer o ffyrdd drwy G ymorth Gyrfaoedd am hyd at ddwy flynedd.
Manteisiwch ar MyCareer sef platfform ar-lein am ddim sy’n rhoi mynediad i chi at fwrdd swyddi byw, cynllunydd gyrfa, gwiriwr CV awtomataidd, profiad ffug gyfweliad rhithwir, a llawer mwy.
Yn syml, newidiwch i gyfrif ‘Alumni’ ar ôl i chi raddio.
Gall ein Cynghorwyr Gyrfaoedd hefyd gynnig help llaw gydag archwilio opsiynau gyrfa a chwilio am gyfleoedd, ac os ydych wedi cofrestru ar gyfer ein e-gylchlythyrau, cewch eich gwahodd i Ffeiriau Gyrfaoedd a drefnir lle gallwch rwydweithio a dod o hyd i gyfleoedd drwy ystod o gyflogwyr.
Pob cyn-fyfyriwr hyd at ddwy flynedd ar ôl gorffen astudio
Os ydych chi’n berchennog busnes neu’n weithiwr llawrydd, neu hyd yn oed â syniad rydych chi am ei ddatblygu, fel cyn-fyfyrwyr, gallwch gael mynediad at bob math o gefnogaeth i’ch helpu chi i dyfu eich busnes presennol neu ddatblygu eich syniadau newydd.
Gall ein Tîm Menter cyfeillgar a phrofiadol gynnig arweiniad un-i-un yn ogystal â’ch gwahodd i fynychu cwrs Dechrau Busnes a Gweithwyr Llawrydd am ddim sy’n ymdrin â hanfodion rhedeg busnes - o farchnata, cyllid a strwythurau cyfreithiol a threthi.
Efallai y byddwch hefyd yn gymwys i wneud cais am eu Grant Entrepreneuriaeth i Fusnesau Newydd o hyd at £500 i helpu i ariannu eich menter fusnes newydd.
Mae cymorth ar gael i raddedigion am hyd at ddwy flynedd, gyda rhai gwasanaethau ar gael y tu hwnt i hynny lle bo hynny’n bosibl.
Gall cyn-fyfyrwyr ddefnyddio detholiad o’n hadnoddau ar-lein gan ddefnyddio cynllun cerdded i mewn sydd ar gael o gyfrifiaduron dynodedig ar ein campysau yng Nghaerfyrddin ac Abertawe
Mae croeso i chi ddefnyddio ein llyfrgelloedd at ddibenion cyfeiriol, a gallwch chwilio ein catalog i ddarganfod adnoddau sydd ar gael yn y lleoliadau amrywiol.
Os hoffech fenthyg eitemau ffisegol, gallwch ymuno â’r llyfrgell fel Benthyciwr Allanol drwy Gynllun Pasbort Llyfrgelloedd Ynghyd neu Mynediad SCONUL - bydd angen i chi wirio os ydych yn gymwys.
Os ydych wedi bod yn defnyddio RefWorks fel myfyriwr, gallwch newid i gyfrif alumni cyn graddio a chysylltu hwn â chyfeiriad e-bost personol er mwyn parhau i’w ddefnyddio.
Mae gofod ein llyfrgelloedd hefyd ar gael ar gyfer astudio neu ddarllen, ac os ydych yn ymweld, byddwch yn gallu cysylltu â’n Wi-Fi i Westeion yn rhad ac am ddim.
Cyn-fyfyrwyr y DU ond mae mynediad corfforol dim ond ar gael yng Nghaerfyrddin ac Abertawe
Ydych chi’n chwilio am le hyblyg gyda desgiau poeth yn Abertawe?
Rydym yn cynnig 6 mis am ddim yn y Matrics Arloesi ar ein campws SA1 Glannau Abertawe i gyn-fyfyrwyr sydd wedi graddio o fewn y ddwy flynedd diwethaf.
Gallwch fwynhau amryw o fuddion, gan gynnwys:
I hawlio eich chwe mis am ddim, cysylltwch â ni ar: im@pcydds.ac.uk
Beth am briodi ar eich campws prifysgol?
Efallai mai dyma ble y gwnaethoch chi a’ch partner gyfarfod a syrthio mewn cariad?
Mae cyn-fyfyrwyr yn gymwys i gael gostyngiad o 10% ar briodasau ar gampws Caerfyrddin neu Llambed.
Bydd cydlynydd priodas hefyd yn eich tywys drwy’r manylion bob cam o’r ffordd.
Rhowch gipolwg ar y lleoliadau ac archebwch eich ymweliad ar wefan Lleoliad Cymru.
Ydych chi’n ymweld â’r ardal ac yn chwilio am rywle i aros?
Beth am aros ar y campws.
Gall cyn-fyfyrwyr dderbyn gostyngiad o 20% ar archebion gwely a brecwast ar gampysau Llambed a Chaerfyrddin.
Archebwch eich arhosiad drwy ein tîm lletygarwch ar wefan Lleoliad Cymru.
Ydych yn teithio i Abertawe?
Rydym wedi partneru â Village Hotel Abertawe i gynnig cyfradd arbennig i’n cyn-fyfyrwyr ar wely a brecwast.
Os hoffech dderbyn y cynnig hwn, cysylltwch â alumni@uwtsd.ac.uk .
Os ydych chi’n digwydd bod yn agos at gampysau Llambed, Caerfyrddin neu Abertawe ac yn chwilio am damaid cyflym i’w fwyta, manteisiwch ar ostyngiad o 10% yn ein caffis.
Cwblhewch ein ffurflen i dderbyn eich taleb dros e-bost.
Am restr o allfeydd arlwyo’r Brifysgol, ymwelwch â wefan Lleoliad Cymru.
Os ydych chi’n byw yn lleol neu yn yr ardal ac eisiau gweithio mas, mae ein Canolfannau Chwaraeon yng Nghaerfyrddin a Llambed yn cynnig bargeinion aelodaeth ardderchog i gyn-fyfyrwyr.
Aelodaeth Flynyddol: £145
Misol (Debyd Uniongyrchol): £20
Talu wrth fynd: £4
Ymwelch neu Cysylltwch â’n Canolfannau Chwaraeon a chymrwch olwg ar ein Cyfleusterau Chwaraeon .
Rydym wedi taro bargen â LC Abertawe sy’n cynnig bargeinion aelodaeth gwych i gyn-fyfyrwyr y Drindod Dewi Sant.
Aelodaeth flynyddol:  £270 (sy’n gyfystyr â £22.50 y mis)
Aelodaeth 3 mis:  £70 (sy’n gyfystyr â dim ond £23 y mis)
Misol (Debyd Uniongyrchol): £30
Hefyd bydd aelodau’n cael budd o fynediad i gyfleusterau Freedom Leisure Abertawe i gyd, yn cynnwys:
Hyfforddi yn unrhyw un o’u 6 campfa’n cynnwys Llandeilo Ferwallt, Cefn Hen-goed, LC Abertawe, Treforys, Pen-lan a Phen-yr-heol
4 pwll â sesiynau nofio rhad ac am ddim
Timau ffitrwydd mewnol sydd wrth law i helpu gyda’ch cynnydd drwy raglenni ffitrwydd personol heb unrhyw gostau ychwanegol
3 awr o barcio RHAD AC AM DDIM yn Arena Abertawe
Mwy na 300 o ddosbarthiadau ffitrwydd yr wythnos ar draws pob un o’n canolfannau – mae modd eu bwcio i gyd ar-lein
Gostyngiad 20%  yn Costa Coffee yn LC Abertawe, Treforys, Pen-lan, Pen-yr-heol
Gostyngiad 10% oddi ar driniaethau prydferthwch a chyfannol yn Sba LC.
Gostyngiad 10% oddi ar y lleoliadau canlynol: grŵp Secret Hospitality (The Lighthouse, Verdi’s, the Green Room) The Swigg, a’r Pump House
Gostyngiad 20% yn Plantasia drwy ddangos eich cerdyn LC
Rhowch wybod iddynt eich bod yn gyn-fyfyrwyr y Drindod Dewi Sant wrth gofrestru am aelodaeth.
Mae’n debyg y bydd angen cadarnhau hyn gyda’r tîm cyn-fyfyrwyr, wedyn byddwch yn barod i fynd!
Pwy all gael mynediad i’r gostyngiadau hyn?
Pob cyn-fyfyriwr.
Ydych chi am goffáu eich amser yn y Drindod Dewi Sant drwy nwyddau a phethau cofiadwy?
Yn Siop PCYDDS, mae cyn-fyfyrwyr yn cael budd o ostyngiad o 10%  gan ddefnyddio cod ALUMNI10 a disgownt wrth brynu hwdi a het bobl gyda’i gilydd gan ddefnyddio cod TWOFOR30.
Yn ogystal â nwyddau, fe welwch ddeunydd ysgrifennu a chyflenwadau celf am brisiau gwych yma.
Cyn belled â’ch bod wedi cofrestru ar gyfer e-gylchlythyrau ac wedi diweddaru eich manylion , byddwn ni’n rhoi gwybod i chi am unrhyw ddigwyddiadau rydym ni wedi’u cynllunio, yn cynnwys aduniadau, digwyddiadau rhwydweithio neu hyfforddi proffesiynol, ffeiriau gyrfaoedd a mwy.
Mae bob amser croeso cynnes i chi ddod yn ôl i ymweld â’r campws lle roeddech chi’n astudio.
Mae gennym ni becynnau aduniad gwych ar gyfer campysau Caerfyrddin a Llambed a gallwn gynnig cymorth os hoffech chi drefnu aduniad i chi a’ch cyd-fyfyrwyr.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cyn-fyfyrwyr/digwyddiadau-ac-aduniadau:
Cyn belled â’ch bod wedi cofrestru ar gyfer e-gylchlythyrau ac wedi diweddaru eich manylion , byddwn ni’n rhoi gwybod i chi am unrhyw ddigwyddiadau rydym wedi’u cynllunio, yn cynnwys aduniadau, digwyddiadau rhwydweithio neu hyfforddi proffesiynol, ffeiriau gyrfaoedd a mwy.
Mae croeso cynnes yn eich disgwyl chi bob amser ar y campws lle roeddech chi’n astudio.
Dewch i gwrdd â’ch cyd-fyfyrwyr yn ein haduniadau a chael budd o ymuno â’n digwyddiadau amrywiol.
Methu gweld digwyddiad i chi?
Mae cyfleoedd newydd ar y gorwel -  efallai bydd digwyddiad y byddech chi wrth eich bodd yn dod iddo neu gymryd rhan ynddo.
Peidiwch â cholli cyfle.
Cysylltwch er mwyn i ni allu rhoi’r wybodaeth ddiweddaraf i chi.
Sgyrsiau Cyflogwyr: Beth Thomas, Cyfarwyddwr Gweithrediadau Cyfryngau Cymdeithasol gyda Frankly
Sgyrsiau Cyflogwyr: Rhys Bebb, Cynghrair Sgrin Cymru (SAW)
Aduniad yw’r ffordd berffaith o ailgysylltu a hel atgofion â chyn-fyfyrwyr eich dosbarth gynt, a hyd yn oed wneud cysylltiadau newydd.
Yn ogystal â chynnal aduniadau ar gampysau, rydym ni hefyd yn falch o’ch cefnogi os byddwch chi eisiau trefnu eich aduniad eich hun.
Gall y Brifysgol ddarparu cymorth gan estyn allan at gyn-fyfyrwyr eich cyfnod drwy e-byst a hyrwyddo ar y cyfryngau cymdeithasol, ac efallai gallem ni gynnig ffotograffiaeth broffesiynol ar gyfer y digwyddiad.
Mae gennym ni becynnau aduniad gwych ar gampysau Caerfyrddin a Llambed sy’n cynnwys lleoliad, bwyd a llety.
Os hoffech chi gael cymorth i drefnu eich digwyddiad ac os ydych chi eisiau derbyn pecyn aduniad, cysylltwch ag alumni@uwtsd.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cyn-fyfyrwyr/arolwg-hynt-graddedigion:
Mae’r arolwg Hynt Graddedigion yn arolwg cenedlaethol sy’n casglu gwybodaeth am weithgareddau a safbwyntiau graddedigion 15 mis ar ôl iddynt orffen eu hastudiaethau.
Byddwn ni eisiau gwybod beth rydych chi’n ei wneud fel y gallwn ddathlu eich cyflawniadau a chael darlun clir o’r llwybrau gyrfa amrywiol y mae eich rhaglenni gradd wedi arwain atynt.
Byddwn ni’n defnyddio’r wybodaeth hon i wella profiadau myfyrwyr.
Gobeithio y bydd eich holl gwestiynau yn cael eu hateb yn y wybodaeth isod, ond gallwch hefyd fynd at wefan Hynt Graddedigion HESA .
Peidiwch ag anghofio, i gael dweud eich dweud, bydd angen eich cyfeiriad e-bost a’ch rhif cyswllt diweddaraf arnom.
Gallwch eu diweddaru isod.
Play video: About the Graduate Outcomes survey (Cymraeg)
Gofynnir i’r holl raddedigion sydd wedi cwblhau cyrsiau perthnasol gymryd rhan yn yr arolwg Hynt Graddedigion.
Dim ond tua 10 munud mae’n ei gymryd i’w gwblhau.
Mae’n ceisio deall a ydych chi mewn cyflogaeth, wedi parhau gydag astudiaeth bellach neu’n gwneud rhywbeth arall, ac mae’n ystyried i ba raddau y mae eich cymhwyster wedi chwarae rhan.
Gofynnir i chi wneud yr arolwg hyd yn oed os ydych chi wedi parhau â’ch astudiaethau gyda ni, a hyd yn oed os gwnaethoch chi eich cwrs fel rhan o’ch cyflogaeth, neu fel gofyniad ar gyfer eich cyflogaeth bresennol.
Bydd eich ymateb yn ddienw ond bydd yn helpu’r Drindod Dewi Sant i farchnata a gwerthuso ein cyrsiau a bydd yn rhoi cipolwg hefyd i fyfyrwyr presennol ac yn y dyfodol ar gyrchfannau a datblygiad gyrfa.
Mae’r arolwg hefyd o arwyddocâd cenedlaethol.
Mae’n caniatáu i lunwyr polisi, elusennau, newyddiadurwyr, ymchwilwyr ac eraill ddeall y sector addysg uwch a chyflwr y farchnad lafur i raddedigion.
Mae’r arolwg yn cael ei gynnal gan yr Asiantaeth Ystadegau Addysg Uwch (HESA) felly byddant yn cysylltu â chi ar ran y Brifysgol.
Byddwch yn derbyn e-bost gan UniversityOfWalesTrinitySaintDavid@graduateoutcomes.ac.uk yn eich gwahodd i gwblhau’r arolwg ar-lein.
Efallai y byddwch hefyd yn derbyn negeseuon testun gan ‘GradOutcome’ a galwadau gan IFF Research ar ran y Brifysgol fel y gallwch gwblhau’r arolwg dros y ffôn.
Os nad oes modd cysylltu â chi, efallai y byddwn yn gofyn i drydydd parti fel aelod o’r teulu am y wybodaeth hon.
Peidiwch ag anghofio, er mwyn cysylltu â chi, y byddwn angen eich gwybodaeth ddiweddaraf.
Os nad ydych chi’n meddwl ei bod gennym ni, gallwch chi ddiweddaru’ch manylion .
Os ydych chi’n fyfyriwr cyfredol, gallwch ddiweddaru’ch manylion gan ddefnyddio MyTSD.
Byddwch yn cael yr arolwg tua 15 mis ar ôl i chi gwblhau eich astudiaethau.
Bydd graddedigion yn cael eu grwpio ar draws y flwyddyn yn bedair carfan yn seiliedig ar ddyddiad gorffen eich cwrs.
Yn dibynnu ar ba bryd y daeth eich cwrs i ben, byddwch yn derbyn eich gwahoddiad arolwg tua 15 mis yn ddiweddarach.
Er enghraifft, os daeth eich cwrs i ben ym mis Mai i fis Gorffennaf 2023, byddwch yn derbyn gwahoddiad yr arolwg ym mis Medi 2024.
Mae’r tabl isod yn dangos pryd y byddwch yn cael yr arolwg:

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cyn-fyfyrwyr/graddio:
Maent yn rhoi’r cyfle i fyfyrwyr ddathlu eu llwyddiannau gyda theulu a ffrindiau.
Dydd Mawrth, 25 Tachwedd 2025 Amser y seremoni i’w gadarnhau Neuadd y Brangwyn, Abertawe
Dydd Mawrth, 22 Gorffennaf 2025 11.30am and 2.30pm Barbican, Llundain
Dydd Mawrth, 15fed Gorffennaf 2025 – 2.30pm Dydd Mercher, 16eg Gorffennaf 2025 – 10.30am a 2.30pm Neuadd y Brangwyn, Abertawe
Dydd Gwener, 11eg Gorffennaf 2025 - 2pm Campws Llambed
Dydd Llun, 7fed Gorffennaf 2025 - 6pm Dydd Mawrth, 8fed Gorffennaf 2025 – 10am a 2pm Theatr Halliwell, Campws Caerfyrddin
Dydd Iau, 26ain Mehefin 2025 – 11am a 4pm Eastside Rooms, Birmingham
E-bostiwch marchnata@ydds.ac.uk ar unwaith.
Bydd y tîm yn gwirio eich cofnod ac yn ailanfon y gwahoddiad os yn briodol.
Ewch i MyTSD a theipio eich rhif myfyriwr a’ch cyfrinair.
Ewch i ‘Graddio Myfyrwyr’ ar y dudalen Gartref a dilyn y cyfarwyddiadau.
Bydd angen i chi gyrraedd oddeutu ddwy awr cyn i’r seremoni ddechrau er mwyn rhoi amser i chi gasglu eich gwisg, rhif sedd a thocynnau gwestai.
Fe fyddwn yn anfon gwybodaeth bellach ynghyd ag amserlen o ddigwyddiadau atoch wythnos cyn y seremoni.
Bydd angen i chi fod yn eich sedd 45 munud cyn amser dechrau’r seremoni ac yn ystod yr amser hwn byddwch yn eistedd yn y sedd a ddyrannwyd i chi a bydd y Prif Dywysydd yn eich briffio.
Os oes gennych chi neu’ch gwesteion anabledd / gofynion mynediad penodol y mae angen i ni wybod amdanynt, rhowch.
manylion yn y blwch ‘Manylion pellach’ ar MyTSD a byddwn yn ymdrechu i ddiwallu eich anghenion.
Hefyd rhowch wybod i’r staff ar y diwrnod fel y gellir cynnig cymorth.
Gall gwesteion eistedd unrhyw le yn y lleoliad ar wahân i’r seddi neilltuedig a fydd wedi’u nodi’n glir.
Ceir mynediad i’r lleoliad trwy docyn yn unig a rhaid rhoi tocynnau i’r Stiwardiaid wrth y drysau.
Bydd y drysau’n agor i westeion tua awr cyn dechrau’r seremoni.
Rhaid i raddedigion wisgo gwisg academaidd trwy gydol eu seremoni.
Mae pawb sy’n mynychu fel arfer yn gwisgo gwisg gymharol ffurfiol.
Ar ddechrau’r seremoni, bydd graddedigion a gwesteion yn sefyll fel y staff academaidd i’r neuadd.
Yn dilyn croeso, bydd yr Is-Ganghellor a/neu uwch swyddogion eraill y Brifysgol yn eich annerch.
Ar ôl darlleniad o’r Cyhoeddiad, cyflwynir graddedigion i’r Is-Ganghellor (neu ei henwebai).
Bydd staff yn eich annog i symud ymlaen yn y drefn yr ydych yn eistedd.
Bydd cyflwynydd yn darllen eich enw ar goedd ac ar yr adeg honno byddwch yn esgyn i’r llwyfan, yn cerdded tuag at yr Is-Ganghellor, yn ysgwyd ei llaw.
Byddwch wedyn yn gadael y llwyfan ac yn dychwelyd yn ôl i’ch sedd.
Yna bydd yr Is-ganghellor yn gofyn i bob myfyriwr sefyll a bydd hi wedyn yn eich llongyfarch yn ffurfiol.
Dylech “doff” mewn ymateb a pharhau i sefyll i dderbyn Cyfarchion y Brifysgol.
Gan edrych ar yr Is-Ganghellor, plygwch eich pen ychydig a naill ai cydiwch ym mhigyn blaen eich cap neu codwch eich cap ychydig.
Mae hyd y seremoni yn dibynnu ar nifer y myfyrwyr sy’n mynychu, ond fel arfer mae rhwng awr a 2 awr o hyd.
Heblaw am eich cyflwyniad mae’n ofynnol i chi a’ch gwesteion aros yn eich sedd trwy gydol y seremoni.
Mae’n RHAID i chi sicrhau eich bod chi wedi talu unrhyw ddyledion academaidd i’r Brifysgol.
Cysylltwch â’r Swyddfa Gyllid ar unwaith i drafod eich opsiynau.
Os oes gennych unrhyw ddyledion academaidd heb eu talu ac os nad ydych wedi gwneud unrhyw drefniadau gyda’r Swyddfa Gyllid i’w clirio, gallech chi gael eich eithrio o’r seremonïau graddio.
Cymuned o’n raddedigion yw’r Rhwydwaith Cyn-fyfyrwyr.
Byddwch yn dod yn aelod yn awtomatig unwaith byddwch wedi gorffen astudio - does dim angen cofrestru.
Byddwch yn derbyn e-bost croeso, felly mae’n bwysig cadw eich manylion cyswllt yn gyfredol ar MyTSD .
Dysgwch fwy am ddod yn Raddedigion Newydd a’r hyn sydd ar gael i chi.
Bydd tystysgrifau’n cael eu postio i raddedigion o fewn tua wyth wythnos i’r Bwrdd Dyfarnu.
Os oes gennych unrhyw ymholiadau ynghylch eich tystysgrif ar ôl yr amser hwn, cysylltwch â’r Gofrestrfa .
Ni roddir tystysgrifau i fyfyrwyr nad ydynt wedi gwneud trefniadau gyda’r Swyddfa Gyllid i glirio dyledion heb eu talu.
O hwdis i deis, tedis a matiau diod, gallwch brynu amrywiaeth o nwyddau Y Drindod Dewi Sant yn y Siop Raddio ar wefan Y Siop neu ymwelwch â’r stondin nwyddau ar Ddiwrnod Graddio.
Beth am fanteisio ar y buddion niferus sydd ar gael i chi fel cyn-fyfyrwyr.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cyn-fyfyrwyr/cefnogir-drindod-dewi-sant:
Efallai y byddech chi’n disgrifio eich amser yma fel rhai o flynyddoedd gorau eich bywyd, felly beth am wneud hynny’n realiti i eraill drwy roi rhywbeth yn ôl i’r Brifysgol.
Rydym ni’n credu’n gryf mai cyn-fyfyrwyr yw ein cefnogwyr a’n llysgenhadon gorau.
Mae eich cyfraniad yn amhrisiadwy wrth ein helpu i ddarparu’r profiadau gorau posibl ar gyfer ein dysgwyr presennol ac yn y dyfodol.
Gallwch chi gefnogi ein myfyrwyr a’n darpar fyfyrwyr mewn nifer o ffyrdd.
Byddem wrth ein bodd yn clywed gennych chi os gallwch gynnig unrhyw gefnogaeth.
Drwy gwblhau’r arolwg Hynt Graddedigion, gall graddedigion newydd ein helpu i roi cipolwg i ddysgwyr y presennol a’r dyfodol ar gyfleoedd a chyrchfannau gyrfa posibl yn seiliedig ar yr hyn y byddwch yn dweud yr ydych yn ei wneud 15 mis ar ôl i chi orffen eich astudiaethau.
Rhannwch eich gwybodaeth a’ch profiadau trwy fynd yn ôl at eich cwrs neu ddisgyblaeth academaidd i gynnig darlith fel darlithydd gwadd neu weithdy i fyfyrwyr presennol.
Efallai bod gennych stori yr hoffech chi ei rhannu am eich taith ar ôl graddio - mae’r effaith mae’r straeon hyn yn ei chael ar brofiad myfyrwyr yn amhrisiadwy.
Maen nhw’n gallu agor drysau ac ysbrydoli.
Oes gan eich cwmni swydd wag i’w llenwi?
Beth am gefnogi cyn-fyfyrwyr eraill y Drindod Dewi Sant trwy bostio’r cyfleoedd hyn ar ein bwrdd swyddi sydd ar gyfer myfyrwyr a’r rheiny sydd wedi graddio o fewn y tair blynedd diwethaf.
Crëwch gyfrif ‘cyflogwr’ a dilynwch y camau.
Carem i chi gwrdd â’n myfyrwyr a’n cyn-fyfyrwyr presennol wyneb yn wyneb mewn digwyddiadau gyrfaoedd a rhwydweithio ar ein campysau.
Beth am ddod i un o’r rhain i hyrwyddo’ch cwmni a rhannu eich arbenigedd?
Fel y gwyddoch bydd ein myfyrwyr yn elwa ar gymaint o brofiad â phosibl pan fyddant yn gadael y brifysgol.
Os ydych yn berchennog busnes neu mewn sefyllfa o fewn eich cwmni i allu cynnig profiad gwaith neu interniaethau ac yn gallu cynnig profiad sy’n ymwneud ag unrhyw un o’r cyrsiau, byddem wrth ein bodd yn clywed gennych.
Peintiwch ddarlun o fywyd ar ôl graddio ac ysbrydolwch y genhedlaeth nesaf trwy rannu’ch stori drwy newyddion, astudiaeth achos, neu flog y gellir ei ddefnyddio i farchnata a hyrwyddo’r Drindod Dewi Sant a’ch cwrs astudio.
Gall cyfraniad ariannol i’r Drindod Dewi Sant, waeth pa mor fawr neu fach, alluogi myfyrwyr i wneud penderfyniadau sy’n newid bywydau a symud ymlaen yn eu hastudiaethau.
Mae rhoddion yn chwarae rhan hanfodol wrth sicrhau bod ein cenhadaeth o ‘drawsnewid addysg, trawsnewid bywydau’ wedi’i seilio ar ddarparu cyfleusterau, ymchwil, profiadau ar gampws a sianel o dalent o israddedigion i arweinwyr mewn diwydiant, waeth beth fo’u hamgylchiadau ariannol, gan ddarparu mynediad i addysg uwch i bawb.
Gall rhoddion rheolaidd neu unigol fynd tuag at nifer o gronfeydd ac mae croeso i’n rhoddwyr nodi i ble yr hoffent i’w cyfraniadau fynd.
Rydym hefyd yn agored i’ch syniadau felly os hoffech drafod prosiect codi arian, cysylltwch â ni .
Os hoffech chi roi rhodd benodol i’n campws yn Llambed, mae gennym nifer o gronfeydd arian y gallwch gyfrannu atynt.
Mae’r gronfa hon yn cefnogi ystod o brosiectau ehangu mynediad sy’n ceisio rhoi mynediad i addysg uwch i fyfyrwyr o gefndiroedd annhraddodiadol.
Bydd hyn yn cynnwys grwpiau cymorth a gweithdai rhanbarthol er mwyn rhoi llwybr mynediad i fyfyrwyr sy’n astudio yn Llambed.
Mae’r gronfa hon yn cefnogi mentrau sy’n cyfoethogi profiadau myfyrwyr ar y campws ac yn cyfrannu’n sylweddol at fywyd y campws, drwy gynnig cymorth ariannol ar gyfer gwibdeithiau, costau teithiau maes, teithiau ymchwil a rhagor.
Pan fyddwch yn cyfrannu trwy Rodd Cymorth , gallwn hawlio’n ôl gan Gyllid a Thollau EM y dreth cyfradd sylfaenol rydych eisoes wedi’i thalu ar eich rhodd.
Mae hyn yn cynyddu gwerth eich rhodd i ni o 25%, heb unrhyw gost ychwanegol i chi.
Os ydych yn drethdalwr cyfradd uwch, gallwch hefyd hawlio’n ôl y gwahaniaeth rhwng treth cyfradd uwch a chyfradd sylfaenol ar gyfanswm gwerth eich rhodd i’r Brifysgol ar eich ffurflen dreth hunanasesu.
“Rhoddaf i Swyddfa Cyn-fyfyrwyr Llambed, Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant, Stryd y Coleg, Llanbedr Pont Steffan, Ceredigion, SA48 7ED (Rhif Elusen Gofrestredig 1149535) [y swm o £_______].
Fy nymuniad yw cyflwyno’r rhodd er budd y Brifysgol a enwyd, a bod rhwydd hynt gan y Brifysgol ei defnyddio ym mha ffordd bynnag sydd orau ym marn y Brifysgol ar adeg ei derbyn.
Ar ôl cyflwyno’r gymynrodd, bydd derbynneb gan yr Is-Ganghellor neu swyddog awdurdodedig arall yn rhyddhad digonol i’m hysgutorion.”
“Rhoddaf [noder manylion yr eitem(au)] penodol] i Swyddfa Cyn-fyfyrwyr Llambed, Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant, Stryd y Coleg, Llanbedr Pont Steffan, Ceredigion, SA48 7ED (Rhif Elusen Gofrestredig 1149535).
Ar ôl cyflwyno’r gymynrodd, bydd derbynneb gan yr Is-Ganghellor neu swyddog awdurdodedig arall yn rhyddhad digonol i’m hysgutorion.”
“Rhoddaf fy ystâd weddilliol i gyd i Swyddfa Cyn-fyfyrwyr Llambed, Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant, Stryd y Coleg, Llanbedr Pont Steffan, Ceredigion, SA48 7ED (Rhif Elusen Gofrestredig 1149535).
Ar ôl cyflwyno’r gymynrodd, bydd derbynneb gan yr Is-Ganghellor neu swyddog awdurdodedig arall yn rhyddhad digonol i’m hysgutorion.
“Rhoddaf _____%  o weddill fy ystâd [cyn/ar ôl tynnu Treth Etifeddiant, os oes unrhyw swm yn daladwy – argymhellir y dylid cael cyngor cyfreithiol arbenigol ynghylch hyn] i Swyddfa Cyn-fyfyrwyr Llambed, Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant, Stryd y Coleg, Llanbedr Pont Steffan, Ceredigion, SA48 7ED (Rhif Elusen Gofrestredig 1149535).
Mae’r cymalau a awgrymir uchod yn berthnasol lle bo’r rhoddion i’w defnyddio at ddibenion cyffredinol y Brifysgol fel elusen addysgol.
Os dymunir cefnogi nodau elusennol penodol neu adrannau penodol o fewn y Brifysgol yna gellir ystyried y dewisiadau amgen canlynol:-
[I gefnogi myfyrwyr]
“Fy nymuniad yw cyflwyno’r rhodd at ei dibenion cyffredinol fel elusen addysgol [A gofynnaf i’r arian gael ei ddefnyddio ar gyfer cymorth ariannol myfyrwyr fel y bo’n briodol ym marn y Cofrestrydd a’r Clerc neu swyddog perthnasol arall ar y pryd.]   Ar ôl cyflwyno’r gymynrodd, bydd derbynneb gan yr Is-Ganghellor neu swyddog awdurdodedig arall yn rhyddhad digonol i’m hysgutorion.”
[I gyfadran/ysgol/adran benodol]
“Fy nymuniad yw i’r rhodd gael ei defnyddio o fewn y [gyfadran/ysgol neu adran] fel y bo’n briodol ym marn Cofrestrydd a Chlerc y Brifysgol neu swyddog perthnasol arall ar y pryd.
Os bydd y [gyfadran/ysgol/adran] a nodwyd wedi dod i ben neu wedi uno â chyfadran, adran, ysgol neu goleg arall neu wedi newid ei henw cyn fy marwolaeth, yna gofynnaf i’r Brifysgol ddefnyddio’r rhodd hon mewn cyfadran, adran neu ysgol arall o fewn y Brifysgol fel y bo’n briodol ym marn y Cofrestrydd a’r Clerc neu swyddog perthnasol arall yn ôl eu doethineb.
Os bwriedir i leoliad arbennig elwa, er enghraifft Campws Llambed neu Gaerfyrddin, yna dylid defnyddio’r geiriad a awgrymir ar gyfer cyfadran/ysgol/adran benodol ond gan ei addasu fel y bo’n briodol.
Enghraifft bosibl:-
“Rhoddaf y swm o £10,000 i Swyddfa Cyn-fyfyrwyr Llambed, Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant, Stryd y Coleg, Llanbedr Pont Steffan, Ceredigion, SA48 7ED (Rhif Elusen Gofrestredig 1149535).
“Fy nymuniad yw i’r rhodd gael ei defnyddio o fewn Cyfadran y Dyniaethau yn Llambed fel y bo’n briodol ym marn Cofrestrydd a Chlerc y Brifysgol neu swyddog perthnasol arall ar y pryd.
Os bydd Cyfadran y Dyniaethau yn Llambed wedi dod i ben neu wedi uno â chyfadran, adran, ysgol neu goleg arall neu wedi newid ei henw cyn fy marwolaeth, yna gofynnaf i’r Brifysgol ddefnyddio’r rhodd hon mewn cyfadran neu ysgol arall o fewn y Brifysgol fel y bo’n briodol ym marn y Cofrestrydd a’r Clerc  neu swyddog perthnasol arall yn ôl eu doethineb.
Ymwadiad
Mae’r cymalau a awgrymir uchod yn enghreifftiau o gymalau y gellid eu defnyddio mewn Ewyllys i wneud rhoddion i’r Brifysgol ac mae’n bosibl na fyddant yn briodol ym mhob amgylchiad.
Felly, ni ddylid dibynnu ar y cymalau hyn heb geisio cyngor cyfreithiol arbenigol yn gyntaf, yn enwedig o ran goblygiadau Treth Etifeddiaeth.
Ni fydd y Brifysgol yn atebol i unrhyw berson sy’n defnyddio’r cymalau enghreifftiol uchod heb gymryd eu cyngor cyfreithiol eu hunain.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cyn-fyfyrwyr/diweddaru-eich-manylion:
Rydym yn dibynnu ar ein cyn-fyfyrwyr i roi gwybod i ni pan fydd eu manylion wedi newid.
Os hoffech glywed gennym, cyflwynwch eich gwybodaeth ddiweddaraf yn ein ffurflen isod.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/amdanom:
Mae cenhadaeth Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant yn uchelgeisiol.
Ein nod yw trawsnewid addysg, a thrwy hynny drawsnewid bywydau’r unigolion a’r cymunedau rydym yn eu gwasanaethu.
Mae’r Brifysgol yn rhan o Grŵp PCYDDS, cydffederasiwn o nifer o wahanol sefydliadau, gan gynnwys Coleg Sir Gâr a Choleg Ceredigion.
Ym mis Awst 2017, cafodd Prifysgol Cymru a Phrifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant eu hintegreiddio.
Mae Grŵp PCYDDS yn cynnig gwasanaeth di-dor o addysg bellach hyd addysg uwch, a hynny er budd dysgwyr, cyflogwyr a chymunedau.
Mae hanes y Brifysgol yn dechrau yn ôl yn 1822, pan sefydlwyd ein campws yn Llanbedr Pont Steffan.
Dyma fan geni addysg uwch yng Nghymru, a Siarter Frenhinol 1828 y Brifysgol yw’r hynaf o holl sefydliadau Cymru.
Heddiw, mae’r Brifysgol yn sefydliad deinamig, gyda champysau yn Abertawe , Caerfyrddin , Llanbedr Pont Steffan , Caerdydd , Llundain a Birmingham .
Y dysgwr sydd bwysicaf yng Ngrŵp PCYDDS, a mae’n hymroddiad i ddarparu profiad dysgu rhagorol yn sail i’n holl weithgareddau.
Rydym yn credu bod addysg yn newid bywydau, a, thrwy ein gwaith gydag Undeb y Myfyrwyr, rydym wedi ymrwymo i gefnogi dysgwyr i gyflawni eu potensial o fewn amgylcheddau dysgu sy’n groesawgar, yn gynhwysol, yn gefnogol ac yn ddiogel.
Mae ein cwricwlwm wedi’i gynllunio er mwyn sicrhau bod ein myfyrwyr yn cael cyfle i ddatblygu’r nodweddion bydd eu hangen arnynt mewn gweithleoedd modern a thechnolegol.
Ein nod yw datblygu graddedigion ac ymarferwyr myfyriol sydd â’r potensial i wneud gwahaniaeth i gymdeithas.
Un o’n gwerthoedd sylfaenol yw ein hymroddiad i ddatblygu cynaliadwy a’r amgylchedd.
Dyma themâu sydd wedi’u hymgorffori ym mhrofiad y myfyrwyr yma, gan alluogi graddedigion PCYDDS i ddatblygu’r wybodaeth, y sgiliau a’r nodweddion y byddan nhw’u hangen, ble bynnag yr ânt yn y dyfodol.
Mae ein campysau’n ganolfannau economaidd, diwylliannol a chymdeithasol sy’n hwyluso’r gwaith o gyflawni ein cenhadaeth ddinesig.
Rydym wedi esblygu dros y ddwy ganrif ddiwethaf, gan drawsnewid ein cynnig academaidd mewn ymateb i anghenion cymdeithasol ac economaidd y dydd.
Rydym yn gweithio gyda’n cymunedau ar lawr gwlad er mwyn darparu cyfleoedd trawsnewidiol, gan ddatblygu eu gallu a’u gwytnwch a chan greu cyfleoedd i atgyfnerthu eu hymdeimlad o le a’r hyn sy’n eu gwneud yn unigryw.
Rydym yn enwog am ein menter a’n harloesedd, ac am alluogi ein staff a’n myfyrwyr i droi eu syniadau’n gyfleoedd ac yn ddatrysiadau busnes go iawn.
Rydym yn canolbwyntio ar gael effaith ac ar fynd i’r afael â heriau mwyaf cymdeithas, gan weithio mewn partneriaeth â chyflogwyr a chan ddarparu’r sgiliau y mae myfyrwyr a graddedigion eu hangen er mwyn ffynnu.
O ymchwil ac arloesi trosiadol, i sgiliau technegol cymhwysol a menter, rydym yn meithrin gallu ein cymunedau, yn cefnogi cyflogwyr, yn hwyluso creu swyddi, ac yn denu buddsoddiad i’n cymunedau.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/amdanom/cenhadaeth-gweledigaeth:
Ein gweledigaeth yw bod yn Brifysgol i Gymru, gydag ymrwymiad i les a threftadaeth y genedl yn greiddiol i bopeth a wnawn.
Yn ganolog i’n gweledigaeth mae hyrwyddo ac ymgorffori system addysg sector deuol sy’n addysgu dysgwyr o bob oed a chefndir, ac sy’n ysgogi datblygiad economaidd yn ein rhanbarth, ar draws Cymru a thu hwnt.
Addysgu ardderchog wedi ei lywio gan ysgolheictod ac arfer proffesiynol, ac ymchwil cymhwysol sy’n dylanwadu ar wybodaeth a pholisi yng Nghymru a thu hwnt.
Cynwysoldeb , trwy ddileu rhwystrau rhag cymryd rhan a chefnogi pobl o bob cefndir ac amgylchiad i gyflawni eu potensial.
Cyflogadwyedd a chreadigrwydd , trwy gynnig rhaglenni addysgol sy’n datblygu sgiliau entrepreneuraidd a chreadigol, gan alluogi dysgwyr i gael y cyfleoedd gorau i gael gwaith a chyfrannu at ffyniant eu cymunedau.
Cydweithio trwy berthnasau strategol, gan weithio gydag eraill i ddarparu cyfleoedd addysgol a masnachol ac i sicrhau bod Cymru wedi’i chysylltu â’r byd ehangach.
Datblygu cynaliadwy , trwy ymddwyn mewn ffordd sy’n sicrhau bod anghenion y presennol yn cael eu diwallu heb beryglu gallu cenedlaethau’r dyfodol i ddiwallu eu hanghenion hwythau, a thrwy ymgorffori’r egwyddor hon yn systematig yn ein hymagwedd at addysgu a dysgu.
Cysyniad dinasyddiaeth fyd-eang , trwy ddatblygu gweithgareddau a chyfleoedd rhyngwladol i’n dysgwyr, ein staff a’n partneriaid.
Cymru a’i chymeriad arbennig , trwy ymgorffori nodau Deddf Llesiant Cenedlaethau’r Dyfodol (Cymru) yn ein holl weithgareddau, a thrwy ddathlu iaith, treftadaeth a diwylliant bywiog Cymru.
Rydym yn Brifysgol sy’n:
Yn PCYDDS rydym yn cydnabod ac yn dathlu’r hyn y mae personél sy’n gwasanaethu yn Lluoedd Arfog Ei Fawrhydi yn ei wneud dros bob un ohonom yn y gymuned ehangach.
Noddfa

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/amdanom/dyddiadau-tymhoraur-brifysgol-20252026:
Dyma batrwm safonol dyddiadau tymor ar gyfer myfyrwyr llawn amser traddodiadol.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/amdanom/newyddion:
Os hoffech gysylltu ag adran gyfathrebu a chysylltiadau cyhoeddus y brifysgol, gallwch e-bostio ywasg@pcydds.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/amdanom/safleoedd-gwobrau:
Ar draws amrywiaeth o dablau cynghrair, sgoriau a gwobrau, rydym yn falch bod ein safleoedd yn dangos yn gyson ein bod ni yna bob cam or daith i gefnogi ein myfyrwyr a’u paratoi ar gyfer y byd gwaith.
Dangosir hyn yn y nifer o’n myfyrwyr sy’n mynd ymlaen i weithio mewn brandiau a gydnabyddir yn fyd-eang.
Yn aml, daw’r myfyrwyr hyn atom yn aelod cyntaf eu teulu i fynychu prifysgol neu maent eisoes yn gweithio ac eisiau datblygu eu gyrfa.
Celf, Dylunio a Ffotograffiaeth
Ffilm, Cyfryngau ac Animeiddio
Safleoedd yn nhabl pynciau Guardian University Guide 2025 .
Safleoedd yn nhabl pynciau Complete University Guide 2026.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/amdanom/ein-hathrofeydd:
Mae Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant yn cynnwys pedwar Sefydliad ar draws lleoliadau lluosog: Abertawe, Caerfyrddin, Caerdydd, Llundain a Birmingham.
Mae’r Athrofa Addysg a’r Dyniaethau’n cyfuno’r disgyblaethau addysg, seicoleg, polisi cymdeithasol, ieuenctid a chymuned a’r dyniaethau.
Mae’r Athrofa Rheolaeth ac Iechyd yn ymrwymedig i ddatblygu graddedigion creadigol, medrus a chyflogadwy.
Mae Athrofa Gwyddoniaeth a Chelf Cymru yn dod â’r disgyblaethau cyflenwol gwyddoniaeth a chelf at ei gilydd yn ei holl bosibiliadau cymhleth.
Mae’r Athrofa Dysgu Canol Dinas yn angerddol am ehangu gorwelion a chodi dyheadau myfyrwyr o gefndiroedd amrywiol trwy ddatblygu eu potensial i’r eithaf.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/amdanom/hanes-llinell-amser:
Ffurfiwyd Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant (PCYDDS) ar 18 Tachwedd 2010 trwy uno Prifysgol Cymru Llambed a Phrifysgol Coleg Y Drindod Caerfyrddin, o dan Siarter Frenhinol 1828 Llambed.
Ar y 1 Awst 2013, Daeth Prifysgol Fetropolitan Abertawe yn rhan o PCYDDS.
Siarter Frenhinol y Brifysgol yw’r hynaf yng Nghymru a Lloegr ar ôl prifysgolion Rhydychen a Chaergrawnt.
Yn 2011 daeth Ei Uchelder Brenhinol Tywysog Cymru yn Noddwr Brenhinol y Brifysgol.
Sefydlwyd y campws yn 1822 fel Coleg Dewi Sant i ddarparu addysg ryddfrydol i aelodau’r glerigiaeth.
Dros y blynyddoedd, fe ddatblygodd ystod o bynciau a, fel Prifysgol Cymru Llambed, roedd gan y brifysgol enw da am ddarpariaeth israddedig ac ôl-raddedig mewn Saesneg, Archeoleg, Tsieinëeg, y Clasuron, Hanes, Diwinyddiaeth, yn ogystal â chyflwyno meysydd newydd fel Athroniaeth, Anthropoleg, Gwareiddiadau Hynafol ac Ysgrifennu Creadigol.
Nawr, yn PCYDDS, mae’r gymuned academaidd yn parhau i ffynnu ac mae’r portffolio a gynigir yn denu carfan ryngwladol o fyfyrwyr bob blwyddyn.
Adeilad gwreiddiol 1848 sydd yng nghanol campws Caerfyrddin.
Ei enw gwreiddiol oedd Coleg Hyfforddi De Cymru a Sir Fynwy, ac fe’i sefydlwyd i hyfforddi athrawon ar gyfer ysgolion yr eglwys yng Nghymru a Lloegr.
Yn ddiweddarach, cafodd ei alw’n Goleg Y Drindod ac yna yn Goleg Prifysgol Y Drindod cyn uno â Phrifysgol Cymru Llambed i greu PCYDDS.
Yn ystod y rhan fwyaf o’r ugeinfed ganrif roedd yna dri sefydliad addysgol ar wahân yn gwasanaethu ar ddinas Abertawe: Coleg Celf Abertawe (sefydlwyd yn 1853); Coleg Addysg Abertawe (sefydlwyd yn 1872) a Choleg Technegol Abertawe (sefydlwyd yn 1895).
Yn 1976, daeth y tri sefydliad ynghyd i ffurfio Athrofa Addysg Uwch Gorllewin Morgannwg, a ddaeth yn Athrofa Addysg Uwch Abertawe yn y pendraw.
Yn 2008, rhoddodd y Cyfrin Gyngor ganiatâd i’r sefydliad gael ei ail-enwi’n Prifysgol Fetropolitan Abertawe ac, sawl blwyddyn yn ddiweddarach, unodd y sefydliad â champysau Llambed a Chaerfyrddin i greu’r PCYDDS newydd.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/lleoliad-cymru:
Ydych chi’n chwilio am y lle perffaith i gynnal eich digwyddiad nesaf?
P’un a ydych chi’n cynllunio cynhadledd fawr, cyfarfod bach, neu ddathliad arbennig, mae tîm Lleoliad Cymru yma i helpu i bopeth redeg yn hwylus.
Mannau gwych ar gyfer cyfarfodydd, digwyddiadau ac achlysuron arbennig ledled De-orllewin Cymru.
Dewiswch Leoliad Cymru ar gyfer cyfarfodydd busnes a chynadleddau, diwrnodau hyfforddi staff, digwyddiadau cymunedol, priodasau, partïon, cyrsiau preswyl ac encilion.
Lleoliad Cymru yw’r dewis delfrydol ar gyfer eich cyfarfod, cynhadledd neu ddigwyddiad.
Rydym yn fwy na dim ond ystafelloedd – rydym yn rhan o Brifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant , gan gynnig staff cymwynasgar, mannau croesawgar, a chyfle i fwynhau Cymru ar ei gorau.
Mae Lleoliad Cymru, sydd â champysau yng Nghaerfyrddin , Llambed ac Abertawe , yn cynnig mannau llachar a chyfforddus mewn lleoliadau hyfryd – o dawelwch cefn gwlad i ganol y ddinas.
Ydych chi’n barod i gynllunio eich cyfarfod, cynhadledd, neu ddathliad?
Cysylltwch â ni heddiw i wirio dyddiadau a dechrau cynllunio.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/amdanom/swyddi-gweithio-yn-y-drindod-dewi-sant:
Ein pobl sydd wrth wraidd popeth a wnawn.
Rydym yn ymfalchïo yn ein gweithwyr ymroddedig a dawnus ac rydym yn gweithio gyda’n gilydd fel tîm i wneud gwahaniaeth ym mywydau ein myfyrwyr a’r cymunedau a wasanaethwn.
‘Trawsnewid addysg, trawsnewid bywydau’ yw ein cenhadaeth.
Os hoffech ymuno â ni ar y daith hon a gwneud gwahaniaeth hefyd, hoffem glywed gennych chi.
Rydym yn croesawu eich diddordeb mewn gweithio gyda ni ac yn gobeithio y bydd y wybodaeth isod yn rhoi trosolwg i chi o fywyd ym Mhrifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant.
Gwerthfawrogi ein Pobl
Rydym yn gyflogwr cyflog byw.
Mae ein ffocws cryf ar ddatblygiad proffesiynol a llesiant ein staff yn sicrhau ein bod ni’n darparu’r cymorth gorau i’n myfyrwyr, i’n cydweithwyr, partneriaid diwydiant a rhwydweithiau ehangach.
Caiff ein gweithwyr fanteisio ar becyn cyflog a buddion gwych mewn cydnabyddiaeth o’u cyfraniad gwerthfawr gan gynnwys:
Datblygu ein Pobl
Rydym yn cydnabod y rôl bwysig y mae dysgu a datblygu yn eu chwarae wrth gefnogi ein pobl i lwyddo a ffynnu yn y gwaith.
I helpu ein pobl i weithio’n effeithiol mewn gweithle sydd wedi’i drawsnewid ac i’w galluogi i symud trwy wahanol gyfnodau eu gyrfaoedd, rydyn ni wedi sefydlu fframweithiau datblygu i gefnogi themâu allweddol megis dysgu ac addysgu, arweinyddiaeth a rheoli a sgiliau digidol.
Mae ein rhaglenni datblygu yn darparu cyfleoedd i’n pobl gysylltu â chydweithwyr, cael eu hyfforddi neu eu mentora, ennill achrediadau proffesiynol a chydnabyddiaeth, a gweithio ar brosiectau sydd ag effeithiau sefydliadol.
Mae ein cynhadledd dysgu ac addysgu flynyddol NEXUS, yn galluogi cydweithwyr a phartneriaid i ddod ynghyd yn ein cymuned dysgu ac addysgu i rannu arferion gorau, cyfathrebu, cydweithredu ac ysbrydoli ei gilydd.
Mae ein myfyrwyr a’n staff yn bwysig i ni.
Rydym yn meithrin diwylliant lle mae’r staff a’r myfyrwyr yn cydweithio mewn partneriaeth a darparwn amgylchedd dysgu cynhwysol, cefnogol a diogel lle gall pawb ffynnu a gwireddu eu potensial personol.
Ein gweledigaeth yw creu diwylliant agored sy’n parchu eraill a lle nodir ac y dilëir rhwystrau i’r rheini sydd â nodweddion gwarchodedig.
Croesawn ac anogwn ymgeiswyr o bob rhan o’r gymuned beth bynnag yw eu cefndir.
Os byddwch yn gweithio gyda ni, byddwch yn dod yn rhan o deulu PCYDDS.
Hyderus o ran Anabledd
Cyflogwr Cyflog Byw
Rydym wedi ymrwymo i dalu’r Cyflog Byw yn achos holl weithwyr y Brifysgol ac rydym wedi ein hardystio yn Gyflogwr Cyflog Byw gan y Living Wage Foundation.
Y Cyflog Byw go iawn yw’r unig gyfradd cyflog yn y Deyrnas Unedig a delir yn wirfoddol gan bron i 10,000 o fusnesau yn y DU sy’n credu bod eu staff yn haeddu cyflog sy’n diwallu anghenion pob dydd.
Gweithio Hyblyg
Rydym yn hyrwyddo gweithlu hyblyg a bydd y Brifysgol yn ystyried ceisiadau gan unigolion sy’n chwilio am drefniadau gweithio amser llawn, rhan amser, rhannu swydd neu gyfnod tymor yn unig, a bydd hyn yn berthnasol i bob swydd a hysbysebwn.
Cydraddoldeb Rhywiol
Mae Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant wedi ymrwymo i degwch a thryloywder o ran ei threfniadau cyflog ar gyfer staff.
Hefyd mae’n cyhoeddi data yn unol â’r canllawiau ynghylch adrodd ar y bwlch cyflog rhwng y rhywiau, er nad yw’n ofyniad cyfreithiol yng Nghymru.
Yn ogystal mae gan y Brifysgol rwydwaith menywod gweithredol sy’n rhannu gwybodaeth a chefnogaeth â staff benywaidd a’r rhai sy’n ystyried eu hunain yn fenywod, sydd wedi cofrestru eu diddordeb i ymuno.
Mae ganddynt safle Teams gweithredol lle maent yn rhannu gwybodaeth a straeon am fenywod sy’n ysbrydoli.
Mae gan y rhwydwaith gyfrif Twitter gweithredol @UWTSDWomen
Y Gymraeg
Mae gennym draddodiad balch fel sefydliad dwyieithog, sydd wedi ymrwymo i’r Gymraeg, ac mae croeso i chi wneud cais am unrhyw swydd yn y Gymraeg neu’r Saesneg a chaiff pob cais a gyflwynir ei drin yn gyfartal.
Gwnewch yn siŵr eich bod yn bwrw golwg ar ein safle cyfrwng Cymraeg , yn enwedig os ydych eisiau gwneud cais yn y Gymraeg a lle bernir bod y Gymraeg yn hanfodol i’r rôl.
Er nad yw meddu ar sgiliau yn y Gymraeg yn cael ei ystyried yn faen prawf hanfodol ar gyfer pob swydd a leolir yng Nghymru, byddai disgwyl i ymgeisydd llwyddiannus fod â gwerthfawrogiad a dealltwriaeth o natur ddwyieithog y Brifysgol a bod yn barod i ddysgu a defnyddio cyfarchion sylfaenol.
Siarter Cydraddoldeb Hiliol
Mae Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant yn un o dros 100 o sefydliadau i ddod yn aelod o’r Siarter Cydraddoldeb Hiliol, rhan o AU Ymlaen.
Mae’r siarter, a gydnabyddir yn genedlaethol, yn hyrwyddo cynrychiolaeth, cynnydd a llwyddiant staff a myfyrwyr Du, Asiaidd ac o leiafrifoedd ethnig yn y sector Addysg Uwch.
Rydym yn cydnabod bod anghydradoldebau hiliol yn parhau i fodoli yn y gymdeithas ac yn y sector AU yn ei gyfanrwydd.
Ysgrifennwyd ein Cynllun Cydraddoldeb Hiliol 2021-24 ar y cyd â chynrychiolwyr staff a myfyrwyr yn 2021 ac mae’n amlinellu ein hymrwymiad i weithredu’n strategol i wneud newidiadau diwylliannol a systemig a fydd yn gwneud gwahaniaeth gwirioneddol i’n staff a’n myfyrwyr o leiafrifoedd ethnig.
Hyrwyddwyr Amrywiaeth Stonewall
Mae PCYDDS yn gweithio’n galed i greu Prifysgol gynhwysol ar gyfer staff Lesbiaidd, Hoyw, Deurywiol, Traws, a Cwiar + (LHDTC+), i ddarparu amgylchedd diogel, agored, cefnogol a hamddenol a diwylliant cynhwysol ym maes dysgu ac addysgu drwy welliant ac ymgysylltu parhaus.
Rydym yn falch o fod yn Hyrwyddwr Amrywiaeth Stonewall a’n nod yw ymgorffori  cynhwysiant LHDTC+  wrth galon y Brifysgol drwy ein rhwydwaith staff LHDTC+ a’n gwaith gyda Stonewall a darparwyr addysg eraill.
Hawl i Weithio yn y DU
Ar gyfer swyddi academaidd, ymchwil neu arbenigol iawn, mae’n bosibl y bydd y Brifysgol yn gallu cael nawdd Gweithiwr Crefftus.
Ar gyfer pob swydd arall, byddwn yn gallu ystyried eich cais dim ond os ydych yn gymwys i weithio yn y DU.
Os oes gennych unrhyw gwestiynau cysylltwch â swyddi@pcydds.ac.uk .
I gael rhagor o wybodaeth, ewch i Gwefan Llywodraeth y DU .
Eich Data
Mae’r Drindod Dewi Sant, fel rhan o unrhyw broses recriwtio, yn casglu ac yn prosesu data personol sy’n ymwneud ag ymgeiswyr am swyddi.
Darllenwch yr Hysbysiad Preifatrwydd Ymgeiswyr am Swyddi , i gael rhagor o wybodaeth am sut rydym yn rheoli ac yn diogelu eich data.
Cysylltwch â ni
Os hoffech gael mwy o wybodaeth am ein swyddi gwag, danfonwch e-bost i swyddi@pcydds.ac.uk a bydd aelod o’r tîm AD mewn cysylltiad.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/amdanom/adran-gyllid:
Nod yr Adran Gyllid yw cefnogi’r Brifysgol wrth iddi gynllunio, rheoli a manteisio i’r eithaf ar werth trwy ddarparu gwasanaeth ariannol cost effeithiol, effeithlon a phroffesiynol sy’n cynnwys rhoi cyngor, arweiniad, canllawiau a chymorth i holl aelodau’r Brifysgol er mwyn cyflawni ei hamcanion mewn ffordd gynaliadwy, reoledig ac atebol.
E-bost: ffioedd@pcydds.ac.uk
Campws Caerfyrddin Ail lawr, Adeilad Dewi, uwch ben y dderbynfa Rhif Ffôn: 01792 481050
Ffioedd Dysgu Kim Reynolds – 01267 676837 ffioedd@pcydds.ac.uk
Taliadau Myfyrwyr Nicola Evans – 01792 481050 Kim Reynolds – 01267 676837 Emma Stevens – 01792 483693 ffioedd@pcydds.ac.uk
Adennill Dyledion ffioedd@pcydds.ac.uk
Ffioedd Llety accommodation@uwtsd.ac.uk
Ar gyfer ymholiadau Cyfrifon Derbyniol, anfonwch e-bost a byddwn yn gofalu am eich ymholiad.
ffioedd@pcydds.ac.uk
Ar gyfer ymholiadau Cyfrifon Taladwy, anfonwch e-bost a byddwn yn gofalu am eich ymholiad pladmin@uwtsd.ac.uk
Mae’r Swyddfa Gyllid ar ail lawr Adeilad Dewi ac mae ein horiau agor fel a ganlyn:
Dydd Llun–Dydd Gwener 9:00–16:00
Cyfeiriad Adran Cyllid Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant College Road Caerfyrddin Sir Gaerfyrddin SA31 3EP
Dydd Llun–Dydd Gwener 09:00–16:00
Cyfeiriad Adran Cyllid Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant Technium 1 Heol y Brenin Abertawe SA1 8PH

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/clirio-cofrestru:
Siaradwch gyda ni am eich opsiynau o ran cyrsiau Clirio.
Cofrestrwch am gyngor ac arweiniad i chi ynghylch y weithdrefn glirio.
Byddwn yn darparu cyngor ac awgrymiadau drwy gydol y cyfnod clirio i’ch helpu chi drwy’r broses glirio.
Byddwn yn anfon negeseuon e-bost rheolaidd drwy gydol y cyfnod clirio i’ch helpu chi i wneud y penderfyniad cywir i chi cyn, yn ystod ac ar ôl diwrnod y canlyniadau.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/clirio/canllaw-clirio-cyllid-myfyrwyr:
Clirio yw eich dechrau newydd – p’un a ydych chi’n ailystyried eich llwybr, yn gwneud penderfyniad hwyr, neu’n dychwelyd i addysg.
Ar ôl i chi sicrhau eich lle yn y Drindod Dewi Sant, y cam nesaf yw didoli eich cyllid myfyriwr.
Hyd yn oed os nad ydych wedi gwneud cais am gyllid myfyrwyr eto, peidiwch â phoeni – mae amser o hyd.
O ffioedd dysgu a benthyciadau cynnal a chadw i gymorth costau byw a bwrsariaid, mae’r canllaw hwn yn eich tywys trwy’r wybodaeth hanfodol a’r camau cais ar gyfer myfyrwyr Clirio.
Gadewch i ni wneud yn siŵr bod eich cyllid yn barod ar gyfer eich pennod nesaf.
Pa Fath o Opsiynau Cyllid Myfyrwyr Sydd ar Gael i Fyfyrwyr Clirio?
Pan ddaw i brifysgol, mae cyllidebu yr un mor bwysig â’ch dewis cwrs.
P’un a ydych chi’n dod o Gymru, Lloegr, yr Alban neu Ogledd Iwerddon, dyma ddadansoddiad o’r hyn y gallech ei dderbyn:
Rhanbarth
Cymorth Ffioedd Dysgu
Cymorth Costau Byw
Cymru
Benthyciad Dysgu hyd at £9,535
Cyfuniad grant a benthyciadau (yn seiliedig ar incwm)
Lloegr
Benthyciad cyhaliaeth (yn seiliedig ar incwm)
Yr Alban
Gogledd Iwerddon
Rhyngwladol
Cyllid Myfyrwyr Lleol, Ysgoloriaethau neu hunan-ariannu
Cysylltwch â international.registry@uwtsd.ac.uk
Yn PCYDDS, rydym yn gwybod bod rheoli costau byw yr un mor bwysig â thalu dysgu.
Mae ein campysau yn cynnig manteision sy’n gyfeillgar i’r gyllideb gan gynnwys prydau bwyd cost isel, llety fforddiadwy, a mynediad at fwydydd a hanfodion am ddim - i gyd i helpu’ch arian i fynd ymhellach.
Sut i wneud cais am gyllid myfyrwyr fel myfyriwr clirio
Cam 1: Gwnewch gais (neu ddiweddarwch eich manylion)
Os nad ydych eisoes wedi gwneud cais, gwnewch gais ar-lein trwy gorff cyllido eich gwlad:
Yr Alban
Gogledd Iwerddon
Os ydych wedi gwneud cais, diweddarwch eich cwrs a’ch manylion prifysgol nawr er mwyn osgoi oedi.
Cam 2: Uwchlwytho a llofnodi
Cyflwyno unrhyw ddogfennau ategol angenrheidiol.
Llofnodwch a dychwelwch eich datganiad ar-lein – mae hyn yn hanfodol er mwyn prosesu taliadau.
Cam 3: Arhoswch yn y Dolen
Monitro eich porth cyllid myfyrwyr ac e-bostiwch am ddiweddariadau.
Cysylltwch â’ch darparwr cyllid os oes unrhyw beth yn aneglur neu’n oedi.
Bwrsarïau sydd ar gael i chi yn ystod Clirio
Yn y Drindod Dewi Sant, rydym wedi ymrwymo i wneud addysg yn fforddiadwy ac yn hygyrch.
Dyna pam rydym yn cynnig ystod o fwrsarïau wedi’u teilwra i’ch amgylchiadau.
Mae’r rhain yn cynnwys:
Bwrsarïau Mynediad fel y Fwrsariaeth Ymadawyr Gofal, Bwrsariaeth Anabledd, Bwrsariaeth Myfyrwyr Ymddieithrio neu Fwrsariaeth Rhieni a Gofalwyr;
Bwrsarïau Cymorth Ariannol fel y Fwrsariaeth Datblygu Gyrfa, Bwrsariaeth Costau Cwrs neu’r Fwrsariaeth Lleoliad;
a Bwrsarïau Athrofa a Chymraeg.
Archwiliwch yr holl opsiynau bwrsariaeth sydd ar gael i chi ar ein tudalen cymorth cyllid israddedig
Cymorth Costau Byw gennym ni
Ym Mhrifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant (PCYDDS), rydym yn deall bod rheoli costau byw o ddydd i ddydd yn bryder allweddol i lawer o fyfyrwyr.
Dyna pam rydym yn cynnig ystod o wasanaethau cymorth ymarferol i’ch helpu i gadw’n ariannol sefydlog trwy gydol eich astudiaethau.
Cronfa Cymorth Ariannol i Fyfyrwyr
Mae’r gronfa hon wedi’i chynllunio i gynorthwyo myfyrwyr sy’n wynebu anawsterau ariannol annisgwyl.
Os ydych wedi cael mynediad at eich holl gyllid statudol ac yn dal i gael trafferth, efallai y byddwch yn gymwys i gael grant na ellir ei ad-dalu i helpu gyda chostau byw hanfodol.
Menter Cwpwrdd Cymunedol
Wedi’i lleoli yng Nghanolfan Dylan Thomas, mae’r fenter hon yn darparu nwyddau bwyd a hanfodion bob dydd am ddim i fyfyrwyr a theuluoedd lleol mewn angen.
Mae’n rhan o’n hymrwymiad i gynaliadwyedd a lles cymunedol.
Cyngor Ariannol a Chymorth Cyllidebu
Mae ein tîm Cymorth Ariannol ymroddedig yn cynnig cyngor un-i-un ar gyllidebu, rheoli eich cyllid, a chael mynediad at gyllid sydd ar gael – fel y gallwch ganolbwyntio ar eich astudiaethau heb straen ychwanegol.
Am fanylion llawn ac i gael mynediad at gymorth, ewch i’n tudalen Cymorth Ariannol.
“Roedd Cymorth Ariannol y brifysgol yn achubiaeth yn ystod cyfnod heriol.
Roedd y staff yn hynod gefnogol a deallus, gan wneud y broses yn llyfn ac yn rhydd o straen.
Mae’r cymorth ariannol a gefais yn lleddfu fy mhryderon ac yn caniatáu i mi ganolbwyntio ar fy astudiaethau”
Rydyn ni yma i helpu.
Mae ein tîm cyfeillgar Gwasanaethau Myfyrwyr yn cynnig sesiynau arweiniad ariannol 1:1 i’ch cefnogi bob cam o’r ffordd.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/astudio/clirio/llety-canllaw-glirio:
Ydych chi’n ystyried gwneud cais am le yn PCYDDS drwy’r broses Glirio?
Ar ôl sicrhau eich lle ar eich cwrs delfrydol, eich cam allweddol nesaf yw dod o hyd i’r llety myfyrwyr cywir.
Ar ba bynnag gampws y byddwch yn astudio, mae PCYDDS yn darparu ystod o opsiynau llety i ddiwallu eich anghenion a sicrhau proses bontio hwylus i fywyd prifysgol.
Gyda chefnogaeth Tîm Llety PCYDDS, byddwch yn cael eich tywys trwy eich dewisiadau bob cam o’r ffordd – p’un a ydych chi’n chwilio am ystafell yn y brifysgol, neu lety preifat.
Llety ar y Campws (campws Caerfyrddin yn unig)
Os ydych chi’n astudio ar gampws Caerfyrddin, rydym yn cynnig fflatiau hunanarlwyo ar y campws.
Mae’r fflatiau hyn yn cynnwys ystafelloedd sengl i fyfyrwyr gyda chyfleusterau cegin a lolfa a rennir, gan greu man gwych ar gyfer astudio a chymdeithasu.
Mae hwn yn opsiwn ardderchog i’r rhai sy’n chwilio am lety yng Nghaerfyrddin.
I wneud cais am lety a reolir gan y brifysgol, ewch i Borth Ymgeisio Hallpad .
Er ein bod yn ymdrechu i fodloni eich dewisiadau o ran llety myfyrwyr, ni allwn warantu mathau penodol o ystafelloedd neu ddyraniadau.
Os nad yw’r ystafell yn y brifysgol y gwnaethoch gais amdani ar gael, byddwn yn cynnig yr hyn sy’n cydweddu orau yn seiliedig ar argaeledd.
Os na allwn gynnig llety prifysgol, byddwn yn eich cynorthwyo i ddod o hyd i lety preifat addas.
Darparwyr Llety Myfyrwyr Preifat (campws SA1 Abertawe) I’r rhai sy’n astudio yn Abertawe, mae PCYDDS wedi partneru â darparwyr llety myfyrwyr preifat ger campws SA1, gan gynnig opsiynau byw amrywiol gyda mynediad rhwydd i gyfleusterau’r brifysgol.
Mae’r opsiynau hyn yn berffaith ar gyfer myfyrwyr sy’n chwilio am lety yn Abertawe sy’n fodern, yn gyfleus ac yn agos at y campws.
Eiddo Preifat
Ar gyfer opsiynau mwy annibynnol, mae llwyfannau fel UniHomes a StuRents yn cynnig amrywiaeth o dai myfyrwyr i’w rhentu, o fflatiau a rennir i stiwdios i fyfyrwyr.
Mae’r llwyfannau hyn yn darparu ar gyfer gwahanol ddewisiadau a chyllidebau, gan ei gwneud hi’n haws dod o hyd i’r lletyau gosod i fyfyrwyr preifat cywir yn agos at ble byddwch chi’n astudio.
Cyn i chi wneud penderfyniad, ystyriwch y canlynol:
Ar ôl i chi ddod o hyd i eiddo rydych chi’n ei hoffi, cysylltwch â’r darparwr yn uniongyrchol – fel arfer gallwch wneud cais ar-lein neu dros y ffôn am fwy o fanylion.
Byw Gartref
Mae rhai myfyrwyr yn dewis byw gartref yn ystod eu hastudiaethau, yn enwedig os ydynt yn byw o fewn pellter teithio i’r campws.
Gall yr opsiwn hwn fod yn fwy cost-effeithiol a gallai gynnig amgylchedd cefnogol ar gyfer eich taith academaidd.
Fodd bynnag, mae’n bwysig ystyried amser teithio a chostau cludiant.
Os ydych chi’n penderfynu byw gartref, cynlluniwch eich amser ar y campws ar gyfer darlithoedd, sesiynau astudio, ac i gymryd rhan mewn clybiau a chymdeithasau myfyrwyr.
Mae gwneud cais am lety drwy’r broses Glirio yn syml.
Y ffordd orau o wneud cais yw trwy ein porth ymgeisio Hallpad .
Mae ystafelloedd yn cael eu dyrannu yn ôl y cyntaf i’r felin, felly rydym yn eich annog i wneud cais cyn gynted ag y byddwch wedi cadarnhau eich lle yn PCYDDS.
Er ein bod yn anelu at ddarparu ar gyfer eich dewisiadau, nid yw mathau penodol o ystafelloedd neu ddyraniadau yn cael eu gwarantu.
Os nad yw’r opsiwn a ddymunwch ar gael, byddwn yn cynnig yr hyn sy’n cydweddu orau yn seiliedig ar argaeledd cyfredol.
Os na allwn gynnig llety yn Abertawe a reolir gan PCYDDS neu lety ar gampws Caerfyrddin , bydd y Tîm Llety yn eich cefnogi i ddod o hyd  i lety preifat addas, boed hynny drwy UniHome , Unihousing , neu wasanaethau lletyau gosod i fyfyrwyr eraill.
Mae croeso i chi gysylltu â’r Tîm Llety os oes gennych unrhyw gwestiynau neu ofynion penodol.
Rydyn ni yma i’ch helpu chi i sicrhau eich ystafell myfyriwr delfrydol.
I gael gwell syniad o sut beth yw bywyd yn PCYDDS, edrychwch ar y fideo Byw fel Myfyriwr yn Abertawe .
Mae’r fideo hwn yn rhoi mewnwelediad i’r gymuned fywiog o fyfyrwyr, gan arddangos amrywiol opsiynau llety myfyrwyr a phrofiadau go iawn myfyrwyr.
Os ydych chi’n barod i ddechrau ar eich taith, mae Tîm Llety PCYDDS yma i’ch helpu i ddod o hyd i’r llety myfyrwyr gorau i chi.
Allwn ni ddim aros i’ch croesawu i PCYDDS.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/clirio/system-glirio-gyda-safon-uwch:
Llongyfarchiadau ar eich astudiaethau Safon Uwch.
Gallwch ddefnyddio eich canlyniadau i sicrhau lle ar y cwrs prifysgol iawn i chi drwy’r system Glirio.
Mae canlyniadau Safon Uwch yn cael eu cyhoeddi ar 15 Awst 2024 yng Nghymru a Lloegr (mae canlyniadau SQA yn cael eu cyhoeddi ar 6 Awst 2024 yn yr Alban).
Ond mae rhai pethau y gallwch chi eu gwneud cyn hyn os ydych chi’n ystyried defnyddio’r system Glirio.
Dewch i ddeall y broses Glirio :  Ymgyfarwyddwch â sut mae’r system Glirio yn gweithio, yr amserlen, a pha gamau sydd angen eu cymryd.
Pan fyddwch yn cael eich canlyniadau, cofiwch fod angen i chi ddathlu eich cyflawniadau a’ch gwaith caled.
Gallwch fewngofnodi i Track UCAS er mwyn dod o hyd i’ch canlyniadau a gweld a yw’ch prif ddewis neu’ch prifysgol wrth gefn wedi’ch derbyn.
Os nad ydyn nhw, peidiwch â chynhyrfu, ewch ati’n bwyllog i gynllunio eich camau nesaf.
Byddwch angen:
Bydd cael yr holl wybodaeth allweddol yn barod yn gwneud y broses Glirio yn rhwydd.
Ystyriwch pa elfennau o’ch astudiaethau Safon Uwch a roddodd y mwyaf o foddhad i chi, ac ystyriwch eich dyheadau gyrfa hirdymor pan fyddwch yn chwilio am y cwrs gorau i chi yn y system Glirio.
Byddwch yn feddwl-agored o ran cyrsiau na fyddech wedi’u hystyried gynt, ac edrychwch ar fformatau gwahanol, fel cydanrhydedd neu gyrsiau lefel sylfaen.
Gall UCAS Clearing Plus awgrymu cyrsiau yn seiliedig ar eich proffil a’ch ceisiadau, a gall ddangos opsiynau na fyddech wedi’u hystyried fel arall.
Siaradwch â’n tîm Clirio , a fydd yn eich helpu i ddeall y gwahanol opsiynau ac yn eich helpu i ddod o hyd i’r cwrs gorau i chi.
Cofiwch y gallwch chi gyfuno eich cymwysterau Safon Uwch gyda’ch cymwysterau eraill, fel BTEC, er mwyn bodloni gofynion mynediad cyrsiau gradd PCYDDS.
Trwy fod yn hyblyg gallwch gyflwyno’r cais cryfaf posibl.
Rydyn ni’n sylweddoli y gall ymgeisio trwy’r system Glirio deimlo’n llethol, ond mae PCYDDS yma i’ch cefnogi bob cam o’r daith.
Manteisiwch ar y cyngor sydd ar gael i chi, p’un ai trwy ffonio , e-bostio neu ddod i un o’n dyddiau agored clirio, ac mae gennym dimau arbennig wrth law i’ch helpu gyda 3 pheth pwysig y dylech chi eu hystyried:
Ar ôl i chi dderbyn cynnig trwy’r system Glirio, dewch i un o’n Dyddiau Agored Clirio i gael blas ar fywyd myfyriwr PCYDDS.
Gallwch weld y cyfleusterau a’r lleoliadau dysgu a chael cyfle i siarad â staff a myfyrwyr, er mwyn gwneud yn siŵr eich bod yn gwneud y dewis iawn i chi.
Does dim rhaid i’r broses o wneud cais Clirio â Safon Uwch fod yn anodd.
Bydd eich cymwysterau Safon Uwch yn addas iawn ar gyfer llawer o wahanol gyrsiau gradd PCYDDS.
Cychwynnwch ar eich taith heddiw trwy ymchwilio’ch dewisiadau, mynegi diddordeb , a thrwy gymryd camau rhagweithiol i sicrhau eich dyfodol.
Ffoniwch ein Llinell Gymorth Clirio 0300 323 1828 neu edrychwch ar ein gwefan am fwy o wybodaeth.
Pob lwc, rydyn ni’n edrych ymlaen at eich croesawu i PCYDDS.
Trosi graddau Safon Uwch yn bwyntiau UCAS
GRADD SAFON UWCH
PWYNTIAU UCAS
A*
56
A
48
B
40
C
32
D
24
E
16

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/clirio/system-glirio-gyda-btecs:
Gall cymwysterau BTEC fod yn sylfaen wych wrth wneud ceisiadau i’r Brifysgol, ac mae croeso mawr i fyfyrwyr sydd â’r cymwysterau hyn wneud ceisiadau trwy’r system glirio.
Rydyn ni’n gwerthfawrogi eich sgiliau a’ch profiad ymarferol gan y byddan nhw’n gweddu’n dda i lawer o’n cyrsiau.
Os nad ydych wedi cael lle mewn prifysgol eto, gall y system Glirio fod yn gyfle i chi ddod o hyd i’r cwrs iawn yn y brifysgol iawn.
Caiff canlyniadau BTEC Cenedlaethol eu cyhoeddi ar yr un diwrnod â chanlyniadau Safon Uwch, ond gallech fod wedi derbyn rhai canlyniadau BTEC cyn hynny.
Gwnewch y canlynol er mwyn paratoi mewn da bryd ar gyfer y broses Glirio:
Pan fyddwch wedi gorffen chwilio am opsiynau posibl y fewn y system glirio, cysylltwch â ni i fynegi diddordeb, dywedwch beth sydd o ddiddordeb i chi ac yna byddwn yn cadw mewn cysylltiad â chi er mwyn dweud wrthych am gyfleoedd o fewn y system Glirio.
Os ydych chi’n ystyried eich opsiynau drwy’r system Glirio, mae’n bwysig eich bod yn drefnus pan fyddwch yn cael eich canlyniadau, a bod yr holl wybodaeth allweddol yn barod gennych er mwyn gwneud cais yn syth.
Pan fyddwch yn gwneud cais trwy’r system Glirio, byddwch angen:
Mae gofynion mynediad yn amrywio yn ôl y cwrs, ond bydd eich cymwysterau BTEC yn eich paratoi’n dda ar gyfer ystod eang o gyrsiau gradd.
Ystyriwch pa elfennau o’ch astudiaethau BTEC roddodd y mwyaf o foddhad i chi, a beth yw eich dyheadau gyrfa hirdymor pan fyddwch yn chwilio am y cwrs iawn i chi yn y system Glirio.
Byddwch yn hyblyg.
Efallai y byddwch chi am ystyried cyrsiau gwahanol i’ch dewis cyntaf.
Cofiwch y gallwch chi gyfuno eich cymwysterau BTEC gyda’ch cymwysterau eraill, fel Safon Uwch, er mwyn bodloni gofynion mynediad cyrsiau gradd PCYDDS.
Trwy fod yn hyblyg gallwch gyflwyno’r cais cryfaf posibl.
Siaradwch â’n tîm Clirio , a fydd yn eich helpu i ddeall y gwahanol opsiynau ac yn eich
Rydyn ni’n sylweddoli y gall ymgeisio trwy’r system Glirio deimlo’n llethol, ond mae PCYDDS yma i’ch cefnogi ar bob cam o’r daith.
Ar ôl i chi cael cynnig trwy’r system Glirio, dewch i un o’n Dyddiau Agored Clirio i gael blas ar fywyd myfyriwr PCYDDS ac i ofyn cwestiynau pwysig, er mwyn i chi wybod eich bod yn gwneud y penderfyniad iawn i chi ac i’ch dyheadau ar gyfer y dyfodol.
Mae’r system Glirio yn cynnig cyfle gwych i gael lle ar gwrs prifysgol sy’n gweddu i’ch dyheadau chi.
Bydd y sylfaen ymarferol gref a gawsoch wrth wneud cymwysterau BTEC o fudd mawr i chi yn PCYDDS.
Beth am ddechrau ar eich taith heddiw trwy ymchwilio’ch dewisiadau, mynegi diddordeb , a chymryd camau rhagweithiol i sicrhau eich dyfodol.
Ffoniwch ein Llinell Gymorth Clirio ar 0300 323 1828 neu edrychwch ar ein gwefan am fwy o wybodaeth.
Dyma’r mathau mwyaf cyffredin o gymwysterau BTEC:
Pwyntiau UCAS am ddiplomâu Estynedig BTEC
GRADD BTEC
D*
M
P

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/clirio/system-glirio-gyda-cyrsiau-mynediad:
Gall Cyrsiau Mynediad fod yn lwybr gwych i fyfyrwyr sydd wedi bod allan o’r system addysg am gyfnod neu’r rhai sydd heb gymwysterau traddodiadol.
Gall myfyrwyr o bob oed ymuno â Chwrs Mynediad, waeth beth fo’u cefndir.
Mae’r system Glirio’n digwydd o fis Gorffennaf i fis Hydref ac mae’n gyfle gwych i ddefnyddio’ch cymwysterau Mynediad i sicrhau lle ar gwrs prifysgol sy’n addas i chi.
YMae’n bosibl y byddwch yn derbyn canlyniadau eich Cwrs Mynediad cyn y bydd unrhyw ganlyniadau eraill, fel Safon Uwch, yn cael eu cyhoeddi.
Os ydych chi’n dal i chwilio am gwrs prifysgol bryd hynny, gallwch ddefnyddio’r amser i wneud yn siŵr eich bod yn barod ar gyfer y broses Glirio.
Os ydych chi eisoes wedi gwneud cais i brifysgol, mewngofnodwch i Track UCAS ar ddiwrnod y canlyniadau er mwyn gweld a yw’ch prif ddewis neu’ch prifysgol wrth gefn wedi’ch derbyn.
Os nad ydyn nhw, byddwch yn cael eich cynnwys yn y broses glirio yn awtomatig.
Os nad ydych chi wedi gwneud cais drwy UCAS, gallwch ddefnyddio’r system Glirio i wneud cais hwyr.
Pan fyddwch yn gwneud cais trwy’r System Glirio, byddwch angen:
Bydd eich cymwysterau Mynediad yn eich paratoi ar gyfer ystod eang o gyrsiau gradd .
Ystyriwch pa elfennau o’ch astudiaethau Mynediad a roddodd y mwyaf o foddhad i chi, a dewiswch gwrs prifysgol sy’n cyd-fynd â’ch dyheadau gyrfa hirdymor.
Byddwch yn hyblyg ac yn feddwl-agored wrth ystyried y dewisiadau cwrs a allai fod ar gael trwy’r system Glirio.
Cofiwch, efallai bydd modd i chi gyfuno’ch cymwysterau Mynediad â chymwysterau eraill neu brofiad sydd gennych.
Siaradwch â’n tîm Clirio , a fydd yn eich helpu i ddeall y gwahanol opsiynau cwrs ac yn eich helpu i ddod o hyd i’r cwrs prifysgol gorau i chi.
Rydyn ni’n deall y gall gwneud cais drwy’r system Clirio fod yn amser prysur, gyda llawer o bethau i’w hystyried.
Gall cadw’n bositif ac yn rhagweithiol trwy gydol y broses Glirio wneud gwahaniaeth mawr
Mae sawl ffynhonnell wybodaeth ar gael i chi.
Gallai fod yn ddefnyddiol i chi edrych ar wefannau fel UCAS a The Student Room .
Mae’r PCYDDS hefyd yma i’ch cefnogi bob cam o’r daith.
Manteisiwch ar y cyngor sydd ar gael i chi, p’un ai trwy ffonio , e-bostio neu ddod i un o’n Dyddiau Agored Clirio, ac mae gennym dimau arbennig wrth law i’ch helpu gyda 3 pheth pwysig y dylech chi eu hystyried: Mae gennym dimau arbennig wrth law i’ch helpu gyda 3 pheth mawr y dylech eu hystyried, ar wahân i’ch dewis o gwrs:
Ar ôl i chi cael cynnig trwy’r System Glirio, treuliwch amser yn pwyso a mesur eich opsiynau er mwyn gwneud y penderfyniad iawn i chi.
Dewch i un o’n Dyddiau Agored Clirio i gael blas ar fywyd myfyriwr PCYDDS ac i ofyn cwestiynau pwysig, er mwyn i chi wybod eich bod yn gwneud y penderfyniad iawn i chi ac i’ch dyheadau ar gyfer y dyfodol.
Pan fyddwch wedi penderfynu, gallwch gadarnhau eich lle yn y brifysgol drwy ddefnyddio Track UCAS .
Mae’r system Glirio yn cynnig cyfle gwych i gael lle ar gwrs prifysgol gan ddefnyddio eich Cymwysterau Mynediad.
Yn PCYDDS rydyn ni’n gwerthfawrogi’r ystod o brofiad y gall myfyriwr Mynediad ei gynnig i’r brifysgol.
Cofiwch, trwy wneud Cwrs Mynediad rydych eisoes wedi dangos eich ymroddiad a’ch gallu i lwyddo.
Y Brifysgol yw’r cam nesaf ar eich taith addysgol.
Mynegwch ddiddordeb trwy lenwi ein ffurflen ymholiadau Clirio , ffoniwch ein Llinell Gymorth Clirio ar 0300 323 1828 , neu edrychwch ar ein gwefan am fwy o wybodaeth.
Pob lwc, rydyn ni’n edrych ymlaen at eich croesawu i PCYDDS
Ar gwrs Mynediad, yn ogystal â chael dealltwriaeth academaidd o’r pwnc, byddwch hefyd yn dysgu sgiliau astudio hanfodol, fel technegau ymchwilio, sgiliau ysgrifennu traethodau, rheoli amser, meddwl yn feirniadol, a sgiliau byd go iawn.
Mae Cwrs Mynediad yn gosod sylfaen gref ar gyfer llwyddiant yn y brifysgol.
Mae elfennau ymarferol a galwedigaethol i lawer o gyrsiau Mynediad, a gallan nhw ymdrin ag ystod eang o bynciau, gan roi sgiliau gwerthfawr i’r rhai sy’n awyddus i ymuno â rhaglen radd .
Fel arfer, er mwyn cael lle mewn prifysgol gyda Diploma Mynediad i Addysg Uwch, byddwch angen cwblhau 60 credyd ar Lefel 3.
Gallwch wneud hyn dros gyfnod o flwyddyn trwy astudio llawn amser, neu astudio’n rhan-amser dros gyfnod o ddwy flynedd neu fwy.
Gallwch ennill hyd at 144 Pwynt UCAS trwy wneud cwrs Mynediad, sydd gyfwerth â thair Safon Uwch gradd A.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/clirio/canllaw-clirio-ar-gyfer-rhieni-a-chefnogwyr:
Mae clirio yn llwybr cydnabyddedig a chyffrous i’r brifysgol a gall gynnig cyfleoedd a phrofiadau newydd.
Er hynny, gall mynd trwy’r broses a cheisio dod o hyd i’r cwrs delfrydol fod yn anodd ac yn frawychus ar brydiau.
Fel rhiant, gofalwr neu gefnogwr, gallwch chi helpu i sicrhau bod y broses Clirio yn brofiad cadarnhaol.
Os yw’r system glirio yn bosibiliad i’r person rydych chi’n ei gefnogi, gall ymchwilio cyrsiau a phrifysgolion posibl o flaen llaw fod yn ddefnyddiol iawn.
Mae Gwefan UCAS yn lle da i weld yr holl gyrsiau prifysgol sydd ar gael, neu gallwch chi chwilio’n uniongyrchol gan ddefnyddio ein meysydd pwnc .
Peidiwch â chynhyrfu, byddwch yn gadarnhaol, a darbwyllwch y person fod Clirio yn llwybr cyffredin i’r brifysgol a bod llawer o fyfyrwyr yn dod o hyd i gyrsiau sy’n addas iddyn nhw yn ystod y broses.
Rhowch gefnogaeth emosiynol i’r rhai sy’n cael eu canlyniadau.
Byddwch yn galonogol a dathlwch eu hymdrechion, waeth beth fo’r canlyniad.
Os yw myfyriwr wedi gwneud cais i’r brifysgol trwy UCAS, gallan nhw fewngofnodi i Hwb UCAS ar ddiwrnod y canlyniadau er mwyn gwirio eu bod wedi cael eu derbyn ar eu cynnig cadarn neu eu cynnig wrth gefn.
Hyd yn oed os na chawson nhw’r canlyniadau yr oedden nhw’n eu disgwyl, mae’n bosibl bod y sefydliadau a roddodd gynnig cadarn neu gynnig wrth gefn wedi eu derbyn a chadarnhau eu lle.
Bydd y rhai nad oedden nhw wedi cael unrhyw gynigion, neu os na fodlonwyd amodau’r cynnig cadarn neu gynnig wrth gefn, yn gymwys i ddefnyddio’r broses Glirio ac yn cael eu hychwanegu i’r system yn awtomatig.
Yn y sefyllfa yma, y peth cyntaf i’w wneud yw annog y myfyriwr i fod yn gadarnhaol ac yn bwyllog.
Gall y profiad hwn fod yn frawychus ar yr olwg gyntaf, ond bydd yn cynnig opsiynau a chyfleoedd amgen i’r person rydych chi’n ei gefnogi.
Anogwch y myfyriwr i ystyried gwahanol gyrsiau neu sefydliadau.
Gwnewch ragor o waith ymchwil gyda nhw i weld pa ddewisiadau eraill sydd ar gael.
Mae Gwefan UCAS yn lle da i weld yr holl gyrsiau prifysgol sydd ar gael, neu gallwch chi chwilio yn uniongyrchol gan ddefnyddio ein meysydd pwnc.
Bydd angen i ddarpar fyfyrwyr gael eu manylion UCAS a’u canlyniadau arholiad wrth law pan fyddan nhw’n dechrau cysylltu â phrifysgolion eraill i holi am leoedd ar gyrsiau amgen.
Mae cyflwyno ffurflen ymholiad Clirio yn gam cyntaf da .
Llenwch ein Ffurflen Ymholiad Clirio: Unwaith y bydd y myfyriwr wedi dod o hyd i gwrs sy’n addas iddyn nhw, dylen nhw gofrestru eu diddordeb, bydd hyn yn ein galluogi i roi’r wybodaeth ddiweddaraf i chi am ein cyrsiau ac am y broses Glirio.
Gall myfyrwyr gysylltu â phrifysgolion yn uniongyrchol er mwyn trafod a yw cyrsiau ar gael ac a ydyn nhw’n addas.
Mae’n bwysig eu bod yn treulio amser yn chwilio am y dewis sy’n iawn iddyn nhw.
Gall y syniad o ffonio adran dderbyn prifysgol fod yn frawychus, ond mae staff cyfeillgar ein llinell gymorth Clirio yn barod i ateb unrhyw gwestiynau.
Galwch ein Llinell Gymorth Clirio : Gall myfyrwyr gysylltu â ni i drafod eu dewisiadau trwy ffonio 0300 323 1828 .
Mae’n bwysig i’r myfyriwr fod yn drefnus, byddan nhw angen paratoi gwybodaeth allweddol er mwyn gwneud cais trwy’r system Glirio.
Byddan nhw angen:
Bydd bod â’r wybodaeth allweddol yma yn barod yn gwneud y broses Glirio yn haws ac yn llai o straen.
Rydyn ni’n gwybod y gall y syniad o ymgeisio trwy’r System Glirio deimlo’n llethol, ond rydyn ni yma i gefnogi myfyrwyr ar bob cam o’u taith.
P’un ai eu bod yn dewis ffonio neu wneud ymholiad , gwnewch yn siŵr eu bod yn gwneud y mwyaf o’r cyngor sydd ar gael iddyn nhw.
Mae gennym dimau arbennig wrth law i’w helpu gyda 3 pheth mawr y dylen nhw eu hystyried, ar wahân i’w dewis o gwrs:
Pan fyddan nhw wedi cael cynnig cwrs trwy’r broses Glirio, galwch chi roi anogaeth, cefnogaeth a chyngor defnyddiol.
Mae’n bwysig nad ydyn nhw’n brysio eu penderfyniad.
Mae hwn yn amser da i ddysgu mwy am y cwrs neu’r brifysgol.
Ystyriwch ymweld â’r Brifysgol.
Yn ystod y broses Glirio, mae PCYDDS yn cynnig cyfleodd i ymweld a Diwrnodau Agored .
Mae teithiau campws neu deithiau rhithwir yn ffordd wych o gael blas ar le, i edrych ar gyfleusterau a llety, ac i gwrdd â staff a chyd-fyfyrwyr.
Pan fydd y person rydych chi’n eu cefnogi wedi dewis derbyn cynnig astudiaeth bydd angen iddyn nhw dderbyn y cynnig yn ffurfiol ar Hwb UCAS .
Ar safle UCAS, bydd angen iddyn nhw wasgu Ychwanegu Dewis Clirio.
Gallwch eu helpu i roi eu manylion ac i dderbyn eu cynnig Clirio.
Ar ôl gwneud hyn, gall y brifysgol gadarnhau eu lle yn ffurfiol.
Os yw myfyriwr yn ansicr ynglŷn â derbyn cynnig cwrs trwy’r system Glirio, gallech eu cefnogi ymhellach trwy drafod opsiynau eraill.
Gallai hyn gynnwys cymryd blwyddyn i ffwrdd, cael profiad gwaith, neu ailymgeisio flwyddyn nesaf.
Gallai trafod dewisiadau eraill dynnu rhywfaint o’r pwysau oddi arnyn nhw a gallai hefyd arwain at gyfleoedd newydd.
Unwaith y bydd lle wedi’i gadarnhau, gallwch roi cefnogaeth bellach drwy baratoi’r myfyriwr ar gyfer y brifysgol.
Anogwch nhw i gadw llygaid am wybodaeth am gyllid myfyrwyr, llety a dyddiadau dechrau.
Daliwch ati i ddathlu pob llwyddiant.
Mae sicrhau lle drwy’r broses Clirio yn gyflawniad, mae’n dangos gwytnwch a’r gallu i addasu, a bydd yn arwain at bennod newydd gyffrous yn eu taith addysgol.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cyrsiau/cyrsiau-ol-radd-tar/academi-cymru-ar-gyfer-arfer-proffesiynol-ac-ymchwil-cymhwysol-acapyc:
Canolfan ar gyfer rhagoriaeth mewn dysgu a datblygu arfer yw ACAPYC, sy’n cynnig rhaglenni/DPP pwrpasol, o gyrsiau byr i ddoethuriaethau, ar gyfer gweithwyr proffesiynol a’u sefydliadau.
I ddysgu am ein ar holl wasanaethau a’n harlwy, lawrlwythwch ein prosbectws:
Mae ein harweinwyr meddwl ym maes dysgu proffesiynol yn cefnogi ein grwpiau ymchwil Doethurol/Meistr a’n harlwy ymchwil/ymgynghoriaeth.
Mae ACAPYC ar flaen y gad o ran gwaith ymchwil a gwerthuso mewn arfer a datblygu.
Mae ein staff yn cynnal eu proffiliau ymchwil unigol eu hunain yn ogystal â chynnal grwpiau Doethurol mewn Hyfforddi a Mentora.
Mae ein Doethuriaeth unigryw mewn Arfer Proffesiynol yn croesawu uwch ymarferwyr ar draws sectorau a disgyblaethau.
Ymunwch â’n cymuned Ddoethurol ryngwladol gydag ymgeiswyr o Hong Kong, America ac Ewrop.
Datrysiadau ymchwil effeithiol ac arloesol i heriau’r byd go iawn.
Mae ein hymgeiswyr PhD wedi cyhoeddi tri llyfr yn ystod y flwyddyn ddiwethaf!
Mae ymchwil wrth wraidd ein gwaith ym maes datblygiad proffesiynol, felly gallwch fod yn sicr bod ein darpariaeth ar flaen y gad o ran ymarfer.
Mae ein prif ddarlithwyr: Yr Athro Stephen Palmer, Dr Annette Fillery-Travis a Dr Christine Daavies ymhlith yr ymchwilwyr mwyaf cynhyrchiol a ddyfynnir yn aml ym maes hyfforddi, mentora, seicoleg hyfforddi, straen a llesiant, dysgu proffesiynol, addysg ddoethurol, e-ddysgu a newid sefydliadol, gan gynnal ar yr un pryd ffocws cywir ar anghenion eu hymgeiswyr doethuriaeth.
Mae gennym Grŵp Ymchwil bywiog ym maes Hyfforddi a Mentora sy’n cwrdd yn fisol yn Llundain ac sy’n gallu cynnig goruchwyliaeth ddoethurol mewn amrywiaeth o feysydd.
Os hoffech ymuno â ni ar eich taith ymchwil chi, yna edrychwch ar ein rhaglenni doethurol yma.
Ar yr adeg allweddol hon i’r Athrofa, mae ACAPYC wedi creu cyfle am gymrodoriaeth.
Yn ddiweddar rydym wedi mabwysiadu cynllun strategol newydd sy’n rhoi inni’r nod mentrus o ddod yn arweinydd ym maes dysgu seiliedig ar waith, hyfforddi, mentora a llesiant.
Gofynnwn gwestiynau newydd i ni ein hunain, ein hymgeiswyr, a’r meysydd yr ydym yn gweithio oddi mewn iddynt.
Edrychwn yn ddyfnach o lawer i faterion yn ymwneud â pherfformiad sefydliadol a llesiant, lle mae angen gwell tystiolaeth, gwell syniadau, a meddylfryd newydd arnom.
Rydym yn awyddus i ddod yn bartneriaid â phobl gymwys a all ymuno â ni i archwilio rhai heriau allweddol yn ein gwaith.
Bydd pob cymrawd yn cymryd rhan mewn nifer o weithgareddau ACAPYC, gan gynnwys, ond heb fod yn gyfyngedig i’r canlynol:
Caiff cymrodyr y cyfle i gymhwyso eu profiad bywyd, proffesiynol ac academaidd, i feddwl am heriau newydd a chyfredol gyda’r nod o gyflwyno safbwyntiau newydd i’n gwaith.
Os yw’r cyfle hwn yn apelio atoch, yna anfonwch e-bost i coaching@uwtsd.ac.uk .
Mae Cymdeithas Hyfforddi ACAPYC yn dod ag ymchwil arloesol a seminarau ymarferwyr at ei gilydd yn seiliedig ar raglen Meistr a llwybr Doethurol.
Rydym ni’n rhwydwaith o ymarferwyr ac academyddion hyfforddi a mentora o bob cwr o’r byd sy’n wedi ymroi i ddatblygiad hyffordi a mentora.
Ein nod yw ffurfio cymuned o bobl sy’n ymwneud ag arfer gorau, ymchwil ac ymholiad ym maes arfer hyfforddi a mentora, a defnyddio arbenigedd ymarferwyr, sefydliadau ac academyddion i annog ymholi a deialog dan arweiniad ymarferwyr gyda chyfoedion a phartneriaid hyfforddi a mentora.
Pan fyddwn yn sôn am waith ymchwil, rydym yn cyfeirio at y continwwm cyfan o ymholiadau rydym yn eu cynnal, o arfer myfyriol unigol hyd at brosiectau ymchwil enfawr â sawl partner.
Ar gyfer ymchwiliwyr sydd â diddordeb mewn gwella arfer, boed yn ymarferydd unigol sydd eisiau’r wybodaeth a’r offer diweddaraf i gynnal natur arloesol yr hyn maent yn ei gynnig i’w cleientiaid, neu’n academydd llawn-amser sydd â diddordeb mewn dysgu a newid unigol.
Ond, yn bwysicach fyth, nod ein Cymdeithas yw dysgu gan ein gilydd, rhannu profiadau, a cheisio datblygu’r arfer gorau ar gyfer ymarferwyr hyfforddi a mentora.
Byddwn yn cyflawni hyn drwy:
Bydd pob Myfyriwr Hyfforddi a Mentora yn derbyn aelodaeth flynyddol am ddim.
Cysylltwch â Hyfforddi a Mentora yn y Gweithle i ymuno:
Yn Academi Cymru ar gyfer Arfer Proffesiynol ac Ymchwil Cymhwysol (ACAPYC), rydym yn cynnig ystod o opsiynau dysgu a datblygu ym maes Hyfforddi a Mentora ac opsiynau datblygu ar gyfer unigolion hyd at lefel Meistr ac ar gyfer carfannau sefydliadol.
Mae’r Rhaglen Hyfforddi a Mentora yn yr Academi wedi’i datblygu i ddarparu dysgu ac ymarfer ym maes hyfforddi a mentora o lefelau 4 i 7.
Mae’r Rhaglen Hyfforddi a Mentora yn manteisio ar brofiad helaeth ein tîm, sydd wedi gweithio ar draws pob sector, ac felly’n rhoi sicrwydd i chi ynghylch ansawdd y ddarpariaeth.
Rydyn ni’n cydweithio â chi os ydych chi’n dechrau adeiladu sgiliau hyfforddi, gan ddatblygu ymhellach eich arfer proffesiynol ym maes hyfforddi a mentora.
Neu, os ydych chi’n ymarferydd profiadol, gallwch chi ddatblygu eich llwybr dysgu eich hun gyda chymorth ein tîm darlithio.
Gallwn ni hefyd gefnogi eich datblygiad pe baech chi’n dymuno datblygu’r arbenigedd yn eich rôl arweinyddiaeth ac adnoddau dynol.
Rydym hefyd yn cynnal cymuned ymarfer ar gyfer ymarferwyr hyfforddi sydd â diddordeb mewn adeiladu corff o wybodaeth drwy ddosbarthiadau meistr rheolaidd a chynhadledd hyfforddi a mentora flynyddol.
Pa un ai a ydych chi’n awyddus i gomisiynu rhaglen benodol i ddiwallu eich hanghenion sefydliadol neu a ydych yn unigolyn sy’n ceisio dechrau neu ddatblygu eich ymarfer, byddwn ni’n gweithio gyda chi i ddatblygu llwybr sydd orau i chi.
Gallwch chi astudio o blith amrywiaeth o fodylau, neu gallwn ni ddatblygu rhaglen sydd wedi ei theilwra ar gyfer eich anghenion eich hun.
Strwythur Rhaglen Awgrymedig os ydych chi’n hyfforddwr neu’n fentor newydd
I ddechrau, mae’r rhaglen yn cynnwys cyfres o weithdai a addysgir lle cewch y cyfle i archwilio’r sylfaen ddamcaniaethol ar gyfer hyfforddi a mentora, a’r dulliau a all lywio model ymarfer cydlynol.
Cewch chi hefyd gyfleoedd i ddatblygu eich sgiliau ymarferol drwy ymarfer hyfforddi a mentora rhwng cymheiriaid.
Wedyn byddwch yn estyn eich ffocws y tu hwnt i’r personol ac archwilio cyd-destun yr hyfforddi o ran newid sefydliadol, a byddwch yn darganfod sylfaen y newid systemig a rôl unigolyn yn alluogydd.
Gellir cynnal astudiaethau pellach lle rydych yn datblygu eich dealltwriaeth o fethodolegau ymchwil priodol a fydd yn cefnogi’r rhan olaf o waith academaidd, sef eich prosiect seiliedig ar waith.
Mae hyn yn gofyn i chi ymchwilio’n feirniadol i agwedd ar hyfforddi neu fentora sy’n taro tant â chi, ac felly gallai fod yn fwlch yn y farchnad rydych chi wedi’i nodi, newid yr hoffech chi ei weithredu yn eich sefydliad, neu fenter busnes newydd yr hoffech chi ymchwilio iddi.
Ym mhob cyfnod, cewch gymorth gan eich goruchwyliwr i helpu i sicrhau bod eich gwaith yn fethodolegol gadarn ac ef/hi fydd yn eich arwain ac yn eich cefnogi gydol eich astudiaethau.
Yn achos hyfforddwyr profiadol, mae cyfle i hawlio credyd am ddysgu blaenorol a phosibilrwydd gwneud cais i ddod â chredydau i mewn i’ch cymhwyster o ddysgu blaenorol ac ardystiedig a gyflawnwyd ar lefel 7.
Er enghraifft, mae’r math o ddysgu y gellir ei gydnabod yn cynnwys:
Os ydych yn credu y gallech chi fod mewn sefyllfa i fanteisio ar yr opsiwn ‘llwybr cyflym’ ar gyfer y radd Meistr, trafodwch hynny ag arweinydd y rhaglen cyn i chi wneud eich cais i ymuno â’r rhaglen.
Os ydych eisiau cwrs byr i’ch staff, neu’n chwilio am becyn Dysgu a Datblygu cyflawn, gan gynnwys achredu eich hyfforddiant eich hun, gallwn ni weithio gyda chi.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/astudio/ffioedd-chyllid/ffioedd-israddedig:
Bydd ffioedd dysgu ar gyfer israddedigion yn berthnasol i unrhyw fyfyrwyr sy’n gwneud cais o’r DU, Ynysoedd y Sianel, Ynys Manaw ac Iwerddon.
Dylai myfyrwyr tramor a’r UE ymweld â’n tudalennau ffioedd dysgu rhyngwladol.
Ffioedd dysgu yw £9,535 ar gyfer mynediad ym mis Medi 2025 .
Mae’r ffi hon yn cyfateb i fenthyciadau sydd ar gael gan sefydliadau cyllid myfyrwyr.
Mae hyn yn cynnwys cyrsiau Baglor a chyrsiau rhagarweiniol fel cyrsiau CertHE, DipHE a Sylfaen.
Codir tâl ar gyrsiau israddedig rhan-amser fesul credyd.
Mae gradd Baglor gydag Anrhydedd nodweddiadol yn 360 credyd i gyd.
Ar gyfer 2025/26 y ffi fesul credyd yw £39 .
Y ffi am 60 credyd fyddai £2,340 .
Mae gan gyrsiau eraill fel Meistr Integredig, Rhaglen Sylfaen Ryngwladol a chyrsiau gyda blwyddyn leoliad ffioedd ansafonol.
Gweler ein Amserlen Ffioedd Dysgu.
Mae unigolion yn cysylltu â myfyrwyr gan gynnig talu eu ffioedd ar gyfraddau is neu o dan amodau arbennig.
Fe all twyllwyr gyflwyno’u hunain fel asiantaethau neu gymdeithion dilys, gallent fod yn ffrind.
Peidiwch fyth ag ymateb i’r cynigion hyn a thalwch eich ffioedd dysgu yn uniongyrchol i PCYDDS gan ddefnyddio’r dulliau talu awdurdodedig.
Rydym yn deall bod ariannu eich addysg yn rhan allweddol o’ch taith prifysgol.
P’un a ydych chi’n fyfyriwr sy’n byw yng Nghymru, yn dod o Loegr, yr Alban neu Ogledd Iwerddon, rydym yma i’ch cefnogi i lywio agweddau ariannol eich astudiaethau.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/ffioedd-chyllid/ffioedd-israddedig/ysgoloriaethau-israddedig:
Mae ein hysgoloriaethau’n dathlu penderfyniad, ymrwymiad a chyflawniad mewn amrywiaeth o feysydd, o wobrwyo rhagoriaeth academaidd i ddathlu llwyddiant y tu allan i’ch astudiaethau, goresgyn adfyd ac ysbrydoli eraill.
Mae llawer o’n grantiau yn cael eu dyfarnu’n awtomatig.
Fodd bynnag, mae rhai lle byddwch yn cymryd rhan mewn proses ymgeisio neu enwebiad.
Dyma restr o’n hysgoloriaethau:
Ysgoloriaeth Dysgu o Bell (hyd at £1,000)
Mae’r ysgoloriaethau hyn ar gyfer myfyrwyr sydd wedi astudio ym Mhrifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant o’r blaen
Dilyniant o UG ar gyfer PG - Campysau Cymru yn unig, hyd at £2,500
Dilyniant o UG i TAR - Campysau Cymru yn unig, hyd at £2,500
Dilyniant o Gelf a Dylunio CertHE neu Gelf a Dylunio Sylfaen - Campysau Cymru yn unig, hyd at £1,500
Dilyniant o UG i PGT - Myfyrwyr Rhyngwladol yn unig, hyd at £3,000
Ysgoloriaeth daucanmlwyddiant y Drindod Dewi Sant Myfyrwyr Cartref a Rhyngwladol - £3,000
Ysgoloriaeth Academi Fyd-eang Cymru PCYDDS Myfyrwyr Cartref a Rhyngwladol - £3,000
Ysgoloriaeth Gwlad y Gymanwlad PCYDDS Myfyrwyr Cartref a Rhyngwladol - £3,000
Ysgoloriaeth Byd-eang Cymru PCYDDS Myfyrwyr Cartref a Thramor - £5,000
Mae amrywiaeth o fwrsariaethau ar gael hefyd.
Rydym ni’n deall bod cyllido’ch addysg yn rhan allweddol o’ch taith yn y brifysgol.
P’un a ydych chi’n byw yng Nghymru, yn dod o Loegr, o’r Alban neu o Ogledd Iwerddon, rydym ni yma i’ch cefnogi wrth i chi ymdopi ag agweddau ariannol ar eich astudiaethau.
Mae deall costau prifysgol yn rhan bwysig o'ch taith.
Ewch i'n tudalennau ffioedd israddedig i gael gwybod mwy am yr hyn i'w ddisgwyl a sut y gallwch ariannu'r cam cyntaf yn eich taith academaidd.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/ffioedd-chyllid/ffioedd-israddedig/cyllid-chymorth-israddedig:
P’un a ydych chi’n byw yng Nghymru, yn dod o Loegr, o’r Alban neu o Ogledd Iwerddon, rydym ni yma i’ch cefnogi wrth i chi ymdopi ag agweddau ariannol ar eich astudiaethau.
Ble bynnag rydych chi’n byw, mae’r broses o wneud cais am gyllid myfyrwyr yn syml.
Gallwch chi wneud cais ar-lein drwy’r awdurdod cyllid myfyrwyr sy’n berthnasol i’ch gwlad.
Mae’n bwysig gwneud cais yn gynnar i sicrhau bod eich cyllid yn ei le cyn i chi gychwyn.
Os oes gennych chi unrhyw gwestiynau neu os oes angen help arnoch chi gyda’ch cais am gyllid myfyrwyr, mae ein timau yma i helpu.
Mae croeso i chi gysylltu â ni am gymorth a chyfarwyddyd drwy gydol y broses.
Rydym ni wedi ymrwymo i wneud addysg uwch yn hygyrch i’r holl fyfyrwyr, a dim ond un o’r ffyrdd rydym yn ceisio cyflawni hyn yw ein cymorth cyllid myfyrwyr.
Peidiwch â gadel i bryderon ariannol eich dal yn ôl rhag dilyn eich uchelgais academaidd – gwnewch gais am gyllid myfyrwyr heddiw a dechrau ar eich taith gyda ni.
Os ydych chi’n fyfyriwr sy’n byw yng Nghymru, mae cymorth ariannol ar gael i chi drwy Gyllid Myfyrwyr Cymru .
Mae’r cymorth hwn yn cynnwys benthyciadau ffioedd dysgu i dalu am gost ffioedd eich cwrs, yn ogystal â benthyciadau a grantiau cynhaliaeth i helpu gyda chostau byw.
Dyma gipolwg ar beth allai fod ar gael i chi:
Os ydych chi’n byw yn Lloegr, mae cymorth ariannol ar gael i chi drwy Student Finance England (SFE) .
Yn debyg i fyfyrwyr sy’n byw yng Nghymru, efallai bydd benthyciadau ffioedd dysgu a chymorth cynhaliaeth ar gael i chi i dalu am eich costau byw.
Dyma beth sydd angen i chi ei wybod:
Gall myfyrwyr sy’n byw yn yr Alban gael cymorth ariannol drwy’r Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS) .
Mae’r cymorth hwn yn cynnwys cyllid ffioedd dysgu a benthyciadau cynhaliaeth i helpu gyda chostau byw.
Benthyciadau Cynhaliaeth: I helpu gyda chostau byw megis llety a bwyd, mae benthyciadau cynhaliaeth ar gael.
Mae’r swm byddwch yn ei dderbyn yn dibynnu ar ffactorau megis incwm eich cartref a ble byddwch chi’n astudio.
Student Finance Northern Ireland .
Mae’r cymorth hwn yn cynnwys benthyciadau ffioedd dysgu a benthyciadau cynhaliaeth i helpu gyda chostau byw.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/ffioedd-chyllid/ffioedd-israddedig/cyllid-chymorth-israddedig/bwrsariaethau:
Mae gennym amrywiaeth o fwrsariaethau sy’n cael eu rhoi i fyfyrwyr yn seiliedig ar angen ac yn dod ar ffurf hepgoriadau ffioedd.
Mae'r fwrsariaeth hon ar gyfer myfyrwyr dan 25 sydd â phrofiad o fod mewn gofal i gynorthwyo â chostau cychwynnol adnoddau ac offer.
Gwerth y Dyfarniad: Hyd at £1000
Diben y fwrsariaeth hon yw cynorthwyo pob myfyriwr sydd wedi neu sydd wrthi’n cael eu hasesu ar gyfer anabledd gydag unrhyw gostau sy'n uniongyrchol gysylltiedig â'u hanabledd i hwyluso eu hastudiaethau.
Gwerth y Dyfarniad: Hyd at £700
Mae'r fwrsariaeth hon ar gyfer myfyrwyr dan 25 oed sydd wedi ymddieithrio oddi wrth eu rhieni.
Mae'r fwrsariaeth hon ar gyfer myfyrwyr cartref BAME neu deithwyr Lefel 5 neu 6 sy'n dymuno ymgymryd â gweithgaredd ymchwil neu berfformio.
Hyd at £500
Mae'r fwrsariaeth hon ar gyfer myfyrwyr sy'n ofalwyr a/neu rieni â chostau gofal plant.
Mae’r fwrsariaeth hon ar gyfer myfyrwyr o ardaloedd Ehangu Cyfranogiad MALlC 40.
Gwerth y Fyarniad: Hyd at £100
Diben y fwrsariaeth hon yw darparu cymorth i fyfyrwyr sydd â statws ceisio lloches neu ffoadur yn y DU.
Gwerth y Dyfarniad: Hyd at £250
Diben y fwrsariaeth hon yw darparu cymorth gyda chymorth llesiant.
Mae pob Athrofa Academaidd yn y Brifysgol yn cynnig bwrsariaethau hyd at £500 i gefnogi myfyrwyr cofrestredig yn eu semester cyntaf o'u blwyddyn gyntaf o astudio yn y Brifysgol.
Gwerth y Dyfarniad: Hyd at £500
Mae'r Fwrsariaeth Rhagoriaeth Academaidd Menywod mewn STEM yn dyfarnu hyd at £500 i unrhyw fyfyriwr israddedig sy'n hunan-adnabod fel menyw ac sydd ar un o'n cyrsiau STEM.
Bwrsari dilyniant penodol ar gyfer myfyrwyr cartref israddedig o Goleg Sir Gar a Choleg Ceredigion.
Efallai caiff myfyrwyr sy’n byw yng Nghymru ac mewn addysg uwch ac yn astudio’n rhan-amser gael hepgor eu ffioedd os ydynt yn bodloni amodau penodol, yn amodol ar bryd y dechreuasant eu cwrs.
Gwerth y Dyfarniad: Hepgor Ffioedd
Diben y fwrsariaeth hon yw cynorthwyo â chostau datblygu gyrfa a phrofiad gwaith.
Diben y fwrsariaeth hon yw cynorthwyo â chostau sy'n gysylltiedig â chwrs.
Diben y fwrsariaeth hon yw helpu gyda chostau dyfais neu ryngrwyd.
Gwerth y Dyfarniad: Hyd at £300
Diben y fwrsariaeth hon yw cefnogi graddedigion sy’n profi caledi ariannol o ran y costau sy’n gysylltiedig â mynychu eu seremoni raddio.
Gwerth y Dyfarniad: Hyd at £100
Diben y fwrsariaeth hon yw helpu gyda chostau cysylltiedig â gweithgaredd lleoliadau gorfodol.
Diben y fwrsariaeth hon yw cynorthwyo unrhyw fyfyrwyr israddedig amser llawn o’r DU sy'n cymryd rhan mewn semester dramor yn un o'n prifysgolion partner.
Mae'r fwrsariaeth hon ar gyfer myfyrwyr sy'n ymgymryd â modylau drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg.
Gwerth y Dyfarniad: Hyd at £900

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/ffioedd-chyllid/ffioedd-israddedig/bwrsariaethau-israddedig/bwrsariaeth-astudio:
Yn berthnasol i fyfyrwyr israddedig yn unig.
Unrhyw israddedig amser llawn yn y DU sy’n dymuno ymgymryd â semester o Astudio Dramor yn un o’n sefydliadau partner.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/ffioedd-chyllid/ffioedd-israddedig/bwrsariaethau-israddedig/bwrsariaeth-costau:
Holl fyfyrwyr sydd wedi cofrestru ar gwrs a ddarperir gan y Drindod Dewi Sant (o leiaf 40 credyd)
Hyd at £250 i gefnogi myfyrwyr sy’n gwneud cais am gostau sy’n gysylltiedig â’r cwrs.
Gall costau sy’n gysylltiedig â’r cwrs gynnwys llyfrau arbenigol, offer arbenigol ac ati.
Er y gall myfyrwyr wneud mwy nag un cais lle mae’r cymorth y gofynnwyd amdano yn llai na £250, yr uchafswm cyfanredol y gellir ei ddyfarnu ar gyfer unrhyw fyfyriwr mewn un flwyddyn academaidd yw £250.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/ffioedd-chyllid/ffioedd-israddedig/bwrsariaethau-israddedig/bwrsariaeth-costau-0:
I wneud cais am y bwrsari hwn bydd angen i chi:

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/ffioedd-chyllid/ffioedd-israddedig/bwrsariaethau-israddedig/bwrsariaeth:
Bydd myfyrwyr cymwys yn hunan-adnabod fel un o’r grwpiau ethnig o dan y penawdau canlynol ar y rhestr gyhoeddedig hon gan Lywodraeth y DU:
Grwpiau ethnig cymysg neu lluosog
Asiaidd neu Asiaidd Prydeinig
Du, Affricanaidd, Caribïaidd, neu Brydeinig Du
Grŵp Ethnig Arall
Mae myfyrwyr y mae eu ethnigrwydd yn Sipsiwn neu Deithiwr Gwyddelig hefyd yn gymwys ar gyfer y fwrsariaeth hon.
Hyd at uchafswm o £500 i gefnogi myfyrwyr cymwys sy’n ymgymryd â gweithgaredd ymchwil neu berfformio (neu hyd at £250 ar gyfer costau academaidd a theithio).
Gall gweithgareddau gynnwys: mynychu neu gyflwyno mewn cynhadledd; costau sy’n gysylltiedig â phrosiect ymchwil neu sioe; costau teithio ac academaidd.
Cais i gynnwys tystiolaeth ategol e.e.
derbynebau fel prawf o brynu deunyddiau academaidd, tocynnau teithio ac ati.
Rhaid i ymgeiswyr fod wedi cofrestru eu ethnigrwydd gyda’r Brifysgol fel rhan o’u proses gofrestru.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/ffioedd-chyllid/ffioedd-israddedig/bwrsariaethau-israddedig/bwrsariaeth-cysylltedd:
Bwriad y fwrsariaeth Cysylltedd Digidol hon yw darparu cymorth i fyfyrwyr cartref (sy’n gymwys i gael cyllid myfyrwyr) nad oes ganddynt fynediad at ddyfais a / neu ddarpariaeth rhyngrwyd ar gyfer eu hastudiaethau ac y mae cyllid yn rhwystr i brynu eu dyfais eu hunain.
Bydd y fwrsariaeth yn cael ei dyfarnu i fyfyrwyr cymwys yn eu semester cyntaf o astudiaethau yn y Drindod Dewi Sant sy’n ceisio cyfraniad ariannol tuag at gysylltedd digidol (hyd at £100) neu gostau dyfeisiau a chysylltedd (hyd at £300).
Bydd myfyrwyr cymwys yn cael eu cofrestru ar o leiaf 40 credyd ar gwrs Y Drindod Dewi Sant a byddant yn derbyn y lefel uchaf o gymorth Cyllid Myfyrwyr.
Bydd angen i fyfyrwyr sy’n derbyn uchafswm y Cyllid Myfyrwyr ac yn dymuno derbyn cymorth drwy’r llwybr cais hwn wneud y canlynol: - Cwblhau’r ffurflen gais ar-lein
- Darparu copi o’ch llythyr Cyllid Myfyrwyr yn dangos eich bod yn derbyn uchafswm y cyllid myfyrwyr.
SYLWER : Os nad ydych yn derbyn yr uchafswm cymorth ariannol gan Gyllid Myfyrwyr, mae gennych ddau lwybr amgen ar gyfer cymorth.
1) Os gwnaethoch brynu eich dyfais eich hun, gallwch wneud cais am hyd at £250 tuag at y gost drwy’r fwrsariaeth Costau’r Cwrs.
Bydd angen i chi ddarparu copi o’r dderbynneb ar gyfer eich pryniant.
2) Os nad ydych yn gallu fforddio prynu eich dyfais eich hun, gallwch wneud cais am gymorth drwy’r fwrsariaeth hon ond gofynnir i chi ddarparu gwybodaeth a thystiolaeth ychwanegol i gefnogi eich cais.
Cwblhewch y ffurflen gais ar-lein
Rhowch gopi o’ch llythyr Cyllid Myfyrwyr sy’n dangos lefel y cymorth ariannol rydych chi’n ei dderbyn (dadansoddiad llawn gan gynnwys unrhyw hawl grant gofal plant)
Cwblhewch y ffurflen incwm a gwariant y byddwn yn ei hanfon atoch ar ôl derbyn y cais ar-lein
Darparu datganiadau banc diweddaraf mis ar gyfer pob cyfrif a ddelir gan gynnwys balans cyfredol, wedi’i anodi i gadarnhau eich costau craidd.
Mae ceisiadau i’r Fwrsariaeth Cysylltedd Digidol bellach yn cael eu cyfyngu i fyfyrwyr a ddechreuodd eu rhaglen astudio ym mis Gorffennaf 2024 (neu’n ddiweddarach).

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/ffioedd-chyllid/ffioedd-israddedig/bwrsariaethau-israddedig/bwrsariaeth-datblygu:
Efallai na fydd myfyrwyr a benodir fel interniaid INSPIRE neu sy’n elwa o interniaethau STEM y Brifysgol yn gwneud cais ychwanegol trwy’r gronfa hon gan fod y rolau hynny eisoes yn cael eu cefnogi trwy’r Fwrsariaeth Datblygu Gyrfa.
Mae myfyrwyr sy’n cynrychioli’r Brifysgol yn yr Eisteddfod hefyd yn cael eu cefnogi yn y modd hwn felly mae unrhyw daliad bwrsariaeth a dderbynnir yn cyfrannu tuag at yr uchafswm o £1,000.
Er y gall myfyrwyr wneud mwy nag un cais, yr uchafswm cyfanredol y gellir ei ddyfarnu i unrhyw fyfyriwr mewn un flwyddyn academaidd yw £1,000.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/ffioedd-chyllid/ffioedd-israddedig/bwrsariaethau-israddedig/bwrsariaeth-dyfarniad:
Sylwch na fydd myfyrwyr sydd eisoes yn derbyn Ysgoloriaethau y Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol yn gymwys ar gyfer £500 cyntaf yr ysgoloriaeth hon ond gallant wneud cais am y gwahaniaeth rhwng y ddwy ddyfarniad os ydynt yn astudio dros 100 credyd mewn blwyddyn academaidd.
Mae’r fwrsariaeth fel arfer yn cael ei dyfarnu ym mis Gorffennaf yn dilyn byrddau arholi terfynol y flwyddyn academaidd.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/ffioedd-chyllid/ffioedd-israddedig/bwrsariaethau-israddedig/bwrsariaeth-lleoliad:
Hyd at £250 i gefnogi myfyrwyr sy’n ymgymryd â gweithgaredd lleoliad gorfodol yn rhan o’u cwrs.
Fel arfer dyfernir y bwrsari hwn fel ad-daliad wrth gyflwyno derbynebau prynu.
Ble nad yw myfyrwyr yn gallu talu costau ymlaen llaw anogir iddynt wneud ceisiadau i’r Gronfa Cymorth Ariannol Myfyrwyr.
Er bod myfyrwyr yn gallu gwneud mwy nag un cais lle bo’r cymorth y gofynnir amdano’n llai na £250, uchafswm y cyfanswm y gellir ei ddyfarnu i unrhyw fyfyriwr mewn blwyddyn academaidd yw £250.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/ffioedd-chyllid/ffioedd-israddedig/bwrsariaethau-israddedig/bwrsariaeth-noddfa:
Mynediad i’r brifysgol a chefnogaeth i fyfyrwyr sydd â statws ceisio lloches neu ffoadur yn y DU.
Mae’r fwrsariaeth hon yn darparu hepgoriad ffioedd dysgu a chefnogaeth ychwanegol ar gyfer astudio.
I gael mynediad at y fwrsariaeth hon, rhaid i ymgeiswyr fodloni’r holl feini prawf a restrir yn y telerau ac amodau.
Mae’r meini prawf yn cynnwys:
Cael un o’r statws mewnfudo rhestredig, a
Ar ôl derbyn cynnig amodol neu ddiamod o astudiaeth israddedig amser llawn gan y Drindod Dewi Sant
Telerau ac Amodau Bwrsari Prifysgol Noddfa
Dolen gwneud cais 25-26: Ffurflen gais Noddfa PCYDDS
Mae ceisiadau’n cael eu derbyn ar gyfer blwyddyn academaidd 2025-26 a’r dyddiad cau ar gyfer ceisiadau yw 6pm ar 29ain Mai 2026.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/ffioedd-chyllid/ffioedd-israddedig/bwrsariaethau-israddedig/bwrsariaeth-pobl-syn:
Ar gyfer myfyrwyr dan 25 oed o gefndir sy’n profi gofal:
Myfyrwyr sydd â phrofiad o ofal (3 mis neu fwy yn byw o dan Ofal Awdurdod Lleol ar ôl tair oed).
Ar gael i blant dan 25 oed yn unig.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/ffioedd-chyllid/ffioedd-israddedig/bwrsariaethau-israddedig/bwrsariaeth-rhieni:
Ar gyfer myfyrwyr sy’n ofalwyr a/neu rieni sydd â chostau gofal plant
Myfyrwyr o dan 25 oed sy’n Ofalwyr Oedolion Ifanc
Myfyrwyr dros 25 oed sy’n Ofalwyr
Myfyrwyr sydd â phlant ac sydd angen help gyda chostau gofal plant
Lefelau bwrsariaeth:
Hyd at £500 i gefnogi costau gofal plant (mewn meithrinfa, crèche neu warchodwr plant cofrestredig yn y DU) lle nad oes cyllid gofal plant ar gael drwy’r llywodraeth neu Gyllid Myfyrwyr.
Mae hyn yn cael ei dalu mewn dau randaliad - 50% y semester.
neu
Hyd at £500 i gefnogi dibynyddion sy’n oedolion, lle nad yw myfyriwr yn gymwys i gael y grant Dibynnol i Oedolion a’r Grant Cymorth Arbennig drwy Gyllid Myfyrwyr (byddai’r dystiolaeth sy’n ofynnol yn cynnwys y PIP neu’r DLA perthnasol) Telir hyn mewn dau randaliad – 50% y semester.
Hyd at £1000 i fyfyrwyr dan 25 oed sy’n gweithredu fel Gofalwr Oedolion Ifanc (tystiolaeth sy’n ofynnol fydd llythyr gan eich Awdurdod Lleol/Gwasanaethau Cymdeithasol neu Grŵp Cymorth Gofalwyr).
Telir hyn mewn tri rhandaliad – 25% yn nhymor 1, 25% yn nhymor 2 a 50% yn nhymor 3.
Rhaid i geisiadau gynnwys tystiolaeth ategol.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/astudio/ffioedd-chyllid/ffioedd-ol-raddedig:
Bydd ffioedd dysgu ar gyfer ôl-raddedigion yn berthnasol i unrhyw fyfyrwyr sy’n gwneud cais o’r DU, Ynysoedd y Sianel, Ynys Manaw ac Iwerddon.
Ein ffi dysgu llawn-amser yn y DU/cartref ar gyfer 2025/26 yw £7,800 .
Mae hyn yn cynnwys cyrsiau meistr fel MA, MSc, a MBA.
Ein ffi dysgu ar gyfer astudio ar-lein yw £6,800.
Mae gan gyrsiau eraill fel TAR, tystysgrifau ôl-raddedig a diplomâu ôl-raddedig ffioedd ansafonol.
Mae gan ein cyrsiau ymchwil ôl-raddedig ffi ansafonol.
Gweler ein Hamserlen Ffioedd Dysgu am restr lawn o ffioedd ansafonol.
Rydym yn deall bod ariannu eich astudiaethau ôl-raddedig yn rhan bwysig o barhau â’ch taith academaidd.
P’un a ydych chi’n dychwelyd i’r brifysgol o Gymru, Lloegr, yr Alban, neu Ogledd Iwerddon, rydym yma i’ch helpu i lywio’r opsiynau cyllido a’r cymorth sydd ar gael ar gyfer eich cam nesaf.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/astudio/ffioedd-chyllid/ffioedd-ol-raddedig/cyllid-chymorth-ol-raddedig:
Mae gwneud cais am gyllid ôl-raddedig yn syml a gellir ei wneud ar-lein trwy awdurdod cyllid myfyrwyr eich gwlad.
Mae’n well gwneud cais yn gynnar fel bod eich cyllid yn ei le cyn i’ch cwrs ddechrau.
Os oes gennych unrhyw gwestiynau, mae ein tîm cymorth ariannol yma i’ch cefnogi trwy gydol y broses ymgeisio.
Rydym wedi ymrwymo i wneud addysg ôl-raddedig yn hygyrch.
Peidiwch â gadael i gyllid eich dal yn ôl - gwnewch gais heddiw a chymerwch eich cam academaidd nesaf yn hyderus.
Gwnewch gais drwy Cyllid Myfyrwyr Cymru
Gwnewch gais trwy Student Finance England (SFE)
Gwnewch gais drwy’r Asiantaeth Dyfarniadau Myfyrwyr yr Alban (SAAS)
Gwnewch gais trwy Cyllid Myfyrwyr Gogledd Iwerddon
Disgownt ffioedd dysgu i Raddedigion PCYDDS i symud ymlaen i astudiaeth ôl-raddedig.
Gwerth y Gwobr: Hyd at £2,500

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/astudio/ffioedd-chyllid/ffioedd-rhyngwladol:
Bydd ffioedd dysgu i fyfyrwyr rhyngwladol yn berthnasol i unrhyw fyfyrwyr sy’n gwneud cais o’r tu allan i’r DU ac Iwerddon, gan gynnwys yr UE a gwledydd rhyngwladol eraill.
Dylai myfyrwyr o’r DU, Ynysoedd y Sianel, Ynys Manaw, ac Iwerddon ymweld â’n tudalennau ffioedd dysgu Israddedig neu Ôl-raddedig.
Ein ffi dysgu israddedig llawn amser ar gyfer myfyrwyr tramor ar gyfer 2025/26 yw £15,525 ar gyfer pob blwyddyn astudio.
Mae hyn yn cynnwys cyrsiau Baglor a chyrsiau rhagarweiniol fel cyrsiau CertHE, DipHE a Sylfaen.
Codir tâl ar ein cyrsiau rhan-amser fesul credyd.
Ar gyfer 2025/26 y ffi fesul credyd yw £110.
Mae cwrs rhan-amser fel arfer yn 60 credyd y flwyddyn.
Y ffi am 60 credyd fyddai £6,000.
Mae gan gyrsiau eraill fel Meistr Integredig, Rhaglen Sylfaen Ryngwladol, a chyrsiau gyda blwyddyn leoliad ffioedd ansafonol.
Gweler ein Amserlen Ffioedd Dysgu .
P’un a ydych chi’n fyfyriwr sy’n byw yng Nghymru, yn dod o Loegr, yr Alban neu Ogledd Iwerddon, rydyn ni yma i’ch cefnogi chi i lywio agweddau ariannol eich myfyrwyr.
Ein ffi dysgu ôl-raddedig amser llawn ar gyfer myfyrwyr tramor ar gyfer 2025/26 yw £16,800 y flwyddyn.
Mae hyn yn cynnwys cyrsiau meistr fel MA, MSc, MBA a DBA.
Ein ffi dysgu ar gyfer astudio ar-lein yw £10,500 y flwyddyn.
Mae gan gyrsiau eraill fel TAR, tystysgrifau ôl-raddedig a diplomâu ôl-raddedig ffioedd ansafonol.
Rydym yn cynnig amrywiaeth o ysgoloriaethau, sy’n dathlu penderfyniad, ymrwymiad a chyflawniad ein myfyrwyr.
Fodd bynnag, mae’r rhain yn rhai lle bydd angen i chi fod yn rhan o broses ymgeisio neu enwebiad.
I gael gwybod mwy am ein hysgoloriaethau a gwirio eich cymhwyster, ewch i’n tudalen ysgoloriaeth .

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/ffioedd-chyllid/cymorth-i-fyfyrwyr-rhyngwladol:
Rydym yn falch o gynnig cyfleoedd am ysgoloriaethau i fyfyrwyr o bob rhan o’r byd.
Mae amrywiaeth o ysgoloriaethau rhyngwladol ar gael, felly darllenwch y wybodaeth isod am y cyfleoedd sydd ar gael ar hyn o bryd a’r meini prawf cymhwysedd.
Os ydych chi’n bodloni unrhyw un o’n meini prawf cymhwysedd byddwch yn cael eich ystyried yn awtomatig ar gyfer un o’r Ysgoloriaethau Rhyngwladol isod.
Does dim angen i chi lenwi unrhyw ffurflen arall, gwnewch gais am le ar eich cwrs ac os byddwch yn derbyn Cynnig Amodol gan y Brifysgol bydd cais am unrhyw ysgoloriaeth ryngwladol berthnasol yn cael ei wneud yn awtomatig.
Ar gyfer Cyn-fyfyrwyr o’r Brifysgol sy’n ceisio cael lle ar un o’n cyrsiau ôl-raddedig.
Meini Prawf Cymhwysedd: I fod yn gymwys, mae’n rhaid eich bod wedi cwblhau cwrs israddedig neu ôl-raddedig llawn amser a ddyfarnwyd gan PCYDDS neu Brifysgol Cymru ac wedi astudio ar gyfer y radd ar un o’n prif gampysau yn y DU neu gyda’n partneriaid cydweithredol tramor.
Swm y Dyfarniad: Hyd at £3000
I gydnabod y cysylltiadau agos sy’n bodoli rhwng y DU a Gwledydd y Gymanwlad ac i ddathlu’r ffaith mai Ei Uchelder Brenhinol Tywysog Cymru yw Noddwr Brenhinol y Brifysgol.
Meini Prawf Cymhwysedd: Myfyrwyr rhyngwladol o wlad yn y Gymanwlad sy’n gwneud cais i astudio ar gwrs lefel Meistr.
Ar gyfer myfyrwyr rhyngwladol o UDA, Canada, India, Fietnam a gwledydd yr Undeb Ewropeaidd sy’n gwneud cais i astudio rhaglen Feistr llawn amser yng Nghymru.
Meini Prawf Cymhwysedd: Myfyrwyr rhyngwladol o UDA, Canada, India, Fietnam a gwledydd yr Undeb Ewropeaidd.
Swm y Dyfarniad: £10,000
Gwneud Cais Nawr: Drwy wefan Cymru Fyd-eang
Hyrwyddo Addysg a Chysylltiadau Diwylliannol rhwng Cymru a Gogledd America.
Meini Prawf Cymhwysedd : Mae’r Ysgoloriaethau’n rhoi cyfle i fyfyrwyr o Ogledd America wneud cais am ddyfarniad i dalu costau teithio wrth ymgymryd ag astudiaethau sy’n ymwneud â hanes a diwylliant Cymru-America yng Nghymru.
Bwriad y wobr yw cefnogi myfyrwyr sy’n dymuno astudio ar gyfer graddau Baglor, Meistr a Doethuriaeth neu gyfwerth mewn sefydliadau academaidd cydnabyddedig yng Nghymru.
Rhaid i’r cais gael ei gefnogi gan y sefydliad lletyol.
Rhaid i anghenion ariannol gael eu dogfennu.
Nid oes rhaid i’r derbynnydd fod o gefndir ethnig Cymreig, fodd bynnag, mae cysylltiad â Chymru yn rhinwedd bwysig.
Gwneud Cais Nawr: Drwy Sefydliad Cymru Gogledd America .
Hwyluso cyfnewid diwylliannol rhwng Gogledd America a Chymru.
Dylai’r ymgeisydd ddarparu geirda gan sefydliad diwylliannol neu academaidd cydnabyddedig o dras Gymreig Americanaidd.
Dylai ceisiadau am grantiau o fwy na $1,000 roi syniad o gyfanswm cost y gweithgaredd arfaethedig.
Mae’r rhaglen Ysgoloriaeth Gyfnewid yn rhoi cyfle i fyfyrwyr o Ogledd America wneud cais am wobr o $5,000 i astudio yng Nghymru
Bwriad y dyfarniad yw cefnogi myfyrwyr sy’n dymuno astudio ar gyfer graddau Baglor, Meistr a Doethuriaeth neu gyfwerth mewn sefydliadau academaidd cydnabyddedig yng Nghymru.
Rhaid i’r cais gael ei gefnogi gan y sefydliad lletyol.
Swm y Dyfarniad: $5,000
Gwybodaeth Ychwanegol: Nid oes rhaid i’r derbynnydd fod o gefndir ethnig Cymreig, fodd bynnag, mae cysylltiad â Chymru yn rhinwedd bwysig.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/astudio/ffioedd-chyllid/ffioedd-dysgu:
Israddedig (UG)
Tystysgrif i Raddedigion
Meistr Integredig
Rhaglen Sylfaen Ryngwladol
Rhaglen Ryngwladol Cyn-Meistr
*Bwrsariaeth ar gael i fyfyrwyr sy’n byw yng Nghymru

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/amdanom/adran-gyllid/dulliau-talu-rhyngwladol:
Bydd myfyrwyr rhyngwladol yn derbyn gohebiaeth gan y Tîm Derbyn yn manylu ar y wybodaeth bwysig ynghylch Ffioedd a Chyllid.
Mae’r Brifysgol yn defnyddio Flywire i alluogi myfyrwyr i wneud taliadau ffioedd dysgu myfyrwyr rhyngwladol, costau llety a thaliadau eraill.
Nid yw’r brifysgol yn derbyn taliadau arian parod na throsglwyddiadau banc uniongyrchol mewn unrhyw arian cyfred.
Peidiwch â pheryglu eich arian trwy ddelio ag unrhyw ddarparwyr taliadau, asiantau neu gyfryngwyr, a allai gynnig cyfraddau cyfnewid neu gymelliadau sy’n ymddangos yn ddeniadol, ond na ellir gwarantu eu bod yn ddiogel neu’n gyfreithlon.
Fel rhan o ddeddfwriaeth atal gwyngalchu arian y DU, mae angen i’r Brifysgol ddeall o ble mae taliadau ffioedd dysgu yn dod.
Dyma pam nad ydym bellach yn galluogi gwneud taliadau ffioedd dysgu na thaliadau llety trwy drosglwyddiad banc uniongyrchol.
Mae Pay now with Flywire yn darparu porth talu ar-lein y Brifysgol sy’n galluogi talu drwy:
Nid yw Flywire wedi’i ffurfweddu â thaliadau cerdyn American Express .
Mae Flywire yn cynnig y gwarant Best Price Guarantee for International Payments | Flywire ar gyfer taliadau rhyngwladol gan ddefnyddio trosglwyddiad banc mewn arian cyfred lleol.
Os cewch chi gynnig cyfradd well yn eich banc o fewn dwy awr ar ôl archebu taliad trosglwyddiad banc mewn arian cyfred lleol, yna bydd Flywire yn cynnig yr un gyfradd.
Mae Rheoliadau Atal Gwyngalchu Arian yn y DU yn ei gwneud yn ofynnol i’r Brifysgol fod yn ‘weddol fodlon’ ynghylch pwy yw’r myfyriwr (ac eraill) maent yn ymwneud â nhw mewn perthynas gytundebol.
Golyga hyn y bydd y Brifysgol yn cynnal gwiriadau ‘adnabod eich cwsmer’ gan ddefnyddio gwybodaeth bersonol yn cynnwys dyddiad geni a chyfeiriad cartref.
Os yw taliadau i gael eu derbyn gan drydydd partïon – fel aelodau o’r teulu neu noddwyr - yna efallai y bydd angen darparu dogfennaeth ychwanegol yn profi eu henw, eu cyfeiriad a’u perthynas â chi.
Ar gyfer unrhyw gwestiynau ynglŷn â Thaliadau Ffioedd Rhyngwladol anfonwch e-bost i’r Swyddfa Ryngwladol
Derbyniadau Rhyngwladol Cymru : WalesInt@uwtsd.ac.uk
Derbyniadau Rhyngwladol Llundain : LondonInt@uwtsd.ac.uk
Derbyniadau Rhyngwladol Birmingham : BirminghamInt@uwtsd.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cyllid/tal:
Gellir defnyddio cardiau credyd a debyd i wneud taliadau Ffioedd Dysgu a Ffioedd Llety ar-lein i Brifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant drwy’r ddolen a ganlyn:
(Derbynnir pob un o’r prif gardiau credyd heblaw American Express a Diners Club.)
Mae cyllid ar gael drwy Gyllid Myfyrwyr ar ffurf Benthyciad Ffioedd Dysgu.
Os cewch fenthyciad ffioedd dysgu, caiff ei dalu’n uniongyrchol i Brifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant.
Wrth lenwi eich cais am Gyllid Myfyrwyr, sicrhewch eich bod yn dewis:
Os oes gennych unrhyw ymholiadau ynghylch talu ffioedd, cysylltwch â’r Adran Gyllid ar ffioedd@pcydds.ac.uk .
Mae Cyllid Ôl-raddedig ar gael drwy Gyllid Myfyrwyr ar ffurf Benthyciad Ffioedd Dysgu.
Yn wahanol i fenthyciad israddedig, telir benthyciad ôl-raddedig i chi’n uniongyrchol, felly mae’n rhaid i chi drefnu talu ffioedd dysgu i’r Drindod Dewi Sant yn unol â’n telerau talu.
I dalu eich Ffioedd Dysgu, talwch yn llawn yn Nhymor 1 neu mewn rhandaliadau (gweler yr adran rhandaliadau am fanylion pellach)
I gael rhagor o wybodaeth, ewch i ‘ Funding for Postgraduate Study ’ yn gov.uk
Os yw eich cyflogwr neu sefydliad elusen yn cyfrannu tuag at ffi eich cwrs, lawrlwythwch y Ffurflen Noddwyr.
Wrth dderbyn y Ffurflen Noddwyr, byddwn yn anfonebu eich noddwr am eu cyfraniad tuag at eich ffioedd cwrs.
Sylwch y bydd angen i chi lenwi ffurflen newydd wrth gofrestru bob blwyddyn os yw nawdd wedi’i gytuno gan eich noddwyr ar gyfer y flwyddyn academaidd dan sylw.
Mae myfyrwyr yn gyfrifol am dalu’r holl ffioedd sy’n ddyledus tra maent yn astudio yn y Brifysgol yn brydlon.
Os oes noddwr wedi cytuno i dalu ar ran myfyriwr, mae’r myfyriwr yn parhau i fod yn gyfrifol am y ddyled nes iddi gael ei thalu.
Gellir talu ffioedd dysgu drwy un o’r ddwy ffordd ganlynol:
Drwy fynd i dudalen ‘ Taliadau Myfyrwyr ’ unwaith y byddwch wedi cael eich Anfoneb yn eich cyfeiriad e-bost myfyriwr.
Talu ar unwaith
Gallwch dalu ffioedd ar unwaith, yn llawn, trwy gerdyn credyd/debyd.
Bydd y taliad yn cael ei brosesu ar unwaith, a chaiff y ffioedd llawn eu casglu ar unwaith.
Taliadau rheolaidd â cherdyn
Gellir trefnu amserlen o daliadau ar ddyddiadau cytûn (gweler y manylion isod).
Sylwer bydd trefnu taliadau rheolaidd â cherdyn yn sicrhau bod yr holl daliadau sy’n ddyledus am y flwyddyn academaidd gyfredol yn cael eu gwneud yn awtomatig.
Nid oes raid i chi wneud dim yn bellach (ar gyfer y flwyddyn hon) oni bai ein bod yn cysylltu â chi i ddweud fel arall.
Os nad yw’r dyddiadau a geir ar y sgrîn yn cyd-fynd â’r dyddiad a gewch eich cyllid myfyrwyr, cysylltwch â ffioedd@pcydds.ac.uk i drafod
Bydd angen yr wybodaeth a ganlyn arnoch i dalu drwy unrhyw rai o’r dulliau a ddisgrifir uchod:
Ewch i Ffioedd Dysgu a Dulliau Talu Rhyngwladol .
Os ydych yn dysgu o bell yn Rhyngwladol, cysylltwch â ni yn ffioedd@pcydds.ac.uk ar gyfer eich opsiynau talu.
Ffioedd Dysgu
Mae angen i fyfyrwyr gadarnhau, yn rhan o’r broses gofrestru, eu bod yn derbyn cyfrifoldeb am dalu ffioedd dysgu ac unrhyw lety, neu daliadau eraill a allai ddod i’w rhan wrth astudio yn y Brifysgol.
Os na fydd myfyriwr yn methu yn talu ffioedd dysgu pan fyddant yn ddyledus, ac yn methu â gwneud trefniadau boddhaol ar gyfer clirio unrhyw ddyled sy’n weddill, mae’r Brifysgol yn cadw’r hawl i gychwyn achos cyfreithiol i adennill y ddyled.
Nid oes gan fyfyrwyr sydd â dyledion ffioedd dysgu sy’n weddill hawl i symud ymlaen i’r flwyddyn astudiaethau nesaf, i gael dyfarniad nac i raddio.
Ffioedd Llety
Gall myfyrwyr sy’n dychwelyd wneud cais am lety ond ni chânt ystafelloedd os na fydd ffioedd llety i’r Brifysgol wedi eu talu’n llawn ar gyfer Cytundebau Trwydded blaenorol.
Gellir trefnu i dalu ffioedd dysgu’r dyfodol mewn un, dau neu dri rhandal, yn amodol ar y gwerth.
Bydd angen i chi aros am anfoneb cyn y gallwch dalu.
Bydd y ddolen i dudalen Taliadau Myfyrwyr ar eich anfoneb i wneud taliad.
Dyma fydd amseriad y rhandaliadau:
Ffioedd hyd at £250 – yn daladwy mewn 1 rhandal ar ddechrau pob tymor
Ffioedd hyd at £250 – yn daladwy mewn 2 rhandal ar ddechrau’r tymor cyntaf a’r ail dymor
Ffioedd o £1001 neu fwy – yn daladwy mewn 3 rhandal (34%/33%/33%) ar ddechrau pob tymor
Dylai bod dyddiadau rhandaliadau sydd ar gael drwy’r ddolen ar-lein fod yn ddyddiadau ar ôl i chi dderbyn eich benthyciad i sicrhau bod gennych yr arian i wneud y taliad.
Os oes unrhyw broblemau gyda hyn, cysylltwch â ni yn ffioedd@pcydds.ac.uk .
Gellir trefnu talu ffioedd llety yn y dyfodol mewn un rhandal neu mewn tri rhandal.
Bydd y ddolen Taliadau Myfyrwyr ar eich anfoneb i wneud taliad.
Dyma fydd amseriad rhandaliadau:
Mae’r ffi sy’n ddyledus a symiau rhandaliadau perthnasol ar gael ar y Contract Llety Myfyrwyr a gyhoeddir gan y Swyddfa Llety neu yn Llety Myfyrwyr .
Drwy gyflwyno taliad ar safle taliadau ar-lein Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant (“Y Brifysgol”) rydych chi’n cytuno â’r telerau a’r amodau hyn.
Os nad ydych yn derbyn y telerau hyn, peidiwch â pharhau â’ch taliad a chysylltwch â Swyddfa Gyllid y Brifysgol (gweler y manylion isod).
Cyfrifoldeb y Myfyriwr yw sicrhau bod Ffioedd Dysgu’r Brifysgol mewn perthynas â’r Rhaglen yn cael eu talu ar ddechrau pob Blwyddyn astudio Academaidd neu Galendr yn unol â chyfarwyddiadau swyddfa gyllid y Brifysgol.
Rhaid talu’r ffioedd sy’n ddyledus cyn neu wrth gofrestru boed yn uniongyrchol gan y Myfyriwr neu ar ran y Myfyriwr gan drydydd parti (fel perthynas, cyflogwr neu noddwr arall).
Nid yw gwneud unrhyw daliadau tuag at Ffioedd Dysgu gan fyfyrwyr neu ar eu rhan yn nodi bodolaeth contract rhwng y Brifysgol a’r Myfyriwr.
Nodwch fod y Brifysgol yn defnyddio prosesyddion trydydd parti (WPM Education) at ddibenion diogelwch ac atal twyll i brosesu pob trafodion talu.
Mae ein Hysbysiad Preifatrwydd ynghylch y defnydd a wneir o’ch data ar gael yn ein Datganiad Preifatrwydd Myfyrwyr.
Gall y Brifysgol ddiweddaru’r telerau hyn o bryd i’w gilydd a bydd unrhyw newidiadau’n weithredol ar unwaith wedi iddynt gael eu hamlinellu yma.
Gwnewch yn siŵr eich bod yn ymwybodol o’r telerau cyfredol.
Dyma ein manylion cysylltu:
Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant Swyddfa Gyllid Heol y Coleg Caerfyrddin Sir Gaerfyrddin SA31 3EP
Os oes gennych unrhyw gwestiynau’n ymwneud â’ch defnydd o’r system talu ar-lein, cysylltwch â ni (gweler y manylion uchod).
Eich cyfrifoldeb chi yw sicrhau bod eich manylion yn gywir.
Nid yw’r Brifysgol yn derbyn unrhyw gyfrifoldeb am unrhyw daliadau sy’n mynd i’r lle anghywir lle’r ydych wedi darparu gwybodaeth anghywir.
Eich cyfrifoldeb chi yw gwirio bod taliad wedi’i wneud ac wedi’i ddyrannu’n gywir.
Rhowch wybod i ni ar unwaith os oes unrhyw gamgymeriadau ac fe wnawn ein gorau i helpu.
Fel arfer, mae taliadau’n clirio i mewn i’n cyfrif mewn 2 i 3 diwrnod gwaith.
Rhaid gwneud pob taliad trwy’r cyfleustra talu ar-lein hwn mewn Punnoedd Sterling (£GBP).
Rydych yn gyfrifol am dalu unrhyw gostau trosi arian cyfred neu ffioedd eraill sy’n codi wrth wneud y taliad neu wrth brosesu ad-daliad.
Ni all y Brifysgol dderbyn unrhyw atebolrwydd os caiff taliad ei wrthod neu ei droi lawr gan eich cyflenwr cerdyn debyd/credyd am ba bynnag reswm.
Unwaith y bydd trafodyn wedi’i gwblhau, ni ellir canslo’r taliad.
O dan amgylchiadau penodol, efallai y bydd hawl gennych i ad-daliad yn unol â’r Prif Delerau.
Heb fod yn gyfyngedig i faterion sydd wedi’u nodi yn y telerau ac amodau defnyddio hyn, rhaid i chi beidio â defnyddio’r safle talu i wneud y canlynol:
Bydd ffurfiant, bodolaeth, adeiledd, perfformiad, dilysrwydd a’r holl agweddau ar y telerau ac amodau hyn neu unrhyw delerau neu amodau yn cael eu llywodraethu gan gyfreithiau Lloegr a Chymru.
Bydd gan lysoedd Lloegr a Chymru awdurdodaeth anghyfyngedig i setlo unrhyw ddadleuon a allai godi allan o neu mewn cysylltiad â’r telerau ac amodau.
Mae’r partïon yn cytuno’n ddi-alw’n ôl i ildio i’r awdurdodaeth honno.
Er mwyn gweithredu system talu ar-lein Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant (“y Brifysgol”), mae’n bosibl y byddwn yn casglu ac yn storio gwybodaeth bersonol y byddwch yn ei chyflwyno i’r system trwy’r wefan talu ar-lein, neu’n ei rhoi i’r Brifysgol mewn rhyw ffordd arall.
Darllenwch y polisi preifatrwydd canlynol i ddeall sut mae’r Brifysgol yn defnyddio ac yn diogelu’r wybodaeth a ddarperir gennych.
Darperir a chadwir y system talu ar-lein gan y Brifysgol a’i chyflenwyr trydydd parti.
Trwy gyflwyno eich gwybodaeth bersonol, rydych chi’n rhoi caniatâd i’r Brifysgol gadw a defnyddio’r wybodaeth honno yn unol â’r polisi hwn.
Mae’r polisi’n gallu newid a bydd unrhyw newidiadau iddo yn y dyfodol yn cael eu nodi ar y dudalen hon.
Trwy barhau i ddefnyddio’r safle talu hwn rydych chi’n cytuno â’r newidiadau hynny.
Rydym yn argymell eich bod yn gwirio’r polisi preifatrwydd bob tro y byddwch yn ymweld â’r safle.
Cynnwys
Pan fyddwch yn ymweld â’n tudalen talu ar-lein , efallai y bydd gofyn i chi ddarparu gwybodaeth benodol amdanoch chi eich hun yn cynnwys eich rhif myfyriwr neu UCAS, dyddiad geni, enw, manylion cyswllt ac ariannol cyn i chi allu parhau i ddefnyddio’r system talu ar-lein.
Gwybodaeth y byddwch chi’n ei rhoi i ni
Rydym yn derbyn a chadw unrhyw wybodaeth a roddwch ar ein gwefan neu a rowch i ni mewn unrhyw ffordd arall.
Byddwch yn darparu’r rhan fwyaf o wybodaeth o’r fath wrth wneud taliad, neu’n sefydlu taliad cylchol neu fandad debyd uniongyrchol, neu’n cyfathrebu gyda ni am unrhyw reswm arall.
Gall yr wybodaeth hon gynnwys eich rhif myfyriwr neu UCAS, dyddiad geni, enw, manylion cyswllt ac ariannol.
Gallwch ddewis peidio â darparu gwybodaeth, er efallai y bydd ei hangen i wneud taliad.
Gwybodaeth Awtomatig
Rydym yn derbyn a chadw mathau penodol o wybodaeth pryd bynnag y byddwch yn rhyngweithio gyda’r wefan talu ar-lein/ Rydym yn defnyddio’r wybodaeth i fonitro traffig y wefan ac i helpu gyda llywio a defnyddio’r wefan.
Mae’r wybodaeth y byddwn ni’n ei derbyn yn awtomatig yn cynnwys:
Pan fyddwch yn defnyddio rhai tudalennau ar y safle, efallai y bydd ffeil bach – ‘cwci’ – yn cael ei roi ar eich cyfrifiadur.
Darn o wybodaeth yw cwci ar ffurf ffeil testun bach iawn a roddir ar yriant caled defnyddiwr y Rhyngrwyd.
Mae’n cael ei greu gan weinydd gwe’r system talu ar-lein.
Mae’r wybodaeth sydd yn y cwci yn cael ei bennu gan y gweinyddwr ac y gellir ei ddefnyddio gan y gweinyddydd hwnnw pryd bynnag y bydd y defnyddiwr yn ymweld â’r safle.
Mae’r gweinyddwr yn defnyddio cwcis i adnabod eich sesiwn pori os byddwch yn ymweld â nifer o dudalennau wrth i chi ryngweithio gyda’r system talu ar-lein.
Gallwch osod eich porwr i wrthod cwcis neu eich rhybuddio cyn i chi eu derbyn.
Fodd bynnag, ni fydd y wefan talu ar-lein yn gweithio’n iawn heb dderbyn cwcis.
I gael rhagor o wybodaeth am gwcis, ewch i AboutCookies.org .
Cwblhau archeb
Cedwir data personol a gesglir fel rhan o’r broses talu yn bennaf er mwyn cwblhau eich archeb.
Bydd y data hwn yn cael ei gadw gan sefydliadau bancio a dosbarthu trydydd parti dibynadwy sy’n ymdrin â thrafodion cerdyn ein cwsmeriaid a bodloni archebion ac efallai y caiff ei ddefnyddio at unrhyw un o’r dibenion a ganlyn: cyfrifo, bilio ac archwilio, dibenion gweinyddol a chyfreithiol, diogelwch a dilysu taliadau.
Dadansoddiad
Efallai y gwnawn hefyd ddefnyddio a dadansoddi’r wybodaeth a gasglwn fel y gallwn reoli a gwella’r gwasanaethau ar y wefan.
Gellir casglu a defnyddio gwybodaeth ddemograffig ac ystadegol ynglŷn ag ymddygiad defnyddwyr i ddadansoddi poblogrwydd ac effeithiolrwydd y wefan.
Os datgelir y wybodaeth hon, bydd ar ffurf data cyfanredol ac ni fydd yn nodi defnyddwyr unigol.
Deddfwriaeth Diogelu Data
Y Brifysgol yw eich rheolydd data.
Fel eich rheolydd data mae’r Brifysgol wedi rhoi gwybod i Swyddfa’r Comisiynydd Gwybodaeth am ei gweithgareddau fel sy’n ofynnol yn ôl Deddf Diogelu Data 1998 (y “Ddeddf”) ac mae wedi’i rhestru yn y Gofrestr Gyhoeddus o Reolyddion Data.
Bydd y Brifysgol yn casglu a/neu’n prosesu gwybodaeth bersonol yn unol â’r Ddeddf yn unig.
Diogelwch Data
Gofynnir i chi ddiogelu data sensitif bob amser drwy gydol eich trafodion ar-lein.
Gwnewch yn siŵr nad oes neb yn gallu gweld dros eich ysgwydd wrth i chi deipio gwybodaeth bersonol a chaewch eich porwr wedi i chi orffen.
Mae’r Brifysgol a’i sefydliadau trydydd parti wedi ymdrechu hyd eithaf eu gallu i sicrhau bod mynediad at wybodaeth a ddarperir a’r taliadau a wnewch wrth ddefnyddio’r safle yn ddiogel.
Rydym yn gweithio i amddiffyn diogelwch eich gwybodaeth yn ystod trosglwyddiad.
Mae’r safle wedi’i ddiogelu drwy ddefnyddio Tystysgrif Gwe-weinydd Thawte SSL i gynnig dull cyfathrebu diogel i chi drwy amgryptio’n awtomataidd yr holl ddata wrth ei gyflwyno.
Dylech fod yn ymwybodol bod raid i’r cyfrifiadur a ddefnyddiwch i gysylltu i’r system talu ar-lein (drwy borwr) hefyd fod yn ddiogel, a chynnwys y system gweithredu, meddalwedd a diweddariadau gwrth-firws diweddaraf.
Gallai defnyddio cyfrifiadur a renni i gysylltu i’r system talu ar-lein gynyddu’r risg y bydd eraill yn gweld eich gwybodaeth sensitif.
Datgelu eich gwybodaeth
Monitro’r Defnydd o Systemau’r Brifysgol
Er mwyn amddiffyn diogelwch a gweithrediad systemau rhwydwaith a chyfrifiadurol y Brifysgol, mae’n bosibl y bydd rhaid monitro neu gofnodi’r defnydd o’r systemau hyn.
Os oes unrhyw arwydd bod y systemau wedi’u camddefnyddio neu fod unigolion yn defnyddio systemau y tu hwnt i’w hawdurdod, gellir rhyng-gipio, monitro, recordio, copïo, archwilio ac arolygu ffeiliau, negeseuon a phob defnydd arall a wneir o’r systemau a’u datgelu i staff awdurdodedig y Brifysgol a phersonél Gorfodi’r Gyfraith.
Gall y gwefan hwn gynnwys dolenni i wefannau eraill y tu allan o reolaeth y Brifysgol ac nad ydynt wedi’u cwmpasu gan y polisi preifatrwydd hwn.
Gall polisïau preifatrwydd safleoedd eraill fod yn wahanol i’r un yma.
Os yw’r wybodaeth sydd gennym amdanoch yn anghywir, gallwch newid a diweddaru eich gwybodaeth bersonol, a gellir cywiro’ch gwybodaeth ond i chi gysylltu â ni.
Os gofynnwch amdano, drwy gysylltu â ni yn y cyfeiriad isod, rhown i chi gopi darllenadwy o’r data personol sydd gennym amdanoch.
Efallai y bydd rhaid i chi brofi pwy ydych chi cyn i ni roi’r wybodaeth hon i chi er mwyn sicrhau cyfrinachedd.
Rydym yn caniatáu i chi herio’r data sydd gennym amdanoch a lle bo’n briodol, gallwch ofyn o’r data gael ei ddileu, gywiro, diwygio neu gwblhau.
Os oes gennych gwynion neu gwestiynau am y polisi preifatrwydd neu gwestiynau am ddiogelu data’n gyffredinol, cysylltwch â:
Gwasanaethau Corfforaethol Cyfarwyddwr Gwybodaeth a Hysbysrwydd Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant Heol y Coleg Caerfyrddin Sir Gaerfyrddin SA31 3EP
E-bost: cscompliance@pcydds.ac.uk
Campws Caerfyrddin Ail Lawr, Adeilad Dewi, yn uniongyrchol uwchben y Dderbynfa Ffôn: 01792 481050
Taliadau Myfyrwyr Nicola Evans – 01792 481050 Kim Reynolds – 01267 676837 Emma Stephens – 01792 483693 ffioedd@pcydds.ac.uk
Ar gyfer ymholiadau yn ymwneud  Chyfrifon Dyledus, e-bostiwch ffioedd@pcydds.ac.uk ac fe ymatebwn i’ch ymholiad.
Ar gyfer ymholiadau yn ymwneud â Chyfrifon Taladwy, e-bostiwch pladmin@uwtsd.ac.uk ac fe ymatebwn i’ch ymholiad.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cyllid/tynnun-ol-neu-doriad-ich-astudiaethau:
Cyn gwneud unrhyw benderfyniad, mae’n bwysig eich bod yn ymwybodol o’r cymorth sydd ar gael i’ch helpu yn eich astudiaethau a sut gallai’ch penderfyniad effeithio ar eich Cyllid Myfyrwyr.
Ydych chi wedi defnyddio’r holl gymorth sydd ar gael yn y Brifysgol?
Os ydych yn cael trafferth gydag agweddau ar eich cwrs, bydd ef/hi yn gallu cynnig cymorth a chyngor ac efallai yn gallu eich cefnogi wrth wneud cais am amser ychwanegol i gwblhau’ch gwaith cwrs.
Mae gennym gwnselwyr a chynghorwyr iechyd meddwl proffesiynol i’ch helpu; gall ein cynghorwyr Cyllid Myfyrwyr eich helpu os ydych yn cael anawsterau ariannol; gall y tîm Gyrfaoedd gynnig help a chyngor os ydych yn meddwl yr hoffech newid cwrs neu lwybr gyrfa ac mae gennym sesiynau Sgiliau Astudio mynediad agored sydd ar gael i bawb, gan gynnwys cymorth penodol i fyfyrwyr anabl.
Mae gan Undeb y Myfyrwyr dîm cyngor academaidd sy’n gallu eich helpu i ddeall rheoliadau’r Brifysgol a gweithio eich ffordd drwyddynt.
Mae Undeb y Myfyrwyr hefyd yn cynnig ystod o weithgareddau cymdeithasol a rhwydweithio i’ch helpu i wneud yn fawr o’ch amser yn y Brifysgol.
Os hoffech gael toriad neu dynnu’n ôl, gallwch weld yr holl wybodaeth sydd ei hangen arnoch yn yr adrannau isod.
Darllenwch drwyddynt i gyd am fod pob un yn berthnasol.
Byddwch yn ymwybodol y gall fod effaith ar eich cyllid myfyrwyr os byddwch yn tynnu’n ôl neu’n cael toriad i astudiaethau.
Mae cael toriad i’ch astudiaethau yn golygu cymryd amser allan neu atal eich astudiaethau dros dro, fel arfer am isafswm cyfnod o dri mis am resymau personol neu iechyd.
Fel arfer bydd hyn yn digwydd gyda bwriad i ailafael yn y cwrs yn ddiweddarach (fel arfer y flwyddyn academaidd nesaf).
Pan gewch doriad i’ch astudiaethau, fel arfer ystyrir hefyd fod eich cyllid myfyrwyr ‘wedi’i atal’ am weddill y flwyddyn academaidd, ond byddwch yn ymwybodol y gall hyn gael effaith fawr ar beth bydd gennych hawl iddo yn y dyfodol.
Mae’n bwysig eich bod yn trafod hyn gyda’r Tîm Cymorth Arian o fewn Gwasanaethau Myfyrwyr, a fydd yn eich helpu i ddynodi a deall unrhyw oblygiadau.
Cewch fwy o wybodaeth ynghylch toriad i’ch astudiaethau yn y Polisi Amgylchiadau Lliniarol.
Tynnu’n ôl yw pan fyddwch yn dod â’ch cofrestriad ar eich rhaglen astudio i ben ac ar bob uned sy’n gysylltiedig â hi heb unrhyw fwriad i ddychwelyd i’w chwblhau yn ddiweddarach.
Bydd eich cyllid myfyrwyr yn dod i ben am weddill y flwyddyn a chaiff unrhyw flynyddoedd a astudiwyd eu hystyried yn astudiaethau blaenorol os dychwelwch yn y dyfodol.
Gallai hyn effeithio ar faint o gyllid a fydd ar gael i chi os penderfynwch ddychwelyd i Addysg Uwch yn y dyfodol.
Cysylltwch â’r Tîm Rhaglen i drafod eich bwriad i dynnu’n ôl.
Hefyd gall fod goblygiadau ariannol yn sgil tynnu’n ôl o’ch astudiaethau.
Argymhellwn yn gryf eich bod yn trafod eich opsiynau cyn cyflwyno ffurflen i dynnu’n ôl.
Ni ddylech dynnu’n ôl o‘ch astudiaethau os ydych yn bwriadu dychwelyd yn ddiweddarach.
Hefyd dylech drafod eich bwriad gyda’r tîm Cyllid Myfyrwyr o fewn Gwasanaethau Myfyrwyr.
Gallant eich helpu i ddeall unrhyw oblygiadau ariannol yn sgil eich penderfyniad.
Rwyf wedi trafod gyda’r Tîm Rhaglen a’r Tîm Cyllid Myfyrwyr
Os ydych wedi trafod gyda’r Tîm Rhaglen a Swyddogion Cyllid Myfyrwyr ac yn dal i ddymuno tynnu’n ôl, cewch y ffurflen gais i dynnu’n ôl o fewn eich cyfrif MyTSD .
Nid wyf wedi trafod gyda’r Tîm Rhaglen a’r Tîm Cyllid Myfyrwyr
Cyn cyflwyno cais i dynnu’n ôl mae’n bwysig eich bod yn cysylltu â’ch Tîm Rhaglen a Swyddogion Cyllid Myfyrwyr i drafod eich amgylchiadau.
I gael gwybodaeth ynghylch eich Tîm Rhaglen a’r Tîm Cyllid Myfyrwyr cysylltwch â’r Hwb ar 0300 131 3030 neu hwb@pcydds.ac.uk
Bydd angen i’r Brifysgol hysbysu’r Cwmni Benthyciadau i Fyfyrwyr am y dyddiad tynnu’n ôl cadarn.
Bydd swm y benthyciad ffioedd dysgu y bydd y Brifysgol yn gofyn amdano yr un faint â’r ffioedd dysgu sy’n ddyledus.
Yn achos myfyriwr sy’n dymuno tynnu’n ôl o’i raglen ei hun, byddwn yn rhoi gwybod am y dyddiad y mae’n cyflwyno ei ffurflen tynnu’n ôl trwy MyTSD.
Yn achos myfyriwr sy’n cael ei dynnu’n ôl gan y Brifysgol (e.e.
oherwydd diffyg ymrwymiad), byddwn yn rhoi gwybod am y dyddiad y rhoddwyd ei hysbysiad swyddogol ynghylch tynnu’n ôl gan y Gofrestrfa.
Pan fyddwch wedi cyflwyno’ch ffurflen i dynnu’n ôl i’r Brifysgol, rhoddwn wybod i Gyllid Myfyrwyr a fydd wedyn yn ail-gyfrifo swm y benthyciadau / cyllid grant y dylech fod wedi’i dderbyn.
Os bydd y cyfrifo’n barnu eich bod wedi cael gordaliad, bydd Cyllid Myfyrwyr wedyn yn trosglwyddo’r wybodaeth hon i’r Cwmni Benthyciadau Myfyrwyr a fydd yn ysgrifennu atoch gan ofyn i chi ad-dalu unrhyw arian y barnwyd ei fod wedi’i ordalu i chi.
Gallai’r broses hon gymryd nifer o wythnosau a bydd angen i chi aros i glywed gan Gyllid Myfyrwyr a/neu’r Cwmni Benthyciadau Myfyrwyr cyn gallwch dalu unrhyw arian yn ôl iddynt.
Argymhellir eich bod yn ceisio peidio â defnyddio rhagor o’ch Benthyciad Myfyrwyr tan i chi dderbyn y llythyr gan Gyllid Myfyrwyr.
Peidiwch â rhagdybio nad oes gordaliad am nad ydych wedi clywed o fewn ychydig o wythnosau – gall y broses ail-gyfrifo gymryd 8 wythnos neu ragor i gael ei chwblhau.
Gall y Swyddogion Cyllid Myfyrwyr yn y Brifysgol eich helpu i gyfrifo a ydy’n bosibl eich bod wedi cael gordaliad a faint o arian y gellid gofyn i chi ei ad-dalu i Gyllid Myfyrwyr.
Os na allwch ad-dalu’r holl arian ar unwaith, bydd angen i chi gysylltu â’r tîm ad-daliadau Benthyciadau Myfyrwyr i drefnu cynllun talu.
Gall y Swyddogion Cyllid Myfyrwyr yn y Brifysgol eich helpu i baratoi am hyn.
Gall tynnu’n ôl effeithio ar y cyllid a gewch os dychwelwch i’r brifysgol.
Wrth i chi dynnu’n ôl, bydd eich Athrofa yn cyhoeddi dyddiad mynychu diwethaf swyddogol (dyddiad tynnu’n ôl) gan ei gadarnhau ar eich cofnod myfyriwr er mwyn i staff yr Adran Gyllid allu ei weld.
Nid yw’n bosibl gwneud ad-daliad tan i’r Athrofa gofnodi’r dyddiad tynnu’n ôl hwn ar eich cofnod myfyriwr.
Yn achos israddedigion sy’n hunangyllido, os ydy’r swm a dalwyd yn fwy na’r ffioedd dysgu yr ail-gyfrifwyd eu bod yn ddyledus, gwneir ad-daliad drwy ddychwelyd yr arian i’r un talai neu gyfrif a wnaeth y taliad.
Os nad yw’r myfyriwr wedi talu digon o ffioedd erbyn amser y toriad i astudiaethau/tynnu’n ôl, rhoddir gwybod iddo/iddi drwy e-bost er mwyn trefnu talu.
Os bydd gennych unrhyw ymholiadau ynghylch ad-daliad, cysylltwch â’r Adran Gyllid drwy e-bost yn fees@pcydds.ac.uk
Rhaid llenwi’r Ffurflen Tynnu’n Ôl ar-lein trwy MyTSD
Os tynnwch yn ôl o’ch cwrs, bydd swm y ffioedd dysgu a dalwch yn dibynnu ar y dyddiad y cwblhewch y ffurflen i dynnu’n ôl ar MyTSD.
Ar ôl cyfnod cychwynnol o bythefnos pryd byddai tynnu’n ôl yn arwain at beidio â chodi unrhyw ffioedd, bydd y meini prawf yn y tabl canlynol yn berthnasol:
Rhaid i fyfyrwyr lenwi Ffurflen Gais Myfyriwr i Dynnu’n Ôl, neu gyflwyno cais ar MyTSD, os dymunant dynnu’n ôl o’u hastudiaethau.
Os na fydd myfyriwr yn hysbysu’r Brifysgol ei fod yn tynnu’n ôl, ac os ydy’r dyddiad mynychu diwethaf yn aneglur, mae’r Brifysgol yn cadw’r hawl i ddefnyddio dyddiad y Bwrdd Arholi pryd tynnwyd ei ymgeisyddiaeth yn ôl at ddibenion cyfrifo ffioedd.
Gallai hyn arwain at 25% ychwanegol o ffioedd yn ddyledus, yn ddibynnol ar ddyddiad y bwrdd arholi.
Cyfrifir swm y cyllid cynhaliaeth y mae gennych hawl iddo mewn blwyddyn anghyflawn ar sail pro rata gan ddefnyddio’ch diwrnod mynychu diwethaf.
Er enghraifft, os ydych wedi derbyn cyllid cynhaliaeth o £1000 am dymor ac mae’ch dyddiad mynychu diwethaf yn union hanner ffordd drwy’r tymor, byddai’r Cwmni Benthyciadau Myfyrwyr yn cyfrifo eich gorwariant yn £500.
Os hysbysir myfyriwr ei fod wedi cael gordaliad ac ni all ei ad-dalu, argymhellir ei fod yn gwneud fel a ganlyn, yn ddibynnol ar ei amgylchiadau:
Tynnu’n ôl – Pan dderbyniwch y llythyr sy’n eich hysbysu am ordaliad, ffoniwch y Cwmni Benthyciadau Myfyrwyr ar y rhif a geir yn y llythyr i drefnu ad-daliad misol fforddiadwy (neu i atal y cyfrif dros dro nes bod hyn yn bosibl).
Byddwch yn ymwybodol os dechreuwch gwrs arall cyn ad-dalu’r holl ordaliad, tynnir y balans sy’n ddyledus o’ch hawl i Gyllid Myfyrwyr yn ystod blwyddyn gyntaf eich cwrs newydd.
Toriad i astudiaethau – Fel yr uchod, ond mae angen i fyfyrwyr sydd wedi cael toriad i astudiaethau fod yn ymwybodol y caiff unrhyw ordaliad nad yw wedi’i ad-dalu erbyn iddynt ddychwelyd i’w hastudiaethau, ei dynnu o unrhyw hawl i gyllid yn y dyfodol gan Gyllid Myfyrwyr Cymru / Lloegr / Gogledd Iwerddon / SAAS
Golyga hyn os oedd gennych hawl i gyllid cynhaliaeth o £1,000 ond eich bod wedi cael gordaliad blaenorol o £500, byddech yn derbyn £500 yn unig wrth ddychwelyd.
Os penderfynwch gymryd toriad i astudiaethau, rydym yn disgwyl y byddwch yn dychwelyd i gwblhau’ch cwrs yn ddiweddarach, felly mae’r broses ychydig yn wahanol yn ddibynnol ar bryd byddwch yn cymryd y toriad.
Os cymeradwyir hynny, fel arfer bydd y toriad yn cael ei gymhwyso o’r dyddiad y derbyniwyd y ffurflen wedi’i chwblhau gan y Rheolwr Rhaglen (neu enwebai).
Fel arfer bydd gofyn i chi alinio’ch dyddiad dychwelyd i astudio gyda’ch dyddiad derbyn gwreiddiol.
Hefyd rhaid i chi drafod eich bwriad i gymryd toriad i astudiaethau gyda’r tîm Cymorth Arian o fewn Gwasanaethau Myfyrwyr.
Os ydych yn atal eich astudiaethau dros dro oherwydd rhesymau meddygol sydd wedi effeithio ar eich gallu i astudio, bydd angen i chi ddarparu tystiolaeth feddygol ar gyfer y Brifysgol er mwyn iddi allu cofnodi’r toriad i astudiaethau fel sail feddygol.
Dan yr amgylchiadau hyn caniateir i chi gadw gwerth 60 diwrnod pellach o Gyllid Myfyrwyr (ar ôl dyddiad y toriad).
Bydd angen i chi gysylltu â Chyllid Myfyrwyr i wirio bod hyn wedi’i gymhwyso.
Mae cyllid ffioedd dysgu gan Gyllid Myfyrwyr wedi’i gyfyngu i hyd eich cwrs ynghyd ag un flwyddyn ychwanegol
Os ydych wedi astudio o’r blaen ac mae gennych radd Anrhydedd gan brifysgol neu goleg yn y DG:
Er mwyn deall sut mae hyn yn effeithio arnoch chi, y rheol gyffredinol yw eich bod yn gymwys am gymorth myfyrwyr am hyd eich cwrs addysg uwch ynghyd ag un flwyddyn lle na chyflawnwyd cymhwyster.
Fodd bynnag, caiff y cymorth ei leihau yn ôl nifer y blynyddoedd rydych wedi astudio’n flaenorol.
Dangosir hyn yn y fformwla isod:
Parhad y cwrs newydd + 1 flwyddyn – nifer o flynyddoedd ar y cwrs blaenorol = x blwyddyn o hawl
Er enghraifft:
Dechreuodd Jane gwrs amser llawn ym mlwyddyn academaidd 2013/14 ond dim ond 2 flynedd o astudiaeth a gwblhawyd ganddi.
Mae hi bellach yn dymuno dychwelyd i astudiaethau amser llawn.
Mae ei chwrs newydd yn 3 blynedd o hyd.
Parhad cwrs newydd Jane (3) +1 flwyddyn – astudiaeth flaenorol Jane (2) = 2 flynedd
Mae hyn yn golygu y gall Jane gael 2 flynedd o gyllid am ei chwrs addysg uwch newydd.
Bydd angen iddi ariannu un flwyddyn ei hun.
Gan fod cyllid yn cael ei ddyfarnu ym mlwyddyn olaf cwrs newydd a phob blwyddyn flaenorol a gyllidir, bydd angen i Jane hunangyllido blwyddyn gyntaf ei chwrs.
Golyga hyn na fydd yn gallu ceisio am Fenthyciad Ffioedd Dysgu na Grant Dysgu Llywodraeth Cymru /Grant Cymorth Arbennig; fe fyddai, er hynny, yn gallu parhau i wneud cais am Fenthyciad Cynhaliaeth a grantiau ategol megis Lwfansau Myfyrwyr Anabl yn ei blwyddyn o hunangyllido.
Os teimlwch fod rhywbeth y tu hwnt i’ch rheolaeth wedi cael effaith niweidiol sylweddol ar eich perfformiad academaidd neu eich gallu i astudio a bu’n rhaid i chi gymryd toriad i astudiaethau neu ail-wneud y flwyddyn, gallwch wneud cais am gyllid ychwanegol ar sail Rhesymau Personol Anorchfygol.
Mae Rhesymau Personol Anorchfygol yn gallu cynnwys materion yn gysylltiedig ag iechyd, anabledd, problemau teuluol neu brofedigaeth ond nid yw’r rhestr hon yn gynhwysfawr.
Os ydych o’r farn bod hyn yn berthnasol i chi ac yr hoffech gyflwyno achos i Gyllid Myfyrwyr am Resymau Personol Anorchfygol, cysylltwch â Gwasanaethau Myfyrwyr yn moneysupport@uwtsd.ac.uk i’ch helpu.
Fel arfer, os byddwch yn cyflwyno cais am gyllid ychwanegol ar sail rhesymau personol anorchfygol bydd angen i chi ddarparu tystiolaeth o’ch amgylchiadau a /neu sut maent wedi effeithio ar eich gallu i gwblhau’ch astudiaethau.
Gallai hyn fod yn llythyr gan eich meddyg teulu os oeddech yn sâl, llythyr ategol gan eich tiwtor neu gwnselydd (pan fo’n berthnasol) os oeddech wedi rhannu gwybodaeth am eich amgylchiadau â nhw ar y pryd.
Os cawsoch brofedigaeth yn y teulu agos efallai y gofynnir i chi ddarparu copi o’r dystysgrif marwolaeth.
Mae’n gallu bod yn anodd coladu’r dystiolaeth hon os oes nifer o flynyddoedd wedi mynd heibio cyn i chi ddychwelyd i Addysg Uwch felly os penderfynwch dynnu’n ôl o’ch astudiaethau ar y sail hon, mae’n werth casglu cymaint o dystiolaeth â phosibl nawr rhag ofn y bydd ei hangen arnoch yn y dyfodol.
Nid oes sicrwydd y darperir cyllid ychwanegol, am fod hyn ar ddisgresiwn Cyllid Myfyrwyr.
Os ydych yn bwriadu cymryd toriad i astudiaethau ac rydych eisoes wedi cael uchafswm y Cyllid Ôl-raddedig, ni fydd gennych hawl i unrhyw daliadau pellach gan Gyllid Myfyrwyr Cymru na SFE pan ddychwelwch i astudio, hyd yn oed pe bai’r ataliad oherwydd Rhesymau Personol Anorchfygol megis materion yn gysylltiedig ag iechyd, anabledd, problemau teuluol neu brofedigaeth.
Os ydych wedi cael rhan yn unig o’ch hawl i Gyllid Ôl-raddedig, bydd eich taliadau’n dod i ben pryd cymerwch y toriad i astudiaethau ond byddwch yn gymwys am y swm sy’n weddill pan fyddwch yn ailafael yn eich astudiaethau.
Os cewch daliad tra byddwch yn cymryd y toriad i astudiaethau mae’n bosibl y gofynnir i chi ei ad-dalu’n syth.
Os ydych wedi penderfynu tynnu’n ôl o’ch cwrs Meistr ac rydych wedi cael Cyllid Ôl-raddedig gan Gyllid Myfyrwyr Cymru neu SFE, ni fyddwch yn gymwys am Gyllid Ôl-raddedig ychwanegol am gwrs Meistr yn y dyfodol, hyd yn oed os nad ydych wedi cael yr uchafswm am y cwrs cyfredol.
Fodd bynnag, os ydych yn tynnu’n ôl o’r cwrs oherwydd Rhesymau Personol Anorchfygol, gallwch gyflwyno cais am gyllid yn ôl disgresiwn am gwrs newydd.
Unwaith yn unig y cewch wneud hyn.
Darllenwch y wybodaeth yn yr adran Rhesymau Personol Anorchfygol os ydych o’r farn y bydd angen i chi wneud cais am y cyllid yn ôl disgresiwn.
Os oes angen i chi ail-wneud unrhyw ran o’ch cwrs, neu os caiff eich cwrs ei ymestyn, ni fydd gennych hawl i unrhyw daliadau Cyllid Ôl-raddedig pellach, oni bai nad ydych wedi defnyddio’r uchafswm sydd ar gael.
Mae hyn yn wir hyd yn oed os oes angen ail-wneud neu ymestyn yr astudiaethau oherwydd Rhesymau Personol Anorchfygol megis materion yn gysylltiedig ag iechyd, anabledd, problemau teuluol neu brofedigaeth.
Os byddwch yn trosglwyddo i gwrs ôl-raddedig Meistr neu Ddoethurol arall rhwng blynyddoedd academaidd, ac nid ydych wedi defnyddio uchafswm y Cyllid Ôl-raddedig, byddwch yn parhau i fod yn gymwys am weddill eich Cyllid Ôl-raddedig Meistr neu Fenthyciad Ôl-raddedig Doethurol.
Fodd bynnag os byddwch yn trosglwyddo i gwrs arall ac rydych eisoes wedi defnyddio uchafswm y Cyllid Ôl-raddedig, ni fydd gennych hawl i unrhyw daliadau pellach gan Gyllid Myfyrwyr Cymru na SFE, hyd yn oed pe bai’r trosglwyddo oherwydd Rhesymau Personol Anorchfygol megis materion yn gysylltiedig ag iechyd, anabledd, problemau teuluol neu brofedigaeth.
Yn ddibynnol ar eich Diwrnod Mynychu Diwethaf, ail-gyfrifir y cyllid rydych wedi’i gael ar sail pro rata.
Bydd angen ad-dalu i‘r Cwmni Benthyciadau Myfyrwyr unrhyw swm rydych wedi’i gael sy’n ordaliad.
Pan dderbyniwch y llythyr sy’n eich hysbysu am ordaliad, ffoniwch y Cwmni Benthyciadau Myfyrwyr ar y rhif a geir yn y llythyr i drefnu ad-daliad misol fforddiadwy (neu i atal y cyfrif dros dro nes bod hyn yn bosibl).
Gweler yr adran am ffioedd dysgu i’ch helpu i ddeall sut bydd y Brifysgol yn cyfrifo faint sydd arnoch o ran ffioedd dysgu ac a oes gennych hawl i unrhyw ad-daliad.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/ceisiadau-israddedig:
Mae eich antur israddedig yn dechrau nawr.
P’un ai ydych chi’n chwilio am ragor o wybodaeth am wneud cais ar gyfer gradd baglor neu gyngor ar baratoi cais rhagorol, rydym ni yma i roi’r holl wybodaeth sydd ei hangen arnoch er mwyn i chi ddewis eich dyfodol.
Datganiad personol yw eich cyfle unigryw chi i ymchwilio i'r dyheadau, y profiadau a’r rhinweddau sydd, yn eich barn chi, yn eich gwneud chi'n berffaith ar gyfer y cwrs a'r brifysgol rydych chi wedi’u dewis.
​ Dylai fod yn adlewyrchiad cywir o bwy ydych chi y tu hwnt i'ch cyflawniadau academaidd, gan roi cipolwg ar eich diddordebau, eich cymhellion a'r daith sydd wedi eich arwain at y foment hon.​
Dewch i ddarganfod sut y gall UCAS Extra fod yn addas i chi, gan gynnig rhagor o gyfleoedd ar gyfer eich cwrs prifysgol delfrydol.​ Rydyn ni’n credu yn eich potensial, ac yma i’ch cefnogi bob cam o’r ffordd.
Play video: How to Apply via UCAS

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cyngor-i-ymgeiswyr:
Mae cychwyn ar eich taith prifysgol yn garreg filltir gyffrous—ac rydym yma i’ch cefnogi bob cam o’r ffordd.
Mae dewis y cwrs cywir yn benderfyniad mawr, ac rydym yn deall y gall y broses ymgeisio deimlo’n llethol ar adegau.
P’un a ydych chi’n gadael yr ysgol neu’n dychwelyd i addysg yn ddiweddarach mewn bywyd, mae ein cyngor a’n canllawiau wedi’u cynllunio i wneud pethau’n gliriach.
O ysgrifennu datganiad personol nodedig i ddeall gofynion penodol i gyrsiau fel gwiriad DBS neu ddysgu am Gydnabod Dysgu Blaenorol (RPL), mae ein hadnoddau yma i’ch helpu i wneud dewisiadau gwybodus.
Cymerwch eich amser yn archwilio’r wybodaeth rydym wedi’i chasglu.
Os ydych chi’n dal yn ansicr am rywbeth neu angen ychydig mwy o gefnogaeth, peidiwch ag oedi cyn cysylltu â ni.
gysylltu â ni.
Mae gweithdrefnau Cydnabod Dysgu Blaenorol (RPL) y Brifysgol yn bodoli er mwyn i ymgeiswyr allu hawlio credydau am asesiadau ardystiedig y maen nhw eisoes wedi’u gwneud, neu er mwyn gwerthuso’r ddysg a gafwyd trwy brofiad a dyfarnu credydau amdano.
Gellir defnyddio credydau o’r fath er mwyn ymuno â rhaglen, er mwyn cael eich eithrio o rai rhannau o raglen, neu fel cyfraniad tuag at ddyfarniad academaidd.
Mae mwy o wybodaeth i’w gael ym Mholisi Cydnabod Dysgu Blaenorol (RPL) y Brifysgol yma
Gall ymgeiswyr sydd eisoes wedi ennill credydau trwy wneud astudiaethau ffurfiol ar lefel Addysg Uwch wneud cais am Gydnabyddiaeth o Ddysgu Ardystiedig Blaenorol (RPCL).
Gall y credydau hyn fod wedi’u hennill mewn sefydliad arall, o ardystiadau proffesiynol, neu o fod wedi gwneud rhaglen astudio arall sy’n wahanol i’r un y mae’r ymgeisydd yn cofrestru amdani yn awr.
Gall ymgeiswyr sydd wedi ennill dealltwriaeth a sgiliau tebyg o ganlyniad i’w profiad yn y gweithle, boed hynny yn gyflogedig neu’n wirfoddol, neu sydd wedi gwneud astudiaethau/hyfforddiant lle nad oedd ardystiad proffesiynol neu addysgol ffurfiol, gwneud cais am Gydnabod Dysgu Drwy Brofiad (RPEL).
Os ydych chi’n ddarpar ymgeisydd sy’n awyddus i hawlio credydau am ddysgu sydd wedi’i asesu a’i ardystio ar lefel Addysg Uwch yn y gorffennol, neu sydd am gael gwerthuso a dyfarnu credydau am ddysgu drwy brofiad blaenorol, sicrhewch eich bod yn gwneud cais am y lefel mynediad cywir ar eich ffurflen gais a’ch bod yn cyfeirio at hyn yn eich datganiad personol.
Bydd penderfyniadau ynghylch cydnabod dysgu blaenorol yn seiliedig ar gywerthedd.
Bydd rhaid gallu dangos bod y dysgu ardystiedig neu’r profiad yn gywerth â’r addysg a geir o gwblhau’r modiwl(au) yr ydych yn ceisio cael eich eithrio rhag eu cwblhau neu eisiau trosglwyddo credyd ar eu cyfer.
Cydnabyddir Dysgu Blaenorol cyn belled nad yw’n arwain at ‘gyfrif ddwywaith’.
Golyga hyn na ellir ail-ddefnyddio dysgu sydd eisoes wedi cyfrannu at un cymhwyster er mwyn cael eithriad Cydnabod Dysgu Blaenorol mewn cymhwyster arall ar yr un lefel neu ar lefel is.
Bydd gofyn i ymgeiswyr sy’n nodi eu bod eisiau gwneud cais am Gydnabod Dysgu Blaenorol, gwblhau ffurflen RPCL / RPEL fel rhan o’r broses fynediad.
Fel arfer, rhaid prosesu ceisiadau cyn i’r ymgeisydd gofrestru er mwyn caniatáu eithriad(au)/trosglwyddo credyd(au).
Rheolwyr y Rhaglen fydd yn gyfrifol am wneud penderfyniadau ar geisiadau RPCL eu rhaglenni astudio.
Bydd Pennaeth Gweithredol y Gofrestrfa a’r Pennaeth Derbyn yn gwirio bod y broses briodol wedi’i dilyn cyn cymeradwyo hawliad.
Bydd unrhyw geisiadau am Gydnabod Dysgu drwy Brofiad Blaenorol (RPEL) yn cael eu hystyried gan Fwrdd Cydnabod Dysgu ac Achredu Profiad Blaenorol y Brifysgol.
Yn ogystal â bodloni unrhyw amodau academaidd a nodir yn y llythyr cynnig, bydd gofyn i ymgeiswyr sydd wedi gwneud cais am Gydnabyddiaeth o Ddysgu Ardystiedig Blaenorol (RPCL) gwblhau’r broses RPCL yn llwyddiannus cyn y gellir cadarnhau eu lle.
Ar ôl derbyn ein cynnig, bydd yr ymgeisydd yn cael hysbysiad trwy’r porth ymgeisio, MyTSD, yn eu gwahodd i gwblhau ffurflen gais am RPCL.
Bydd angen i’r ymgeisydd roi gwybodaeth fanwl am eu haddysg ardystiedig ar y ffurflen gais RPCL yn ogystal â chynnwys prawf dogfennol (ar ffurf trawsgrifiad) bod y cymhwyster, neu ran ohono, wedi’i ennill.
Rhaid i’r credydau sy’n cael eu hawlio gael eu cyflwyno ar yr un ffurflen gais.
Ar ôl i chi gyflwyno’ch cais, boed trwy UCAS neu gan ddefnyddio ffurflen gais uniongyrchol y Brifysgol, byddwch yn derbyn e-bost yn cynnwys manylion mewngofnodi ar gyfer porth ymgeiswyr y Brifysgol, MyTSD.
Hwn fydd eich porth myfyrwyr os byddwch yn cofrestru ar raglen PCYDDS nes ymlaen.
Dywedwch wrth Dîm Derbyn y Brifysgol (ac UCAS lle bo’n berthnasol) os yw’r cyfeiriad e-bost ar eich ffurflen gais yn anghywir, y cyfeiriad hwn a ddefnyddir i gyfathrebu â chi ynglŷn â statws eich cais ac i’ch hysbysu o unrhyw dasgau sydd i’w cwblhau yn ystod y broses dderbyn.
Unwaith y byddwn wedi’i dderbyn, bydd eich cais yn cael ei asesu gan y Tiwtor Derbyn perthnasol.
Efallai y cewch chi wahoddiad i gyfweliad, i glyweliad neu i gyflwyno portffolio, gan ddibynnu ar ba raglen yr ydych yn ceisio amdani.
Mae deddfwriaeth Llywodraeth y DU yn caniatáu i sefydliadau addysgol sy’n derbyn nawdd cyhoeddus godi dwy lefel ffi wahanol: ffi is ar gyfer myfyrwyr ‘cartref’ a ffi uwch ar gyfer myfyrwyr ‘tramor’.
Er mwyn cael ffioedd ar y gyfradd myfyrwyr ‘cartref’, rhaid i chi fodloni gofynion preswylio a statws mewnfudo penodol.
Mae manylion y meini prawf a ddefnyddir i asesu statws ffioedd i’w gweld ar wefan Cyngor y DU dros Faterion Myfyrwyr Rhyngwladol  (UKCISA).
Os na all y Brifysgol asesu eich statws ffioedd gan ddefnyddio’r wybodaeth sydd yn eich cais am fynediad, cewch neges ar MyTSD yn gofyn i chi gwblhau Ffurflen Asesu Ffioedd ac i gyflwyno dogfennaeth gefnogol.
Sicrhewch eich bod yn llenwi ac yn dychwelyd y ffurflen cyn gynted â phosibl er mwyn osgoi unrhyw oedi wrth brosesu eich cais.
Ar ôl derbyn eich Ffurflen Asesu Ffioedd a’ch dogfennaeth gefnogol, bydd tîm Derbyn y Brifysgol yn asesu eich statws ffioedd ac yn cysylltu â chi os byddan nhw angen unrhyw wybodaeth bellach.
Byddwn yn defnyddio’r wybodaeth ar eich ffurflen UCAS er mwyn gwerthuso’n degch tebygolrwydd o lwyddo yn eich astudiaethau â ni.
Rydyn ni’n defnyddio mwy na’ch graddau a’ch graddau disgwyliedig wrth ystyried a fyddwch chi’n ffynnu ac yn cael budd o’r profiad dysgu yma.
Gelwir hyn yn ‘Dderbyniadau Cyd-destunol’.
Rydyn ni’n ystyried eich cais cyfan pan fyddwn yn gwneud ac yn cadarnhau cynigion.
Yn ystod y broses ymgeisio, byddwn yn ystyried eich datganiad personol er mwyn deall beth sy’n eich cymell i astudio gyda ni, ac yn edrych ar eich geirda a’ch graddau disgwyliedig.
Mae defnyddio derbyniadau cyd-destunol yn caniatáu i ni ystyried ystod ehangach o wybodaeth pan fyddwn yn cynnig lleoedd ac yn cadarnhau cynigion.
Rydyn ni’n creu darlun byw o bwy ydych chi er mwyn sicrhau y gallwch chi ffynnu yn PCYDDS.
Mae PCYDDS wedi ymrwymo i ehangu mynediad ac i sicrhau bod y rhai sydd â’r potensial i lwyddo yn cael eu hannog i wneud cais i astudio gyda ni.
Gallwch wirio a yw eich cod post o fewn Cwintel 1 neu Gwintel 2 trwy edrych ar gofrestr y Swyddfa Fyfyrwyr .
Byddwn yn casglu’r wybodaeth yr ydym ei hangen o’ch cais UCAS felly does dim angen i chi roi unrhyw wybodaeth ychwanegol.
Os cewch chi’ch nodi fel rhywun sy’n gymwys i gael cynnig cyd-destunol, bydd hyn wedi’i nodi’n amlwg ar y llythyr cynnig a ddanfonir atoch.
Dim ond myfyrwyr o’r DU sy’n gwneud cais drwy UCAS ar gyfer cyrsiau uniongyrchol PCYDDS sy’n gymwys i gael cynigon cyd-destunol.
Mae pob cais yn cael ei ystyried yn unigol ac mae’r wybodaeth a ddefnyddiwn yn dod o’ch cais UCAS.
Er mwyn gweld a ydych yn gymwys i gael cynnig cyd-destunol neu ddim, bydd y wybodaeth ganlynol yn cael ei hystyried:
A yw cod post eich cartref mewn Cymdogaeth Cyfranogiad Isel?
Os nodir eich bod mewn ardal cwintel POLAR4 1 neu 2 byddwch yn gymwys i gael cynnig cyd-destunol.
Mae’r wybodaeth a roddir i ni gan UCAS yn ein galluogi i nodi a ydych yn byw mewn cod post sydd yng nghwintel isaf POLAR4 ar hyn o bryd.
Gwiriwch Gofrestr y Swyddfa Fyfyrwyr i weld a yw eich cod post yng Nghwintel POLAR4 1 neu 2.
Y genhedlaeth gyntaf i dderbyn Addysg Uwch
Os mai chi yw’r genhedlaeth gyntaf o’ch teulu i fynd i Addysg Uwch, byddwch yn gymwys i gael cynnig cyd-destunol.
Rydyn ni’n cael yr wybodaeth hon gan UCAS fel rhan o’ch ffurflen gais.
Rydych wedi bod mewn gofal neu wedi derbyn gofal am gyfnod o 3 mis neu fwy
Os ydych chi wedi bod mewn gofal neu wedi derbyn gofal am gyfnod o 3 mis neu fwy, byddwch yn gymwys i gael cynnig cyd-destunol.
Rydyn ni’n cael y wybodaeth hon o’ch cais UCAS, felly mae’n bwysig eich bod yn datgan hyn wrth wneud cais.
Os ydych chi’n gymwys i gael cynnig cyd-destunol bydd eich cynnig yn is na’r hyn sy’n arferol ar gyfer y cwrs dan sylw, neu bydd hyn yn cael ei ystyried pan fo’r canlyniadau’n cael eu rhyddhau.
Mae hyn yn golygu y gallwn eich derbyn hyd yn oed os nad yw eich graddau cystal â´r hyn a ragwelwyd.
Mae defnyddio data cyd-destunol yn ein galluogi i nodi’n deg, y gallwch chi lwyddo yn eich rhaglen ddewisol yn PCYDDS, sy’n golygu y gallwn ni roi cynnig ar radd is yn hyderus i chi.
Os byddwch yn gwneud cais drwy UCAS, yn ogystal â’ch graddau disgwyliedig, eich datganiad personol a’ch geirda, byddwn hefyd yn ystyried y ffactorau a restrir isod:
Byddwn yn casglu data am bob un o’r ffactorau hyn o’ch cais UCAS.
Mae’n bwysig cwblhau’r adrannau hyn yn ofalus er mwyn sicrhau bod gennym y wybodaeth fwyaf cywir sydd ar gael i’w hystyried.
E-bostiwch admissions@uwtsd.ac.uk os oes angen i chi ychwanegu rhagor o fanylion at eich cais.
Mae’n bwysig eich bod hefyd yn cysylltu ag UCAS ac yn gofyn iddyn nhw ddiweddaru eich cais gyda’r wybodaeth sydd ar goll.
Os ydym eisoes wedi gwneud cynnig i chi, byddwn yn ailedrych ar eich cais i sicrhau bod gennych y cynnig cywir.
Na.
Mae gan rai cyrsiau ofynion a osodir gan gyrff proffesiynol ac ni allwn wneud na chadarnhau cynigion sy’n is na’r cynnig safonol.
Mae rhestr o raglenni lle na ellir gwneud cynigion cyd-destunol i’w gweld isod.
Yr Athrofa Rheolaeth ac Iechyd (IMH)
Yr Athrofa Addysg a’r Dyniaethau (IEH)
Athrofa Gwyddoniaeth a Chelf Cymru (WISA)

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cais/cefnogi-ymgeisydd:
Rydym yn deall eich bod siŵr o fod yn ceisio dod o hyd i gymaint o wybodaeth â phosibl er mwyn helpu i gefnogi ymgeisydd trwy’r cyfnod hollbwysig hwn yn eu bywyd.
Dyma pam rydyn ni wedi casglu’r holl wybodaeth ddefnyddiol rydyn ni’n credu y dylech chi ei gwybod er mwyn medru cynnig y gefnogaeth orau i ymgeiswyr a’i rhoi mewn un lle.​
P’un ai a ydych eisiau helpu drwy gynnig cymorth gyda’r cais neu’n eu gadael nhw i fynd ati ar eu liwt eu hunain, efallai y byddwch eisiau dysgu am rai o’r pethau pwysig, felly mae ymgyfarwyddo gydag UCAS a Peak Times yn lle da i gychwyn.
Os yw eich plentyn neu berson ifanc mewn addysg ar hyn o bryd, fel arfer bydd eu hysgol neu eu coleg yn eu cyflwyno i UCAS ac yn eu tywys trwy’r broses o wneud cais i brifysgol.
Dyma rai o’r prif bethau y dylech chi eu gwybod am UCAS a phroses ymgeisio UCAS.​
Y dyddiad cau swyddogol ar gyfer cais UCAS yw diwedd mis Ionawr bob blwyddyn, gweler gwefan UCAS am y manylion .
Fodd bynnag, mae ysgolion a cholegau fel arfer yn gosod dyddiadau cau mewnol gan fod angen amser arnyn nhw i atodi geirda at gais y myfyriwr felly gwnewch yn siŵr bod yr ymgeisydd yn ymwybodol o’r dyddiad cau hwn.​
Fel rhiant neu warcheidwad, gall fod yn anodd gwybod sut y gallwch chi helpu ymgeisydd trwy’r broses ymgeisio.​ Rydym wedi llunio canllaw i’ch helpu drwy broses ymgeisio UCAS, gan gynnwys awgrymiadau ar ba gefnogaeth sydd ei angen yn ystod y gwahanol gamau.
Pan fydd yr arholiadau Safon UG wedi dod i ben, gallwch annog eich plentyn neu oedolyn ifanc i lunio rhestr hir o gyrsiau posibl.
Mae dewis cwrs yn gallu bod yn dasg anodd ond gallan nhw ddechrau drwy ystyried y canlynol:​
Mae’n bwysig gwneud gwaith ymchwil wrth ddewis cwrs prifysgol.
Mae nawr yn amser da i ddechrau ymchwilio a dechrau mynd i Ddiwrnodau Agored neu Sesiynau Blasu prifysgolion.​ Mae dod i wybod am gynnwys y cwrs yn ogystal â dysgu mwy am y brifysgol yn rhan bwysig o’r cam hwn.
Y peth pwysicaf i’w gofio wrth iddynt geisio dewis eu cwrs yw mai y nhw sydd i benderfynu yn y pen draw.
Byddwch yno i’w cefnogi a pheidiwch â chael eich temtio i lywio eu penderfyniad i unrhyw gyfeiriad er eich budd personol.
Mae’n amser da i ddechrau drafftio’r datganiad personol.
Gallech gynnig helpu drwy dynnu sylw at eu cryfderau a helpu gyda syniadau ar sut i lenwi unrhyw fylchau yn eu profiad.​ Mae’n gyfle i’w hannog i chwilio am waith cyflogedig neu wirfoddol, cysgodi neu interniaethau sy’n berthnasol i’w meysydd diddordeb.​
Mae’n dymor gwneud ceisiadau UCAS.
Os nad ydynt eisoes wedi dewis cwrs, gallan nhw ofyn am gyngor gan athrawon a chynghorydd gyrfaoedd.
Parhewch i fynd i gymaint o Ddiwrnodau Agored ag y gallwch er mwyn eu helpu i wneud penderfyniad gwybodus.​ Ac efallai y gallech ofyn iddyn nhw sut mae eu datganiad personol yn dod yn ei flaen.​
Gyda’r dyddiad cau ar Ionawr 15 yn prysur agosáu, gwnewch yn siŵr eu bod wedi gwneud eu dewisiadau terfynol ac wedi rhoi trefn ar eu datganiad personol.
A allech chi helpu gyda gwirio terfynol a phrawfddarllen cyn iddo gael ei gyflwyno?
Dylai cynigion gan y prifysgolion ddechrau cyrraedd yn ystod y cyfnod hwn, ond os nad yw eich plentyn wedi clywed yn ôl eto, does dim angen poeni - mae gan brifysgolion tan fis Mai i ymateb a bydd rhai yn ymateb yn gynt nag eraill.
Efallai y bydd gwahoddiadau am gyfweliadau a phrofion mynediad hefyd yn cyrraedd yn ystod y cyfnod hwn, felly gallwch chi helpu i baratoi ar gyfer y rhain a sicrhau bod trefniadau teithio yn cael eu gwneud.​
Os ydyn nhw’n gwneud cais ar gyfer cwrs creadigol, efallai y gallwch hefyd holi sut mae eu portffolio o waith yn dod yn ei flaen.
​
Mae nawr hefyd yn amser da i ddechrau edrych ar gyllid myfyrwyr a gwneud cais.
Amser penderfynu: ydyn nhw wedi derbyn ac ymateb i gynigion?
Ydy eu dewisiadau wedi newid?
Ydyn nhw wedi penderfynu ar eu cynigion cadarn a’r rhai wrth gefn?
Ceisiwch gael cynllun wrth gefn rhag ofn na fydd pethau’n troi allan yn union fel yr oeddent wedi gobeithio.​
Mae angen iddynt fod wedi rhoi trefn ar eu cais am lety myfyrwyr hefyd gan fod neuaddau preswyl fel arfer yn cael eu dyrannu ar sail y cyntaf i’r felin.
Tymor arholiadau: amser i wneud yn siŵr eu bod wedi paratoi orau y gallan nhw i gael y graddau sydd eu hangen, a chynnig cymorth emosiynol iddyn nhw yn ystod y cyfnod anodd hwn.
Os yw trefn y Brifysgol yn newydd i chi efallai y bydd gennych gwestiynau pellach ynglŷn â sut bydd y cwrs yn cael ei ariannu, ble fyddan nhw’n aros, neu’n bwysig iawn, sut y byddan nhw’n cael eu cefnogi… Mae gennym wybodaeth am bob un o’r agweddau hyn er mwyn helpu i dawelu eich meddwl.
Beth am greu’r profiad prifysgol rydych wedi breuddwydio amdano erioed?
Mae gwasanaethau cymorth myfyrwyr mewn prifysgol yn chwarae rhan ganolog wrth sicrhau bod myfyrwyr yn cael profiad academaidd llwyddiannus ac wrth eu bodd

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/ceisiadau-israddedig/gwneud-cais-uniongyrchol-israddedig:
Bydd angen i chi wneud cais yn uniongyrchol i’r Brifysgol yn hytrach na thrwy UCAS ar gyfer llawer o’n rhaglenni prentisiaeth a rhan-amser.
Mae modd gwneud cais trwy glicio ar y ddolen isod yn ogystal ag yn uniongyrchol o dudalen y cwrs perthnasol.
Ar ôl i chi wneud cais, byddwch yn derbyn manylion mewngofnodi er mwyn cael mynediad at borth ymgeiswyr y Brifysgol, MyTSD.​ Gall ymgeiswyr ddefnyddio MyTSD i weld statws eu cais, ymateb i wahoddiad i fynychu cyfweliad neu glyweliad (lle bo’n berthnasol) ac ymateb i gynnig os bydd eu cais yn llwyddiannus.
P'un ai a ydych chi'n bwriadu astudio ar gyfer gradd baglor, meistr neu ddoethuriaeth, rydyn ni yma i'ch helpu chi i wneud y broses ymgeisio mor rhwydd â phosib
Rydych chi wedi cyflwyno'ch cais i'r Brifysgol, ac efallai eich bod yn holi beth sy'n digwydd nesaf?
Yn dibynnu ar y cwrs efallai y cewch eich gwahodd i gyfweliad cyn cael cynnig lle ar y cwrs.
Dyma eich cyfle i ddod â’ch cais yn fyw a dangos eich brwdfrydedd, eich personoliaeth a’ch potensial wyneb yn wyneb.
Gyda rhaglenni Prentisiaeth PCYDDS cewch barhau i weithio tra byddwch yn astudio, gan ddatblygu eich cymhwysedd yn y gweithle yn ogystal ag ennill cymhwyster cydnabyddedig (fel HNC, HND, gradd, neu Radd Meistr).

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/sut-i-wneud-cais-israddedig/gwneud-cais-am-radd-sylfaen:
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua.
Eget sit amet tellus cras adipiscing enim eu turpis.
Cursus metus aliquam eleifend mi in nulla posuere sollicitudin aliquam.
At lectus urna duis convallis convallis tellus id.
At lectus urna duis convallis convallis tellus id.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/ceisiadau-israddedig/gwneud-cais-trwy-ucas-israddedig:
Mae’r rhan fwyaf o geisiadau i astudio ar gyfer rhaglenni gradd israddedig llawn amser neu Ddiploma Cenedlaethol Uwch yn y Brifysgol yn cael eu gwneud ar-lein trwy UCAS.​  Mae UCAS yn helpu i symleiddio’r broses o wneud cais ar gyfer darpar fyfyrwyr sy’n awyddus i fynd i brifysgol.​
Bydd eich cais UCAS yn cynnwys y manylion allweddol y bydd eu hangen ar Brifysgol er mwyn cynnig lle i chi, gan gynnwys eich manylion personol, opsiynau cwrs, hanes addysg a chyflogaeth yn ogystal â datganiad personol yn nodi pam yr hoffech chi astudio’r cwrs penodol hwnnw gyda’r brifysgol.​ Bydd angen i chi hefyd roi geirda a thalu ar-lein am eich cais.
Mae’r broses ymgeisio ar gyfer cyrsiau Israddedig llawn amser yn cael ei gwneud yn gyfan gwbl ar-lein, lle gallwch nodi uchafswm o 5 dewis (efallai y bydd rhai cyfyngiadau’n berthnasol).​  Gall y rhain fod yn 5 prifysgol wahanol neu 5 cwrs gwahanol o fewn un brifysgol neu gyfuniad o’r ddau.​
Fel myfyriwr ysgol ar hyn o bryd, bydd eich ysgol neu goleg wedi cofrestru gydag UCAS a bydd yn gallu rheoli eich cais.​  Gwnewch yn siŵr eich bod yn cael eich allweddair (‘buzzword’) oddi wrth eich tiwtor neu gynghorydd gyrfaoedd, oherwydd bydd angen hwn arnoch chi pan fyddwch yn cofrestru gydag UCAS.
Bydd hyn yn cysylltu eich cais gyda’r sefydliad yr ydych yn gwneud cais ohono ac yn caniatáu i’ch canolwr atodi’ch geirda.​
Os nad ydych chi mewn addysg ar hyn o bryd ac yn bwriadu dychwelyd i fyd addysg uwch, chi sy’n gyfrifol am gwblhau eich cais eich hun.​ Chi fydd yn gyfrifol am dalu’r ffi ymgeisio cywir, gofyn am eich geirda academaidd a chyflwyno’r ffurflen wedi’i chwblhau.
Dylai eich geirda fod gan gyn athro neu weithiwr proffesiynol sy’n eich adnabod yn ddigon da i ysgrifennu amdanoch chi a pha mor addas ydych chi ar gyfer addysg uwch.​
Gall ymgeiswyr sy’n awyddus i ddechrau eu hastudiaethau ym mis Medi wneud cais trwy UCAS am hyd at bum dewis rhaglen i’w hystyried ar yr un pryd.
Rhoddir ystyriaeth gyfartal i bob cais ar gyfer cychwyn ym mis Medi 2024 sy’n cael eu derbyn erbyn dyddiad cau UCAS, sef 31 Ionawr 2024.
Bydd ceisiadau sy’n cael eu gwneud ar ôl dyddiad cau UCAS yn cael eu hystyried ar yr amod bod lleoedd ar gael.
Gall ymgeiswyr sydd heb unrhyw gynigion, ar ôl defnyddio eu 5 dewis cais (naill ai oherwydd eu bod wedi bod yn aflwyddiannus neu oherwydd eu bod wedi tynnu’n ôl neu wedi gwrthod eu cynigion), wneud cais am ddewis arall trwy UCAS Extra rhwng 28 Chwefror a 4 Gorffennaf 2024.​ Mae modd defnyddio opsiwn Extra i wneud cais am le ar raglenni, un ar y tro, hyd nes eich bod yn cael cynnig lle.
Gall ymgeiswyr sydd ddim yn llwyddo i sicrhau lle trwy UCAS Extra wneud cais trwy system Glirio UCAS sy’n cychwyn ar ddechrau Gorffennaf 2024 ac yn parhau trwy fis Medi.​ Er mwyn sicrhau lle drwy’r system Glirio, rhaid i ymgeiswyr gysylltu â Thîm Derbyn y Brifysgol i drafod eu haddasrwydd ar gyfer eu dewis o raglen.
Os oes modd cynnig lle, bydd angen i’r ymgeisydd ychwanegu eu dewis Clirio i’w cyfrif Hwb UCAS.
Rhaid i ymgeiswyr fodloni’r gofynion mynediad ar gyfer eu dewis o raglen cyn ychwanegu eu dewis Clirio.
Ewch i wefan UCAS am ragor o wybodaeth.
Bydd ceisiadau UCAS yn dechrau cael eu prosesu ar gyfer y flwyddyn academaidd newydd mor gynnar â mis Medi.
Ond peidiwch â phoeni, y dyddiad cau ar gyfer y rhan fwyaf o raglenni israddedig llawn amser yw 31 Ionawr.
​ Fodd bynnag, rydyn ni’n argymell eich bod yn gwirio’r dyddiad cau ar gyfer gwneud cais ar gyfer eich dewis o gwrs(cyrsiau) ar wefan UCAS.
Cyn cyflwyno’ch cais dylech sicrhau bod pob maes ar UCAS wedi’i lenwi’n gywir a gwirio eich cais am y trydydd tro.
Unwaith y byddwch chi wedi cyflwyno eich cais bydd UCAS yn anfon eich cais i’r brifysgol yr ydych wedi’i dewis.
Yna bydd pob prifysgol yn ystyried pa mor addas ydych chi ar gyfer y cwrs ac yn penderfynu a ddylid cynnig lle i chi.
Gallwch gadw llygad ar eich cais drwy ddefnyddio Hwb UCAS
Os byddwch chi’n methu dyddiad cau UCAS ym mis Ionawr y peth cyntaf sydd angen i chi ei wybod nad yw hi fyth yn rhy hwyr.
Mae opsiynau eraill ar gael i chi o hyd fel UCAS Extra a’r broses Glirio.
Gan ddefnyddio Hwb UCAS byddwch yn gallu gweld ble’r ydych arni o ran cynigion ar gyfer y cyrsiau yr ydych wedi’u dewis.
Mae gan brifysgolion sawl opsiwn gwahanol wrth ystyried ceisiadau, gallai hyn gynnwys eich gwahodd i *gyfweliad*, gwneud cynnig i chi a allai fod yn gynnig amodol neu’n gynnig diamod, neu wrthod eich cais.​
Mae cynigion amodol yn gynigion sy’n cael eu gwneud gan y brifysgol i astudio cwrs penodol ar yr amod eich bod yn bodloni’r gofynion sy’n rhan o’r cynnig.​  Fel arfer bydd hyn ar ffurf pwyntiau Tariff UCAS.
System sgorio pwyntiau sy’n rhoi gwerthoedd rhifiadol i gymwysterau yw Tariff UCAS.
Gellir casglu pwyntiau o wahanol gymwysterau e.e.
Safon Uwch neu UG.
Edrychwch ar yr adran Gofynion Mynediad ar dudalen bob cwrs am ganllaw o ran y gofynion mynediad arferol.
Mae cynigion diamod yn cael ei gwneud gan y brifysgol pan fydd y brifysgol eisoes yn fodlon eich bod wedi bodloni’r gofynion er mwyn astudio’r cwrs.
Mae rhai cyrsiau yn ei gwneud yn ofynnol i ymgeiswyr fynd drwy broses gyfweld cyn y bydd cynnig am le yn cael ei wneud.
Ewch draw i’n hadran paratoi ar gyfer Cyfweliad Prifysgol i gael gwybod mwy am hyn.
Mae gan y brifysgol hefyd yr hawl i wrthod unrhyw gais.
Ond peidiwch â phoeni nid yw hyn yn golygu mai dyma ddiwedd eich breuddwyd addysg uwch, gallwch wneud cais i brifysgolion eraill trwy *UCAS Extra* a’r broses *Clirio*.
Sgwrsiwch gyda'n Myfyrwyr

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cais/ceisiadau-rhyngwladol/gwneud-cais-trwy-asiant-israddedig:
Mae gennym rwydwaith o asiantau ar draws y byd yn barod i’ch helpu gyda’ch cais.
Mae’r Brifysgol wedi penodi cynrychiolwyr/asiantau lleol a all gynnig cyngor, gwybodaeth a chymorth gyda cheisiadau gan ddarpar fyfyrwyr.
Nid yw’r cynrychiolwyr/asiantau lleol wedi’u hawdurdodi i wneud cynigion am le.
Mae pob cynnig yn cael ei wneud gan y Brifysgol yn unol â’r polisi a’r gweithdrefnau derbyn.
Nigeria, Ghana, Gabon, Gambia, Botswana
P No 17 West Avenue Road, Central Market Sector No-II, Punjabi Bagh (West) New Delhi 110001, India.
East-Asia Office 10/F, Building 1, Yunchuang Town, Wuhan University of Technology, Hongshan District, Wuhan, Hubei

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/ceisiadau-israddedig/paratoi-ar-gyfer-cyfweliad-prifysgol:
Rydych chi wedi cyflwyno’ch cais i’r Brifysgol, ac efallai eich bod yn holi beth sy’n digwydd nesaf?
Dyma eich cyfle i ddod â’ch cais yn fyw a dangos eich brwdfrydedd, eich personoliaeth a’ch potensial wyneb yn wyneb.
Cofiwch, byddwch yn hyderus, yn chwilfrydig ac yn awyddus i ddangos pam eich bod chi’n berffaith ar gyfer y cwrs.
Er mwyn eich helpu i wneud y gorau o’r cyfle hwn, dyma ganllaw cynhwysfawr i’ch arwain drwy’r broses o baratoi ar gyfer cyfweliad.
Play video: Application Guide - How to prepare for Interview
Y peth cyntaf i’w wneud yw ymchwilio’n drylwyr i’r Brifysgol, y rhaglen a’r holl ffactorau cysylltiedig eraill.
Ceisiwch ddeall cymaint ag y gallwch chi am y cwricwlwm, y cyfleusterau ac unrhyw ddatblygiadau diweddar a allai fod yn berthnasol.​ Bydd hyn yn dangos i’r sawl sy’n eich cyfweld bod gennych ddiddordeb gwirioneddol yn y maes.
Rydych wedi cael eich gwahodd i gyfweliad yn seiliedig ar eich cais, felly gwnewch yn siŵr eich bod yn edrych dros eich datganiad personol a’ch CV a byddwch yn barod i drafod unrhyw gyflawniadau, profiadau a dyheadau a nodwyd gennych yn fanwl.
Mae’n syniad da i ymarfer ateb cwestiynau cyfweliad cyffredin, a pharatoi ymatebion cryno ond difyr sy’n dangos eich cryfderau a’ch diddordebau.
Mae’r math hyn o gwestiynau’n cynnwys, “Dywedwch ychydig wrthyf amdanoch chi’ch hun”, “Pam ydych chi eisiau astudio’r pwnc hwn?”, “Beth allwch chi ei gynnig i’n Prifysgol ni?”
Paratowch atebion sy’n arddangos eich sgiliau trwy feddwl am enghreifftiau i ddangos eich gallu i ddatrys problemau, eich sgiliau wrth weithio mewn tîm, profiad arwain ac ati.​ Bydd hyn yn ychwanegu dyfnder at eich atebion ac yn eich helpu i sefyll allan.
Eich ymddangosiad sy’n rhoi’r argraff gyntaf ohonoch, felly dewiswch wisg sy’n cyd-fynd â diwylliant y brifysgol a’r rhaglen rydych chi’n gwneud cais amdani.
Bydd gwisgo’n broffesiynol ac yn gyfforddus yn rhoi hwb i’ch hyder ac yn gadael argraff gadarnhaol.
Edrychwch ar foesau sylfaenol cyfweliad fel ysgwyd llaw yn gadarn, cynnal cyswllt llygad a gwrando gweithredol.​ Cofiwch fod yn gwrtais tuag at bawb y byddwch yn dod ar eu traws, oherwydd efallai y byddwch chi’n cyfarfod nifer o bobl ddylanwadol.
Gwnewch yn siŵr fod gennych restr o gwestiynau yn barod i’w gofyn i’r sawl sy’n eich cyfweld.
Bydd hyn yn dangos eich bod yn awyddus i ddysgu mwy am y rhaglen.
Gallai cwestiynau cyffredin gynnwys holi am gyfleoedd pellach, cymorth gyrfaoedd, ac unrhyw beth arall sydd ganddoch chi ddiddordeb ynddo.​
Mae’n ychydig yn anodd i ddechrau ond,bcynnal ffug gyfweliadau gyda ffrindiau, teulu, neu fentoriaid yw’r ffordd berffaith i gael gwared ar y nerfau.
​Bydd yr ymarfer hwn yn helpu i fireinio’ch atebion, gwella’ch cyflwyniad ac yn eich gwneud yn llai nerfus.
Yn dibynnu ar eich rhaglen, efallai y bydd angen i chi ateb cwestiynau technegol yn ymwneud â’r maes pwnc.
Paratowch ar gyfer hyn drwy adolygu cysyniadau allweddol, a datblygiadau diweddar yn y maes, a darllen gwaith sydd wedi’u gyhoeddi.
Nid ceisio chwilio am feiau y mae’r cyfwelydd, maen nhw yno er mwyn deall yn well pwy ydych chi fel person.
Cymerwch anadl ddofn, cadwch ar gyflymder cyson a byddwch yn chi’ch hun.​ Mae bod yn ddiffuant yn allweddol er mwyn gwneud cysylltiad go iawn gyda’r sawl sy’n eich cyfweld.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/student-journey:
Mae ein timau yma i helpu i’ch tywys drwy bob cam o’r broses ymgeisio.
Rydym wedi amlinellu pob un o’r camau allweddol y bydd angen i chi eu cymryd ar eich taith i ymuno â’n cymuned ddysgu groesawgar a dod yn fyfyriwr yn PCYDDS.
Os ydych chi’n chwilio am ragor o wybodaeth am astudio, a’r broses ymgeisio, gallwch gysylltu â’n tîm penodedig sydd ar gael i ateb eich cwestiynau.
Mae penderfynu ble a beth rydych chi am ei astudio’n benderfyniad pwysig.
Mae blas ar fywyd myfyrwyr ym mhob campws i’w weld ar y tudalennau bywyd campws .
Treuliwch funud neu ddau’n gwylio’r fideos am fywyd myfyrwyr i gael eich cipolwg cyntaf ar ein campysau!
Ewch i gael golwg ar y cyrsiau sydd ar gael, a gweld ar ba gampysau y mae’r cyrsiau hynny.
Dewiswch gwrs sy’n cyd-fynd â’ch nodau, ac ymchwiliwch y gwahanol gyrsiau sydd ar gael i’ch helpu i gyrraedd yno.
Rydym wedi rhannu ein cyrsiau yn ôl meysyd d pwnc i’w gwneud yn haws i chi.
Pan fyddwch wedi dewis i ble yr hoffech fynd a beth i’w astudio, dylech drefnu dod i Ddiwrnod Agored i gael profi naws y campws.
Caiff y rhan fwyaf o Geisiadau Israddedig eu cyflwyno drwy UCAS .
Gallwch ychwanegu 5 cwrs, naill ai yn yr un brifysgol neu mewn prifysgolion gwahanol.
Unwaith y byddwch wedi dewis eich opsiynau, ysgrifennwch ddatganiad personol rhagorol sy’n dweud wrthym pwy ydych chi go iawn a pham eich bod am astudio gyda ni.
Bydd y fideo Canllaw i Ysgrifennu Datganiad Personol yn help i chi ddechrau.
Nawr eich bod wedi cyflwyno cais, byddwch am wybod beth yw’r cam nesaf.
Y peth nesaf i’w ystyried yw ble byddwch chi’n aros yn ystod eich astudiaethau.
Mae’r dudalen llety’n egluro’r opsiynau llety gwahanol sydd ar gael ar ein campysau.
Un o’r ffactorau pwysicaf wrth astudio yn y brifysgol yw ffioedd a chyllid.
Gan fod llawer o opsiynau cyllid myfyrwyr ar gael, mae’r dudalen ffioedd a chyllid yn lle da i ddechrau.
Ar ôl i chi gyflwyno eich cais, byddwn yn ystyried eich cais ac yn ceisio gwneud cynnig i chi astudio gyda ni.
Pan fyddwch wedi cael eich cynnig, gallwch ei dderbyn trwy UCAS neu ar ein porth ar-lein (i fyfyrwyr nad ydynt yn gwneud cais trwy UCAS).
Wedyn mae angen i chi gadw golwg am e-byst i gadarnhau eich diwrnod dechrau, llety a chyllid myfyrwyr.
Tra byddwch yn aros am eich cynnig, dysgwch am yr hyn sy’n digwydd ar draws ein campysau, gan gynnwys Cyfleoedd Cymraeg, Cyfleoedd Byd-eang a Chymdeithasau a Chyfleoedd Chwaraeon.
Ydych chi wedi colli dyddiad cau mis Ionawr ond yn awyddus i ddechrau ym mis Medi?
Peidiwch â phoeni, gallwch ymgeisio o hyd drwy UCAS Extra rhwng mis Chwefror a mis Gorffennaf neu drwy’r drefn clirio ym mis Gorffennaf a mis Awst.
Isod ceir canllaw cyflym ar y mathau gwahanol o gyrsiau a’r mathau o astudiaethau a gynigir gan brifysgolion, i’ch helpu i wneud dewis gwybodus am beth a sut yr hoffech astudio.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/ceisiadau-israddedig/ucas-extra:
Yma yn PCYDDS, rydyn ni’n deall y gall y daith i addysg uwch fod yn broses ddeinamig ac yn un sy’n esblygu.
Mae UCAS Extra yn opsiwn unigryw a hyblyg sy’n cael ei gynnig gan UCAS ac sy’n agor drysau i fyfyrwyr sydd efallai heb sicrhau lle trwy eu ceisiadau cyntaf neu sy’n awyddus i archwilio posibiliadau addysgol newydd.​
Dewch i ddarganfod sut y gall UCAS Extra fod yn addas i chi, gan gynnig rhagor o gyfleoedd ar gyfer eich cwrs prifysgol delfrydol.​ Rydyn ni’n credu yn eich potensial, ac yma i’ch cefnogi bob cam o’r ffordd.
Mae ceisiadau UCAS Extra ar agor rhwng mis Chwefror a mis Gorffennaf.
Play video: UCAS Guide - UCAS Extra
Mae UCAS Extra wedi’i gynllunio ar gyfer myfyrwyr sydd heb dderbyn unrhyw gynigion o’u ceisiadau neu sydd heb ddefnyddio pob un o’r 5 dewis ar eu cais.
Mae ceisiadau’n cael eu cyflwyno ar wefan UCAS, os ydych yn gymwys bydd gennych yr opsiwn i ‘Ychwanegu Dewis Ychwanegol’ yn yr adran ‘Eich Dewisiadau’.
Ni fyddwch yn gallu cyflwyno datganiad personol newydd yn ystod proses UCAS Extra.
Bydd y datganiad personol gwreiddiol a wnaed yn gynharach yn y broses UCAS yn cael ei gyflwyno’n ffurfiol i unrhyw Brifysgol rydych chi’n ei dewis yn ystod proses UCAS Extra.
Mae myfyriwr yn gymwys ar gyfer UCAS Extra os ydyn nhw wedi;
Yn ystod proses UCAS Extra, dim ond ar gyfer un cwrs ar y tro y gallwch chi wneud cais ond does dim pen-draw ar nifer y ceisiadau y gallwch chi eu gnweud.
Ar ôl i chi ychwanegu eich dewis Extra bydd y Brifysgol yn ystyried eich cais ac yn penderfynu a ddylid cynnig lle i chi ai peidio.​
Gallwch dderbyn eich cynnig drwy ymateb gan ddefnyddio UCAS, unwaith y caiff ei dderbyn, chi biau’r lle pan fyddwch wedi bodloni’r meini prawf sy’n cael eu nodi yn y cynnig.​
Gallwch wrthod y cynnig a wnaed drwy UCAS.
Os byddwch chi’n dewis gwrthod gallwch ddechrau chwilio eto drwy Extra.
Os na fyddwch yn cael cynnig, neu os byddwch yn gwrthod cynnig, gallwch chi wneud cais i brifysgol arall trwy UCAS Extra.​ Os nad ydych wedi cael neu dderbyn cynnig cyn y dyddiad cau ar gyfer UCAS Extra, peidiwch â phoeni oherwydd bydd posibiliadau eraill ar gael drwy’r broses *Glirio*.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/ceisiadau-israddedig/ysgrifennu-datganiad-personol:
Datganiad personol yw eich cyfle unigryw chi i ymchwilio i’r dyheadau, y profiadau a’r rhinweddau sydd, yn eich barn chi, yn eich gwneud chi’n berffaith ar gyfer y cwrs a’r brifysgol rydych chi wedi’u dewis.
​ Dylai fod yn adlewyrchiad cywir o bwy ydych chi y tu hwnt i’ch cyflawniadau academaidd, gan roi cipolwg ar eich diddordebau, eich cymhellion a’r daith sydd wedi eich arwain at y foment hon.​
Gwnewch argraff a rhowch ddarlun cyflawn o bwy ydych chi go iawn.
Defnyddiwch eich datganiad personol i ddangos eich gallu i fynegi’ch uchelgeisiau, y sgiliau perthnasol sydd gennych chi a’ch bod yn addas ar gyfer y rhaglen rydych chi’n ei dewis.
Sut i ysgrifennu datganiad personol
Does dim templed safonol ar gyfer ysgrifennu eich datganiad ond y prif beth i’w gadw mewn cof yw ei fod yn llifo ac yn hawdd ei ddarllen.
Dyma rai awgrymiadau wrth i chi fynd ati i ysgrifennu eich datganiad:
Strwythur ; sicrhewch strwythur hawdd ei ddarllen sy’n llifo’n braf trwy ddechrau gyda chyflwyniad sy’n annog y darllenydd i ddarllen ymlaen.​  Yna ewch ymlaen at yr hyn rydych eisiau ei gynnwys ac rydym yn argymell gwneud hyn yn y drefn sydd fwyaf perthnasol i’r hyn y mae’r brifysgol yn chwilio amdano.
Ac yn olaf, casgliad.
Dyma eich cyfle i atgyfnerthu eich ymrwymiad, eich brwdfrydedd a’ch sgiliau gyda datganiad clo cadarn.
Iaith ; rydych chi’n ceisio gwneud argraff gyntaf dda felly defnyddiwch iaith ffurfiol ond cofiwch ddefnyddio geirfa rydych chi’n gyfforddus yn ei defnyddio.
Defnyddiwch iaith sy’n gwneud i chi swnio’n frwdfrydig ac sy’n cyfleu pwy ydych chi go iawn.
Yn bwysicaf oll, gwiriwch eich gramadeg, eich sillafu a’ch atalnodi.
Geirda(on); yn dibynnu ar y rhaglen yr ydych yn gwneud cais amdani, efallai y bydd gofyn i chi ddarparu mwy nag un geirda.
Bydd hyn yn cael ei nodi ar y ffurflen gais.
Yn ddelfrydol, dylai eich canolwr fod yn rhywun sy’n eich adnabod ar lefel academaidd, fel eich tiwtor presennol neu yn y gorffennol, sy’n gallu ysgrifennu am ba mor addas ydych chi ar gyfer addysg uwch.
Ond, os nad ydych wedi bod mewn addysg yn ddiweddar, gall geirda proffesiynol gan gyflogwr presennol neu flaenorol fod yn dderbyniol hefyd.
Ni dderbynnir geirda gan deulu neu ffrindiau.
Os ydych yn ansicr ynglŷn â chael geirda, cysylltwch â’r tiwtor derbyn a fydd yn gallu rhoi arweiniad i chi.
Cofiwch
Dechrau arni yw rhan anoddaf y datganiad personol.
Ystyriwch beth ydych am ei gynnwys a’r hyn rydych chi eisiau i’r brifysgol rydych wedi ei dewis wybod amdanoch.​  Dyma rai enghreifftiau o bethau i’w cynnwys, ond cofiwch peidiwch â’u rhestru’n unig, rhowch enghreifftiau o sut y gwnaethoch chi eu datblygu a sut rydych chi’n eu defnyddio:
Gan mai dim ond un datganiad personol sydd gennych chi i greu argraff, dyma rai pethau i’w hosgoi wrth fynd ati i ysgrifennu eich datganiad personol.​

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cais/cyngor-i-ymgeiswyr/euogfarnau-troseddol:
Er mwyn diogelu ein myfyrwyr, staff ac ymwelwyr ac i alluogi i’r Brifysgol ddarparu’r gefnogaeth briodol, anogir y rheiny sy’n gwneud cais i’r Brifysgol a myfyrwyr sydd wedi cofrestru i ddatgan p’un a oes ganddynt unrhyw euogfarnau troseddol cyn gynted â phosibl.
Bydd unrhyw ddatganiad o euogfarn, ac unrhyw wybodaeth ddilynol a ddatgelir mewn perthynas â’r datganiad, yn cael ei drin â sensitifrwydd, ei gadw’n gwbl gyfrinachol, ei ddatgelu i aelodau staff dynodedig y Brifysgol yn unig a’i reoli’n unol ag egwyddorion Deddf Diogelu Data 2018 a Rheoliad Cyffredinol y DU ar Ddiogelu Data.
Yn PCYDDS rydym yn ymrwymo i ddileu rhwystrau rhag cyfranogi mewn addysg uwch ac yn cefnogi pobl o bob cefndir ac amgylchiad i gyflawni eu potensial.
Ni fydd bod â chofnod troseddol yn eithrio unigolyn yn awtomatig rhag astudio gyda ni.
Mae gan y Brifysgol staff hyfforddedig sy’n gallu cynnig cyngor a chymorth perthnasol i ddarpar fyfyrwyr a myfyrwyr cofrestredig.
Os hoffech siarad gyda rhywun yn gyfrinachol am eich euogfarnau troseddol ac addasrwydd cyrsiau, e-bostiwch datgeiliadau@pcydds.ac.uk ac fe gysylltwn â chi cyn gynted â phosibl.
Gall y Tîm Gwasanaethau Mewnfudo a Chydymffurfiaeth Fisâu international.registry@uwtsd.ac.uk hefyd ddarparu cyngor cysylltiedig ynghylch materion mewnfudo ar gyfer ymgeiswyr rhyngwladol.
Bydd rhaid i ymgeiswyr rhyngwladol ddatgan unrhyw euogfarnau troseddol yn unol â gofynion y Swyddfa Gartref.
Yn amodol ar y rhaglen astudio y gwneir y cais amdano, mae gwahanol ofynion a gweithdrefnau ar waith yn gysylltiedig â datgelu euogfarnau troseddol.
Mae rhai rhaglenni astudio a gynigir yn PCYDDS yn arwain at alwedigaethau sydd wedi’u heithrio rhag Deddf Adsefydlu Troseddwyr 1974 (fel rhaglenni hyfforddi athrawon).
Bydd y rhaglenni hyn yn cynnwys lleoliad neu weithgaredd sy’n galw am gyswllt sylweddol gyda phlant a/neu oedolion agored i niwed, y cyfeirir atynt fel gweithgaredd rheoledig.
Bydd rhaid i ymgeiswyr sy’n dymuno cofrestru ar raglenni rheoledig gael datgeliad manwl boddhaol gan y Gwasanaeth Datgelu a Gwahardd er mwyn cofrestru’n llawn yn fyfyriwr yn y Brifysgol, a chyn y caniateir iddynt wneud unrhyw waith lle mae gofyn cysylltu â phlant neu oedolion sy’n agored i niwed.
Os oes rhaid cael gwiriad DBS ar gyfer rhaglen astudio, caiff hyn ei nodi’n glir ar dudalen wybodaeth y cwrs ar wefan PCYDDS (ac ar wefan UCAS os yn berthnasol).
P’un a ydynt yn gwneud cais i gyrsiau sy’n gofyn am wiriad DBS manylach trwy UCAS neu’n uniongyrchol i’r Brifysgol, gofynnir i ymgeiswyr ddatgan unrhyw euogfarnau troseddol a fyddai’n ymddangos ar wiriad DBS manylach ar eu ffurflen gais.
Gofynnir i ymgeiswyr sy’n nodi bod ganddynt euogfarnau troseddol lenwi Ffurflen Hunan Ddatganiad Euogfarn(au) Troseddol y Brifysgol.
Ar gyfer rhaglenni o’r fath, rhaid i ymgeiswyr a myfyrwyr ddatgelu pob euogfarn heb ei ddisbyddu a rhybuddion amodol, a phob euogfarn wedi’i disbyddu a rhybudd i oedolyn nad ydynt wedi’u hamddiffyn (h.y.
heb eu hidlo) yn ôl diffiniad Deddf Adsefydlu Troseddwyr 1974 (Eithriadau) Gorchymyn 1975 (fel y’i diwygiwyd yn 2020) .
Cynhelir asesiad academaidd o’r cais yn y ffordd arferol, ond ni fydd y penderfyniad i gynnig lle neu beidio yn cael ei wneud nes ar ôl i Banel Adolygu Euogfarnau Troseddol y Brifysgol adolygu Ffurflen Hunan Ddatganiad Euogfarn(au) Troseddol yr ymgeisydd ac unrhyw wybodaeth olynol a ddarperir mewn perthynas â’r datganiad.
Bydd y Panel yn penderfynu a yw unrhyw euogfarnau neu wybodaeth a ddatgelir yn anghydnaws â lle ar raglen astudio.
Bydd ymgeiswyr sy’n derbyn cynnig o le wedi hyn yn cael cyfarwyddiadau ar sut i gynnal a chwblhau gwiriad DBS trwy ‘ Datgeliadau Mantais Gyntaf Ar-lein ‘ , gwasanaeth datgelu electronig ar-lein.
Ceir rhagor o wybodaeth am y broses o wneud cais am wiriad DBS ar y dudalen Gwiriadau Gwasanaeth Datgelu a Gwahardd (DBS) .
Os na fydd ymgeisydd yn datgelu euogfarn ar eu Ffurflen Hunan Ddatganiad Euogfarnau Troseddol sydd wedyn yn ymddangos ar eu gwiriad DBS manwl, bydd eu cais yn cael ei gyfeirio yn ôl i’r Panel Adolygu Euogfarnau Troseddol a fydd yn penderfynu os yw unrhyw euogfarnau neu wybodaeth a ddatgelwyd yn anghydnaws â lle ar raglen astudio.
Rhaid i ymgeiswyr sydd wedi’u harestio, eu cyhuddo, neu eu cael yn euog o dramgwydd troseddol ar ôl gwneud cais roi gwybod i’r Brifysgol ar unwaith drwy e-bostio datgeiliadau@pcydds.ac.uk .
Gallai methu â rhoi gwybod i’r Brifysgol arwain at wrthod cais, neu fod y Brifysgol yn tynnu lle a gynigiwyd yn ôl.
Ceir gwybodaeth bellach ym Mholisi Derbyn y Brifysgol
Rhaglenni lle nad oes angen Gwiriad gan y Gwasanaeth Datgelu a Gwahardd (DBS)
Ar ôl derbyn cynnig yn bendant am le ar raglen astudio nad yw’n cynnwys cyswllt gyda phlant neu oedolion agored i niwed, caiff ymgeiswyr eu gwahodd i lenwi Ffurflen Hunan Ddatganiad Euogfarn(au) Troseddol.
Anogir y sawl sy’n gwneud cais i raglenni o’r fath ddatgan unrhyw euogfarnau troseddol ‘heb eu disbyddu’ ‘perthnasol’ a/neu rybuddion amodol ac i ddarparu manylion unrhyw gyfyngiadau neu ofynion prawf a allai effeithio ar eu hastudiaethau.
Euogfarnau troseddol ‘perthnasol’ yw’r rheiny sy’n cynnwys troseddau yn erbyn yr unigolyn, p’un a yw o natur treisgar neu rywiol, euogfarnau ar gyfer troseddau sy’n cynnwys cyflenwi cyffuriau neu sylweddau rheoledig yn anghyfreithlon lle bo’r euogfarn yn ymwneud â delio neu fasnachu mewn cyffuriau yn fasnachol, a throseddau sy’n cynnwys arfau tanio, tanau bwriadol a therfysgaeth.
Ni ystyrir bod euogfarnau sydd wedi’u ‘disbyddu’ (yn ôl diffiniad Deddf Adsefydlu Troseddwyr 1974) yn berthnasol ac nid oes angen eu datgelu.
Gall ymgeiswyr sy’n dymuno datgelu euogfarn troseddol wedi’i disbyddu drafod hyn yn gyfrinachol gyda staff hyfforddedig yn y Tîm Gwasanaethau Myfyrwyr a fydd yn gallu rhoi cymorth perthnasol iddynt.
Bydd y ffurflen hunan ddatganiad gorffenedig ac unrhyw wybodaeth olynol a ddarperir mewn perthynas â’r datganiad yn cael eu hystyried gan Banel Adolygu Euogfarnau Troseddol y Brifysgol.
Bydd y Panel yn ystyried p’un a yw cyfyngiadau neu ofynion prawf y gallai’r ymgeisydd fod yn destun iddynt yn dilyn euogfarn yn gydnaws â lle ar raglen astudio.
Bydd y panel yn cymryd i ystyriaeth unrhyw addasiadau y gellir eu gwneud i hwyluso’r astudio.
Er nad oes efallai angen gwiriad DBS i gael mynediad i’w rhaglen astudio, dylai ymgeiswyr fod yn ymwybodol y gall eu cyflogwyr posibl yn y DU ofyn iddynt gael gwiriad DBS yn rhan o’r broses recriwtio neu yn ystod eu cyflogaeth dilynol.
Felly, argymhellir bod yr ymgeiswyr hynny sy’n dymuno astudio cyrsiau gyda’r bwriad o ddilyn gyrfa benodol, yn cynnal ymchwil i’r gofynion proffesiynol a chymryd y wybodaeth hon i ystyriaeth.
Bydd y Brifysgol yn ystyried gweithredu’r Polisi Camymddwyn Anacademaidd os na fydd myfyriwr wedi datgan euogfarn droseddol berthnasol pan fo’n briodol yn y cyfnod derbyn.
Bydd unigolyn a gaiff ei arestio, ei arwystlo neu ei euogfarnu pan fo’n fyfyriwr yn y Brifysgol yn amodol ar Bolisi Camymddwyn Anacademaidd y Brifysgol a bydd rhaid iddo ddatgan hyn cyn gynted ag y bo modd.
Bydd rhaid i fyfyrwyr sy’n parhau gadarnhau adeg ailgofrestru nad oes ganddynt euogfarn droseddol berthnasol sydd heb ei datgan yn flaenorol i’r Brifysgol.
Bydd rhaid i fyfyrwyr sydd ar gam diweddarach o’u rhaglen astudio sy’n nodi eu bod yn dymuno cofrestru ar fodwl dewisol sy’n cynnwys gweithio gyda phlant, phobl ifanc neu oedolion agored i niwed ddatgan euogfarnau perthnasol a chael Datgeliad Manylach boddhaol gan y Gwasanaeth Datgelu a Gwahardd cyn gallu dechrau’r modwl.
Mae Panel Adolygu Euogfarnau Troseddol y Brifysgol yn cynnwys Cyfarwyddwr y Gwasanaethau Myfyrwyr, Pennaeth Gweithredol y Gofrestrfa, Rheolwr Derbyn a Rheolwr Gwasanaethau’r Gofrestrfa.
Mae’r Panel yn cwrdd yn wythnosol neu pan fo angen er mwyn adolygu achosion a gyfeirir atynt drwy’r Gofrestrfa.
Yn amodol ar natur a difrifwch yr euogfarnau a ddatgelir a’r rhaglen astudio dan sylw, gellir gwahodd aelodau eraill o staff fel Deon Cynorthwyol yr Athrofa, y Swyddog Diogelu Data, a lle bo’n briodol, y Rheolwr Llety i ymuno â’r Panel mewn rôl ymgynghorol.
Mae’r Brifysgol yn cadw’r hawl i wrthod lle neu i dynnu cynnig o le yn ôl os yw’n ystyried y gallai derbyn ymgeisydd beryglu diogelwch cymuned y Brifysgol neu lle bo euogfarnau neu wybodaeth a ddatgelir, neu gyfyngiadau neu ofynion prawf y mae’n rhaid i’r ymgeisydd gadw atynt, yn anghydnaws â lle ar raglen astudio.
Bydd rhesymau’r Panel am y penderfyniad yn cael eu rhoi ym mhob achos.
Bydd ymgeiswyr/myfyrwyr yn cael gwybod os yw’n amod o’u derbyn/cofrestriad parhaus y bydd y wybodaeth hon yn cael ei throsglwyddo i aelodau penodol y staff yn ôl yr angen.
Bydd apêl yn erbyn penderfyniad y Panel yn cael ei ystyried lle bo rhesymau digonol, fel a amlinellir ym Mholisi a Gweithdrefnau Adborth, Apeliadau a Chwynion Derbyn y Brifysgol sydd ar gael ym Mholisi Derbyn a Thelerau ac Amodau ar gyfer Ymgeiswyr .
Storio a chadw gwybodaeth sy’n ymwneud ag euogfarnau troseddol
Bydd unrhyw wybodaeth a ddatgelir gan fyfyrwyr arfaethedig a chofrestredig mewn perthynas ag euogfarnau troseddol yn cael ei chadw’n electronig ac ni chaiff ei chadw’n hirach nag sy’n rhaid at y diben y cafodd ei darparu.
Mae rhagor o wybodaeth ar bolisïau’r Brifysgol ar ddiogelu data ar ein tudalen Polisïau ar Ddiogelu Data .

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ymgeisio-chyllid/sut-i-wneud-cais/gwiriadaur-gwasanaeth-datgelu-gwahardd-dbs:
Mae rhai cyrsiau a gynigir gan Y Drindod Dewi Sant yn gofyn i ymgeiswyr gael Gwiriad Manylach gan y Gwasanaeth Datgelu a Gwahardd (DBS).
Bydd y cyrsiau hyn yn cynnwys lleoliad neu weithgaredd sy’n golygu cyswllt sylweddol â phlant ac /neu oedolion agored i niwed.
Cyfeirir atynt fel gweithgareddau a reoleiddir.
Os bydd angen gwiriad DBS ar gyfer cwrs, bydd hynny wedi’i nodi’n glir ar dudalen wybodaeth y cwrs ar wefan y Drindod Dewi Sant (ac ar wefan UCAS os yw hynny’n berthnasol) ac mewn unrhyw lythyr cynnig dilynol a anfonir gan y Brifysgol.
Rhaid cwblhau’r broses DBS yn foddhaol cyn y caniateir i fyfyriwr ymgymryd ag unrhyw waith neu leoliad sy’n gofyn am gysylltiad â phlant a/neu oedolion agored i niwed.
Ceir gwybodaeth bellach ym Mholisi Derbyn y Brifysgol .
Cofrestru ar gyfer y gwasanaeth ar-lein
Mae’r Brifysgol yn defnyddio gwasanaeth allanol ‘First Advantage KnowYourPeople’ i brosesu ceisiadau DBS.
Ar ôl i chi dderbyn eich cynnig am le, neu wedi cadarnhau ar UCAS mai’r Drindod Dewi Sant yw eich dewis Pendant, byd gofyn i chi ‘hunan-gofrestru’ ar gyfer y gwasanaeth DBS ar-lein.
Anfonir e-bost atoch gan y Tîm Derbyniadau yn cynnwys y ddolen i’r dudalen gofrestru.
Bydd yr e-bost hefyd yn cynnwys y Swydd rydych chi’n gwneud cais amdani.
Wedi i chi gofrestru, byddwch yn gallu cychwyn ar eich cais.
Cwblhau’r ffurflen gais
Argymhellwn fod y canlynol gennych wrth law i’ch cynorthwyo wrth gwblhau’r ffurflen:
Os nad oes gennych y wybodaeth uchod wrth law, gallwch ddychwelyd i gwblhau’r ffurflen rywbryd eto ar ôl cofrestru.
Talu
Ar hyn o bryd, cost ymgeisio am DBS yw £65.86 sy’n daladwy’n uniongyrchol i First Advantage drwy ddefnyddio eu system dalu ar-lein.
Mae’r swm hwn yn cynnwys ffi o £49.50 a godir gan y Gwasanaeth Datgelu a Gwahardd (GDG) ar gyfer y gwiriad manylach, ffi gweinyddol o £7.98 a godir gan First Advantage am brosesu’r cais GDG, a ffi gweinyddol o £8.38 a godir gan Swyddfa’r Post ar gyfer gwirio eich dogfennau.
Gwirio Dogfennau
Fel rhan o’r broses ymgeisio i’r DBS, mae’n ofynnol i ymgeiswyr ddarparu o leiaf 3 dogfen hunaniaeth wreiddiol.
Rhaid i’r dogfennau hyn fodloni gofynion y rhestr o ddogfennau a ganiateir gan y DBS
Gwirio mewn cangen o Swyddfa’r Post sy’n cynnig Gwasanaeth Gwirio CRB ac ID
Fel rhan o’r gwasanaeth ar-lein, gall ymgeiswyr cael eu dogfennau wedi’u gwirio gan Swyddfa’r Post gan ddefnyddio ‘Gwasanaeth Gwirio CRB ac ID’.
Ceir rhagor o wybodaeth am y canghennau sy’n cynnig y gwasanaeth hwn ar wefan y Swyddfa Bost .
Bydd angen i chi fynd â chopi printiedig o daflen y Gwasanaeth Gwirio ID gyda chi wrth ddefnyddio’r gwasanaeth hwn.
Cofrestru ar gyfer Gwasanaeth Diweddaru’r DBS
Argymhellwn fod pob ymgeisydd yn cofrestru ar gyfer y Gwasanaeth Diweddaru.
Ar ôl i chi gyflwyno eich cais DBS, gallwch danysgrifio i’r Gwasanaeth Diweddaru ar unwaith drwy ddefnyddio eich cyfeirnod cais DBS.
Gallwch hefyd ymuno â’r Gwasanaeth Diweddaru ar dderbyn eich tystysgrif DBS, drwy ddefnyddio rhif eich tystysgrif.
Os byddwch yn dewis gwneud hyn, bydd rhaid i chi ymuno â’r Gwasanaeth Diweddaru o fewn 30 diwrnod ers y ‘dyddiad dyroddi’ sydd ar eich tystysgrif.
Cost y Gwasanaeth Diweddaru yw £16 y flwyddyn, a dylid talu’r ffi hon yn uniongyrchol i’r DBS.
Gellir cyfeirio unrhyw gwestiynau yn ymwneud â Gwiriadau DBS at y Tîm Derbyniadau ar: dbs@pcydds.ac.uk
Wedi i chi dderbyn cynnig am le yn y Drindod Dewi Sant fel eich dewis pendant, cewch e-bost gan y Tîm Derbyniadau a fydd yn cynnwys dolen i dudalen Gofrestru/Mewngofnodi First Advantage KnowYourPeople lle bydd angen i chi gofrestru.
Bydd angen hwn arnoch wrth gofrestru am y gwasanaeth ar-lein.
Ar hyn o bryd, cost gwiriad DBS manylach yw £65.86 y dylid ei dalu’n uniongyrchol i First Advantage drwy ddefnyddio eu system dalu ar-lein.
Mae’r swm hwn yn cynnwys ffi o £49.50 a godir gan y Gwasanaeth Datgelu a Gwahardd (GDG) ar gyfer y gwiriad manylach, ffi gweinyddol o £7.98 a godir gan First Advantage am brosesu’r cais GDG, a ffi gweinyddol o £8.38 a godir gan Swyddfa’r Post ar gyfer gwirio eich dogfennau.
Ni fyddwch yn gallu cwblhau eich cais DBS nes i’r taliad gael ei wneud.
Datgeliad DBS
Os oes gennych dystysgrif DBS ddilys yn eich meddiant ar hyn o bryd ac mae gennych danysgrifiad dilys i Wasanaeth Diweddaru’r DBS, cysylltwch â’r Tîm Derbyniadau a fydd yn gallu gwirio a yw’n bodloni gofynion y cwrs ai peidio.
Gallwn dderbyn yn unig dystysgrifau sydd â’r un lefel o wiriad â’r hyn sydd ei angen ar gyfer y cwrs rydych chi’n ymgeisio amdano e.e.
mae eich tystysgrif yn wiriad Manwl ar gyfer y Gweithlu Plant ac mae’r cwrs yn gofyn am wiriad Manwl ar gyfer y Gweithlu Plant.
Os nad yw eich tystysgrif yn bodloni gofynion y cwrs, e.e.
rydych chi’n meddu ar wiriad Manwl ar gyfer y Gweithlu Plant ac Oedolion ond mae’r cwrs yn gofyn am wiriad Manwl ar gyfer y Gweithlu Plant, neu os nad ydych wedi cofrestru gyda Gwasanaeth Diweddaru’r DBS, yna bydd yn ofynnol i chi wneud cais am dystysgrif newydd.
I wirio a ganiateir i chi ddefnyddio tystysgrif gyfredol, cysylltwch â’r Tîm Derbyniadau ar: dbs@pcydds.ac.uk .
Gwnewch yn siŵr eich bod yn lanlwytho copi o’ch tystysgrif gyfredol i’n cynorthwyo i wirio a yw’n addas.
Os ystyrir bod eich tystysgrif bresennol yn dderbyniol i’w defnyddio, bydd angen i chi gael tanysgrifiad dilys i Wasanaeth Diweddaru DBS a bydd angen i hyn fod ar waith nes eich bod wedi cwblhau unrhyw waith neu leoliadau sy’n cynnwys cyswllt â phlant a/neu oedolion agored i niwed y mae angen i chi ymgymryd â nhw yn rhan o’ch cwrs.
Os byddwch yn caniatáu i’ch tanysgrifiad i Wasanaeth Diweddaru’r DBS ddarfod, bydd gofyn i chi wneud cais am ddatgeliad Manwl newydd trwy’r Drindod Dewi Sant ac ni chaniateir i chi fynychu lleoliadau sy’n cynnwys gweithgaredd rheoledig neu barhau â’r lleoliad hwn nes eich bod wedi cwblhau’r broses DBS yn foddhaol.
Sylwer pan fod angen gwiriad DBS, mae’n rhaid iddo fod yn wiriad Manwl.
Ni allwn dderbyn tystysgrifau gwiriad Sylfaenol cyfredol.
Datgeliad ar gyfer yr Alban
Mae Datganiadau’r Alban yn ddilys yn yr Alban yn unig ac o’r herwydd ni chânt eu derbyn.
Bydd angen i chi ymgeisio am wiriad DBS Manwl.
Datgeliad Access NI
Ni allwn dderbyn Datganiadau Mynediad Gogledd Iwerddon gan eu bod ond yn gywir ar y dyddiad cyhoeddi.
Gan fod Gwasanaeth Diweddaru’r DBS ond yn ddilys ar y cyd â’r dystysgrif wreiddiol, ni allwn dderbyn hyn.
Mae’r Gwasanaeth Diweddaru ond yn dangos gwybodaeth a ychwanegwyd ers i’r dystysgrif wreiddiol gael ei chyhoeddi.
Nid yw’n dangos unrhyw wybodaeth na marcwyr a oedd yn bresennol ar y dystysgrif wreiddiol.
Os na allwch ddarparu eich tystysgrif DBS gwreiddiol pan fo’n ofynnol yn ystod proses wirio DBS y Brifysgol, cyn neu yn ystod lleoliad sy’n cynnwys gweithgaredd rheoleiddiedig, bydd angen i chi ymgeisio am ddatgeliad Manwl newydd drwy’r Drindod Dewi Sant ac ni chaniateir iddynt fynychu lleoliadau sy’n cynnwys gweithgaredd rheoledig neu barhau â lleoliad o’r fath nes eich bod wedi cwblhau’r broses DBS yn foddhaol.
I ddilyn statws cais sydd wedi’i gyflwyno, gallwch ddefnyddio’r gwasanaeth dilyn ceisiadau DBS swyddogol.
Bydd rhaid i chi fewnosod rhif cyfeirnod eich cais a’ch dyddiad geni er mwyn dilyn cynnydd eich cais.
Os na allwch ddod o hyd i’ch rhif cyfeirnod, cysylltwch â’r Tîm Derbyniadau ar: dbs@pcydds.ac.uk .
Pan fydd y DBS yn cyhoeddi’r dystysgrif, bydd y Brifysgol yn derbyn llythyr electronig o gadarnhad.
Os bydd y Brifysgol am i chi ddangos y dystysgrif wreiddiol, byddwn yn cysylltu â chi’n uniongyrchol.
Bydd yn rhaid i chi apelio yn uniongyrchol i’r DBS ynglŷn ag unrhyw wybodaeth anghywir sydd ar dystysgrif DBS.
Ceir y manylion cyswllt ar wefan y DBS
Fel rhan o’r broses o wneud cais DBS, bydd angen i ymgeiswyr ddarparu o leiaf 3 dogfen adnabod wreiddiol.
Dylai’r dogfennau hyn fodloni gofynion y rhestr o ddogfennau a ganiateir gan y DBS
Ceir rhagor o wybodaeth am y canghennau sy’n cynnig gwasanaeth y Swyddfa Bost .
Bydd angen i chi fynd â chopi printiedig o daflen y Gwasanaeth Gwirio ID gyda chi wrth ddefnyddio’r gwasanaeth hwn.
Cynhyrchir y ffurflen hon ar eich cyfer unwaith eich bod wedi cwblhau’ch cais DBS ar-lein drwy First Advantage.
Gwasanaeth tanysgrifio ar-lein yw’r Gwasanaeth Diweddaru sy’n cadw eich tystysgrifau DBS safonol a manwl yn gyfredol.
Mae hefyd yn caniatáu i gyflogwyr wirio tystysgrif ar-lein, gyda’ch cydsyniad chi.
Mae’r gwasanaeth hwn yn lleihau’r angen i wneud cais am dystysgrifau lluosog pan fyddwch yn symud o un swydd i un arall yn yr un gweithlu neu pan fo angen ailwirio.
Gall sefydliadau wneud gwiriad statws cyflym ar-lein i weld a yw tystysgrif unigolyn yn dal i fod yn gyfredol – gan arbed amser ac arian.
Argymhellwn fod pob ymgeisydd yn cofrestru ar gyfer y Gwasanaeth Diweddaru .
Mae’n costio £16 y flwyddyn.
Bydd angen rhif eich tystysgrif arnoch a rhaid i chi gofrestru ymhen 30 diwrnod ar ôl rhoi’r dystysgrif.
Mae tanysgrifiad i’r Gwasanaeth Diweddaru yn para am flwyddyn.
Os na fyddwch yn adnewyddu eich tanysgrifiad cyn iddo orffen, bydd angen i chi wneud cais am wireb DBS newydd a chofrestru ar gyfer y Gwasanaeth Diweddaru eto.
Yn ogystal â derbyn datgeliad Manwl boddhaol oddi wrth y Gwasanaeth Diogelu a Gwahardd, bydd gofyn hefyd i ymgeiswyr o dramor ddarparu tystiolaeth i’r Brifysgol o wiriad boddhaol gan yr heddlu yn unrhyw wlad gartref y maent wedi preswylio ynddi (heblaw’r DU) am 12 mis a rhagor (boed yn barhaus neu yn gyfanswm) yn ystod y 10 mlynedd ddiwethaf, pan oeddent yn 18 oed neu drosodd.
Mae gofyn i’r ymgeiswyr y mae hyn yn berthnasol ar eu cyfer ddarparu’r wybodaeth hon cyn y gallant gofrestru’n llawn ar raglen y mae angen gwiriad DBS manwl ar ei chyfer a chyn y gellir rhoi caniatâd iddynt ymgymryd â gwaith sy’n gofyn am gysylltiad â phlant neu oedolion agored i niwed.
Mae’r broses ymgeisio ar gyfer cael gwiriad cofnodion troseddol i ymgeiswyr o dramor yn amrywio o wlad i wlad.
Mae gwybodaeth bellach ar gael ar wefan gov.uk .

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cais/ol-raddedig:
Os ydych chi’n bwriadu cymryd y cam nesaf yn eich taith academaidd trwy astudiaethau ôl-raddedig, mae gan PCYDDS gymuned ôl-raddedig amrywiol sy’n barod i’ch croesawu.
Man lle mae arloesi, ymchwil, a thwf deallusol yn cael eu dathlu.
Rydyn ni’n croesawu ceisiadau gan bobl o bob cefndir, p’un ai eich bod wedi graddio’n ddiweddar neu wedi bod allan o fyd addysg ers amser.
Porwch drwy fanylion y broses ymgeisio gywir er mwyn cymryd y camau nesaf.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cais/ol-raddedig/gwneud-cais-drwy-ucas-tar:
Os ydych eisiau gweud cais i ymuno â chwrs Ymchwil Ôl-raddedig neu Ôl-raddedig a Addysgir arall, gan gynnwys TAR Addysg a Hyfforddiant Ôl-orfodol, ymgeisiwch yn uniongyrchol os gwelwch yn dda.
Mae ein rhaglenni TAR ar gyfer graddedigion sydd eisiau cymhwyso fel athrawon.
Cod sefydliad Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant yw T80.
Mae rhagor o wybodaeth am y broses ymgeisio i’w gael yma: Sut i wneud cais | Hyfforddiant Athrawon | UCAS .
Cyllid a Chymorth Ôl-raddedig

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cais/ol-raddedig/gwneud-cais-yn-uniongyrchol-ol-raddedig:
Gyda llawer o’n rhaglenni rhan-amser ac ôl-radd Yn cynnwys PCET ond ddim yn cynnwys rhaglenni TAR llawn amser), bydd angen i chi wneud cais uniongyrchol i’r Brifysgol yn hytrach na thrwy UCAS.
Gellir gwneud ceisiadau drwy glicio ar y ddolen isod neu gallwch wneud yn uniongyrchol o dudalen berthnasol y cwrs.
Wedi i chi wneud eich cais, byddwch yn derbyn manylion mewngofnodi ar gyfer porth ymgeiswyr y Brifysgol, MyTSD.
Gall ymgeiswyr ddefnyddio MyTSD i weld statws eu cais, i ymateb i wahoddiad am gyfweliadau neu glyweliadau (lle bo hynny’n berthnasol), ac i ymateb i gynigion os bydd eu cais yn llwyddiannus.
Gweler isod am wybodaeth ar sut i wneud cais i ymuno â’n rhaglen MA Addysg (Cymru).
Pan fyddwch yn gwneud eich cais ar-lein i ymuno â’r rhaglen MA Addysg (Cymru), bydd angen i chi hefyd lenwi’r ffurflenni isod a’u e-bostio i admissions@uwtsd.ac.uk .
Ffurflen Gais Atodol MA Addysg (Cymru)
Ffurflen Gais Cydnabod Dysgu Blaenorol MA Addysg (Cymru)
Mae rhagor o fanylion ar gael yma : MA Addysg (Cymru)

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cais/ceisiadau-ymchwil-ol-raddedig:
Efallai bod gofynion ychwanegol yn berthnasol ar gyfer rhai rhaglenni, felly darllenwch dudalennau’r rhaglenni unigol.​ Bydd ceisiadau’n cael ei ystyried yn ôl eu rhinweddau eu hunain.
Os ydych yn gwneud cais am un o’n Doethuriaethau Proffesiynol, neu Radd Meistr trwy Ymchwil ac eisiau cael trafodaeth anffurfiol gyda’r Rheolwr Rhaglen cyn cwblhau cais, mae’r manylion cyswllt ar gael ar dudalen y rhaglen berthnasol.
Os ydych yn gwneud cais i ddechrau ar eich prosiect ymchwil eich hun megis PhD, MPhil neu PhD trwy Waith Cyhoeddedig, cewch eich cefnogi gan dîm goruchwylio o ddim llai na dau oruchwyliwr, sy’n cynnwys Cyfarwyddwr Astudiaethau ac o leiaf un goruchwyliwr arall.
Bydd o leiaf un goruchwyliwr gyda chi ar gyfer MSc drwy Ymchwil.
Felly, cyn i chi wneud cais, y cam cyntaf yw cysylltu â Rheolwr Graddau Ymchwil yr Athrofa berthnasol yn eich maes ymchwil arfaethedig i gael gwybod pwy yw’r goruchwylwyr sydd ar gael i’ch cefnogi.​
Chwiliwch am y manylion cyswllt sy’n berthnasol i chi ar dudalen Athrofa eich pwnc:
Mae croeso hefyd i chi gysylltu â registrypgr@uwtsd.ac.uk
Mae’r gofynion mynediad academaidd ar gyfer graddau ymchwil wedi’u nodi ym Mhennod 8 y Llawlyfr Ansawdd Academaidd a’r Cod Ymarfer ar gyfer Graddau Ymchwil.
Fel arfer mae angen gradd Meistr neu radd anrhydedd ail ddosbarth uwch sy’n berthnasol i’r prosiect ymchwil arfaethedig neu brofiad proffesiynol cyfatebol er mwyn astudio ar gyfer PhD, PhD trwy Waith Cyhoeddedig, Doethuriaeth Broffesiynol ac MPhil.
Fel arfer mae angen gradd anrhydedd ail ddosbarth uwch sy’n berthnasol i’r prosiect ymchwil arfaethedig neu brofiad proffesiynol cyfatebol er mwyn astudio ar gyfer gradd Meistr mewn Ymchwil a gradd Meistr mewn Gwyddoniaeth trwy Ymchwil.
Rhaid i bob ymgeisydd nad y Gymraeg na’r Saesneg yw eu hiaith frodorol ddarparu tystiolaeth o’u gallu yn y Gymraeg neu’r Saesneg i lefel sy’n angenrheidiol er mwyn cwblhau’r rhaglen waith ac i baratoi i gyfiawnhau traethawd ymchwil yn yr iaith honno.​  Fel arfer, mae hyfedredd myfyrwyr nad Saesneg yw eu hiaith gyntaf yn cael ei brofi gydag isafswm sgôr IELTS cyffredinol (neu gyfwerth) o 6.5 (gan gynnwys isafswm sgôr o 6.5 mewn darllen ac ysgrifennu).
Mae rhagor o wybodaeth am ofynion Iaith Saesneg y Brifysgol ar gael yn: Gofynion Mynediad Iaith Saesneg | PCYDDS .
Dewiswch eich cwrs gan ddefnyddio’r swyddogaeth chwilio e.e.
Bydd angen i chi ddewis teitl y rhaglen, gyda’ch dyddiad dechrau arfaethedig a’ch dull astudio, megis amser llawn neu ran-amser, o bell neu ar y campws, cliciwch drwodd i’r ffurflen gais.
Pan fyddwch yn dechrau ar eich cais, byddwch yn derbyn e-bost gyda chyfrinair er mwyn i chi fedru mewngofnodi unrhyw bryd i gwblhau eich cais.
Mae tri cham i’r ffurflen.
Mae Cam 1 yn gofyn am wybodaeth sy’n ymwneud â chi.
Mae Cam 2 yn wybodaeth sy’n ymwneud â’r cwrs yr ydych yn ei ddewis, fel eich addysg a’ch cymwysterau blaenorol a’ch Cynnig Ymchwil neu eich Datganiad Personol.
Mae Cam 3 yn ymwneud â Datganiadau.
Mae’n rhaid i chi gwblhau pob un o’r meysydd gorfodol (wedi’u marcio â *) cyn y gallwch chi Gadw a symud i’r adran nesaf.
Ar waelod y sgrin ym mhob adran, cewch yr opsiwn i Gadw yr hyn rydych chi wedi’i lenwi a Pharhau i’r adran nesaf, neu i Gadw a Gadael a dychwelyd i’r ffurflen yn nes ymlaen.
Pan fydd adran wedi’i chwblhau a’i chadw, bydd tic gwyrdd yn ymddangos.
Mae’r ffurflen yn cynnwys cyfarwyddiadau cynhwysfawr i chi eu dilyn, ac mae blychau cymorth ar gael ym mhob adran, yn manylu ar y wybodaeth ofynnol.
Pan fyddwch wedi cwblhau a chadw pob cam a phob adran, cliciwch ar ‘Cyflwyno’.
Mae eich cynnig ymchwil yn rhan allweddol o’ch cais ymchwil ôl-raddedig.
Dyma eich cyfle i ddangos eich gwybodaeth am eich pwnc a sut y bydd eich ymchwil yn gwneud cyfraniad gwreiddiol i’r wybodaeth sydd eisoes ar gael yn y maes hwnnw.
Mae’r adran hon o’r cais ar-lein wedi’i rhannu i’r penawdau canlynol gyda blychau testun i’w llenwi:
Teitl arfaethedig Teitl dros dro eich gwaith ymchwil.
Gall y geiriad newid wrth i’ch ymchwil ddatblygu.
Cefndir a chyd-destun Yn yr adran hon, bydd angen i chi:
Cwestiwn ymchwil arfaethedig
Amcanion arfaethedig
Amcanion arfaethedig Amlinellwch y cam(au) y byddwch yn eu cymryd er mwyn cyflawni’r amcanion hyn.
250 o eiriau
Methodoleg arfaethedig
Yn yr adran hon, bydd angen i chi egluro sut y byddwch yn cyflawni eich nodau a’ch amcanion:
Cyfraniad a wneir i wybodaeth yn y maes Nodwch sut y bydd canlyniadau’r ymchwil hwn yn effeithio ar y maes pwnc neu’r maes proffesiynol.
Llyfryddiaeth fynegol
Teipiwch yn y blychau i gadw’r fformat yn hytrach na gludo o ddogfen Word.​
Teitl arfaethedig
Dylai eich teitl roi arwydd clir o thema eich ymchwil arfaethedig a’r cwestiynau ymchwil cysylltiedig sy’n cael eu trafod yn eich gwaith.​
Portffolio o Gyhoeddiadau
Yn yr adran hon, bydd angen i chi:
Sylwadau Beirniadol Cychwynnol ar y Corff o Waith
Rhowch ddatganiad o ddim mwy na 3,000 o eiriau.
Yn yr adran hon, bydd angen i chi ddangos:
Darparwch wybodaeth sy’n berthnasol i’ch cais, fel pam yr ydych chi eisiau dilyn y rhaglen hon, sut yr ydych yn disgwyl elwa o ddilyn y rhaglen a’r sgiliau a’r profiad sydd gennych sy’n eich gwneud yn ymgeisydd addas.
Mae’r wybodaeth y byddwch chi’n ei roi yn ein galluogi i adnabod set ehangach o sgiliau na’r rhai y mae eich cymwysterau a’ch geirdaon yn eu dangos.
Ceir uchafswm o 64000 nod ar gyfer y datganiad personol.
Cyn i chi ddechrau llenwi’r ffurflen gais ar-lein, bydd angen i chi gasglu’r dogfennau ategol canlynol ynghyd:
Gellir uwchlwytho dogfennau i’r cais ar-lein yn y fformatau ffeil canlynol:
.jpg, .png, .jpeg, .doc, .docx a .pdf Uchafswm maint y ffeil yw 5MB.
Dylai’r dogfennau yr ydych chi’n eu huwchlwytho fod yn glir ac yn dangos y ddogfen yn llawn.
Bydd hefyd angen i chi baratoi’r canlynol:
Bydd y ffurflen gais ar-lein yn gofyn i chi am enwau a manylion cyswllt, gan gynnwys cyfeiriadau e-bost, dau ganolwr.
Pan fyddwch yn cyflwyno’r ffurflen gais ar-lein, bydd e-bost yn gofyn am eirda yn cael eu hanfon yn awtomatig at eich canolwyr, yn eu gwahodd i gwblhau geirda trwy ddolen a fydd yn arwain at eich cais.​
Fel arfer, dylai’r canolwyr fod yn unigolion o sefydliad yr ydych wedi astudio ynddo neu lle’r oeddech yn gyflogedig neu lle’r ydych yn cael eich cyflogi ar hyn o bryd.
Fel arfer, dylai canolwyr allu gwneud sylw ar eich gwaith academaidd.
Os ydynt yn dod o sefydliad yr ydych wedi astudio ynddo, yna rhaid iddynt fod yn academyddion sydd wedi asesu eich gwaith fel rhan o’r cymhwyster sy’n cael ei ddefnyddio i gael lle ar y rhaglen.​ Os ydynt yn dod o sefydliad yr ydych wedi bod yn gyflogedig, neu’n cael eich cyflogi yno ar hyn o bryd, yna mae’n rhaid iddynt fod wedi bod yn rheolwr llinell arnoch.
Ni ddylai’r canolwyr fod yn perthyn i chi nac yn ffrind personol.
Cewch yr opsiwn hefyd i uwchlwytho geirda.
Rhaid i eirda sydd wedi ei baratoi o flaen llaw fod ar bapur pennawd ac yn cynnwys llofnod.
Rhaid iddynt hefyd fod yn rhai diweddar (o fewn y ddwy flynedd ddiwethaf).
Ar ôl i chi gyflwyno’ch cais ar-lein, byddwch yn derbyn cydnabyddiaeth ar e-bost.
Bydd y Gofrestrfa (Myfyrwyr Ymchwil Ôl-raddedig), neu’r Gofrestrfa Ryngwladol yn cysylltu â chi os bydd angen rhagor o wybodaeth.
Os bydd eich cais yn llwyddiannus, byddwch yn derbyn e-bost yn dweud wrthych fod statws eich cais wedi newid ac yn eich gwahodd i weld y diweddariad ym mhorth ymgeiswyr MyTSD.​ Pan fyddwch yn mewngofnodi, byddwch yn gallu gweld y penderfyniad a’r llythyr cynnig.
Dewiswch o’r opsiynau i dderbyn neu wrthod.
Rydym yn cynnig mynediad ym mis Hydref ar gyfer ein holl raglenni ymchwil ôl-raddedig, a mynediad ym mis Chwefror a Mehefin ar gyfer rhai rhaglenni dethol.
Cysylltwch â RegistryPGR@uwtsd.ac.uk am wybodaeth am raglenni penodol.
Ar gyfer y PhD, PhD trwy Weithiau Cyhoeddedig, MPhil a Meistr yn y Gwyddorau trwy Ymchwil, os ydych yn ymgeisydd ‘cartref’, gwnewch gais ar gyfer y dyddiad dechrau sydd well gennych a byddwn yn gwneud ein gorau i fodloni eich cais.
Argymhellir cyflwyno’n gynnar; fel arfer wyth wythnos cyn y pwynt mynediad.
Os ydych yn ymgeisydd tramor, cyfeiriwch at y dyddiadau cau cyflwyno perthnasol ar y tudalennau Ceisiadau Rhyngwladol .
Mae’r Coleg Doethurol yn ganolbwynt ar gyfer gwella hyfforddiant doethurol ein myfyrwyr a’u datblygiad fel ymchwilwyr.
Rydym yn cynnal ein digwyddiadau ein hunain ac yn gweithio gyda rhaglenni ac Athrofeydd i ddarparu adnoddau, cyfleoedd i rwydweithio, a hyfforddiant ar gyfer ein myfyrwyr doethuriaeth amrywiol, sydd ar wasgar yn ddaearyddol o fewn cymuned fywiog sy’n tyfu.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cyrsiau/cyrsiau-ol-radd-tar/addysg-ar-dyniaethau-cyrsiau-ymchwil-ol-raddedig:
Cyfrannwch at eich maes trwy astudiaeth fanwl ac ymchwil gwreiddiol.
Cewch ennill sgiliau, profiad ac opsiynau gyrfaol.
Ymunwch â chymuned ymchwil ôl-raddedig atyniadol ac ysgogol.
Caiff eich profiad ei siapio a’i gefnogi gan ein Coleg Doethurol , canolfan ymchwil gyfoethog a bywiog gydag adnoddau, cyfleusterau, hyfforddiant a chymorth ar gyfer ein holl ymchwilwyr ôl-raddedig.
Trafodwch eich cynlluniau gydag aelod o staff academaidd cyn gwneud cais am MPhil neu PhD.
Mae pob cwymplen ar y dudalen hon yn cynnwys manylion cyswllt y gallwch eu defnyddio.
Gallwch wneud cais yn uniongyrchol am y cwrs hwn.
Caerfyrddin – amser llawn – dechrau Chwefror – ymweld â thudalen y cwrs
Cyn gwneud cais, trafodwch eich cynlluniau gydag aelod o staff academaidd drwy’r e-bost a ganlyn: pgrathrofa@uwtsd.ac.uk
Gallwch wneud cais yn uniongyrchol am y cwrs MRes hwn.
Gallwch wneud cais yn uniongyrchol am y cwrs hwn.
Cysylltwch â pgrathrofa@uwtsd.ac.uk am rhagor o wybodaeth.
Cysylltwch â Dr Glenda Tinney ( g.tinney@uwtsd.ac.uk ) am rhagor o wybodaeth.
Mae ein Graddau Ymchwil yn cael eu categoreiddio yn rhai Lefel 7 neu 8 yn Fframwaith Credydau a Chymwysterau Cymru.
Mae rheoliadau’r Brifysgol ar gyfer ein graddau ymchwil ar gael ym Mhennod 8 y Llawlyfr Ansawdd Academaidd a’r Cod Ymarfer ar gyfer Graddau Ymchwil.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/gwyddoniaeth-chelf-cyrsiau-ymchwil-ol-raddedig:
Trafodwch eich cynlluniau gyda’r unigolyn a ganlyn cyn gwneud cais:
Professor Julia Lockheart julia.lockheart@pcydds.ac.uk
Cyn gwneud cais, trafodwch eich cynlluniau gydag aelod o staff academaidd drwy’r e-bost a ganlyn:

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cyrsiau/cyrsiau-ol-radd-tar/rheolaeth-ac-iechyd-cyrsiau-ymchwil-ol-raddedig:
Dr Alex Bell a.bell@pcydds.ac.uk
Laura James laura.james@pcydds.ac.uk
Cysylltwch â RegistryPGR@uwtsd.ac.uk i gael rhagor o wybodaeth.
Gallwch wneud cais am PhD trwy gyflwyno gwaith rydych chi eisoes wedi’i gyhoeddi.
Mae gweithiau cyhoeddedig yn cynnwys:
Rhaid i’r gweithiau:
Bydd hefyd angen i chi gwblhau dadansoddiad adfyfyriol o hyd at 30,000 o eiriau.
Hyd y cwrs
Llawn amser : 1 flwyddyn Rhan-amser : 2 flynedd

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cais/ceisiadau-rhyngwladol:
Er y gall dewis astudio mewn gwlad wahanol ymddangos yn anodd i ddechrau, rydyn ni’n ymroi i sicrhau fod y broses yn un rhwydd i chi.
Yma, cewch ganllawiau cynhwysfawr ar weithdrefnau ymgeisio, gofynion mewnfudo a fisa, a hyfedredd yn yr iaith Saesneg, gan roi cefnogaeth gadarn i chi ar bob cam o’ch gweithgareddau addysgol.
Gall myfyrwyr sy’n awyddus i astudio gradd yn llawn amser gyda ni wneud cais yn uniongyrchol i’r Brifysgol.
Bydd y graddau hyn yn cael eu dyfarnu gan PCYDDS
Os oes gennych unrhyw gwestiynau e-bostiwch y Gofrestrfa Ryngwladol.
Gallwch hefyd wneud cais trwy asiant yn eich gwlad chi.
Mae PCYDDS yn gweithio gyda rhwydwaith sefydledig o asiantaethau addysgol ar draws y byd sy’n chwarae rhan werthfawr iawn wrth gefnogi ymgeiswyr a darpar fyfyrwyr sy’n bwriadu astudio gyda ni.
Gall asiant eich helpu i wneud cais.
Byddan nhw’n rhoi cyngor ar ddewis a gwneud cais am radd, cael fisa a dod o hyd i lety.
Swyddfa India PCYDDS
905, Adeilad Kailash, KG Marg, Barakhamba, Delhi Newydd, 110001, India
Os oes gennych ddiddordeb mewn recriwtio myfyrwyr rhyngwladol ar gyfer PCYDDS, cysylltwch â ni .
Gall myfyrwyr rhyngwladol sy’n awyddus i astudio am semester gyda ni wneud cais ar-lein
Y dyddiad cau ar gyfer semester yr Hydref yw 30 Mai 2025.
Sylwch fod rhaglenni Astudio Dramor a Chyfnewid yn amodol ar fod wedi cofrestru ar hyn o bryd mewn Prifysgol bartner yn eich mamwlad.
Prifysgol Bishops Prifysgol Talaith Califfornia, Fullerton Prifysgol De Utah Prifysgol Talaith Califfornia, Long Beach Prifysgol Rio Grande Prifysgol Lakehead Coleg Douglas Coleg Camosun Prifysgol Thompson Rivers Prifysgol Gogledd Carolina yn Greensboro Coleg Prifysgol Volda Prifysgol Fetropolitan Oslo
Prifysgol De-ddwyrain Norwy Prifysgol Bedyddwyr Hong Kong Prifysgol Rikkyo UCAM Universidad Católica San Antonio de Murcia Coleg Sant Mihangel Vermont
Sbaen: Escola Superior de Disseny (ESDA) Llotija Barcelona
Dyddiad cau
Campysau Cymru
Campws Llundain
Campws Birmingham
Dyddiad cau ar gyfer ceisiadau
17 Tachwedd 2025
16 Rhagfyr 2025
11 Tachwedd 2025
Dyddiad cau  (CAS)
9 Rhagfyr 2025
13 Ionawr 2026
2 Rhagfyr 2025
Amh
Mae’n rhaid i bob Myfyriwr Rhyngwladol sy’n ceisio mynediad i’r Brifysgol ddangos eu bod yn rhugl yn y Saesneg i’r lefel a nodir yng ngofynion mynediad a pholisi Saesneg y Brifysgol.
Mae gan PCYDDS wasanaeth arbenigol a chynhwysfawr sy’n rhoi cymorth gyda phob cam o’r broses o wneud cais am fisa ar gyfer astudio yn y DU.
Bydd y math o fisa y byddwch ei angen yn dibynnu ar eich amgylchiadau unigol, gan gynnwys hyd a lefel y cwrs astudio dan sylw.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cais/ceisiadau-rhyngwladol/gofynion-saesneg:
Mae’n rhaid i bob Myfyriwr Rhyngwladol sy’n ceisio mynediad i’r Brifysgol ddangos eu bod yn rhugl yn y Saesneg i’r lefel a nodir yng ngofynion mynediad a pholisi Saesneg y Brifysgol.
Hefyd, mae’n rhaid i’r Brifysgol gynnal asesiad ffurfiol o allu Saesneg pob myfyriwr y maen nhw’n bwriadu ei noddi dan y llwybr Fisa Myfyriwr.
Bydd rhaid i ymgeiswyr sydd angen nawdd fodloni gofynion Saesneg y Brifysgol ei hun yn ogystal â rhai UKVI.
Bydd pob cwrs a gynigir gan y Brifysgol yn nodi lefel y Saesneg sydd ei hangen i gael mynediad i’r cwrs.
Sylwch fod y Brifysgol yn cadw’r hawl i ofyn i unrhyw ymgeisydd gwblhau asesiad Saesneg waeth pa dystiolaeth o hyfedredd Saesneg a ddarperir.
Mae’r Brifysgol yn cadw’r hawl i beidio â chaniatáu mynediad ar sail yr asesiad hwn, pan fo rheswm i amau ​​a yw hyfedredd Saesneg yr ymgeisydd yn ddigonol.
Lefel Saesneg gyffredinol sy’n cyfateb i sgôr IELTS o 5.0, gyda dim llai na 4.5 mewn darllen, siarad, a gwrando, a sgôr o 5.0 mewn ysgrifennu.
Lefel Saesneg gyffredinol sy’n cyfateb i sgôr IELTS o 6.0 (neu gyfwerth) heb unrhyw sgôr is na 5.5 mewn darllen, ysgrifennu, gwrando, a siarad.
Lefel Saesneg gyffredinol sy’n cyfateb i sgôr IELTS o 6.5 (neu gyfwerth) heb unrhyw sgôr is na 6.5 mewn darllen ac ysgrifennu, a dim is na 5.5 mewn gwrando neu siarad.
Gall ymgeiswyr fodloni gofynion mynediad Saesneg y Brifysgol yn awtomatig ar gyfer pob cwrs academaidd os ystyrir eu bod yn siaradwyr Saesneg brodorol o ganlyniad i fod yn ddinesydd gwlad ble mae’r mwyafrif yn siarad Saesneg:
Yn ogystal â’r uchod, gall ymgeiswyr ddarparu’r dystiolaeth ganlynol er mwyn bodloni gofynion Saesneg eu cwrs:
Os yw’r ymgeisydd:
Enw’r Cymhwyster
Sgôr Ofynnol
IELTS (Academaidd) ar gyfer UKVI
Lefel 4-7 - Isafswm sgôr cyffredinol o 6.0, heb sgôr yn is na 5.5 mewn Darllen, Ysgrifennu, Gwrando neu Siarad.
(Gellir derbyn IELTS Academaidd heblaw UKVI o dan rai amgylchiadau.
Derbynnir IELTS One Skills Retake gydag Academic IELTS ar gyfer UKVI)
Cambridge English: C1 Advanced.
Isafswm sgôr o 169 yn gyffredinol gydag o leiaf 162 ym mhob cydran.
Cambridge English: B2 Business Vantage
(BEC Vantage)
– ar gyfer cyrsiau Busnes yn unig.
Cambridge English: C1 Business Higher
(BEC Higher)
– ar gyfer cyrsiau Busnes yn unig
Language Cert International ESOL SELT B2 neu C1.
Wedi’i sefyll mewn canolfan brawf a gydnabyddir gan UKVI
Bydd angen isafswm sgôr o 33/50 ym mhob un o’r pedair elfen.
TOEFL iBT wedi’i sefyll mewn canolfan brawf awdurdodedig
Darllen, isafswm 18; Gwrando, isafswm 17; Ysgrifennu, isafswm 17; Siarad, isafswm 20; ni dderbynnir sgoriau TOEFL MyBest.
Prawf Saesneg Pearson (PTE Academic) wedi’i sefyll mewn canolfan brofi UKVI.
Bydd angen isafswm sgôr o 59 ym mhob un o’r pedair cydran.
Prawf Sgiliau Saesneg Integredig (ISE) Trinity II neu III wedi’i sefyll yn y DU mewn canolfan brawf a gymeradwywyd gan UKVI
Pas
Bagloriaeth Ryngwladol
Lefel 5 Uwch neu Lefel 5 Safonol Iaith A neu Lefel 5 Uwch neu Lefel 5 Safonol Iaith B
IGCSE Caergrawnt
Bydd gradd C (gradd 4) neu uwch mewn IGCSE Saesneg Ail Iaith yn bodloni’r gofynion hyfedredd Saesneg ar gyfer astudiaeth israddedig.
Gradd 15 allan o 20 neu 70%, neu uwch
Maturitni Tsiec Zkousce / Maturita
Gradd 3 neu uwch
Bevis Daneg ar gyfer Studentereksamen (STX)
Gradd 7 neu uwch mewn cydrannau Ysgrifenedig a Llafar
Ffrangeg Baccalauréat l’Option Internationale, Saesneg (dyfarnwyd tan 2023)
Gradd 12 neu uwch
Baccalauréat Français International (BFI) (dyfarnwyd o 2024)
Ffrangeg Baccalauréat Général, Saesneg LV1 neu A
Gradd 14 neu uwch
Swedeg Fullstandigt fran Gymnasieskolan neu Hogskoleforberedand,
Saesneg
Swiss Certificat de Maturité /
Maturitätszeugnis / Maturitätsausweis / Attestato di Maturità
Dylai myfyrwyr fynd ymlaen i gwblhau Safon Uwch
neu gymwysterau IB (mewn unrhyw bwnc a addysgir yn Saesneg) Mae angen copi wedi’i sganio o’r trawsgrifiad IP arnom fel tystiolaeth o gwblhau
Tystysgrif Addysg Uwchradd Tanzania / Tystysgrif Addysg Uwchradd Uwch (a ddyfarnwyd gan y Cyngor Arholiadau Cenedlaethol o
Tanzania), Saesneg
Cyrsiau Ymchwil i Raddedigion
Sgôr gyffredinol o 6.5 neu uwch gyda dim is na 6.5 mewn Darllen ac Ysgrifennu, a dim is na 5.5 mewn Gwrando neu Siarad.
Cambridge English: C1 Advanced
Sgôr o 176 neu uwch, heb sgôr is na 162 mewn Darllen, Ysgrifennu, Gwrando a Siarad.
Cambridge English: C2 Proficiency
Prawf Saesneg Pearson (PTE Academic) wedi’i sefyll mewn canolfan brofi UKVI
Sgôr o 62 neu uwch ym mhob un o’r pedwar cydran.
Sgiliau Saesneg Integredig Trinity (ISE) II
Rhagoriaeth ym mhob cydran
Sgiliau Saesneg Integredig Trinity (ISE) III
Pas neu uwch yn gyffredinol, gyda phas neu uwch ym mhob cydran
Mae Cyrsiau Iaith Saesneg cyn-sesiynol ar gyfer myfyrwyr sydd wedi cael cynnig lle ar raglen radd ym Mhrifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant ond sydd angen gwella eu hyfedredd Saesneg a/neu eu Sgiliau Astudio cyn astudio eu pwnc dewisol.
Bydd holl gyrsiau cyn-sesiynol 2025 yn cael eu cyflwyno gan Sefydliad Digidol Rhyngwladol Rhydychen, mae rhagor o wybodaeth ar gael Ar-lein Saesneg Cyn-sesiynol Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant - OI Digital Institute
Bydd angen i chi ddangos tystiolaeth o fodloni’r gofynion mynediad Saesneg ar gyfer y cwrs a ddewiswyd.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cais/ceisiadau-rhyngwladol/mewnfudo-fisau:
Bydd y math o fisa y byddwch ei angen yn dibynnu ar eich amgylchiadau unigol, gan gynnwys hyd a lefel y cwrs astudio dan sylw.
Defnyddiwch wefan Fisâu a Mewnfudo’r DU (UKVI) i weld a ydych angen fisa neu ddim er mwyn astudio yn y DU gyda PCYDDS.
Bydd hyd, math a lleoliad eich astudiaethau yn dylanwadu ar ba fisa y byddwch ei angen.
Cefndir y Polisi a Chanllaw
Cyflwynwyd y DES gan UKVI er mwyn caniatáu i’r rhai sydd â Fisa Tier 4 neu Fisa Myfyrwyr ac sy’n astudio doethuriaeth neu gymhwyster rhestredig tebyg (e.e.
DBA) i aros yn y DU ar ôl gorffen eu hastudiaethau, a hynny er mwyn canfod gwaith mewn maes perthnasol.
Mae manylion cynllun DES PCYDDS i’w gweld isod.
Er mwyn cael Tystysgrif o gael eich Derbyn i Astudio ar gyfer Fisa Cynllun Estyniad Doethuriaeth (DES CAS), rhaid i fyfyriwr:
Pan fo myfyriwr yn bodloni pob un o’r uchod, gall y Brifysgol ddewis cyhoeddi CAS DES.
Os yw’r Brifysgol yn penderfynu cyhoeddi DES CAS, rhaid iddynt wneud hynny cyn i’r myfyriwr gwblhau eu doethuriaeth ond dim ond pan fyddan nhw’n hyderus y bydd y myfyriwr llwyddo i ennill y dyfarniad dan sylw.
Wrth gyhoeddi’r CAS ar gyfer fisa DES rhaid i’r Brifysgol nodi’r dyddiad cwblhau disgwyliedig.
Wedyn, bydd yn rhaid i’r Brifysgol roi cadarnhad i UKVI fod y myfyriwr wedi ennill y dyfarniad mewn gwirionedd.
Os na fydd y myfyriwr yn llwyddo i ennill y dyfarniad, rhaid i’r Brifysgol ddweud hynny wrth UKVI, a byddan nhw wedyn cwtogi unrhyw ganiatâd a roddwyd o dan y DES/gwrthod unrhyw gais a wnaed am ganiatâd i aros.
Pan fyddan nhw’n noddi myfyriwr dan gynllun DES, rhaid i’r Brifysgol sicrhau ei bod cadw cysylltiad trwy gydol y cyfnod nawdd (12 mis fel arfer), gan gysylltu o leiaf 2 waith yn ystod y cyfnod hwn.
Nid fydd y cysylltiadau hyn yn academaidd eu natur, ond yn hytrach byddan nhw’n canolbwyntio ar weithgareddau economaidd y myfyriwr – h.y.
a ydyn nhw’n gyflogedig/hunangyflogedig mewn swydd sgil uchel neu’n chwilio am waith, a bydd angen cadarnhau’r cyfeiriad preswyl sydd ar gofnod.
Os na fydd y myfyriwr yn bresennol yn un o’r cyfarfodydd a drefnir, heb iddyn nhw gytuno ar hynny o flaen llaw, bydd rhaid i’r Brifysgol ddweud wrth UKVI a byddan nhw’n cwtogi caniatâd y myfyriwr a noddir.
Rhaid i’r cyfarfodydd ddigwydd wyneb yn wyneb neu ar Skype, a rhaid cadw cofnod priodol o’r cyfarfod yn ffeil y myfyriwr.
Canllaw Gweithdrefnol
Er mwyn sicrhau cysondeb a thegwch wrth ymdrin â myfyrwyr doethuriaeth, mae’r Brifysgol wedi mabwysiadu’r weithdrefn ganlynol.
Mae’r weithdrefn hon yn berthnasol i bob myfyriwr SQF lefel 8 a noddir ar draws pob campws:
a) Canlyniad A – Dyfarnu Cymhwyster Lefel Doethuriaeth
b) Canlyniad B – Dyfarnu cymhwyster lefel doethuriaeth ar yr amod bod y myfyriwr yn gwneud cywiriadau ac yn ailgyflwyno
c) Canlyniad C – ailgyflwyno traethawd ymchwil DBA o fewn 12 mis
d) Cymhwyster lefel doethuriaeth ddim yn cael ei ddyfarnu
Mae’r broses uchod i’w dilyn ar draws pob campws ac ar gyfer pob myfyriwr SQF lefel 8 Tier 4 a noddir sy’n gwneud cais am CAS.
Sicrhewch eich bod wedi cwblhau ffurflen gais ac wedi ei chyflwyno i’r Brifysgol.
Mae rhagor o wybodaeth a allai fod o gymorth i’w gael yn yr adran *Sut i Wneud Cais*.
Unwaith y byddwn wedi derbyn eich cais, cewch arweiniad manwl a chymorth gyda’ch cais am fisa.
Mae sawl gwahanol fath o fisa sy’n caniatáu mynediad i’r Deyrnas Unedig.
Maen nhw’n cael eu cyhoeddi yn ôl diben eich ymweliad diwethaf, twristiaeth, astudiaeth neu waith, er enghraifft.
Ym mron pob achos, er mwyn astudio yn PCYDDS, byddwch chi angen gwneud cais newydd am Fisa Astudio o’ch mamwlad.
Ond, os mai fisa Llwybr Myfyriwr yr ydych ei angen ar gyfer astudio (y math mwyaf cyffredin o fisa ar gyfer myfyrwyr), mae’n bosibl y gallech newid i’r fisa hwn os ydych chi yn y DU yn barod.
Am fwy o wybodaeth, cysylltwch â’r Gofrestrfa Ryngwladol .
Bydd angen talu ffi i wneud cais am fisa, ac mae’r prisiau ar gyfer y gwahanol fathau o fisa i’w gweld ar wefan UKVI.
Bydd angen i chi dalu ‘Gordal Iechyd’ hefyd, a bydd pris hwn yn amrywio yn ôl hyd y fisa yr ydych chi ei eisiau.
Bydd tîm mewnfudo’r Brifysgol yn eich cynghori ar yr union gostau y bydd angen i chi eu talu yn eich amgylchiadau chi, a byddan nhw’n eich tywys drwy’r broses dalu.
Nid oes unrhyw ffi ychwanegol am y gwasanaeth cynghori a ddarperir gan y Brifysgol.
Rydym yn argymell i chi ddechrau drwy ddarllen yr wybodaeth a’r arweiniad sydd ar y tudalennau hyn ac yna i edrych ar y gwefannau hyn: Fisâu a Mewnfudo’r DU ac UKCISA .
Os na allwch ddod o hyd i’r hyn rydych yn chwilio amdano, neu os ydych angen rhagor o gyngor personol, gallwch e-bostio tîm y Gofrestrfa Ryngwladol .
Mae cyngor a gwasanaethau mewnfudo yn cael eu rheoleiddio gan Swyddfa’r Comisiynydd Gwasanaethau Mewnfudo (OISC) ac mae’n rhaid i ni fel sefydliad gydymffurfio â Chod Safonau’r Comisiynydd.
Mae gan y tîm cynghori sy’n rhoi cymorth i chi ar ran y Brifysgol achrediad gan OISC ac, yn y cyd-destun hwn, dim ond gydag ymgeiswyr PCYDDS (a lle bo’n briodol, eu dibynyddion) y gallan nhw weithio.
Na, mae’r ffi yn cael ei defnyddio i brosesu eich cais ac i wneud penderfyniad, ni waeth beth fo’r penderfyniad hwnnw yn y pen draw.
Fodd bynnag, bydd y ffi am y Gordal Iechyd Mewnfudo yn cael ei ad-dalu os yw’n berthnasol.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cais/sut-i-wneud-cais-am-radd-brentisiaeth:
Gyda rhaglenni Prentisiaeth PCYDDS cewch barhau i weithio tra byddwch yn astudio, gan ddatblygu eich cymhwysedd yn y gweithle yn ogystal ag ennill cymhwyster cydnabyddedig (fel HNC, HND, gradd, neu Radd Meistr).
Mae prentisiaeth yn fater sydd wedi’i ddatganoli a bydd y cyrsiau sydd ar gael yn dibynnu ar ble rydych wedi’ch cyflogi.
Prentisiaethau Rydyn ni’n eu Cynnig Yma | Chwilio Prentisiaethau
Rhai bodloni’r gofynion hyn os ydych eisiau gwneud cais:
Os ydych chi’n barod i ymgeisio, defnyddiwch y botwm Mynegi eich diddordeb .
Byddwn angen eich enw, eich cod post, enw eich cyflogwr, a’r rhaglen dan sylw.
Byddwn yn adolygu eich gwybodaeth ac yn danfon dolen ymgeisio i chi.
Ar ôl mynegi diddordeb, bydd aelod o’r Tîm Uned Brentisiaethau yn cysylltu â’r ymgeiswyr posibl er mwyn gwirio eu cymhwysedd ac i roi cynghori ar y ffordd orau o gael mynediad at y rhaglen o ystyried eu cymwysterau a’u profiad presennol.
Yna, bydd modd darparu dolen i’r ffurflen gais.
Rhaid i brentisiaid nodi eu cyflogwr presennol fel canolwr ar eu ffurflen gais.
Os nad ydych yn gymwys i ymgeisio, bydd angen i chi ganfod swydd wag berthnasol, edrychwch isod i gael rhagor o fanylion.
I sicrhau Gradd-brentisiaeth gyda’r PCYDDS mae’n rhaid eich bod eisoes mewn swydd neu mae angen i chi ymgeisio am swydd gydag un o’r cyflogwyr sy’n bartneriaid gyda ni.
Rhestrir swyddi gwag ar y dudalen hon cyn gynted ag y byddant ar gael, felly cofiwch ddod i edrych yn rheolaidd.
Arbenigwr Archaeolog
Rolau amrywiol – Gwasanaeth Gwybodaeth Swydd, Sefydliad Siartredig yr Archeolegwyr (CIFA) [Saesneg]
Cyfrifiadura
Rolau amrywiol – Iechyd a Gofal Digidol Cymru (IGDC), Caerdydd, Y Wyddgrug, Pencoed, Pontypool ac Abertawe
Peirianneg
Rolau amwryiol – Tata Steel, Port Talbot [Saesneg]
Gwarchodwr, Paentiwr a Gwydrwr Gwydr Lliw dan Hyfforddiant ar Brentisiaeth – Holy Well Glass , Wells Gwlad yr Haf.
Prentis Cadwraethwr/Crefftwr Gwydr Lliw - Dan Humphries Gwydr Lliw , Glastonbury, Gwlad yr Haf
Cyngor Castell-nedd Port Talbot
Amrywiol rolau
Safleoedd y Llywodraeth i ddod o hyd i brentisiaeth
Yng Nghymru, defnyddiwch gyfleuster Chwilio am Prentisiaeth i chwilio am ddolenni allanol.
Yn Lloegr defnyddiwch y rhestr o swyddi gwag  ar dudalen Uwch Brentisiaethau a Gradd-brentisiaethau’r ESFA , neu safle’r ESFA ar gyfer Dod o hyd i Brentisiaeth (gallwch hidlo’r canlyniadau i lefel 6 ar gyfer Gradd-brentisiaethau).

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cais/sut-i-wneud-cais-am-radd-brentisiaeth/beth-yw-gradd-brentisiaeth:
Mae gradd-brentisiaethau yn ddewis arall yn lle astudiaeth draddodiadol mewn prifysgol, ac maent yn dod yn fwyfwy poblogaidd.
Byddwch yn cael profiad o weithle go iawn ac yn ennill cyflog, gan weithio ar yr un pryd tuag at gymhwyster gradd wedi i chi gwblhau’r brentisiaeth yn llwyddiannus.
Yn fyr, mae gradd-brentisiaethau ar gyfer pawb, ar yr amod eich bod yn gweithio mewn diwydiant perthnasol ac yn 18 oed neu’n hŷn gallech wneud gradd-brentisiaeth, a chofiwch nad oes terfyn oedran na ffioedd dysgu.
Cewch holl fanteision bod yn gyflogedig yn llawn amser wrth wella eich cyflogadwyedd a rhagolygon gyrfa.
Mae gradd-brentisiaeth yn cyfuno gweithio gydag astudio (fel arfer, ond ddim bob tro, trwy gael eich rhyddhau o’r gwaith 1 diwrnod yr wythnos) ac mae’r cyfuniad hwn yn ffordd wych i gael y profiad a gwybodaeth sydd eu hangen arnoch i lwyddo mewn amgylchedd gwaith.
Rhaid i chi fod yn gyflogedig yn y sector perthnasol i gychwyn y rhaglen.
I gael mynediad i Brentisiaeth Uwch neu Radd-brentisiaeth mae angen i chi fod â chymwysterau ar lefel 3 (Safon Uwch/Lefel A, Diploma BTEC) neu brofiad perthnasol yn y gweithle.
Mae Prentisiaeth Uwch neu Radd-brentisiaeth yn gyfle gwych i bobl sydd eisoes wedi cwblhau rhaglen Brentisiaeth Lefel 3, HNC neu HND gamu ymlaen yn eu gyrfa.
Rhaid i brentisiaid dreulio o leiaf 20% o’u hamser yn ymgymryd â hyfforddiant i ffwrdd o’r gwaith.
Mae hyn yn cynnwys cael eu rhyddhau’n rheolaidd fesul diwrnod neu floc i fynychu’r brifysgol, diwrnodau hyfforddi arbennig neu weithdai.
Rhaid i’r hyfforddiant fod yn uniongyrchol berthnasol i fframwaith neu safon y brentisiaeth a gellir ei ddarparu ym man gweithio arferol y prentis, ar yr amod nad yw’n rhan o’i ddyletswyddau gweithio arferol.
Gall gwmpasu hyfforddiant ymarferol megis cysgodi, mentora, ymweliadau â diwydiant a mynychu cystadlaethau.
Mae hyfforddiant yn y gwaith yn helpu prentisiaid i ddatblygu ac ymgorffori’r wybodaeth, y sgiliau a’r ymddygiadau penodol ar gyfer y gweithle.
Mae angen i brentisiaid gael eu cefnogi gan fentor yn y gweithle.
Wedi i brentis gwblhau ei brentisiaeth, dylai allu dangos ei fod yn medru cwblhau tasgau’n hyderus ac yn llwyr i’r safon a bennir gan y diwydiant.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cais/gwneud-cais-ar-gyfer-rhaglenni-ar-lein-dysgu-o-bell:
Gan ddibynnu ar y rhaglen, gallwch wneud cais am le ar ein rhaglenni Ar-lein a Dysgu o Bell yn uniongyrchol i ni neu drwy UCAS - gwasanaeth derbyn y prifysgolion a’r colegau.
Gweler tudalennau’r rhaglenni unigol am fanylion.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ysgolion-cholegau:
Mae tîm Recriwtio Myfyrwyr y Drindod Dewi Sant yn cynnig amrywiaeth eang o wasanaethau i ysgolion a cholegau, yn lleol ac yn genedlaethol.
Mae’r tîm yn darparu gwybodaeth allweddol ar gyrsiau, cyllid, bywyd myfyrwyr, sgiliau academaidd a llawer mwy.
Ein nod yw hyrwyddo mynediad i Addysg Uwch i bawb, darparu gwybodaeth a chyngor o safon, a helpu i arwain myfyrwyr ar eu taith i’r brifysgol.
Rydym yn gweithio gyda myfyrwyr y DU, eu rhieni a’u gwarchodwyr, athrawon a chynghorwyr gyrfaoedd, gan ddarparu gwybodaeth gywir am gyrsiau Prifysgol Cymru y Drindod Dewi Sant yn ogystal â chyngor diduedd ar Addysg Uwch.
Fel aelodau gweithredol o Gymdeithas y Swyddogion Cyswllt Addysg Uwch (HELOA) fe’ch sicrheir bod y wybodaeth a’r cyngor a ddarperir gan ein tîm yn wybodus ac o safon broffesiynol.
Cysylltwch â ni am ragor o wybodaeth am yr hyn y gallwn ei gynnig i’ch Ysgol neu Goleg.
Nod Partneriaeth Ymgyrraedd yn Ehangach De Orllewin Cymru yw cynyddu cyfranogiad mewn addysg uwch gan bobl o grwpiau a chymunedau heb gynrychiolaeth ddigonol yn Ne Orllewin Cymru.
Mae cyrsiau preswyl yn rhoi blas i fyfyrwyr 16-17 oed o fywyd prifysgol unigryw Y Drindod Dewi Sant.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/cwrs-preswyl-haf:
Mae’r Tîm Allgymorth Recriwtio Myfyrwyr yn cynnal cwrs preswyl ar draws campysau Caerfyrddin ac Abertawe o’r 30ain o Fehefin i 3ydd o Orfennaf 2026.
Bydd y cwrs preswyl yn rhoi blas i fyfyrwyr 16-17 oed ar fywyd prifysgol unigryw Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant.
Nid yw’r ffurflen archebu ar gael eto, ond gallwch lenwi’r ffurflen isod i gofrestru eich diddordeb a bod y cyntaf i glywed pan fydd y ffurflen archebu’n agor.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/ysgolion-cholegau/ymestyn-yn-ehangach:
Nod y rhaglen genedlaethol hon, sy’n cael ei hariannu gan Gyngor Cyllido Addysg Uwch Cymru (CCAUC), yw cynyddu cyfranogiad addysg uwch ymysg grwpiau sy’n cael eu tangynrychioli.
Bydd yn gwneud hyn drwy godi dyheadau a sgiliau addysgol, a chreu cyfleoedd astudio a llwybrau dysgu arloesol i addysg uwch.
Nod Partneriaeth Ymgyrraedd yn Ehangach De Orllewin Cymru yw cynyddu cyfranogiad mewn addysg uwch gan bobl o grwpiau a chymunedau heb gynrychiolaeth ddigonol yn Ne Orllewin Cymru gyda ffocws arbennig ar ardaloedd yn 40% isaf Mynegrif Amddifadedd Lluosog ar gyfer Cymru, pobl ifanc sydd wedi bod mewn gofal, a gofalwyr.
Rydym yn cael ein hariannu gan Raglen Ymgyrraedd yn Ehangach Cyngor Cyllido Addysg Uwch Cymru, a’n partneriaid yw:
Drwy gydweithio, rydym yn cynnig amrywiaeth o weithgareddau dysgu a chynyddu dyheadau ar gyfer plant, pobl ifanc ac oedolion a dargedir ar draws de-orllewin Cymru er mwyn creu llwybrau i addysg uwch.
Cysylltwch â ni i gael gwybodaeth bellach.
Mae Ymestyn yn Ehangach yn bartneriaeth rhwng prifysgolion, ysgolion a cholegau yng Nghymru sy’n gweithio gyda’i gilydd i wella symudedd cymdeithasol drwy ehangu mynediad at bob math o addysg uwch.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/astudio/profiad-chyfleusterau/pam-dewis-prifysgol-cymru-y-drindod-dewi-sant:
Dechreuwch ar eich antur drwy astudio ar gyfer gradd israddedig yn PCYDDS.
Byddwch yn ymgolli mewn pwnc sy’n eich ysbrydoli – gan archwilio gwahanol lwybrau gyrfa ac opsiynau ar gyfer eich dyfodol wrth i chi fynd yn eich blaen.
Beth bynnag fo’ch uchelgeisiau, byddwn ni’n eich helpu chi i fwrw ati’n syth er mwyn i chi geisio cyrraedd eich nod.
Gyda chyrsiau gradd mewn celf a dylunio, peirianneg, cyfrifiadura, y dyniaethau, addysg, busnes, rheolaeth, iechyd a chwaraeon, mae gennym gannoedd o opsiynau i ddewis ohonynt.
Archwiliwch fodiwlau dewisol ar rai o’n cyrsiau gradd sy’n eich galluogi i deilwra’ch cwrs i’ch diddordebau.
Cewch deimlo’n hyderus ac yn gyfforddus wrth ofyn cwestiynau a chymryd rhan mewn trafodaethau.
Mae ein dosbarthiadau’n cael eu cadw’n fach o ran maint, er mwyn rhoi’r sylw a’r gefnogaeth sydd eu hangen arnoch oddi wrth ein tiwtoriaid arbenigol – gan wneud yn siŵr eich bod wir yn deall eich pwnc ac yn cael y gorau o’ch astudiaethau gradd.
Eich lles chi sydd bwysicaf.
P’un ai a ydych chi’n cael trafferth gyda’ch llwyth gwaith, yn ei chael hi’n anodd setlo, neu’n mynd trwy gyfnod anodd, mae ein tîm o staff cymorth cyfeillgar wrth law i roi cymorth ac arweiniad i chi yn ystod eich astudiaethau gradd.
Beth yw eich swydd ddelfrydol?
Yn PCYDDS, byddwn yn eich helpu i gyrraedd y nod.
O ysgrifennu CV ac ymarfer ar gyfer cyfweliadau i sicrhau’r interniaeth berffaith, fe ddewch o hyd i’r llwybr sy’n addas i chi gyda chefnogaeth ein Cynghorwyr Gyrfa profiadol.
Gyda lleoliadau yn Abertawe, Caerfyrddin, Llambed, Caerdydd, Llundain a Birmingham, fe ddewch o hyd i’ch cartref oddi cartref yn PCYDDS.
Dewch i ddarganfod ystafelloedd seminar ac ystafelloedd cyfrifiaduron hynod fodern, a mannau cydweithio newydd sbon – yn ogystal â chyfleusterau eraill anhygoel fel theatrau ar y campws, stiwdios i artistiaid, gweithdai arbenigol, campfeydd a neuaddau chwaraeon sydd ag offer newydd sbon, ardaloedd ymchwil, a llawer mwy.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/profiad-chyfleusterau/pam-dewis-prifysgol-cymru-y-drindod-dewi-sant/laura-wade-dylunio-graffeg-ba:
Enw: Laura Wade
Cwrs: BA(Anrh) Dylunio Graffig
Astudiaethau Blaenorol: Diploma Estynedig UAL mewn Celf a Dylunio yn Hereford College of Arts
Tref eich cartref: Swydd Henffordd
Roedd campws Dinefwr yn Abertawe yn teimlo fel ail gartref i mi, roedd yn amgylchedd croesawgar a chreadigol lle gallai bawb gyflawni eu hamcanion academaidd.
Yng Ngholeg Celf Abertawe, mae’r staff a’r myfyrwyr yn rhannu’r un angerdd a brwdfrydedd am y diwydiant creadigol, ac mae hynny’n creu cymuned gefnogol ac ysbrydoledig.
Mae’r awyrgylch gydweithredol yn annog arloesedd a thwf, rhywle lle gall creadigrwydd ffynnu, lle mae pawb yn teimlo’u bod yn cael eu gwerthfawrogi.
Yn bwysicaf oll, mae pawb yno yn deall pwysigrwydd colegau celf yn y system addysg greadigol.
Pam y gwnaethoch chi ddewis PCYDDS?
Ym mis Rhagfyr 2020, pan ddechreuais i wneud ceisiadau am gyrsiau prifysgol, roedd yn broses eithaf heriol oherwydd y pandemig.
Ond ar ôl ymchwilio a chael cyfweliad, roedd natur groesawgar ac ysbrydoledig PCYDDS yn sefyll allan.
Fe wnaeth eu hymroddiad o ran defnyddio dulliau cyfathrebu gweledol a’u cyfleusterau gwych wneud argraff arna i.
O gymharu â phrifysgolion mwy, roedd dosbarthiadau Coleg Celf Abertawe yn llai, gyda mwy o sylw gan y darlithwyr, ac roeddwn i’n credu byddai’r dull personol yma’n hollbwysig i fy natblygiad.
Gan fy mod i’n dod o dref fechan, roeddwn i’n teimlo byddai’r amgylchedd yn fy siwtio i’r dim, ac roedd PCYDDS yn ddewis delfrydol ar gyfer fy ngwaith academaidd, dewis nad ydw i’n ei ddifaru o gwbl!
Beth ydych chi’n mwynhau ei wneud tu allan i’ch astudiaethau?
Y tu allan i’m hastudiaethau dylunio graffig, mae gen i ddiddordeb mawr mewn chwaraeon, yn enwedig criced.
Roeddwn i’n chwarae criced yn rheolaidd trwy bob haf yn PCYDDS, ac roeddwn yn arfer chwarae i’r safon uchaf o ran clybiau criced menywod yn y West Midlands.
Byddai’r diddordeb hwn mewn chwaraeon yn aml yn dylanwadu ar fy ngwaith dylunio academaidd, gan ysbrydoli creadigrwydd ac arloesedd.
Yn fy nwy flynedd gyntaf, roeddwn hefyd yn aelod o dîm pêl-rwyd y Brifysgol, ac fe ddes yn ffrindiau â phobl oedd ar gyrsiau eraill.
Hefyd, roeddwn yn mwynhau treulio amser gyda theulu a ffrindiau pan oeddwn i adre.
Beth ydych chi’n gobeithio gwneud pan fyddwch yn graddio?
Fy nod ar ôl graddio yw cael gwaith dylunio graffig o fewn y diwydiant chwaraeon, yn y West Midlands yn ddelfrydol.
Byddai cyfuno fy angerdd am ddylunio gyda fy nghariad at chwaraeon yn gwireddu breuddwyd.
Rwy’n berson penderfynol sydd â chymhelliant a greddf entrepreneuraidd, a fy nod hirdymor yw sefydlu fy musnes dylunio llawrydd fy hun.
Rwy’n gweld fy hun yn sefydlu portffolio amrywiol o gleientiaid a phrosiectau a fydd yn caniatáu i mi fod yn greadigol ond yn rhoi’r rhyddid i mi dorri fy nghŵys broffesiynol fy hun.
Ac rwy’n bwriadu parhau i chwarae criced wrth gwrs!
Beth oedd eich hoff beth am y cwrs?
Mae dewis hoff agwedd ar y cwrs BA (Anrh) Dylunio Graffig yn anodd gan fy mod wedi mwynhau pob eiliad o’r 3 blynedd academaidd ddiwethaf.
Ond mae’r dull personol o addysgu yn sefyll allan i mi.
Mae’r cysylltiad â’r staff dysgu yn gwneud gwahaniaeth mawr i hyder, mae’n tanio creadigrwydd ac yn sicrhau presenoldeb cefnogol trwy’r adeg.
Mae’r sylw personol hwn, sy’n beth prin mewn prifysgolion mwy, yn creu amgylchedd lle gall syniadau ffynnu.
Mae bod mewn coleg celf yn cryfhau’r ddeinameg honno – pan fo’ch cyfoedion o’ch cwmpas yn rhannu’r un sbarc creadigol, a’r syniadau’n tasgu, gan wneud ffrindiau yn ogystal â chysylltiadau busnes gwerthfawr ar gyfer y dyfodol.
Byddwn yn argymell PCYDDS i unrhyw ddarpar fyfyriwr sy’n chwilio am amgylchedd lle gallan nhw ffynnu, yn academaidd ac fel person.
Er y gall gwneud cais i fynd i’r brifysgol fod yn frawychus, mae dilyn eich breuddwydion yn hollbwysig, ac mae Coleg Celf Abertawe yn rhywle lle gallwch chi wneud hynny, heb os nac oni bai.
Gall y brifysgol gynnig llwyth o gyfleoedd i chi ddod i adnabod eich hun ac i ddatblygu’n academaidd.
Hefyd, mae awyrgylch braf y brifysgol a dinas Abertawe yn cynnal cymuned fywiog o fyfyrwyr ac mae’r cyfuniad unigryw o lan y môr a chanol dinas yn rhoi’r gorau o’r ddau fyd!

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/profiad-chyfleusterau/pam-dewis-prifysgol-cymru-y-drindod-dewi-sant/lleisiau-myfyrwyr:
Sgwrsiwch gyda’n myfyrwyr presennol - lle byddan nhw’n onest ac yn llawn gwybodaeth am unrhyw beth rydych chi’n ei ofyn!
Ydych chi’n poeni am fywyd fel myfyriwr?
Neu oes arnoch chi angen rhagor o wybodaeth am y cwrs?
Byddan nhw yna i’ch helpu gyda beth bynnag fydd ei angen arnoch.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/astudio/profiad-chyfleusterau/y-gymraeg-yn-y-drindod-dewi-sant:
Mae’r Drindod Dewi Sant yn Brifysgol naturiol ddwyieithog, lle mae’r Gymraeg a’r Saesneg yn cyd-fyw mewn cytgord.
Mae canran uchel o’n staff a’n myfyrwyr yn medru’r Gymraeg ar draws ein campysau ac mae modd felly i siaradwyr Cymraeg dderbyn cefnogaeth drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg ym mhob agwedd o’ch bywyd fel myfyriwr yma.
Rydym hefyd yn falch iawn i gefnogi unrhyw fyfyriwr sy’n dymuno dysgu neu ddatblygu eu Cymraeg yn ystod eu hamser yma yn y Brifysgol.
Yma yn y Drindod Dewi Sant mae gennym arlwy o gyrsiau cyfrwng Cymraeg a dwyieithog ar draws ein campysau.
Efallai nad ydych wedi ystyried astudio eich gradd neu ran o’ch rhaglen radd drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg hyd yn hyn, neu efallai eich bod yn teimlo’n ddihyder ynghylch astudio eich rhaglen yn llwyr drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg.
Peidiwch â phoeni, rydych mewn dwylo da.
Cewch gefnogaeth gan y Brifysgol trwy gydol eich astudiaethau, fyddwch chi ddim ar eich pen eich hunan.
Meddyliwch am y drysau a fydd yn agor i chi fel graddedigion os byddwch wedi astudio o leiaf ran o’ch rhaglen radd drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg!
Mae gan fyfyrwyr y Drindod Dewi Sant sy’n dilyn cyrsiau neu fodiwlau israddedig cyfrwng Cymraeg neu ddwyieithog gyfle arbennig i gael cymorth ariannol gan y Brifysgol a’r Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol.
Dyfernir £50 am bob 10 credyd a gwblhawyd yn llwyddiannus gan fyfyriwr is-raddedig drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg/yn ddwyieithog.
Mae’r Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol yn dyfarnu nifer o ysgoloriaethau i fyfyrwyr sy’n astudio cyrsiau penodol yn rhannol, neu’n gyfan gwbl, drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg.
Mae’r Drindod Dewi Sant yn chwarae rôl allweddol wrth ddarparu addysg uwch cyfrwng Cymraeg ac mae ganddi Gangen weithgar o’r Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol.
Mae’r Gangen yn trefnu arlwy o ddigwyddiadau academaidd a chymdeithasol i staff a myfyrwyr, o ddigwyddiadau’r glas a chinio blynyddol, i ddarlith flynyddol a chynadleddau yn ogystal a’r Côr cymdeithasol a phaned a sgwrs.
Mae’r Gangen hefyd yn cynnig cefnogaeth ieithyddol ac ariannol i fyfyrwyr Cymraeg eu hiaith.
Mae’r Gymdeithas Gymraeg – Y Gym Gym yn cael ei rhedeg gan fyfyrwyr y Brifysgol, a threfnir gweithgareddau a digwyddiadau cymdeithasol amrywiol, gan roi digon o gyfleoedd i wneud ffrindiau a chael profiadau newydd; o deithiau rygbi rhyngwladol i gystadlaethau chwaraeon ac Eisteddfodau’r Rhyng-gol … mae llu o gyfleoedd a gweithgareddau at ddant pawb!
Mae Canolfan Gwasanaethau Cymraeg y Brifysgol yma i’ch cefnogi.
Yn ogystal â bod yn gyfrifol am hyrwyddo a datblygu cyfleoedd addysg cyfrwng Cymraeg, mae’r ganolfan yn gartref i Rhagoriaith a Pheniarth.
Yma’n y Drindod Dewi Sant rydym yn ymrwymo i hyfforddi a pharatoi myfyrwyr ar gyfer y Gymru ddwyieithog.
Rydym yn darparu gwersi Cymraeg yn rhad ac am ddim i’n staff a’n myfyrwyr.
Hoffech chi ddysgu Cymraeg tra yn y Brifysgol a chofleidio’r cyfle i uwchsgilio’ch hun a pharatoi ar gyfer cyflogaeth yn y dyfodol mewn gweithle dwyieithog?
I gofrestru eich diddordeb a chael gwybod mwy am gyrsiau Cymraeg sydd ar gael, cysylltwch â ni ar tiwtorcymraeg@pcydds.ac.uk
Mae gennych chi hawl gyfreithiol i dderbyn gwasanaethau yn y Gymraeg.
Mae’r hawliau yma wedi cael eu creu o ganlyniad i Safonau’r Gymraeg sydd wedi’u gosod ar y Brifysgol.
Defnyddiwch eich hawliau – gofynnwch am y Gymraeg.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/profiad-chyfleusterau/undeb-y-myfyrwyr:
Helo, Undeb Myfyrwyr PCyDDS ydyn ni, Ni yw’r bobl sydd yma i’ch helpu chi i wneud y gorau o’ch profiad o fod yn fyfyriwr, waeth beth neu ble rydych chi’n astudio yn PCyDDS.
Rydym yn annibynnol o’r brifysgol ac yn elusen dan arweiniad myfyrwyr, ar gyfer myfyrwyr.
Fel myfyriwr, rydych chi’n un o’n haelodau - mae aelodaeth o’r undeb am ddim, ac mae’n awtomatig.
Play video: Helo oddi wrth eich Undeb Myfyrwyr
Ein nod yw sicrhau bod meddyliau a syniadau myfyrwyr yn cael eu clywed gan y Brifysgol.
Mae gennym rwydwaith o gynrychiolwyr myfyrwyr i’n helpu i wneud hyn - wnewch chi’n cymryd rhan?
Rydyn ni eisiau gwneud pob campws yn hwyl ac yn ddeniadol.
Mae eich amser yn y brifysgol yn fwy na darlithoedd yn unig - gyda ni, gallwch redeg eich clybiau chwaraeon a chymdeithasau eich hun, cymryd rhan mewn digwyddiadau, a datblygu eich sgiliau.
Mae ein Gwasanaeth Cynghori am ddim; mae’n annibynnol ac yn gyfrinachol.
Rydym am eich grymuso i wneud y penderfyniadau sy’n iawn i chi.
Byddwn hefyd yn helpu gyda phrosesau’r brifysgol a’ch atgyfeirio.
Rydyn ni’n cynnal amrywiaeth o ddigwyddiadau drwy gydol y flwyddyn, gan gynnwys yn ystod yr Wythnosau Croeso swyddogol.
Mae gennym ni leoliadau ar gampysau Caerfyrddin a Llambed hefyd.
Perffaith ar gyfer myfyrwyr sy’n byw ar y campws neu er mwyn ymlacio ar ôl darlithoedd.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/profiad-chyfleusterau/chwaraeon:
Yn barod i gyflawni eich nodau chwaraeon?
Mae ein cyfleusterau arbenigol yn cynnwys cyfleuster cryfder a chyflyru, ardal hyfforddi 3G, stiwdio ffitrwydd, labordai ffisioleg a biomecaneg, pwll nofio, ystafell dadansoddi chwaraeon, neuadd chwaraeon dan do, ac ystafelloedd therapi chwaraeon ac adsefydlu.
Mae’r Drindod Dewi Sant yn cynnig cyfleusterau chwaraeon ardderchog ac ystod eang o weithgareddau at ddant bawb o athletwyr perfformiad uchel i fyfyrwyr, staff a’r cyhoedd yn gyffredinol.
Dysgwch ragor am glybiau chwaraeon Undeb y Myfyrwyr, cyfleusterau chwaraeon, Academi Chwaraeon, cynlluniau aelodau a llawer rhagor.
Ydych chi’n dwlu ar chwaraeon cystadleuol?
Byddwch y gorau y gallwch chi fod gydag Academi Chwaraeon Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant wrth i chi astudio ar gyfer eich gradd a chreu’r profiad prifysgol rydych wedi breuddwydio amdano erioed.
Facilities page template
Mae chwaraeon yn rhan fawr o ddiwylliant Cymru ac mae mynd i ddigwyddiad neu i wylio gêm yn rhan hanfodol o astudio yn PCYDDS!
Cymerwch gip ar y lleoliadau isod y gallwch chi ymweld â nhw pryd bynnag mae’r awydd yn codi.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/profiad-chyfleusterau/chwaraeon/academi-chwaraeon:
Byddwch y gorau y gallwch chi fod gydag Academi Chwaraeon Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant wrth i chi astudio ar gyfer eich gradd a chreu’r profiad prifysgol rydych wedi breuddwydio amdano erioed.
Ar hyn o bryd mae gwasanaethau’r academi chwaraeon wedi’u lleoli ar ein campysau yn ne-orllewin Cymru.
Fodd bynnag, os oes myfyrwyr sy’n athletwyr perfformiad uchel a allai gynrychioli’r Brifysgol ym mhencampwriaethau BUCS, cysylltwch â’r academi.
Gallai fod opsiwn i gael mynediad at raglenni hyfforddi, cyngor ar faeth a chefnogaeth ychwanegol o bell, yn dibynnu ar y gamp.
Cewch hyfforddiant ar lefel broffesiynol mewn camp benodol, hyfforddiant cryfder a chyflyru, ynghyd â chyngor ar faeth, deiet a ffordd o fyw.
Byddwch yn hyfforddi mewn cyfleusterau campfa newydd, sydd â set gyflawn o offer sy’n arwain y diwydiant, a gallwch fwynhau cyfleoedd rheolaidd i gystadlu yng nghynghreiriau, digwyddiadau a phencampwriaethau Chwaraeon Prifysgolion a Cholegau Prydain (BUCS).
Mae ein staff profiadol a hyfforddwyr proffesiynol wrth law i’ch helpu i ffynnu a llwyddo ym myd chwaraeon.
Mae’r Academi Chwaraeon yn darparu’r llwybr perfformiad hwn ar gyfer y chwaraeon ffocws canlynol; Rygbi - Gwryw a Benyw, Pêl-droed - Gwryw a Benyw, Pêl-rwyd - Benyw a Chwaraeon Unigol - Gwryw a Benyw.
Mae holl fyfyrwyr yr Academi sydd ar y llwybrau hyn yn cael mynediad at; Hyfforddiant, Cryfder a chyflyru, Cyngor maeth a diet, Gwyddor chwaraeon, Therapi chwaraeon, Dadansoddi Perfformiad a Rheoli ffordd o fyw.
Rydym yn cefnogi ac yn gweithio gyda’r clybiau Chwaraeon Undeb Myfyrwyr canlynol; Clwb Rygbi PCYDDS, Clwb Pêl-droed PCYDDS, Clwb Pêl-rwyd PCYDDS a Clwb Chwaraeon Unigolion PCYDDS.
Y clybiau hyn sy’n cystadlu yng nghynghreiriau, cwpanau, digwyddiadau a phencampwriaethau BUCS.
Fel arfer, bydd myfyrwyr sy’n rhan o’r clybiau hyn yn cael 2/3 sesiwn chwaraeon, dwy sesiwn cryfder a chyflyru, ac un sesiwn ddadansoddi bob wythnos, a hynny ar wahân i’w hastudiaethau, eu dyletswyddau i’w clwb, a’u cyfleoedd cymdeithasol.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/academi-cymru-ar-gyfer-iechyd-llythrennedd/cyrsiau-hyfforddi/footie-families:
Mae Footie Families yn rhaglen unigryw sy’n meithrin ymgysylltu â theuluoedd ac sy’n gwella sgiliau echddygol plant, wrth rymuso rhieni i gymryd rhan weithredol mewn gweithgareddau corfforol â’u plant.
Mewn cydweithrediad â Chymdeithas Bêl-droed Cymru (CBDC), rydyn ni’n cynnig cwrs hyfforddi ar sail tystiolaeth sydd wedi’i ddylunio ar gyfer Footie Families.
Mae’r hyfforddiant hwn yn rhoi strategaethau i hyfforddwyr ymgysylltu’n effeithiol â theuluoedd a chefnogi datblygiad corfforol plant ifanc.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/academi-cymru-ar-gyfer-iechyd-llythrennedd/ymchwil:
Mae pwyslais cynyddol ar gynnal iechyd da er mwyn lleihau’r angen i wella iechyd gwael.
Mae’r dull hwn, gan ddefnyddio cysyniad Salutogenesis Antonovsky, yn cydnabod bod angen inni gael adnoddau i gefnogi ein hiechyd a’n lles.
Gan gyfuno addasiad McElroy o Fodel Ecolegol Cymdeithasol Bronbrenfenner a Salutogenesis, mae ein holl ymchwil yn seiliedig ar ddull Saluto-ecolegol (Piper et al., 2022).
Gyda’r dull hwn, ystyrir llythrennedd corfforol yn adnodd unigol sy’n cefnogi gweithgarwch corfforol ac yn gysyniad allweddol ar gyfer cefnogi llesiant ehangach.
Mae ein tîm yn cynnal ymchwil mewn amrywiaeth o brosiectau o blentyndod cynnar ac ymgysylltu â rhieni ar draws cwrs bywyd i’r boblogaeth sy’n heneiddio.
At hynny, mae ein staff yn cefnogi ystod o astudiaethau ôl-raddedig ar lefel Meistr a PhD.
Mae ein holl ymchwil wedi ei chymhwyso i ymarfer.
Gallwch ddarllen isod sut mae ein hymchwil yn effeithio ar ganlyniadau i blant ifanc, rhieni, oedolion hŷn a chleifion, ac yn gwella iechyd a lles yn ein cymunedau.
Mae gennym ystod o ymchwil gyhoeddedig ym maes datblygiad corfforol plentyndod cynnar.
Cyflwynwyd ein hymchwil SKIP Cymru gan adeiladu ar 30 mlynedd o ymchwil datblygu moduron presennol i REF2021 yn astudiaeth achos effaith.
Nododd ymchwil PhD wreiddiol fod angen mynd i’r afael â diffyg datblygiad echddygol mewn plant mewn perthynas â sgiliau rheoli gwrthrychau.
Gwerthuswyd rhaglen ddilynol SKIP Cymru ac ymchwiliwyd iddi’n ddiweddar yn brosiect PhD tair blynedd a ariennir gan yr UE.
Arweiniodd canfyddiadau’r gwaith hwn at ddatblygu datblygiad proffesiynol achrededig manwl.
Gallwch ddarllen am ein rhaglenni hyfforddi ar gyfer ymarferwyr y blynyddoedd cynnar.
Rydym wedi ymchwilio i ganfyddiadau ac anghenion rhieni mewn perthynas â gweithgarwch corfforol eu plant cyn-ysgol.
Ysgrifennodd y tîm yn WAHPL raglen ymgysylltu blynyddoedd cynnar Footie Families mewn cydweithrediad â Chymdeithas Bêl-droed Cymru (FAW).
Mae Anna Stevenson wedi gwerthuso a datblygu’r rhaglen ar gyfer ei hymchwil PhD.
Gan weithio ar y cyd ag ATiC rydym wedi ymchwilio i effaith gweithgareddau APP MiniMovers ar ddatblygiad corfforol cyn-ysgol a phrofiadau rhieni.
Cyflwynir canfyddiadau o’r holl astudiaethau hyn ym 4edd Gyngres CIAPSE yn Lwcsemourg.
Darllenwch ragor am ymchwil ein myfyrwyr Meistr a PhD.
I ddysgu rhagor am ein hymchwil llythrennedd corfforol, astudio MA Addysg Gorfforol, Chwaraeon a Llythrennedd Corfforol, neu ddysgu rhagor am astudiaeth PhD mewn llythrennedd corfforol, cysylltwch â Dr Nalda Wainwright yn n.wainwright@pcydds.ac.uk I ddarllen ein cyhoeddiadau ewch i Dr Nalda Wainwright ar ResearchGate.
Mae ymchwil awyr agored yn Academi Iechyd a  Llythrennedd Corfforol Cymru (WAHPL) yn cyfrannu gwybodaeth a dysgu newydd mewn Addysg a Llythrennedd Corfforol.
Ym myd addysg mae Williams a Wainwright (2016 Rhannau 1 a 2) wedi datblygu model cwricwlwm newydd ar gyfer addysg antur awyr agored (AAAA) sy’n adlewyrchu’n well y cyfraniad unigryw sydd gan y ffurf hon ar ddysgu yn yr awyr agored i’w wneud i addysg pobl ifanc.
Mae eu hymchwil yn nodi pedair nodwedd na ellir eu trafod o fodel ar gyfer AAAA fel ‘bod yn yr awyr agored yn bennaf, dysgu drwy brofiad, her drwy ddewis a risg a reolir’.
Mae ein hymchwil awyr agored yn canolbwyntio ar y cyfraniad y gall ymgysylltu awyr agored sy’n canolbwyntio ar natur, ei wneud i iechyd a lles unigolyn.
Mae profiadau awyr agored yn agwedd  bwysig a pharhaus ar daith llythrennedd corfforol unigolyn.
Yn eu blynyddoedd cynnar gallan nhw gynnwys dysgu mewn lleoliad o fath Ysgol Goedwig yn rhan o addysg y blynyddoedd cynnar neu, yn syml, chwarae ac archwilio natur a’r wlad leol gyda theulu a ffrindiau.
Gall plant ychydig yn hŷn ddod yn Sgowtiaid a Geidiaid, yn yr ysgol gall pobl ifanc yn eu harddegau gymryd rhan mewn profiad preswyl sy’n canolbwyntio ar addysg awyr agored.
Yn oedolion ifanc, gall pobl gyflawni unrhyw nifer o weithgareddau a chwaraeon awyr agored i gael eu ‘dos’ awyr agored gan gynnwys gwersylla, syrffio, beicio mynydd, dringo creigiau, mynydda neu arfordira ac ati.
Er y gall cenedlaethau hŷn ddechrau cerdded, garddio neu nofio yn rhad ac am ddim.
Beth bynnag fo oedran neu gyfnod bywyd unigolyn, mae bod yn gorfforol egnïol yn yr awyr agored a natur yn gwneud cyfraniad hanfodol i’w iechyd a’i les cyffredinol.
Wedi’i leoli yn Hwb Lles Awyr Agored Cynefin dim ond  milltir o brif gampws Caerfyrddin ac wrth ochr afon Tywi a  Llwybr Arfordir Cymru Gyfan, mae WAHPL yn dod â gwaith y Ganolfan Iechyd a Heneiddio (CHA) at ei gilydd a  gweithwyr proffesiynol byrddau iechyd i ddatblygu trac symud awyr agored pwrpasol i ymgorffori nodweddion ymarfer corff ‘gwyrdd’ sy’n hyrwyddo adferiad cyflymach a mwy gweithredol ar ôl llawdriniaeth ac yn gwella lefelau ffitrwydd cleifion cyn llawdriniaeth.
Bydd y nodweddion hyn yn cynnwys meinciau, grisiau, tiriogaeth donnog ac ymarferion effaith isel i  gleifion gerdded, ymestyn, cydbwyso ac ymarfer corff i’r graddau sy’n briodol i’w galluoedd o dan arweiniad arbenigwyr ymarfer corff WAHPL.
Bydd yr holl  weithgareddau ymarfer corff gwyrdd wedi’u lleoli y tu allan i hyrwyddo ymgysylltu â natur ymhellach ac mae ganddynt fannau  cymdeithasol cyfagos i bobl gwrdd ag eraill, cysylltu i helpu, neu fynd i’r afael â phryderon iechyd meddwl ehangach sy’n aml yn cyd-fynd â materion iechyd corfforol.
Ochr yn ochr â’r ffocws ar iechyd corfforol, mae WAHPL hefyd yn arwain gwaith ymchwil a gwerthuso cyfres o  raglenni peilot, gan weithio gyda grwpiau lleol i hyrwyddo Lles drwy Natur (Coed Lleol) ac Ecotherapi (Bwrdd Iechyd Hywel Dda) ar gyfer gweithwyr iechyd proffesiynol sy’n wedi ‘ymlâdd’ o ganlyniad i Covid-19.
Nod y rhaglenni llesiant awyr agored hyn yw grymuso cyfranogwyr i fynd i’r afael â phryderon iechyd meddwl gan gynnwys straen, pryder, iselder, unigrwydd ac arwahanrwydd drwy gymryd rhan mewn gweithgareddau rhagnodi cymdeithasol ‘gwyrdd’ megis prosiectau cadwraeth ac adfer amgylcheddol, profiadau byw yn y gwyllt  a chwilota sy’n  hyrwyddo ymgysylltu â natur ac o blaid yr amgylchedd ymddygiadau.
I ddysgu rhagor am ein hymchwil awyr agored, yr MA Addysg Awyr Agored neu ymchwil PhD  yn yr awyr agored, cysylltwch â Dr Andy Williams yn a.williams@pcydds.ac.uk
Sefydlwyd y Ganolfan Iechyd a Heneiddio (CHA) oherwydd ymchwil wreiddiol Dr Peter Herbert a ymchwiliodd i’r defnydd o hyfforddiant cyfnod dwysedd uchel (HIIT) ar gyfer dynion hŷn.
Rhoddodd yr ymchwil arloesol hon a gydnabyddir yn fyd-eang gipolwg ar yr angen i ystyried cyfundrefnau hyfforddi mwy pwrpasol ar gyfer y boblogaeth hŷn ac arweiniodd y gwaith o gymhwyso’r ymchwil hon yn ymarferol at sefydlu’r CHA.
Mae ymchwil pellach gan Dr Herbert a’r tîm wedi olrhain cyfranogwyr dros nifer o flynyddoedd ac wedi nodi agweddau ac effeithiau ymlyniad hirdymor.
Mae ymchwil PhD parhaus wedi edrych ar effaith hyfforddiant cryfder ar gyfer menywod ar ôl y mislif.
Mae ymchwil gyfredol ar y cyd â Bwrdd Iechyd Hywel Dda gan edrych ar effaith rhaglenni hyfforddi megis cyn-adferiad cyn llawdriniaeth oncoleg.
I ddysgu rhagor am yr ymchwil hwn cysylltwch â Dr Peter Herbert yn p.herbert@pcydds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/academi-cymru-ar-gyfer-iechyd-llythrennedd/ynglyn-a-llythrennedd-corfforol:
Mae Llythrennedd Corfforol yn daith gydol oes sy’n dechrau yn ystod plentyndod cynnar, wrth i ni ddechrau darganfod sut mae ein cyrff yn symud ac yn rhyngweithio â’r byd o’n cwmpas.
Trwy chwarae, archwilio, ac amrywiaeth o brofiadau corfforol, mae plant ifanc yn adeiladu’r sylfaen ar gyfer symud, hyder, a mwynhad o weithgarwch corfforol.
Ond nid yw Llythrennedd Corfforol yn gorffen gyda phlentyndod—ac nid yw’n ymwneud â chwaraeon yn unig.
Mae’n cwmpasu pob math o symudiad, ar draws pob cyfnod o fywyd.
Mae’n ymwneud â datblygu’r wybodaeth, y sgiliau, y cymhelliant, a’r hyder i fod yn egnïol mewn sawl ffordd wahanol, mewn sawl amgylchedd gwahanol.
Mae Llythrennedd Corfforol yn fwy na sgiliau corfforol.
Mae’n ddull cyfannol o symud sy’n cefnogi iechyd, lles, a chyfranogiad gydol oes mewn gweithgaredd corfforol.
Diffiniadau o Lythrennedd Corfforol
“Y cymhelliant, yr hyder, y cymhwysedd corfforol, y wybodaeth a’r ddealltwriaeth i werthfawrogi a chymryd cyfrifoldeb dros ymgysylltu â gweithgareddau corfforol am oes.” (Whitehead, 2016)
“Dysgu cyfannol gydol oes a gafwyd a’i gymhwyso mewn cyd-destunau symud a gweithgaredd corfforol.
Mae’n adlewyrchu newidiadau parhaus sy’n integreiddio galluoedd corfforol, seicolegol, gwybyddol a chymdeithasol.
Mae’n hanfodol i’n helpu i fyw bywydau iach a boddhaus trwy symud a gweithgaredd corfforol.” (Comisiwn Chwaraeon Awstralia)
Darllenwch fwy am Lythrennedd Corfforol ar wefan Cymdeithas Llythrennedd Corfforol Ryngwladol .
Ein nod yw gosod y sylfeini ar gyfer gweithgarwch corfforol, iechyd, llesiant a deilliannau academaidd yn ystod plentyndod cynnar.
Dysgwch ragor am yr hyfforddiant seiliedig ar dystiolaeth sydd ar gael i bobl sy’n gweithio gyda phlant.
Gallwch ddarllen sut mae  ein hymchwil yn effeithio ar ganlyniadau i blant ifanc, rhieni,  oedolion hŷn a chleifion, ac yn gwella iechyd a lles yn ein cymunedau.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/profiad-chyfleusterau/chwaraeon/lleoliadau-chwaraeon:
Cymerwch gip ar y lleoliadau isod y gallwch chi ymweld â nhw pryd bynnag mae’r awydd yn codi.
Stadiwm Swansea.com
Agorodd Stadiwm Swansea.com yn 2005 i roi cartref i dîm pêl droed Dinas Abertawe a Rygbi’r Gweilch ac yn gyfleuster i Abertawe fod yn falch ohono.
Parc Chwaraeon Bae Abertawe
Mae’r cyfleusterau ym Mharc Chwaraeon Bae Abertawe yn amrywio o Bwll Cenedlaethol Cymru Abertawe sy’n 50m, trac athletau awyr agored, caeau aml-ddefnydd, campfa, caeau hoci a llawer mwy.
Cae Chwarae Rygbi a Chriced San Helen
Lleoliad chwaraeon yn Abertawe yw Cae Chwarae Rygbi a Chriced San Helen, cartref Clwb Rygbi Abertawe, Clwb Criced Abertawe a Chriced Morgannwg.
Cartref Clwb Rygbi’r Scarlets a lleoliad gwych ar gyfer pob math o gynadleddau, achlysuron a dathliadau.
Cwrs Golff Machynys, Llanelli
Cwrs golff pencampwriaeth modern 7121 llath a ddyluniwyd gan Nicklaus ac a agorodd yn 2005 yw Machynys, ac mae eisoes wedi cynnal 14 Pencampwriaeth.
Sylwch na allwch ddefnyddio’r cyfleusterau allanol hyn yn rhad ac am ddim, codir tâl gwasanaeth arnoch chi wrth eu defnyddio.
Stadiwm Principality
Gyda’r to cyntaf y gellir ei agor yn llwyr yn y DU, mae Stadiwm Principality yng Nghaerdydd ar flaen y gad fel lleoliad ar gyfer digwyddiadau amlbwrpas, amlweddog, a dyma gartref Undeb Rygbi Cymru.
Gerddi Sophia
Stadiwm 16,000 o seddi yng Nghaerdydd yw Gerddi Sophia, cartref Criced Morgannwg a lleoliad cydnabyddedig ar gyfer criced rhyngwladol.
Stadiwm Dinas Caerdydd
Stadiwm Dinas Caerdydd yw cartref Clwb Pêl-droed Dinas Caerdydd a thîm pêl-droed cenedlaethol Cymru.
Parc yr Arfau Caerdydd
Parc yr Arfau Caerdydd yw cartref Rygbi Caerdydd a Chlwb Rygbi Caerdydd ac mae wedi’i leoli wrth ymyl Stadiwm Principality yng nghanol prifddinas Cymru.
Pentref Chwaraeon Rhyngwladol
Wrth ymyl y llyn dŵr croyw a grëwyd gan Forglawdd Bae Caerdydd, mae eisoes gan y Pentref Chwaraeon ddau gyfleuster chwaraeon o safon Olympaidd, sef Dŵr Gwyn Rhyngwladol Caerdydd a Phwll Rhyngwladol Caerdydd.
Yn ogystal â’r rhain, fe welwch Arena Viola - llawr sglefrio i’r cyhoedd a chartref tîm hoci iâ Cynghrair Elît Devils Caerdydd.
Sylwch nad yw’r cyfleusterau allanol hyn yn rhad ac am ddim i’w defnyddio, bydd angen i chi dalu am gael eu defnyddio..
Cae Ras Ffos Las
Mae Cae Ras Ffos Las wedi dod â rasys ceffylau o’r radd flaenaf i Gymru ers iddo agor yn 2009.
Wedi’i leoli rhwng Llanelli a Chaerfyrddin, mae Ffos Las yn cynnal 23 o ddigwyddiadau rasio yn ystod y flwyddyn, yn ogystal â bod ar gael i’w logi ar gyfer cynadleddau a digwyddiadau.​
Parc Waun Dew, Caerfyrddin
Stadiwm Uwch Gynghrair Cymru yng Nghaerfyrddin yw Parc Waun Dew.
Wedi’i leoli ar Stryd y Prior, mae’n cael ei ddefnyddio ar hyn o bryd ar gyfer gemau pêl-droed a dyma gartref Clwb Pêl-droed Tref Caerfyrddin.​
Parc Caerfyrddin
Wedi’i agor ym 1900, Parc Caerfyrddin yw cartref felodrom (trac beicio) cyntaf Cymru ac un o’r ychydig felodromau cynnar sydd wedi goroesi ac mewn cyflwr y gellir ei ddefnyddio.
Gyda’i eisteddle gwreiddiol, y safle seindorf, y porthdy, y giatiau mynediad, a’r rheiliau, mae Parc Caerfyrddin wedi cael ei ddefnyddio ar gyfer amrywiaeth eang o chwaraeon, eisteddfodau, adloniant, syrcasau a chyngherddau
Mae Cynefin - Canolfan Addysg Antur Awyr Agored PCYDDS - wedi’i lleoli ar safle gwyrdd godidog ar gyrion Caerfyrddin, dim ond 20 munud ar droed o’r campws.
Mae’r safle’n gysgodol a diarffordd gydag ystod amrywiol o gynefinoedd naturiol a mynediad i ddyfrffyrdd a llwybrau troed.
Mae lleoliad y ganolfan yn berffaith ar gyfer dysgu am addysg antur awyr agored.
Sylwch nad yw’r cyfleusterau allanol hyn yn rhad ac am ddim i’w defnyddio, bydd angen i chi dalu am gael eu defnyddio.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/chwaraeon/cyfleusterau-chwaraeon:
Mae PCYDDS yn cynnig cyfleusterau chwaraeon rhagorol ac ystod eang o weithgareddau at ddant pawb, o athletwyr perfformiad uchel i fyfyrwyr, staff, a’r gymuned ehangach.
Hefyd, os ydych chi’n rhan o’n carfan bêl-droed, byddwch yn hyfforddi ac yn chwarae ym Mharc Waun Dew, cyfleuster o safon Ewropeaidd UEFA – a chartref Clwb Pêl-droed Tref Caerfyrddin.
Os mai rygbi sy’n mynd â’ch bryd chi, bydd gennych chi eich meysydd chwarae pwrpasol eich hun yn ogystal â defnydd o Ysgubor Hyfforddi 3G Dan Do Clwb Rygbi Athletic Caerfyrddin.

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/chwaraeon/cyfleusterau-chwaraeon/cyfleusterau-caerfyrddin:
Mae’n bleser gennym eich croesawu i’r cyfleusterau chwaraeon ym Mhrifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant, Caerfyrddin.
P’un a ydych yn athletwr profiadol neu’n awyddus i gadw’n heini, mae ein hystod eang o gyfleusterau wedi’u cynllunio i gefnogi eich taith ffitrwydd a gwella eich llesiant.
O’n campfa llawn offer a’n neuadd chwaraeon i’n cae awyr agored a dosbarthiadau ffitrwydd, rydym yn cynnig popeth sydd ei angen arnoch i gyflawni eich nodau mewn amgylchedd bywiog a chefnogol.
Rydym yn edrych ymlaen at eich helpu i wneud y gorau o’ch amser yma yn PCYDDS Caerfyrddin.
Mae’r gampfa yn cynnwys amrywiaeth eang o beiriannau cardio a phwysau sy’n addas i bawb!
Rydym yn estyn croeso i bawb, o’r dechreuwr pur i’r athletwr profiadol, i ddefnyddio’n cyfarpar a’n peiriannau.
Gallwch roi cynnig ar ddefnyddio ein campfa ar sail talu-wrth-fynd, neu gallwch ymaelodi.
Mae ein sesiynau yn agored i feicwyr o bob gallu, gyda phawb yn gweithio ar lefel bersonol i wella eu sgiliau beicio a’u ffitrwydd cyffredinol.
Mae’r niferoedd yn cael eu cadw’n isel, fel bod pawb yn cael y sylw unigol sydd ei angen arnyn nhw.
Dydd Llun a dydd Gwener 7 a.m.
- 8 a.m.
Mae angen archebu lle ymlaen llaw drwy’r ap.
Mae’n cynnwys cyfnodau o ymarferion cardio a chryfder dwysedd uchel ynghyd â chyfnodau byr o adfer rhyngddyn nhw, ac mae’n ffordd wych o gael sesiwn ymarfer bwerus gyda nifer o fuddion a hynny mewn amser byr.
Dydd Llun 12:00 p.m.
- 12:30 p.m.
Os na allwch ddod i ddosbarth penodol, peidiwch â phoeni.
Gallwch chi ddilyn un o’r cynlluniau ymarfer parod, gofynnwch am un wrth gyrraedd.
Mae’r offer yn cael eu cyflenwi gan TechnoGym - The Wellness Company, Wattbike a Concept 2 Indoor Rower.
Pwll nofio dan do 20m x 7m wedi’u gynhesu.
Defnyddir y pwll nofio hefyd ar gyfer darlithoedd gan yr Ysgol Chwaraeon Iechyd ac Addysg Awyr Agored (diweddarwyd amserlen y pwll trwy ein App – UWSTD Sports)
Mae nofio yn ymarfer corff gwych i’r corff cyfan.
Mae dŵr yn rhoi mwy o ymwrthedd i’ch grwpiau cyhyrau weithio yn ei erbyn ac yn cynnal rhywfaint o bwysau eich corff gan leihau’r straen ar eich cymalau.
Amseroedd Agor o ddydd Llun i ddydd Gwener: 8 am - 2 pm Dydd Sadwrn 10am – 1pm
Mae’r pwll nofio yn cael ei logi’n allanol yn ystod yr wythnos o 4:00pm ar gyfer gwersi nofio i blant.
Am ragor o wybodaeth, ewch i Wefan Swim Champs.
Wedi’i leoli yng Nghanolfan Chwaraeon Caerfyrddin, mae’r Clinig Cymal Ofal, sy’n eiddo i’r Ffisiotherapydd Siartredig Mark Brownless , yn cynnig clinigau ffisiotherapi arbenigol i drin anafiadau chwaraeon, problemau meinwe meddal a phob cyflwr orthopedig.
Ewch i Wefan Clinig Cymal Ofal am fwy o wybodaeth.
Clinig Cymal Ofal y Ganolfan Chwaraeon Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant (Canolfan Chwaraeon) Caerfyrddin SA31 3EP Ffôn: 07970 657041 E-bost: info@jointcareclinic.co.uk
“Ymunais i â’r gampfa dros 10 mlynedd yn ôl ar ôl ymweld â’r Clinig Cymal Ofal ar ôl cael anaf cas.
Cefais gyngor i ymuno â’r gampfa i fy helpu i wella.
Fe ddilynais i’r raglen hyfforddi ges i gan staff y ganolfan chwaraeon i fy helpu wrth wella o fy anaf a dw i wedi bod yma ers hynny!
Mae ansawdd y cyfleusterau’n dda iawn ac yn berffaith addas i’r hyn rydw i eisiau ei wneud.
Rwy’n teimlo bod cydbwysedd perffaith o ran peiriannau cardio a pheiriannau gwrthiant/pwysau.” Dave Crawford
Mae’r neuadd chwaraeon yn addas ar gyfer amrywiaeth o weithgareddau gan gynnwys pêl-fasged, badminton, pêl-droed, pêl-rwyd a dringo creigiau.
Gellir llogi’r neuadd hefyd ar gyfer digwyddiadau heblaw chwaraeon megis cynadleddau.
Llogi ar gyfer Chwaraeon Unigol
Llogi Cyfarpar £1.50 yr eitem (racedi tennis a badminton, peli, ac ati)
Llogi ar gyfer Partïon Bwriad y pecyn partïon yw hwyluso’r gwaith o drefnu parti pen-blwydd neu unrhyw ddathliad arall.
Rydym yn cynnig nifer o weithgareddau sy’n rhoi cyfle i ddefnyddwyr gael hwyl dan ofal goruchwyliwr.
Mae’r chwaraeon sydd ar gael yn cynnwys pêl-droed, pêl-rwyd, pêl-fasged, pêl-foli a nifer o chwaraeon raced.
Os oes angen, mae modd trefnu lluniaeth yng Nghanolfan Halliwell i gwblhau’r dathlu.
Partïon yn y Pwll Mae partïon yn y pwll nofio yn rhoi amser da i blant (a rhieni) o bob oed, dan oruchwyliaeth ein hachubwyr bywyd cymwysedig bob amser.
Gallwch drefnu parti yn y pwll gyda fflotiau a theganau pwll – sy’n ddelfrydol i blant iau.
Costau
Sylwch fod y prisiau’n amrywio yn dibynnu ar y gwasanaethau a chyfleusterau penodol rydych chi’n gofyn amdanynt.
Rydym yn cynnig amrywiaeth o opsiynau i weddu i anghenion gwahanol, ac rydym yn hapus i ddarparu dyfynbris wedi’i deilwra yn seiliedig ar eich gofynion.
Canslo Archebion Mae Rheolwr y Ganolfan Chwaraeon yn cadw’r hawl i ganslo unrhyw archeb o ganlyniad i’r tywydd neu unrhyw reswm sy’n gysylltiedig â defnydd arall o’r cyfleusterau ar y diwrnod archebu neu’n fuan wedi hynny.
Bydd y Brifysgol yn ymdrechu i roi gwybod i’r llogwr ynglŷn â chanslo trefniadau gan roi cymaint o rybudd â phosibl.
Rhaid i’r llogwr roi rhybudd o wythnos am ganslo trefniadau (48 awr ar gyfer defnyddwyr achlysurol), a rhaid i’r Brifysgol dderbyn y rhybudd yn ysgrifenedig.
Caiff trefniadau llogi eu canslo os na fydd y grŵp yn bresennol am ddwy sesiwn yn olynol heb roi rhybudd ysgrifenedig.
Mae’r drefn ar gyfer newid trefniadau llogi yn dilyn yr un canllawiau â’r rhai ar gyfer canslo.
Am ragor o wybodaeth, cysylltwch â ni ar e-bost sportscentre@utwsd.ac.uk neu ffoniwch ni ar 01267 676942 .
I logi’r neuadd chwaraeon, llenwch y Ffurflen Llogi’r Ganolfan Chwaraeon isod a’i hanfon atom ar e-bost.
Mae’r cae 3G sy’n mesur tua 40m x 40m yn berffaith ar gyfer hyfforddiant rygbi a phêl-droed.
Mae’n cwrdd â safonau diogelwch ac yn eu rhagori gan fod ganddo haen waelodol amsugno sioc cymeradwy Rygbi’r Byd, sy’n darparu amddiffyniad ychwanegol i chwaraewyr wrth wneud gweithgareddau cyswllt.
Cost llogi yw £50 yr awr neu £450 am archeb bloc o 10 wythnos (yr un diwrnod ac awr am 10 wythnos yn olynol).
Rydym yn darparu cyfle i blant o’r ardal leol gymryd rhan yn ein gwersylloedd chwaraeon yn ystod gwyliau ysgol.
Mae’r Gwersyllfa Chwaraeon sydd wedi’i gynllunio i ddarparu profiad cyfoethog i blant yn y gymuned leol, yn ogystal â theuluoedd staff a myfyrwyr yn cynnig cyfuniad perffaith o weithgareddau hwyliog ac ymarferion adeiladu sgiliau.
Mae’r sesiynau sydd wedi’u harwain gan staff profiadol a’u cefnogi gan fyfyrwyr brwdfrydig yn addo cyfuniad o ddysgu a hwyl.
Bryn Jones, Cydlynydd Gwersyllfa Chwaraeon yn PCYDDS.
Mae’r gwersylloedd yn cynnig cyfle gwych i blant lleol ddefnyddio ein cyfleusterau o’r radd flaenaf tra bod ein myfyrwyr yn cael profiad gwerthfawr yn gweithio mewn amgylchedd y maent yn angerddol yn ei gylch.
Nid mater o gadw’n heini yn ystod y gwyliau’n unig yw hyn; mae’n ymwneud â meithrin datblygiad cyfannol.” Bryn Jones, Cydlynydd Gwersyllfa Chwaraeon yn PCYDDS.
Cadwch lygad ar ein tudalennau ar y cyfryngau cymdeithasol ar gyfer dyddiadau penodol.
Rydym wedi ein lleoli ar Gampws Caerfyrddin PCYDDS, mae’r gampfa yng Nghanolfan Chwaraeon Caerfyrddin.
Parcio
Prif Dderbynfa
Ystafelloedd Newid a Thoiledau
Blynyddol - £125
Misol - £12
Talu wrth Ymarfer - £4
Blynyddol- £144
Staff a Phartner – Talu’n fisol – £24
Staff a Phartner – Talu’n flynyddol - £275
Blynyddol - £145
Misol - £20
Blynyddol - £200
Misol - £25
Mis unigol - £30
Talu wrth Ymarfer - £5
Cyplau – Misol - £32
Cyplau – Blynyddol - £350
Blynyddol - £190
Misol - £21
Talu wrth Ymarfer - £4.50
Cyplau – Misol - £29.50
Cyplau – Blynyddol - £275
Mae gan Ganolfan Chwaraeon Caerfyrddin y cyfarpar ar gyfer pob lefel, gan gynnwys campfa, a dwy neuadd chwaraeon.
Hefyd, mae gennym bwll nofio ar y campws.
Gydag amrywiaeth o opsiynau hyfforddi a dosbarthiadau ffitrwydd, mae ein cyfleusterau yn gyfle perffaith i ychwanegu ychydig o amrywiaeth at drefn arferol eich ymarfer corff.
Er mwyn eich galluogi i gael y gorau o’n campfa, mae gan Ganolfan Chwaraeon Caerfyrddin amrywiaeth o opsiynau ar gyfer aelodaeth a dulliau talu.
Am ragor o wybodaeth, cysylltwch â:
Ffôn: 07872423789
E-bost: Sportscentre@uwtsd.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/chwaraeon/cyfleusterau-chwaraeon/cyfleusterau-llambed:
Mae’r gampfa ar gampws Llambed yn cynnwys cyfarpar ffitrwydd a pheiriannau gwrthiant o’r radd flaenaf mewn amgylchedd eang, cyfeillgar, sydd wedi’i aerdymheru.
Mae’r gampfa’n cynnwys popeth o ddymbelau i offer croes-ymarfer, peiriannau gwrthiant i bwysau tegell, popeth sydd ei angen arnoch ar gyfer sesiwn ymarfer effeithiol.
Gallwch ddefnyddio ein stiwdio ddawns fawr ar gyfer gweithgareddau megis dosbarthiadau dawns, yoga, Pilates a Chrefft Ymladd.
Prisiau Llogi’r Stiwdio Ddawns (yr awr)
Am ragor o wybodaeth, cysylltwch â ni ar 01570 424 774 neu anfonwch e-bost i sportscentre@uwtsd.ac.uk .
Mae neuadd chwaraeon Llambed yn addas ar gyfer amrywiaeth o weithgareddau gan gynnwys pêl-fasged, badminton, pêl-droed a phêl-rwyd.
Llogi ar gyfer Chwaraeon
Chwaraeon unigol
Badminton Gellir chwarae hyd at 3 gêm badminton yr un pryd.
Mae modd llogi racedi ar gyfer yr holl chwaraeon raced yn y dderbynfa.
Sboncen Mae cwrt sboncen ar gael gyda balconi i wylio’r chwarae.
Archebu Cyrtiau Gellir archebu pob cwrt drwy gysylltu â’r Ganolfan Chwaraeon ar 01570 424774 neu drwy anfon e-bost i sportscentre@uwtsd.ac.uk .
Rhaid talu yn y dderbynfa cyn defnyddio’r cyrtiau.
Os oes angen, mae modd trefnu lluniaeth yng Nghanolfan Lloyd Thomas i gwblhau’r dathlu.
Canslo Archebion Mae Rheolwr y Ganolfan Chwaraeon yn cadw’r hawl i ganslo unrhyw archeb o ganlyniad i’r tywydd neu unrhyw reswm sy’n gysylltiedig â defnydd arall o’r cyfleusterau ar y diwrnod archebu neu’n fuan wedi hynny.
Bydd y Brifysgol yn ymdrechu i roi gwybod i’r llogwr ynglŷn â chanslo trefniadau gan roi cymaint o rybudd â phosibl.
Rhaid i’r llogwr roi rhybudd o wythnos am ganslo trefniadau (48 awr i ddefnyddwyr achlysurol), a rhaid i’r Brifysgol dderbyn y rhybudd yn ysgrifenedig.
Caiff trefniadau llogi eu canslo os na fydd y grŵp yn bresennol am ddwy sesiwn yn olynol heb roi rhybudd ysgrifenedig.
Am ragor o wybodaeth, cysylltwch â ni ar e-bost sportscentre@utwsd.ac.uk neu ffoniwch ni ar 01570 424774.
Dydd Llun - Dydd Gwener: 9.00 am - 9.00 pm Dydd Sadwrn a Dydd Sul: 10.00 am - 1.00 pm
Cyn defnyddio’r Gampfa am y tro cyntaf, rydym yn argymell bod pob aelod newydd yn cwblhau sesiwn gynefino dan oruchwyliaeth aelod o’n tîm Iechyd a Ffitrwydd.
Gallwch archebu sesiwn yn y gampfa yn Nerbynfa’r Ganolfan Chwaraeon.
Os ydych chi’n ddefnyddiwr cymwys ac wedi cael sesiynau cynefino mewn campfa o’r blaen yna gallwch lofnodi ein ffurflen ymwrthod/hepgor cynefino a defnyddio’r gampfa’n syth.
Mae’r offer yn cael eu cyflenwi gan TechnoGym - The Wellness Company, Star Trac a Concept 2 Indoor Rower.
Gydag amrywiaeth o opsiynau hyfforddi a dosbarthiadau ffitrwydd, mae ein cyfleusterau’n cynnig cyfle perffaith i ychwanegu ychydig o amrywiaeth i’ch trefn ymarfer corff.
Er mwyn caniatáu i chi fanteisio i’r eithaf ar ein campfa, mae gan Ganolfan Chwaraeon Llambed ystod o opsiynau aelodaeth ac amrywiaeth o ddulliau talu.
Talu wrth fynd - £4
Blynyddol - £144
Staff a Phartner (Misol) - £24
Staff a Phartner (Blynyddol) - £275
Mis (untro) - £30
Talu wrth fynd - £5
Misol i gyplau - £32
Blynyddol i gyplau - £350
Misol - £20
Talu wrth fynd - £5
Sylwch: Mae angen e-bost PCYDDS i greu cyfrif staff neu fyfyriwr PCYDDS.
Bydd unrhyw gyfrifon sy’n cael eu creu gydag e-bost nad yw’n ymwneud â PCYDDS yn cael eu gwrthod.
Lawrlwythwch Ap Chwaraeon Llambed isod:

New sentences found on https://uwtsd.ac.uk/cy/profiad-chyfleusterau/cymorth-lles-myfyrwyr/ffydd-ac-ysbrydolrwydd:
Mae Prifysgol Cymru Y Drindod Dewi Sant yn estyn croeso cyfartal i’r rhai sy’n arddel ffydd grefyddol a’r rhai sydd heb ffydd.
Mae’n ceisio bod yn gymuned gynhwysol lle mae anghenion pawb yn cael eu cydnabod, a lle mae cefnogaeth ar gael.
Mae rhan o’r ymrwymiad hwn yn cynnwys sicrhau bod yr holl staff a myfyrwyr yn cael cyfleoedd i archwilio a dathlu crefydd, weithiau trwy gymunedau ffydd lleol y tu hwnt i’r brifysgol.
Mae’r ddarpariaeth yn amrywio o gampws i gampws o ganlyniad i’r sylfaen hanesyddol a’r cyd-destun presennol.
Nid rhywbeth i’r rhai sy’n ystyried eu hunain yn grefyddol yn unig yw’r ddarpariaeth Ffydd ac Ysbrydolrwydd.
Gall gynnwys cyfleoedd i gwrdd ag ystod amrywiol o bobl ddiddorol trwy ddigwyddiadau cymdeithasol neu wrando ar siaradwyr diddorol, yn ogystal â chyfleoedd i ymroi mwy i faterion yn ymwneud â heddwch, cyfiawnder a chynaliadwyedd neu i gymryd rhan mewn elusennau a gwirfoddoli.
Yn fyr, nod y ddarpariaeth Ffydd ac Ysbrydolrwydd yw cyfoethogi profiad pawb o’r brifysgol, gan alluogi i bob aelod o’r brifysgol ddatblygu agwedd aeddfed, wybodus at fywyd a chynnig eu hunain i wasanaethu eraill.
Y nod yw helpu unigolion i fod yn gyfoethocach ac yn llawn brwdfrydedd er mwyn cyflawni eu potensial yn llawn - yn academaidd, yn gymdeithasol ac yn ysbrydol.