# Site: https://www.warwick.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 486
# --------

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk:
Step into a world of possibility at Warwick - a place to grow, lead, and make your mark.
Your journey starts here.
Postgraduate applications open this autumn.
Founded in 1965, the University of Warwick is the youngest member of the Russell Group and renowned for seeking out and addressing complex global challenges with era-defining innovative thinking.
A connected ecosystem of staff, students and alumni, the University fosters transformative learning, interdisciplinary collaboration and bold industry partnerships across state-of-the-art facilities in the UK and global satellite hubs.
Here, spirited thinkers push boundaries, experiment, and challenge convention to create a better world.
This is University of Warwick.
This is Beyond.
Visit Campus
Destination Warwick
Open Days
Accommodation
As we celebrate 60 years, our alumni community still calls Warwick home.
Welcome to a community of diverse, vibrant, incredible people that make an impact on the world around us.
Across generations, campuses and continents, our stories have shaped who we are today.
Celebrate a future 60 years in the making.
has been assessed to be 'world leading' or 'internationally excellent' in the Research Excellence Framework
(REF 2021)
Warwick is ranked 74th in the world and 9th in the UK
(QS World University Rankings 2026 & Complete University Guide 2026)
in the UK by the UK's top 100 graduate employers
(The Graduate Market in 2024, High Fliers Research Ltd.)
Warwick’s Research Spotlights are working to tackle some of the most pressing challenges of our lifetime.
Explore our six key areas of focus and find out how you can get involved.
Find out how we're working across sectors and disciplines to tackle inequalities and address challenges in social justice.
Discover how our researchers are bringing together creativity and technology to drive lasting change.
What drives human behaviour?
Our experts are working to challenge our understanding of how we behave, and the impact of behaviour on health.
Many people associate drinking coffee with feeling a mental boost, but when is the best time to drink it?
Warwick research can tell you!
A new clinical trial led by the University of Warwick is testing custom shoe inserts to ease pain and improve mobility for people with big toe osteoarthritis.
The University of Warwick will welcome over 1,000 players from across the UK next summer as it hosts the 2026 British Chess Championships.
University of Warwick a nalysis of data from over 10,000 teenagers has found that sleep problems at age 14 are associated with self-harm behaviour at that age and future self-harm at age 17.
Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 3523
University of Warwick Coventry , CV4 7AL , UK
We use cookies to give you the best online experience.
Please let us know if you agree to functional, advertising and performance cookies.
You can update your cookie preferences at any time.
Cookie policy

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study:
Warwick is home to over 9,500 students from 147 countries.
We offer a range of study options, including opportunities abroad, the Warwick International Foundation Programme, Summer School and English Language courses.
Whether it's a one-day workshop, bespoke executive education, a full or part-time undergraduate or postgraduate qualification or an MBA, we can offer you a wide range of training opportunities here at Warwick.
Whether you’re looking to plug skill gaps, embed company culture, or develop a business strategy, we turn the latest leading thinking and research into action and help you to lead with purpose.
Explore WMG's professional and executive programmes that can be customised to the requirements of your business.
Discover a range of training courses and CPD programmes for healthcare professionals at Warwick Medical School.
Our Centre for Lifelong Learning delivers a range of flexible and accredited degree programmes and short courses.
An accredited range of tailor-made programmes and courses offering support and assistance to international students.
Two amazing opportunities for students to spend their summer at Warwick.
Pre-University Summer School for 16-17 year olds and our three week summer school for 18+ students and professionals.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/research:
Explore our six themes of research.
Hear the latest news from Warwick
Our research excellence, innovation and partnerships ensure we can develop health innovations and solutions with a positive, lasting impact.
The National Centre for Research Culture aims to improve research culture across the UK Higher Education sector.
Our researchers see further, achieve more and change lives by following their relentless hunger for new discoveries.
The key to this ground-breaking research is interdisciplinary collaboration.
Our Research Spotlights are working to tackle some of the most pressing challenges of our lifetime.
Showcasing our research excellence, guiding our focus and uniting experts from academia and industry to drive lasting change and impact.
Bringing together brilliant minds to foster collaboration.
Through partnerships, our research helps drive businesses forward and inspires real-world impact in industry, communities and healthcare.
Find out about partnerships with Warwick and our state-of-the-art research facilties.
At Warwick, we launch the global research stars of tomorrow.
We support, foster and showcase the talent and ambition of all our researchers, creating a positive research culture to help research thrive.
Hailing from across the globe and all walks of life, they are united by their passion, purpose and Infinite Curiosity.
Explore how Warwick researchers are working with governments, businesses, and communities to develop practical solutions together for a more sustainable future.
From the way you're treated in a hospital to how crimes are solved; discover how innovations from Warwick researchers are shaping a better future through unexpected applications.
Find an expert
Research centres and institutes
Interdisciplinary Research Spotlights
Knowledge Exchange
Warwick Impact Academy
Research & Impact Services
Contact us: University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, UK Tel: +44(0)24 7652 3523 Fax: +44 (0)24 7646 1606

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/business:
How the Esports Centre became a Hub for Cutting-Edge Product Testing
Decarbonising the UK’s housing stock
Innovation vouchers build capacity for a health technology Start-up
Sleep interventions amongst shift-workers
Working with local government to develop tools to help reduce food insecurity
One of our striking venues for business
Supporting missions with innovative management
Gaining an edge with applied linguistics
Enhance your innovation and increase your competitive advantage with us
Research Priorities Knowledge Exchange STEM Connect Research and Impact Services Our Role in the Region Warwick Institute of Engagement
Internships, Placements and Work Experience Graduate Recruitment/Employer Connect Knowledge Transfer Partnerships Warwick Employment Group Link opens in a new window
Executive Education Degree Apprenticeships Warwick Business School Link opens in a new window Warwick Manufacturing Group Warwick Medical School
Warwick Scientific Services Warwick Conferences Warwick Arts Centre Link opens in a new window Warwick Sport
Warwick Innovation District Link opens in a new window Innovation Campus Warwick Innovations University of Warwick Science Park Link opens in a new window Minerva Business Angel Network Link opens in a new window Spin Outs
Alumni and Supporters
Opportunities
TeamWork
Student Opportunity
Warwick Enterprise
Unitemps
Warwick Innovations
Staff Apprenticeships
Innovate ICURe

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni:
1965-2025
Our alumni community still call Warwick home.
From a few hundred in 1965 to more than 305,000 alumni, and it's ever-growing.
Welcome to a community of diverse, vibrant, incredible people that make an impact on the world around us
Whatever path you take after graduating - whether you go onto further study, use knowledge from your degree every day, or do something completely different - your story could inspire our current students, alumni, and the wider Warwick community.
Whether you’re interested in expanding your professional network, socialising with fellow graduates, or sharing your expertise with the next generation, it’s a fantastic way to stay connected and get involved with Warwick locally.
When you make a donation to Warwick, you join a powerful community that’s investing in the future and shaping the world.
Through your donation, we're firmly committed to addressing urgent global concerns and widening participation in education.
With community at its heart, Warwickgrad is the place to have an exclusive meeting of minds with your fellow alumni, wherever life takes you.
Warwickgrad is your exclusive, trusted, and focused networking space.
It exists to support meaningful connections across your global alumni community that endure far beyond graduation.
Transcripts
Alumni access card
Update your details
Can't find what you're looking for?
Go to our FAQs
Giving to Warwick International Networks Alumni Benefits Warwick Knowledge Centre Student Opportunity Alumni Spotlight Data Protection statement
General alumni queries: Email: alumni at warwick dot ac dot uk Tel: +44 (0)24 7657 4036 University of Warwick University House, Kirby Corner Road Coventry CV4 8UW
Enquiries regarding donations: Email: benefactors at warwick dot ac dot uk Tel: +44 (0)24 7657 4037

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/news:
Stay up to date with the latest news and research from the University of Warwick.
Explore our stories and see how our work is making an impact and driving innovation.
Got a story to share?
We’re here to help.
University of Warwick researchers have built a new diamond -based magnetic field sensor that c ould be used to better find tumours through tracing magnetic fluid injected in the body
University of Warwick, ZARM and Georgia Tech have hit upon a breakthrough in space life support systems thanks to the magnetic properties of water
The Daily Mail University Guide has ranked the University of Warwick 6 th for the second consecutive year.
Our experts are available for interview on all the latest news stories.
Read the latest articles by Warwick academics published in The Conversation.
We are available during both standard 9-5 hours and out-of-hours.
+44 (0)7392 125 605
Turn on JavaScript to view obfuscated email addresses
Kat Beauchamp
She/her
Communications Manager (Media Relations)
Manages the Press Team and any external media relating to International and Strategic Projects.
Get in touch about how our team can help you, media training, and broadcast media.
Mon - Fri (on campus Mon - Tue)
katherine.beauchamp@warwick.ac.uk
07880 175 408
Ann Baylis
Media & Communications Officer
Shining a media spotlight on Arts & Humanities, amplifying our achievements to a global audience.
All things rural!
Married to a farmer.
Keeps horses & dogs.
Super-keen gardener.
Likes making stuff.
Mon - Fri (on campus Mon-Tue)
ann.baylis@warwick.ac.uk
07876 876 937
Matt Higgs
He/him
Media & Communications Officer (Science)
Working with our scientists and STEM faculty, I amplify Warwick’s science stories in the media, showcasing the university as a place of innovation and discovery.
Things I love: Hiking, Dogs, Books (fiction and non-fiction), Films, Exercising
matt.higgs@warwick.ac.uk
07880 175 403
Stevie Connoll
At Warwick, I help share the stories that bring our University to life, focusing on regional connections, building our brand, and showcasing why campus is such a great place to be.
Outside of work, I’m a busy mum who loves the gym, Grey’s Anatomy re-runs, and a big jar of Nutella!
Mon - Thu (on campus Mon-Tue)
stevie.connoll@warwick.ac.uk
07824 540 791
Dom Barker
Dom handles press relations for politics, law, and economics, as well as corporate matters.
I'm interested in US politics (think The West Wing), and play table tennis as often as possible!
Dom.Barker@warwick.ac.uk
07824 540 727
Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube TikTok Reddit
Press enquiries / +44 (0)7392 125 605
Contact an Expert Contact an Expert
Meet the Team Meet the Team

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/engagement:
Find out more about our international strategy, values and objectives, as well as some of the latest stats and stories from our global community, our collaborations and the resulting impact and opportunities
We're building relationships in our region - our partnerships and developments have impact across the West Midlands.
With events, training resources, funds and more, our mission is to make engagement accessible for all.
We are committed to enriching the international composition, outlook and understanding of our community.
We believe in empowering educational and research excellence, innovation and impact through collaboration with a strong network of partners who share our values from around the globe, so that, together, we can deliver solutions to global challenges and enhance our way of life.
Find out more about our international strategy, values and objectives, as well as some of the latest stats and stories from our global community, our collaborations and the resulting impact and opportunities.
As well as investing heavily in our campus, we’re dedicated to developing our presence in the region with projects in Coventry, Solihull and Wellesbourne.
Our impact stretches far beyond the boundaries of our campus, and we engage positively with stakeholders across the whole of the West Midlands.
Our campus is home to our staff and students, as well as being a destination for the local community and the region.
With public spaces, state of the art sports facilities and one of the largest multi-art form arts centres outside of London, there's many different ways to enjoy all that our campus has to offer.
Warwick Institute of Engagement is championing the future of high quality public engagement.
It brings together Warwick’s extensive practical engagement expertise with pioneering academic research.
We’re putting evidence led best practice at the core of our thinking – ensuring Warwick’s engagement with the public drives real impact for the communities we serve.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses:
Browse all of our upcoming postgraduate courses.
Use the search and filters to find the course that's right for you.
Looking for the 2025 entry courses?
Selected filters
Accounting & Financial Management (MSc)
Led by
Warwick Business School
Duration
1 year full-time
Set yourself apart from the competition in your career as you discover how to apply accounting and financial theory into practice with our MSc Accounting & Financial Management.
Discover more Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window
Accounting & Sustainability (MSc)
Nurture your skills to develop your career and become part of the change you want to see with our new MSc Accounting & Sustainability.
Discover more.
Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window
Adult Education and Lifelong Learning (MPhil/PhD)
Centre for Lifelong Learning
4 years full-time; Up to 7 years part-time
The PhD in Adult Education and Lifelong Learning allows you to select a topic of your choice linked to our expertise within adult education and lifelong learning.
Warwick's Centre for Lifelong Learning (CLL) provides a rich, transdisciplinary academic environment supported by a dedicated team including supervision and personal tutoring.
Advanced Clinical Practice (MSc/PGDip/PGCert)
Warwick Medical School
Part-time: 3 years (MSc); 2 years (PGDip); 1 year (PGCert)
Advanced Clinical Practice (MSc/PGDip/PGCert) at the University of Warwick is designed to increase your employability across various healthcare settings.
Warwick Medical School offers immersive teaching and expert guidance as you develop the skills needed to deliver safe and effective care.
Advanced Critical Care Practice (PGCert/PGDip/MSc/DA)
Part-time: 3 years (MSc); 2 years (PGDip)
This course is primarily aimed at clinicians caring for critically ill patients.
The MSc Advanced Critical Care Practice (ACCP) provides nurses, paramedics and allied health professionals who wish to extend their scope of clinical practice towards autonomous practice in the speciality of critical care in the pre-hospital or in-hospital setting, a structured education program.
Advanced Critical Care Practitioner roles have been developed as part of a larger NHS national workforce strategy.
(NHS, Long Term Plan, 2019).
The course is based on the National Curriculum and Syllabus for ACCPs published by the Faculty of Intensive Care Medicine.
FICM accreditation
We are proud to announce that the MSc Advanced Critical Care Practice (ACCP) programme at the University of Warwick has been awarded full accreditation by the Faculty of Intensive Care Medicine (FICM) as of June 2025.
This recognition affirms our commitment to excellence in ACCP education and training.
We are proud to be recognised as a FICM Accredited Higher Education Institution and remain committed to delivering high-quality training for Advanced Critical Care Practitioners.
Advanced Legal Studies (LLM)
School of Law
1 year full-time; 2 years part-time
Gain a firm grounding in legal research on our Advanced Legal Studies LLM, which allows you to construct your own unique programme and tailor your studies to your interests and future employment plans.
In the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021), Warwick Law School was ranked equal 10th out of 69 Law Departments in terms of its Research Environment, 8th in terms of the Quality of its Research, and equal 8th overall.
Advanced Mechanical Engineering (MSc)
Engineering
The Advanced Mechanical Engineering MSc focuses on key skills required for a career in mechanical engineering.
This course is accredited by the IET, and IMechE and InstMC.
More information about accreditation is available on the School of Engineering website
AI and Society (MASc/PGDip)
Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies
MASc: 1 year full-time, 2 years part-time; PGDip: 9 months full-time, 21 months part-time
Join Warwick's AI and Society MASc/PGDip and learn to critically engage with AI.
The Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies works across disciplines, drawing from the Arts, Humanities, Social Sciences and Sciences, to answer employers' demands for a new generation of researchers.
Analytical and Polymer Science (MSc)
Chemistry
Warwick's Analytical and Polymer Science MSc is a unique course combining Warwick's world-leading expertise in these two complementary areas.
Warwick is highly ranked within UK league tables, and is 67th in the world (QS World University Rankings 2024).
This course has been designed for those looking to undertake a PhD or career in analytical and/or polymer science.
This course is accredited by the Royal Society of Chemistry Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window .
Analytical Sciences and Instrumentation (MSc)
1 year full-time; 2-3 years part-time
Gain hands-on experience on Warwick's Analytical Sciences and Instrumentation MSc.
Warwick's Department of Chemistry offers an expertly designed programme, combining the departments of Chemistry, Physics, Statistics, Engineering and Life Sciences.
Warwick is highly ranked within UK league tables, and is 67th in the world (QS World University Rankings 2024).
This course has been designed for those looking to undertake a PhD or career in analytical sciences.
Ancient Literature and Thought (MA)
Classics and Ancient History
The Ancient Literature and Thought MA allows you to explore a wide range of critical approaches to the study of Greek and Latin texts, within a wider interdisciplinary programme in Classics and beyond.
Ancient Visual and Material Culture (MA)
Warwick's Classics and Ancient History Department have expertly designed this MA to focus on the history and material culture of Ancient Greece and Rome.
Applied Artificial Intelligence (MSc)
WMG (Warwick Manufacturing Group)
In today’s rapidly evolving technological landscape, Artificial Intelligence (AI) is transforming industries and creating new opportunities.
Competence in AI and machine learning is essential for driving innovation and efficiency.
WMG’s MSc in Applied Artificial Intelligence is designed to provide a strong blend of theoretical knowledge and practical skills, preparing you for a successful career in this dynamic field.
Applied Linguistics (MPhil/PhD)
Applied Linguistics
3-4 years full-time; Up to 7 years part-time
The MPhil/PhD in Applied Linguistics is expertly designed for those who want to make a real difference to society through research.
The University of Warwick's Department of Applied Linguistics, ranked 9th in the UK for Linguistics The Complete University Guide 2024, will nurture your academic and professional development.
Applied Screen Studies: Practice as Research (MPhil/PhD)
Film and Television Studies
3-4 years full-time; 7 years part-time
This PhD enables students to incorporate practice into their doctoral study, taking an approach which understands practice as a mode of research, or as the application of research.
Applied Theatre: Arts, Action, Change (MA)
Theatre and Performance Studies (SCAPVC)
The MA in Applied Theatre: Arts, Action, Change addresses contemporary practice in applied theatre and socially engaged performance in national and international contexts.
This MA is aimed at emerging practitioners with a background in theatre, education, politics or activism, as well as at more established practitioners who want to reflect upon, refresh and develop their skills.
Arts, Enterprise and Development (MA)
Centre for Cultural and Media Policy Studies
1 year full-time; 2 years part-time (Home/EU)
This course examines how we use culture as a force for human, social and economic progress.
The Centre for Cultural and Media Policy Studies at the University of Warwick has expertly designed this programme to focus on critical thinking, idea generation and problem-solving while enhancing your professional skills and competencies.
Behavioural and Data Science (MSc)
Psychology
Understand the underlying factors driving human behaviour on Behavioural and Data Science MSc.
Warwick's Psychology department offers you training in basic psychology, behavioural economics and state of the art methods in data science and analytics.
Behavioural and Economic Science (Science Track) (MSc)
Our MSc in Behavioural and Economic Science (Science Track) combines multidisciplinary expertise from the departments of Psychology and Economics, as well as Warwick Business School.
This course offers you training in basic psychology and behavioural economics, whilst allowing you to focus on the cognitive science of judgement and decision-making.
Behavioural and Economic Science (Economics Track) (MSc)
Economics
Behavioural and Economic Science (Economics) MSc is designed for students with an Economics degree.
Warwick's Department of Economics, ranked 1st in the UK (The Good University Guide 202 5 ), 2nd in the UK for research excellence Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window (based on the most recent Research Excellence Framework 2021, published in Times Higher Education rankings) and 36th in the w orld (The QS World University Subject Rankings 202 5 ), offers you a programme examining theoretical and real-world applications of decision science and behavioural economics.
Big Data and Digital Futures (MSc/PGDip)
MSc: 1 year full-time, 2 years part-time; PGDip: 9 months full-time, 21 months part-time
Join Warwick's Big Data and Digital Futures MSc/PGDip and learn to critically engage with big data.
Biomedical Engineering (MSc)
Develop state-of-the-art knowledge and understanding of biomedical engineering at postgraduate level.
More information about accreditation is available on the School of Engineering website Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window .
Biotechnology, Bioprocessing and Business Management (MSc)
Life Sciences
The Biotechnology, Bioprocessing and Business Management MSc combines expertise in scientific knowledge and business acumen.
Taught by leading academic staff in the School of Life Sciences and Warwick Business School, this MSc offers you the key business information, industry relevant expertise and science knowledge to prepare you for work in the sector.
Business Analytics & Artificial Intelligence (MSc)
For 2026 entry, our MSc Business Analytics has been reviewed and relaunched as MSc Business Analytics & Artificial Intelligence.
You’ll learn how to gain insights from large data sets using Artificial Intelligence (AI), statistical methods, optimisation and machine learning – and apply them to business challenges.
This course covers cutting-edge and industry standard analytical techniques, including visualisation (in Tableau), machine learning, statistics and optimisation.
Gain a cross-disciplinary training in business models, quantitative methods and data science, and prepare for a future career in an ever-changing business world.
Business & Finance (MSc)
Develop business and management skills alongside advanced financial acumen on our MSc Business & Finance.
Business and Management (MRes/PhD)
2+3 years full-time
Warwick’s newly launched MRes/PhD Business and Management programme encompasses independent thinking in a world class interdisciplinary environment.
You will have the opportunity to make new discoveries whilst undertaking research in a broad range of business areas whilst becoming immersed in an internationally recognised research community at Warwick Business School.
Business with Consulting (MSc)
Take your next steps towards a career in consulting and advisory practice with our MSc Business with Consulting.
Business with Marketing (MSc)
Our MSc Business with Marketing course has been expertly designed for those interested in using the foundations of business to innovate in the world of marketing.
Join Warwick Business School, ranked 5th most targeted University by top employers ( The Graduate Market in 2023 Report ), and learn from our expert lecturers.
Gain a grounding in business while specialising in marketing.
Business with Operations Management (MSc)
Join Warwick's practice-focused MSc Business with Operations Management.
Warwick Business School offers you a grounding in business while specialising in operations management.
Career Development and Coaching Studies (MA)
1 year full-time; 24-48 months part-time
Join Warwick's Career Development and Coaching Studies MA and boost your skills in supporting the career development of others.
Warwick's Centre for Lifelong Learning will provide you with a thorough grounding in the skills and knowledge required for your career.
Career Development and Coaching Studies (PGCert)
Up to 2 years part-time
Career Development and Coaching Studies PGCert will support your learning as a career development practitioner.
The course is designed for people who have recently started work in a relevant role in HE and you wish to enrol on a shorter course than the PG Diploma and MA.
Career Development and Coaching Studies (PGDip)
Up to 3 years part-time
The Career Development and Coaching Studies PGDip will support your journey as a creative and reflective career development practitioner.
Career Development Theories - CEIGHE (PGA)
1 year part-time
The Career Development Theories PGA on the Career Education, Information and Guidance in HE programme is designed for applicants from a wide range of backgrounds.
You will gain a comprehensive understanding of classic and contemporary career development theories and use this to develop confident and creative practice.
Career Development Theories (PGA)
The Career Development Theories PGA on Career Development and Coaching Studies programme is designed for applicants from a wide range of backgrounds.
Career Education, Information and Guidance in HE (MA)
4.5 years part-time
The MA in Career Education, Information and Guidance in Higher Education enables you to make a distinctive contribution to higher education career and employability work through taught modules and independent research.
The course is taught by the Warwick’s Centre for Lifelong Learning in conjunction with AGCAS.
You will gain a comprehensive understanding of the theories, practices, issues, ethics, and models surrounding higher education career and employability work.
Career Education, Information and Guidance in HE (PGCert)
Up to 2.5 years part-time
The PG Certificate in Career Education, Information and Guidance in Higher Education provides a core foundation in the knowledge and skills required for higher education career and employability work.
The flexible nature of this course allows you to complete the core modules and then follow a more individualised track through the optional module linked to your working role.
The course is designed for people who have recently started work in a relevant role in HE or who wish to develop further in a relevant role they have been in for some time and for those who wish to enrol on a shorter course than the PG Diploma and MA.
Career Education, Information and Guidance in HE (PGDip)
Up to 3.5 years part-time
The PG Diploma in Career Education, Information and Guidance in Higher Education provides a thorough training for today's higher education career and employability professional.
The flexible nature of this course allows you to complete the core modules and then follow an individual track through the optional modules linked to your professional pathway.
Caribbean Studies (MA by Research)
The Yesu Persaud Centre for Caribbean Studies
The University of Warwick offers the MA by Research in Caribbean Studies.
Join the Yesu Persaud Centre for Caribbean Studies in stimulating teaching and research on the Caribbean.
Through an interdisciplinary approach, you will produce a research project with a cross-cultural perspective, with supervision from field experts.
Caribbean Studies (MPhil/PhD)
3-4 years full-time
MPhil/PhD in Caribbean Studies offers you the opportunity to study the Caribbean through an interdisciplinary and cross-cultural perspective.
The Yesu Persaud Centre for Caribbean Studies offers a varied selection of research expertise, ranging from slavery in the 18th century to disaster law and culture.
Challenges of Careers Work in Higher Education (PGA)
The Challenges of Careers Work in Higher Education Postgraduate Award on the Career Education, Information and Guidance in HE enables you to develop an overview of the wider context in which higher education careers work takes place.
It is made up of just one module which is described further below and has more accessible entry requirements.
Chemistry (MSc by Research)
Join one of our specialised research groups to conduct an MSc by Research in an exciting scientific area.
With some of the best research infrastructure and facilities in the UK, you will have the opportunity to work with our leading scientists on a cutting-edge research project.
Chemistry (PhD)
3-4 years full-time; u p to 7 years part-time
A PhD in Chemistry enables you to carry out a unique research project and write outstanding scientific papers and a thesis.
You will join a community of leading Chemistry research groups and utilise Warwick’s specialist facilities to produce an original contribution to science.
Chemistry with Scientific Writing (MSc)
Communicating science is a challenging topic, but the Chemistry with Scientific Writing MSc course has been expertly designed to build on your subject knowledge of Chemistry.
This course will provide you with a strong grasp on scientific writing and how to apply it.
This course has been designed for those looking to undertake further study or a career in communicating science.
Childhood in Society (MA)
Education Studies
1 year full-time; 2-5 years part-time
Are you interested in better understanding childhood and the lives of children?
Do you believe that children are well equipped to help us understand?
Do you want to make a positive difference?
This course aims to enhance your knowledge and skills relating to childhood, globally and locally, so you are well equipped to make that difference.
Classics and Ancient History (MA by Research)
Study the MA by Research in Classics and Ancient History, and choose from a wide range of specialist areas.
Warwick's Classics and Ancient History department, ranked 3rd in the UK in Classics (REF 2021), offers an excellent research environment and expert guidance.
Classics and Ancient History (MPhil/PhD)
The MPhil/PhD in Classics and Ancient History allows you to immerse yourself in a chosen research field from our wide range of expertise.
Study at the University of Warwick, ranked 3rd in the UK in Classics (REF 2021).
Enhance your research skills and develop as a specialist in your chosen area in a stimulating and supportive research community.
Clinical Applications of Psychology (MSc)
Clinical Applications of Psychology MSc offers you an excellent opportunity to combine academic and practical experience.
This course has been expertly designed by Warwick's Psychology department to strengthen your credentials for applying for doctoral training in Clinical Psychology.
Please note this course is not open to Overseas students.
The application deadline for this course is Friday 30 th January 2026.
iheed MSc in Clinical Research (PGCert / PGDip / MSc)
6 months part-time (PGCert; 12 months part-time (PGDip); 22 months part-time (MSc)
This Masters in Clinical Research is a multi-disciplinary programme aimed at providing you with the requisite academic knowledge to conduct research within your professional scope of practice in pharmaceutical, medical device, clinical or the academic sector.
The programme covers clinical research design and methodologies, management of data, ethics, leadership, and is closely aligned to industry needs by focussing on the design and management of clinical trials.
Coaching (MA)
3 years part-time
The Coaching MA integrates theory with the practical skills to ensure a rounded approach to coaching.
Coaching is nothing without the application of the highest levels of coaching skills, which are informed by evidence-based theory.
The MA Coaching will enable you to make a distinctive contribution to the field of coaching through taught modules, skill practice and independent research.
Coaching (PGCert)
The part-time Postgraduate Certificate Coaching comprises three 20-credit modules at Master’s level 7.
These modules provide the essential theoretical and practical building blocks for effective coaching.
The PG Certificate provides a comprehensive understanding of the skills and knowledge required to build and maintain an effective coaching relationship and participants will develop a detailed and critical awareness of the theories and practice.
Coaching (PGDip)
2 years part-time
This part-time course provides participants with a thorough understanding and critical evaluation of the higher-level skills and theoretical knowledge required for coaching in a range of contexts.
The course is focused on experienced adult learners who wish to develop their practical and theoretical capability and credibility to apply coaching skills in practice.
Communications and Information Engineering (MSc)
Develop the technical expertise and practical experience required by today’s communication and information engineering industries.
This course is accredited by the IET and InstMC.
Computer Science (MSc)
Computer Science
This course is designed for technically-minded graduates with a background in computer science, mathematics, or the physical sciences.
It provides a comprehensive preparation for the use of cutting-edge techniques in industry, while its strong research focus also makes it an excellent foundation for pursuing a research career, whether through PhD study or in a commercial environment.
Important information
We are planning to make some changes to our Computer Science MSc for 2026 entry.
Changes are currently undergoing approval through the University's rigorous academic processes.
As any changes are confirmed, they will be included on this webpage.
It is therefore very important that you check this webpage for the latest information before you apply and prior to accepting an offer.
Computer Science (MSc by Research)
The MSc by Research in Computer Science offers exciting opportunities to do cutting-edge research in an internationally renowned environment.
The results of the 2021 REF rank Warwick Computer Science 4th out of 90 UK Computer Science departments.
This cements our position as one of the top Computer Science departments in the UK, a position we have held for some time under different assessment methodologies.
Computer Science (PhD)
The PhD in Computer Science offers exciting opportunities to do cutting-edge research in an internationally renowned environment.
Continental Philosophy (MA)
Philosophy
Join the distinctive Continental Philosophy MA at University of Warwick.
The Philosophy department offers a broad range of topics within the field of continental (Post-Kantian) philosophy.
Discover expertise in 19th and 20th century continental philosophy and receive specialist guidance.
Creative and Media Enterprises (MA)
The MA in Creative and Media Enterprises was the first in the UK to examine the business of creativity by focusing on the special relationship between creativity, strategic management and cultural entrepreneurship.
The course facilitates an entrepreneurial and strategic approach to managing creative business, people, and ideas across the creative and media industries.
Critical and Cultural Theory (MA)
English and Comparative Literary Studies
On the Critical and Cultural Theory MA, you will grapple with the ideas and perspectives of great critical thinkers.
Warwick's English and Comparative Literary Studies Department, ranked in the top 10 for research environment in the 2021 REF, will give you with the analytical tools to understand, theorise and critique the literary and cultural artefacts of the modern world.
Cultural Policy Studies/Creative Industries/Media and Communication (MPhil/PhD)
On our PhD in Cultural Policy Studies/Creative Industries/Media and Communication, you will examine real world problems in the media, cultural and creative industries.
With a distinctive research approach, Warwick's Centre for Cultural and Media Policy Studies will allow you to excel.
Culture of the European Renaissance (MA)
Centre for the Study of the Renaissance
Explore the wide-ranging developments of the Renaissance world and develop your research and communication skills.
Warwick’s Centre for the Study of the Renaissance is an innovator and international leader in its field, bringing together over 40 specialists from Classics, English and Comparative Literature, History, History of Art, Liberal Arts and the School of Modern Languages and Cultures.
The option to study in Venice during the course will let you experience first-hand the richness of Renaissance culture.
Cyber Security Engineering (MSc)
Cyber Security Engineering is designed for Computer Science, Engineering or other STEM graduates looking to take a leading role in securing the digital assets upon which an organisation or system is critic ally dependent .
W ith our expert guidance, you will learn to understand the cyber threat landscape, manage resources, implement solutions and effectively communicate these to senior decision makers.
This course is certified by the National Cyber Security Centre (part of GCHQ ) and accredited by the British Computer Society (BCS), The Chartered Institute for IT.
Cyber Security Management (MSc)
Cyber Security Management is designed for graduates looking to understand or apply cyber security in a consultancy, strategic, business or management context.
With our expert guidance, you will learn to understand the cyber threat landscape, manage resources, implement solutions and effectively communicate these to senior decision makers.
This course is certified by the National Cyber Security Centre (part of GCHQ).
Data Visualisation (MASc/PGDip)
1 year full-time or 2 years part-time (MASc); 9 months full-time or 21 months part-time (PGDip)
Warwick’s Data Visualisation MASc focuses on the skills and knowledge needed to design, develop, deploy and interpret data visualisations.
Open up diverse career opportunities by developing a Data Visualisation portfolio through studies spanning the Sciences, Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences at the Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies.
Data Visualisation (PhD)
3-4 years full-time;
Up to 7 years part-time
Study for a Data Visualisation PhD at Warwick's innovative and diverse Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies.
Join an innovative, cohort-based PhD, with theoretically grounded and practice-led research structured through linked projects on diverse data visualisation research questions.
Diabetes Care - iheed (PGDip/MSc)
12 months part-time (PGDip); 20 months part-time (MSc)
This course champions Interprofessional Education (IPE).
IPE aims to enhance the ability of healthcare professionals from different disciplines to work together effectively, improving the quality of patient care.
Diagnostics, Data and Digital Health (Medical Diagnostics) (MSc/PGDip/PGCert)
Full time: 1 year (MSc); 9 months (PGDip, PGCert)
Part time: 2 years (MSc); 18 months (PGDip, PGCert)
Explore digital healthcare solutions to meet the changing needs and expectations of patients.
Diagnostics, Data and Digital Health (Medical Imaging) (MSc/PGDip/PGCert)
Diagnostics, Data and Digital Health (MSc/PGDip/PGCert)
Digital Media and Culture (MA)
Digital Media and Culture MA focuses on how digital processes are transforming culture, the economy and society.
Become trained in the tools to understand these core changes: use digital media creatively and critically at Warwick's Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies.
Discourse Studies (MPhil/PhD)
Study any aspect of language, communication and discourse in our MPhil/PhD in Discourse Studies.
The University of Warwick's Department of Applied Linguistics, ranked 9th in the UK for Linguistics The Complete University Guide 2024, allows you the freedom to research text and discourse in a variety of professional, academic and social contexts.
Doctor of Business Administration (DBA)
Minimum 4 years, up to 7 years (average 4-5 years) part-time
Do you have a desire to change the way your business functions, and impact the world of business with new ideas and big picture thinking?
Make your mark on the world of business research and practice with a Doctorate in Business Administration.
We are planning to make some changes to our Doctor of Business Administration degree for 2026 entry.
Drama and Theatre Education (MA)
Do you want to deepen your theoretical understanding and practical skills in drama, theatre and performance for a range of different educational and community settings?
Do you want to consider what it means to be a practitioner of drama, theatre education or applied performance whilst connecting with a vibrant international community.
This course connects you to an international network of teachers, practitioners and actor-teachers in the field of drama and theatre education and applied performance.
Drama Education and English Language Teaching (MA)
Warwick's Drama Education and English Language Training MA is one of the only programmes in the world that looks at the role of drama education in English Language teaching.
e-Business Management (MSc)
Online engagement is a defining feature of today’s business environment.
Competence in digital activity is crucial to success, be that profitability, efficiency, customer experience, business transformation, or data management and analysis.
Reflecting this, WMG’s e-Business Management MSc is designed around four specialist routes: Data Science and Digital Operations; Digital Technology Management and Consultancy; e-Commerce and Digital Analytics; and Digital Marketing.
Economics (Diploma plus MSc)
2 years full-time
Economics Diploma plus MSc is available for those converting from a first degree subject other than Economics.
Train in the core components of modern economic analysis and appropriate quantitative methods within Warwick's Department of Economics, ranked 1st in the UK (The Good University Guide 202 5 ), 2nd in the UK for research excellence Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window (based on the most recent Research Excellence Framework 2021, published in Times Higher Education rankings) and 36th in the World (The QS World University Subject Rankings 202 5 ).
Economics and Data Science (MSc)
This highly quantitative one-year MSc course equips you with the skills to analyse and interpret complex economic phenomena in today’s data-driven, dynamic global economy.
The availability of big data and the use of algorithms in decision-making, whether in the private or public sector, has made it essential to have the ability to parse through large datasets, provide data-driven solutions and critically analyse their results.
The programme offers intensive training in state-of-the-art data science methods as well as economics and econometrics.
This unique combination provides students with the tools to navigate the data economy through hands-on experience with analytical tools, machine learning techniques, and computational methods.
You will gain expertise in critical analysis, data-driven problem-solving, and tackling technical challenges.
The MSc offers a combination of strong core studies, specialist options and the opportunity to conduct academic research under the guidance of world-leading experts.
Warwick's Department of Economics, ranked 1st in the UK (The Good University Guide 2025) and 36th in the World (The QS World University Subject Rankings 202 5 ), provides professional training in modern economics.
Graduates will be well-prepared to meet the rigorous standards of top national and international institutions and to excel in high-level PhD programs, to join leading public policy research institutions, or enter the private sectors where such skills are highly in-demand.
Economics and International Financial Economics (MSc)
Economics and International Financial Economics MSc offers an unbeatable combination of strong core studies and specialist, advanced options.
Warwick's Department of Economics, ranked 1st in the UK (The Good University Guide 2025), 2nd in the UK for research excellence Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window (based on the most recent Research Excellence Framework 2021, published in Times Higher Education rankings) and 36th in the world (The QS World University Subject Rankings 2025), offers you a programme examining theoretical and real-world applications of decision science and behavioural economics.
Economics (MRes/PhD)
2 + 4 years full-time
The MRes/PhD course is an integrated Master of Research in Economics, from which students progress to PhD in Economics.
You will be taught and guided by top class researchers, at the forefront of their field, and will receive comprehensive support for your entry to the job market.
Warwick's Department of Economics, ranked 1st in the UK (The Good University Guide 2025), 2nd in the UK for research excellence (based on the most recent Research Excellence Framework 2021, published in Times Higher Education rankings) and 36th in the world (The QS World University Subject Rankings 2025), offers you a programme examining theoretical and real-world applications of decision science and behavioural economics.
* Please note that, for Visa purposes, this is considered a Taught course which means that students requiring Student Visa sponsorship will not be able to bring dependants to the UK unless they are government sponsored.
Economics (MSc)
Our Economics MSc offers an unbeatable combination of strong core studies, specialist options and the opportunity to conduct academic research with the guidance of world-leading experts.
Warwick's Department of Economics, ranked 1st in the UK in the Good University Guide 2025, 5th in the Complete University Guide 2026 and 36th in the QS World University Subject Rankings 2025, offers you a programme examining theoretical and real-world applications of decision science and behavioural economics.
Education and Psychology (MPhil/PhD)
4 years full-time; 7 years part-time
Education Studies is committed to high quality, rigorous interdisciplinary research and scholarship in the broad and diverse field of Education.
Our research spans a range of research areas as well as a range of international and local context.
The Department’s ethos is that educational research and scholarship exist to find solutions to questions of ‘what works’ in terms of policy and practice, but also to problematise existing policy and practice by posing new questions about the purposes and the future of education, in the UK and globally.
This provides a space for meaningful and multi-disciplinary collaborations across the Department and beyond.
The University of Warwick's Doctorate in Education and Psychology welcomes world-class applicants with a commitment to exploring education and psychology, including intellectual disabilities and autism, in depth.
Education (MA)
1 year full-time; 2 years or 2-3 years part-time
This flexible MA course is perfect if you are seeking to understand education within its broader contexts.
You will be asked to engage with and critically analyse the role of education, considering the aims and values which inform education systems and how these influence and shape both societies and individuals.
You will learn to pair foundation theories with in-depth study of arguments disputes and issues present within the educational sphere today.
Education (MPhil/PhD)
The University of Warwick's Doctorate in Education welcomes world-class applicants with a commitment to educational research and challenge.
Educational Innovation (MA)
2-5 years part-time
Join Warwick's Education Studies' flexible MA and gain the skills and understanding to approach innovation within an educational setting.
Arming educational professionals with the knowledge and skills to identify and address issues both within practice and more broadly within the wider education system.
Educational Leadership and Management (MA)
Educational Leadership and Management MA is for those looking to pursue a leadership role within an educational organisation.
Warwick's Education Studies uses a client-orientated focus, with multi-pronged routes to train you for a scholarly career or research-informed professional practice.
Electrical and Electronic Engineering (MSc)
Develop specialist knowledge of electrical and electronic engineering devices, processes and systems.
More information about accreditation is available on the School of Engineering website .
Electrical Power Engineering (MSc)
Gain the knowledge and skills required for a career in electrical power engineering.
Employability and Career Education: Strategy and Inclusive Design (PGA)
The Employability and Career Education: Strategy and Inclusive Design Postgraduate Award from the Career Education, Information and Guidance in HE suite of courses enables you to develop confident and creative practice in shaping career and employability-related education in the HE sector both in the curriculum, co-curricular or in other related places.
Employment Research (PhD)
Institute for Employment Research
E mbedded in an interdisciplinary high quality research environment, the PhD in Employment Research, at the Institute for Employment Research (IER), provides unparalleled learning opportunities at a leading international social science research centre.
Engineering (MSc by Research)
With 93% of our complete REF2021 submission ranked as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent,’ Warwick’s School of Engineering is one of the leading unified engineering schools in the UK.
Our MSc by Research (MScR) in Engineering will give you the skills and knowledge needed to thrive as an independent research professional.
Engineering (School of Engineering) (MPhil/PhD)
Our MPhil/PhD in Engineering will give you the skills and knowledge needed to thrive as an independent research professional.
Engineering (WMG) (MPhil/PhD)
3-4 years full-time; 5-7 years part-time
Be part of a diverse research community striving to push the boundaries of science and technology.
Join an international community of scholars and business leaders, renowned for their impact in academia and industry.
World-leading academics will guide you to become an expert in your chosen field.
You will have opportunities to attend conferences to speak about your research, where you will make valuable connections with leading academics and companies.
Engineering Business Leadership (Part-time MSc)
3 years part-time (MSc) or 2 years part-time (PGDip)
Our MSc in Engineering Business Leadership will help you to enhance your engineering leadership knowledge and skills and make a difference to your company.
Engineering Business Management (MSc)
Progressive, technology-led companies are looking for people with both the practical engineering skills and the management expertise to drive productivity and profitability.
Engineering Business Management MSc, taught in the interdisciplinary department of WMG, is designed for graduates who want to become managers or leaders of technology-based organisations.
Engineering Design Management (MSc)
As a student of Engineering Design Management in the multidisciplinary WMG department, you will master how to effectively engage stakeholders and solve complex engineering design problems which deliver impact for economy, society, and the environment whilst enhancing your performance in leadership, management and the ability to operate within technically diverse teams.
Engineering Doctorate (EngD)
4 years full-time, 7 years part-time
The Engineering Doctorate (EngD) at WMG, University of Warwick allows you to address current global challenges affecting industry today.
With direct access to collaborators and employers, the EngD will enable you to work on live projects sponsored by companies and carry out innovative applied research to industrial relevant problems with academic excellence commonly associated with PhDs.
English and Comparative Literary Studies (MA by Research)
1 year full-time,
With 91% of our research outputs ranked as “world-leading” or “internationally excellent” in the 2021 Research Excellence Framework and in the top 10 departments in the UK for research environment, Warwick's English and Comparative Literary Studies Department hosts an innovative MA by Research course.
We offer with a wide range of research areas to choose from.
Harness your intellectual ambitions, and study amongst a globally renowned network of experts on the MA by Research in English and Comparative Literary Studies.
English and Comparative Literary Studies (MPhil/PhD)
With 91% of our research outputs ranked as “world-leading” or “internationally excellent” in the 2021 Research Excellence Framework and in the top 10 departments in the UK for research environment, Warwick's English and Comparative Literary Studies Department hosts an innovative MPhil/PhD.
We offer a wide range of research areas to choose from.
Harness your intellectual ambitions, and study amongst a globally renowned network of experts on the MPhil/PhD in English and Comparative Literary Studies.
English and Drama (MA)
Combine your interests for dramatic texts, theatre history and literary studies at University of Warwick.
This English and Drama MA offers an exciting opportunity, with cutting-edge modules and easy access to the Royal Shakespeare Company in Stratford.
English Language Teaching and Applied Linguistics (MPhil/PhD)
The MPhil/PhD in English Language Teaching and Applied Linguistics is renowned for its unique interdisciplinary learning approach.
Study at the University of Warwick's Department of Applied Linguistics, ranked 9th in the UK for Linguistics The Complete University Guide 2024.
English Language Teaching (MPhil/PhD)
Study any aspect of English language teaching on our MPhil/PhD in English Language Teaching at Warwick's Department of Applied Linguistics, Ranked 9th in the UK for Linguistics The Complete University Guide 2024.
Enhance your knowledge of teaching, learning, assessment and teacher development through research, under the supervision of field experts.
English Literature (MA)
The English Literature MA offers a varied, flexible approach to graduate study within one of the world's leading English departments.
Our department offers options ranging from the Gothic and Postcolonial Theory to Petrofiction and the Anthropocene and allows you to explore these topics while working with those at the cutting intellectual edge of literary studies.
Environmental Bioscience in a Changing Climate (MSc)
Our Environmental Bioscience in a Changing Climate MSc provides a timely and integrated perspective on sustainability of food production, energy and ecosystems.
With 90% of our research rated as 'world leading' or 'internationally excellent' in the REF 2021 assessment, study at the University of Warwick's School of Life Sciences.
Environmental Humanities (MA)
Warwick is a thriving hub of Environmental Humanities Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window research and teaching.
The Environmental Humanities MA at Warwick draws on renowned expertise across the English Department, the wider Arts Faculty and specialist centres across the University to enhance your knowledge of the ways in which culture engages with the crucial environmental and ecological issues of our age.
Film and Television Studies (MA)
The MA in Film and Television Studies at the University of Warwick has led graduates into diverse and creative roles within a wide range of industries.
Warwick's Film and Television Studies has a worldwide reputation for the quality of its teaching and research within the fields of film and television aesthetics, history and theory.
Film and Television Studies (MA for Research)
Television and Film Studies
The MA for Research in Film and Television Studies offers those with a background in Film and Television Studies more flexibility to choose which of Warwick's world-leading scholars they wish to work with.
Film and Television Studies has a worldwide reputation for the quality of its teaching and research within the fields of film and television aesthetics, history and theory.
Film and/or Television Studies (MPhil/PhD)
Join the MPhil/PhD in Film and/or Television Studies in order to conduct innovative, world-leading research.
Warwick's Film and Television Studies is home to state-of-the-art facilities and world-renowned experts who will guide you as you carry out your research project.
Finance & Economics (MSc)
MSc Finance and Economics explores the most advanced tools in finance and allows you to use your economics background as a springboard to increase your career options.
Learn from two of the University of Warwick’s departments: Warwick Business School and the Department of Economics.
Finance and Economics (MRes/PhD)
Make your mark on the financial world through impactful research with our Finance and Economics MRes/PhD at the University of Warwick.
Study at the internationally renowned Warwick Business School, where you will have the opportunity to research key financial factors affecting businesses.
Finance (MSc)
The Financial Times ranks Finance MSc 4 th in the UK and 25 th in the world (Financial Times Masters in Finance Pre-experience 2025).
Gain a deep theoretical and conceptual understanding of finance and quantitative skills, as Warwick Business School prepares you for a range of careers in the financial sector.
Financial Technology (MSc)
Develop the knowledge and skills required to excel in your career in technology, AI or finance with our MSc Financial Technology.
Food Security (MSc)
Consider the critical factors influencing global food security on Warwick's Food Security MSc, where you will analyse the contributions of climate change, biodiversity, land use, labour, diet and urbanisation.
Join the University of Warwick's School of Life Sciences, with 90% of our research rated as 'world leading' or 'internationally excellent' (REF 2021).
Foundation Research Methods in Education (PGA)
1 term part-time
This award is made up of one module that will help you understand, design and carry out research in the field of Education.
It is suitable for anyone who is interested in researching any aspect of Education – whether you are a practitioner who is looking to apply research to practice or someone who is interested in researching Education from a more theoretical perspective.
French Studies (MA by Research)
Modern Languages and Cultures
Full-time: 1 year; Part-time: 2 years
Study MA by Research in French and Francophone Studies at Warwick's School of Modern Languages and Cultures.
Explore an area of French or francophone culture and thought with guidance from internationally-leading experts.
French Studies (MPhil/PhD)
Warwick's School of Modern Languages and Cultures offers an MPhil/PhD in French Studies with guidance from internationally-leading experts.
The department promotes an interdisciplinary approach to the French language and francophone culture.
Games Engineering (MSc)
The Computer Games industry is one of the most exciting and dynamic growth industries today.
Yet recruiting graduates with the specific skills required is one of the industry’s greatest challenges.
Games Engineering MSc, taught in the interdisciplinary WMG department, is designed to address these challenges, and train the games engineers and developers of the future.
Gender and International Development (MA)
Sociology
Our cutting edge MA in Gender and International Development offers you the opportunity of critically investigating the intersection of gender, international development and geopolitical inequalities.
It provides insights into the challenges facing gender equality and social justice on a local and global scale, and a stepping stone to a career in policy-making, policy-influencing or academia.
Gender and Sexuality (MA)
Our MA in Gender and Sexuality enables you to gain confidence and critical literacy in feminist, queer and trans knowledge production, theories, epistemologies and methodologies.
Drawing expertise from across the University, this programme employs innovative learning and assessment approaches inspired by feminist and queer pedagogies.
German Studies (MA by Research)
Warwick's MA by Research in German Studies is designed by the School of Modern Languages and Cultures, to hone your research skills.
The School has created a vibrant research community engaged in the diversity of German-language culture.
German Studies (MPhil/PhD)
Study MPhil/PhD in German Studies under the supervision of internationally-leading experts.
Warwick's School of Modern Languages and Cultures invites you to study amongst a vibrant research community while engaging with the diversity of German-language culture.
Global Central Banking and Financial Regulation (MSc / PGDip / PGCert / PGA)
2-3 years (MSc), 2 years (PGDip), 1 year (PGCert), 17 weeks (PGA), part-time, online
The Global Central Banking and Financial Regulation programme has been designed for professionals working in the banking and financial sectors who require a level of flexibility in order to develop their career alongside other commitments.
We are planning to make some changes to our Global Central Banking and Financial Regulation degree for 2026 entry.
Global Decarbonisation and Climate Change (Policy) (MSc/PGDip/PGCert)
Full time: 1 year (MSc), 9 months (PGDip, PGCert); Part time: 2 years (MSc), 18 months (PGDip, PGCert)
Are you looking to make a real impact in addressing the global climate change crisis?
Join us to become a part of the solution to one of the most urgent challenges of our time.
Global Decarbonisation and Climate Change (Science) (MSc/PGDip/PGCert)
Global Decarbonisation and Climate Change (MSc/ PGDip / PGCert)
Global Education and International Development (MA)
Do you aspire to critically engage with some of the most important questions of the current moment?
Would you like to improve both your knowledge and your practical skills in the area of Global Education and International Development?
Do you work in the education sector and hope to increase the global reach of your work?
Perhaps you have an international development background and want to specialise in education issues?
Whatever your goals are, enhance your knowledge and practical skills with this course.
Global Media and Communication (MA)
Global Media and Communication MA takes an interdisciplinary and critical approach to the exponential growth of global media.
Join Warwick's Centre for Cultural and Media Policy Studies to gain in-depth understanding of how media are produced and consumed, implicated in political and social change, and how media is increasingly shaping the world in which we live.
Global Sustainable Development (MASc)
Global Sustainable Development
Our innovative MASc in Global Sustainable Development is a unique opportunity to join a community of transdisciplinary experts and practitioners with a passion for research and teaching.
On this flexible course you will combine academic learning with practical action and applied thinking to tackle problems of global sustainable development.
Global Sustainable Development (MPhil/PhD)
Our MPhil/PhD in Global Sustainable Development (GSD) offers you the opportunity to cross disciplinary boundaries to address complex challenges of global sustainable development.
Working with experts from Warwick’s GSD Department and the Institute for Global Sustainable Development (IGSD), you will deliver impactful, lasting sustainable development research.
Health and Care (MRes/PGCert)
MRes: 1 year (full time) or 2 years (part time).
PGCert: 1 year (part time)
Research into health and care today can positively impact and change health and care delivery, policies, and systems for the future.
Our Master of Research in Health and Care (MRes Health and Care) is a flexible, research-intensive course that offers a firm foundation in research theory and practice and the chance to study a specific subject area in greater depth, while developing your research skills.
This course offered by Warwick Medical School enables you to develop the skills needed to lead and conduct health and/or care research in the future.
Over the course you will learn about different research methods, how to design and carry out your own research, and broader research skills such as ethics and public involvement.
The course structure - a choice of three taught modules and a dissertation – allows you to tailor your learning to specialise and develop proficiency in research approaches that suit your area of interest, and then apply them.
iheed MSc in Healthcare Leadership (PGCert / PGDip / MSc)
6 months part-time (PGCert); 12 months part-time (PGDip); 24 months part-time (MSc)
Clinicians are viewed as credible leaders, whether they feel so themselves or not.
Indeed, many healthcare workers take on important leadership responsibilities throughout their career, managing large teams and complex organisations.
However, leadership and management skills are not acquired during clinical undergraduate training.
The clinician is never taught how to step away from the physician-patient relationship and examine problems at a systems level.
Hispanic Studies (MA by Research)
Studying the MA by Research in Hispanic Studies, you will receive expert supervision while developing your research techniques.
Warwick's Modern Languages and Cultures emphasises a transnational vision of the networks of cultural history, memory, literature and identity that crisscross the Hispanic world.
Hispanic Studies (MPhil/PhD)
The MPhil/PhD in Hispanic Studies cultivates a boundary-crossing, transnational vision of the networks of cultural history, memory, literature and identity that crisscross the Hispanic world.
Join Warwick's School of Modern Languages and Cultures and study under the supervision of an internationally-leading expert.
History (MA)
History
The Warwick History MA offers advanced study in history.
You will investigate historical change within a broad conceptual and theoretical framework, with an opportunity to explore dynamic global developments from the early modern period to the present.
The University of Warwick's History department, whose research activity is ranked one of the highest in the country (92%, REF 2021), will provide you with the guidance to acquire conceptual and practical skills and expertise in this field.
This course will particularly appeal to those who wish to conduct further research in history.
History (MA by Research)
With a reputation for national and international excellence and innovation, our History Department was ranked fourth in the country for the highest combined percentage (92%) of world-leading and internationally excellent research outputs (REF 2021).
Surrounded and supported by a host of exceptional historians, you will be exposed to diverse and international views, people and research, all encouraging and challenging you to think unconventionally and creatively about the past.
History (MPhil/PhD)
History of Art (MA by Research)
History of Art
The MA by Research in History of Art offers you a research degree, with a wide range of specialist areas in which we can offer supervision .
With expert support you will learn research and transferable skills at the University of Warwick's History of Art department, ranked in the top 10 (The Guardian University Guide 2024, The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024).
History of Art (MPhil/PhD)
Undertake original research on the MPhil/PhD in History of Art at the University of Warwick.
Ranked in the top 10 (The Guardian University Guide 2024, The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024), Warwick's History of Art department offers you an advanced research degree with supervision from world-leading experts.
Humanitarian Engineering (with Management) (MSc)
School of Engineering
Join us to play your part in the solution to global humanitarian challenges.
In the Humanitarian Engineering (with Management) MSc course, you will explore project management, communication and leadership skills.
The course is accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (ICE, IStructE, IHE, CHIT and The PWI).
Humanitarian Engineering (with Sustainability) (MSc)
In the Humanitarian Engineering (with Sustainability) MSc you will focus on renewable energy, sustainable cities and infrastructures for emergencies.
Humanitarian Engineering (MSc/PGDip/PGCert/PGA)
FT: 1 year (MSc), 9 months (PGDip/ PGCert/PGA)
PT: 2 years (MSc), 18 months (PGDip/PGCert)
Innovation and Entrepreneurship (MSc)
Warwick's MSc in Innovation and Entrepreneurship combines industry leading approaches in venture design, with the skills needed to launch and grow innovative, digitally enabled and technology-driven businesses.
This collaborative programme designed by WMG and taught in partnership with Warwick Business School, draws on the best expertise in the fields of innovation and entrepreneurship.
Intercultural Communication for Business & Professions (MSc)
1 year full-time; 2-4 years part-time
Intercultural Communication for Business and the Professions MSc provides you with a wide range of in-depth knowledge and skills related to intercultural communication.
Analyse and investigate communication across cultures at Warwick's Department of Applied Linguistics, ranked 9th in the UK for Linguistics The Complete University Guide 2024.
Intercultural Communication (MPhil/PhD)
Work alongside specialist experts on the MPhil/PhD in Intercultural Communication.
Research your chosen area of culture, language and communication at the University of Warwick's Department of Applied Linguistics, ranked 9th in the UK for Linguistics The Complete University Guide 2024.
Interdisciplinary Biomedical Research (MSc)
Take the next step in your research career with the University of Warwick.
If you are a biologist, a mathematician, a physicist or a chemist interested in biomedical problems, our MSc in Interdisciplinary Biomedical Research (IBR) could be for you.
Interdisciplinary Studies (MPhil/PhD)
Study Interdisciplinary Studies MPhil/PhD at Warwick's innovative and diverse Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies.
With tailored guidance, and through an interdisciplinary approach, you will develop research expertise and an accompanying skillset.
International Business (MSc)
MSc International Business focuses on detailed insight into contemporary challenges faced across global economies.
Warwick Business School, ranked 5th most targeted University by top employers (The Graduate Market in 2023 Report), will help you develop your career by gaining knowledge of relevant theories and their practical applications.
International Commercial Law (LLM)
Develop specialist knowledge on our International Commercial Law LLM, which will provide you with a solid foundation for understanding the legal challenges of international commerce, and allow you to explore how a range of international transactions are regulated.
International Corporate Governance and Financial Regulation (LLM)
On Warwick's LLM in International Corporate Governance and Financial Regulation, you will undertake in-depth comparative and contextual study of the regulation of the company.
Studying the main topics in corporate governance and financial law will help prepare you for your future career.
International Development Law and Human Rights (LLM)
Our International Development Law and Human Rights LLM adopts an interdisciplinary approach to examine the relationship between development, human rights and global justice with a particular focus on the global South.
We will challenge you to think critically and creatively about the theory and practice of law for social justice.
International Development (MA)
Politics and International Studies
International Development is an interdisciplinary field of research, policy and practice concerned with challenges of economic growth, inequality, justice, sustainability, human freedom and global governance.
International Economic Law (LLM)
On our International Economic Law LLM you will think deeply and critically about issues surrounding the shifts in global economic power and reconstituted global networks.
This LLM is suitable for those wishing to practice in a government agency or private industry.
International Political Economy (MA)
International Political Economy is a field of enquiry concerned with the distribution of power, wealth and agency in a rapidly changing, contested global context.
International Relations (MA)
Warwick's International Relations (IR) MA explores key theoretical approaches from Realism to Post-Colonialism and how they can help us understand the global challenges of the 21st century.
Critically analyse the role of states and other actors in international affairs, both historically and in the contemporary world.
International Security (MA)
Warwick’s International Security MA, explores theories of security and the completing ways ‘security' can be understood while critically analysing the significance of ‘traditional’ security threats such as conflict and war and ‘new’ threats such as terrorism, climate change, migration and pandemics.
International Trade, Strategy and Operations (MSc)
Modern businesses trade across international boundaries, so a thorough knowledge and understanding of strategy and operations management to trade successfully in international markets is essential to success.
Our MSc in International Trade, Strategy and Operations delivers just that.
As a student you will gain both fundamental and cutting-edge knowledge and be equipped with the tools to tackle the contemporary challenges faced by global industry.
You will learn to manage and lead change within international businesses while studying amongst leading experts in the multidisciplinary WMG department.
This course is accredited by the Institute of Export & International Trade (IOE&IT).
Islamic Education (PGA)
The Islamic Education PGA helps participants develop a reflective academic grounding in Islamic Education and provides an opportunity to explore Muslim faith and its traditions of education.
Education Studies at Warwick has pioneered this PGA, the first of its kind in the UK, to bridge the gap between educational cultures of traditional Islamic seminaries and modern higher education.
The PGA Islamic Education is open to overseas students and is available online.
Islamic Education: Theory and Practice (MA)
Islamic Education: Theory and Practice MA facilitates a critical dialogue between Western and Islamic approaches to education and enables teachers and Muslim educators to become research-based reflective practitioners.
Join Warwick's flexible MA and engage with a transformative teaching and learning experience that nurtures your academic formation and your personal and professional development.
Italian (MA by Research)
Pursue the MA by Research in Italian at the University of Warwick, with guidance from one of our internationally-leading experts.
Warwick's School of Modern Languages and Cultures invite you to be part of an exciting, vibrant research culture.
Italian (MPhil/PhD)
Join the University of Warwick's vibrant research culture on the MPhil/PhD in Italian.
Warwick's Modern Language and Cultures department offers you expert guidance while you hone your research techniques.
Law (LLM by Research)
Law
The University of Warwick's Law School offers a LLM by Research.
Pursue an extended research project in a wide range of areas, with careful supervision from a specialist.
Law (MPhil/PhD)
Study a MPhil/PhD in Law at the University of Warwick's Law School.
Gain an understanding of relevant research methods and evolve into a well-rounded socio-legal scholar within a creative community of fellow researchers.
Leadership and Team Coaching (PGA)
This is a part-time, postgraduate short course designed to provide you with comprehensive knowledge of the skills and theoretical perspectives relating to leadership coaching and team coaching.
Leading Educational Change and Improvement (PGA)
Develop your understanding of leading educational change and improvement on this short course.
Warwick's Education Studies offers this PGA as a bridge to further education, you will develop an understanding of education change through research and practical perspectives.
Life Sciences (MSc by Research)
Gain hands-on experience on this practical based MSc by research, while developing an understanding of relevant research techniques.
The University of Warwick's School of Life Sciences conducts world-leading interdisciplinary research, with 90% of our research rated as 'world leading' or 'internationally excellent' in the REF 2021 assessment.
Life Sciences (PhD)
Study your PhD in the vibrant community of Warwick's School of Life Sciences, with 90% of our research rated as 'world leading' or 'internationally excellent' in the REF 2021 assessment.
Pursue both subject-specific and general research expertise on the practical-based PhD in Life Sciences.
Linguistics (MPhil/PhD)
The PhD in Linguistics examines language and linguistic backgrounds from all over the world, through an interdisciplinary approach.
Ranked 9th in the UK for Linguistics The Complete University Guide 2024, Warwick's Department of Applied Linguistics offers you the opportunity to research your chosen area of linguistics.
Literary Practice (PhD)
Warwick Writing Programme, SCAPVC
Take time to write your novel, poetry, short stories or non-fiction under the supervision of our published, prize-winning writers.
The Warwick Writing Programme, founded in 1996, is the largest and most comprehensive of its kind in Europe and was ranked first by The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2021.
Management for Business Excellence (MSc)
Management for Business Excellence MSc is an innovative Master's degree with a focus on Quality Management, Continuous Improvement, and leadership.
With an emphasis on challenge-based learning, this course will prepare you to become an effective leader, decision maker, and manager of excellence within any industry.
Management (MSc)
Our one-year MSc Management course shows the path an ambitious graduate can take to become a successful manager in the world of business.
Management of Information Systems & Digital Innovation (MSc)
MSc Management of Information Systems & Digital Innovation develops your management and consulting skills for a professional career in which you help businesses to thrive in the digital age.
Warwick Business School aims to create managers with a creative mindset to integrate IT and digital innovations in business.
Marketing & Strategy (MSc)
MSc Marketing and Strategy gives you the opportunity to explore two key disciplines at the heart of business strategy.
Studying at Warwick Business School, ranked 7 th in the world and 2 nd in the UK (QS Business Masters in Marketing Rankings 2025), you will receive expert guidance and gain the confidence and expertise to apply the skills learnt to a variety of roles.
Mathematical Finance (MSc)
Join our challenging MSc Mathematical Finance taught by two of Warwick's top departments; Statistics and Warwick Business School.
With expert supervision, this mathematically rigorous course will develop and apply the quantitative skills in machine learning, computational statistics and mathematical finance used in the financial markets and the finance industry.
Mathematics (Diploma plus MSc)
Mathematics Institute
This Diploma plus MSc course is designed for those enthusiastic about mathematics.
Warwick's Mathematics Institute has designed this course for undergraduates of mathematics, physics or statistics degree to further develop their knowledge through a challenging and uniquely flexible programme.
Mathematics (MSc)
This MSc course is for those enthusiastic about mathematics who want to continue their studies.
Mathematics (MPhil/PhD)
The MPhil/PhD in Mathematics offers an intellectually stimulating and dynamic research course.
Study at the University of Warwick's Mathematics Institute, an international centre of research excellence, ranked 3rd for research power and 3rd for the number of 4* research outputs in REF 2021 (amongst UK universities).
MBA (Accelerator)
2 - 5 years part-time
Accelerate your career progression without having to take significant time out of work, with the Accelerator MBA.
This blended, part-time MBA will enable you to make the next leap in your career, with learning taking place both online and at WBS London, The Shard, over two years.
MBA (Executive)
Available in Warwick or London, the Executive MBA, will equip you with the strategic leadership skills, aptitude and vision to make an immediate impact.
You also have the opportunity to specialise your MBA in Healthcare, Social and Environmental Sustainability, or Entrepreneurship.
MBA (Full-time)
Reach your full potential on Warwick's Full-time MBA.
Warwick Business School will provide you with an intense and fast-paced programme, where you will gain expert knowledge on the global business environment.
MBA (Global Online)
Gain an understanding of the global business environment with the Global Online MBA.
This programme is taught primarily online and distinguished by face-to-face learning in Warwick or London.
Doctor of Medicine (MD) (Warwick Medical School)
2 years full-time; 3 years part-time
The MD Doctor of Medicine programme is on par with a PhD.
You will work with experts in your field in Warwick Medical School and other hospitals in the Midlands area, an environment renowned for its research excellence.
The University of Warwick offers outstanding facilities to help you with your research project.
Medical Biotechnology and Business Management (MSc)
Warwick University's Medical Biotechnology and Business Management MSc course will provide you with applied biomedical, business and management skills relevant to the operation and development of medical biotechnology industries.
Medical Education for Health Professionals - iheed (MSc)
6 months part-time (PGCert) 12 months part-time (PGDip 22 months part-time (MSc)
The new Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma and Masters in Medical Education for Healthcare Professionals is designed as an international programme for healthcare professionals across the globe who wish to work with leading experts to enhance their roles as clinical or academic teachers.
Medical Education (MMedEd/PGDip/PGCert)
Part-time: 3 years (MMedEd); 2 years (PGDip); 1 year (PGCert)
Designed for experienced clinical professionals (including health professionals, dentists and vets) who have responsibility for education and training, the Medical Education programme covers the principles and methods of teaching and learning and their application to healthcare.
The programme provides you with the skills needed to plan and deliver successful teaching and learning sessions.
Medicine (MBChB - Graduate Entry Undergraduate Course)
4 years full-time
Our four - year MB ChB (Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery) is an undergraduate programme designed for graduates.
It is a challenging but extremely rewarding programme designed to help you become a highly competent, compassionate and strongly motivated doctor, committed to the highest standards of clinical practice, professionalism and patient care.
Mental Health and Wellbeing (MSc)
Our MSc in Mental Health and Wellbeing is a novel course that will provide you with excellent training via multidisciplinary teaching.
The course focuses on mental health and wellbeing, and combines theoretical with applied teaching on health psychology, clinical psychology, organisational psychology, and positive psychology.
Modelling of Heterogeneous Systems (PhD)
Centre for Doctoral Training in Modelling of Heterogeneous Systems (HetSys) (School of Engineering)
HetSys is an EPSRC-supported Centre for Doctoral Training at the University of Warwick which recruits students from across the physical sciences, mathematics and engineering and trains them to use their mathematical and computational modelling skills to solve complex problems in heterogeneous materials.
The transferability of this training allows HetSys students to address a broad range of challenges in understanding the behaviour of heterogeneous materials across a range of length and time scales.
This is vital for the competitiveness of the UK's high-value manufacturing, high-tech and automotive industries.
MSc by Research (WMG)
A Master’s by Research degree allows you to focus on independent research rather than being taught directly.
Your independent research will normally enhance your existing knowledge of a subject as you work at the boundaries of your field.
This programme focuses on training researchers for a professional career or preparing for a PhD or EngD.
MSc by Research (Warwick Medical School)
Make a difference in healthcare on the MSc by Research at Warwick Medical School.
With outstanding expertise, techniques and facilities at your fingertips, Warwick Medical School offers you the ideal opportunity to gain confidence and relevant research skills.
Neuroscience and Psychology of Mental Health - iheed (MSc)
Certificate 6 months part-time; Diploma 12 months part-time; MSc 24 months part-time
Our Neuroscience and Psychology of Mental Health online course will teach you the complex neurobiological mechanisms behind mental illnesses.
The course will provide you with the scientific grounding and practical skills needed for you to become a leader in mental health care, so that you can improve the lives of patients, families, and the community.
Open Professional Studies (MPhil/PhD)
The Open Professional Studies PhD allows you to select a topic of your choice within any of our professional areas of expertise, namely: adult education, career development work, coaching, counselling, education, psychotherapy, early childhood, social work, and social policy.
Warwick's Centre for Lifelong Learning provides a rich, transdisciplinary academic environment supported by a dedicated team including supervision and personal tutoring.
PGCE Primary Early Years 3-7 (with QTS)
Centre for Teacher Education
1 year
At Warwick, we proudly train teachers who inspire and support the needs of every child.
Our Primary PGCE programme, rated Outstanding by Ofsted in 2024, prepares you to work with diverse pupils, including those with SEND and EAL.
With over 75 years of experience, we provide expert academic guidance and mentorship to build your confidence and skills.
Our unique Warwick Teacher Values focus on social justice, intellectual curiosity, and creativity and permeate every aspect of our programme.
Why choose us?
Trainees at the University of Warwick get the best possible start to their teaching career.
PGCE Primary with QTS 5 - 11 (with QTS)
PGCE Secondary Business Studies and Economics (with QTS)
Empower the Future Through Business and Economics
Are you driven by a fascination with the world of business and economics and inspired by the idea of making a difference in young people’s lives?
Imagine guiding students as they explore how global markets, entrepreneurship, and economic policies shape their everyday experiences.
If you're excited by the idea of making these powerful subjects meaningful and accessible, then our PGCE Secondary with Business and Economics course could be your perfect next step.
This well-regarded programme offers outstanding training to prepare you as a confident, reflective secondary teacher in business and economics.
You'll learn to deliver engaging, inclusive lessons that not only convey knowledge but also develop students’ analytical thinking and real-world understanding.
The course places strong emphasis on diversity and inclusion, empowering you to teach in ways that reflect and respect the diverse backgrounds of your students and the global nature of the subjects.
Teach with Purpose and Relevance
Business and economics education isn’t just about theory — it's about preparing students for the real world.
On this course, you’ll develop subject expertise while building your ability to connect classroom learning to current events and real business scenarios.
You'll discover how to use real-world case studies, news stories, and technology to spark curiosity and discussion, helping students see the relevance of what they’re learning and the impact it can have on their future.
Through your placements, you’ll gain significant classroom experience, supported by experienced mentors and a university team committed to your success.
You’ll learn to design lessons that are adaptable, innovative, and responsive to the needs of all learners.
From understanding behavioural economics to analysing the strategies of global enterprises, you'll equip students with the skills they need to thrive in higher education, entrepreneurship, or the world of work.
Inspire the Next Generation of Thinkers and Leaders
This course is ideal for graduates from a wide range of disciplines, including Business, Economics, Law, Finance, Politics, Sociology, Marketing, or related fields.
If you’re passionate about developing young people’s confidence, critical thinking, and economic literacy, this course will provide you with the skills, experience, and qualifications needed to become a change-making educator.
With successful completion, you'll be recommended for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), opening the door to a rewarding career in secondary education.
Whether your future lies in the classroom, in school leadership, or beyond, this is your chance to make a lasting impact — teaching subjects that matter, in a world that needs them more than ever.
Bring Business and Economics to Life.
Inspire Ambition.
Change Futures.
PGCE Secondary Design and Technology (with QTS)
This course is rooted in the creative and technical principles of Design & Technology, highlighting its vital role in preparing young people to become problem-solvers, innovators, and responsible designers in a rapidly evolving world.
You will be taught by an experienced Design & Technology educator with extensive experience in secondary education (ages 11–18) and significant expertise in mentoring and teacher training.
With your degree in a relevant subject area such as Product design, Engineering, Textiles, or a similar background, you will participate in a series of interactive, hands-on workshops that blend educational theory with practical classroom application.
Topics may include inclusive curriculum planning, prototyping, key stage 3 and 4 assessments, CAD/CAM, Extra-curricular activities and managing a safe and engaging workshop environment.
As part of the course, you will complete a certified Health & Safety training course delivered by a DATA (Design and Technology Association) consultant.
This ensures you are fully equipped to work safely and effectively in practical classrooms.
You will also gain an introduction to best practice in Food Technology and classroom management.
You will be supported throughout by experienced mentors in our partner schools, developing into a reflective, research-informed, and confident teacher.
Previous students have praised the course for its strong sense of support and community.
You’ll also receive tailored career advice to help you secure your first teaching role.
PGCE Secondary Social Sciences (with QTS)
This course is ideal for those who have studied a Social Sciences related undergraduate degree.
Our Social Sciences PGCE can cover the following subjects:
This course will recommend you on completion for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) to work with 14-19 year-olds .
You'll become a confident teacher and make a real difference to your students' development and lives .
The course will develop you into a highly effective teacher, equipped with the skills and knowledge to become a successful school leader.
96% of our graduates rated us outstanding and good for quality of support by personal tutor through tutorials and opportunity for email communication.2019-2020
Our PGCE courses had an overall completion rate of 93%.
2019-2020
We're nationally known for the quality of our training, and our work's based on a partnership with over 500 local schools in Coventry, Warwickshire and the West Midlands.
PGCE Secondary with Art & Design (with QTS)
In a world saturated with visual media and creative possibilities, there has never been a more exciting time to become a Teacher of Art and Design.
This dynamic, evolving course lays strong foundations for the development of expert subject knowledge and pedagogy within the context of the latest research and debate in the field of art education.
We recognise and celebrate the enormous potential of the subject in the development of young people; socially, culturally, creatively and in terms of their mental health and wellbeing.
You will be taught by a passionate Artist Teacher with 40 years of professional experience within art education, both in schools and galleries.
Whether your degree is in Textiles, Fashion, Graphic Design, Photography, Fine Art, or another visual arts discipline, you will undertake a series of practical workshops and discussion-based seminars which fully integrate theory and practice.
We form a strong “community of practice” where we share ideas and skills, co-create new learning materials and hear from visiting specialists who inform, inspire and challenge us.
The university sessions are sequenced and designed to complement your school-based experience.
Alongside the mentoring by experienced Art and Design teachers in partner schools, this established course will enable you to become a research-informed, highly skilled and innovative classroom practitioner.
You will be fully prepared to gain employment in schools through one-to-one support with applications, portfolios and the interview process.
So, you could join the growing number of graduates who are highly successful in gaining employment in teaching, fulfilled in the knowledge that you are impacting powerfully the lives of young people.
“The course has helped me grow into a more confident, critically minded, and creative educator.
I’m leaving the course with ideas I’m excited to implement in my future practice and with a real sense of purpose in my teaching.”
Art and Design Trainee, May 2025
SHOWCASE 2025
Visit our online exhibition SHOWCASE 25 Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window where our Art and Design trainees graduating this summer have posted a range of exciting artwork made by their pupils in partner schools.
They explore diverse pedagogical approaches but are united in their belief that Art and Design is central to the curriculum, empowering for young people and essential for developing visual, critical and emotional literacy.
PGCE Secondary with Biology (with QTS)
At school and university, you enjoyed exploring the intricacies of living organisms, or understanding the complexity of ecosystems, or perhaps discovering the marvels of cellular processes evokes great memories.
Unlocking the code of genetics and DNA or the practical investigation of life processes perhaps marked the highlights of your learning.
Now, there is an opportunity to ignite that same curiosity and passion for the biological sciences in your own students.
As a secondary school biology teacher, you will play a pivotal role in helping young minds grasp the biological principles that explain life on Earth.
Biology offers a unique lens to understand the complexity and beauty of living systems, and as a biology teacher, you’ll have the privilege of nurturing the next generation of life science researchers, doctors, and environmentalists.
Our PGCE Biology programme is specifically designed for graduates with a background in Biology or related fields such as Zoology, Botany, Microbiology, Ecology, or Biomedical Sciences.
It combines rigorous academic study with extensive school-based experience to prepare you for a rewarding career in secondary education.
Through university-based training, you will gain a comprehensive foundation in teaching theory and practical techniques, learning how to design engaging lessons, manage diverse classroom environments, and adapt your teaching strategies to accommodate the varied needs of students.
You’ll explore a range of evidence-based teaching methodologies, all grounded in the latest educational research.
School placements are a fundamental component of the course, providing you with practical, hands-on experience in the classroom.
Working alongside experienced mentors, you will gradually assume responsibilities for planning, teaching, and assessing lessons, developing the confidence and skills essential for teaching science and leading biology education.
The programme culminates in a recommendation for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), preparing you to be successful in teaching biology at secondary level.
You will also learn how to teach Chemistry and Physics to younger secondary students, giving you the advantage of employability in a range of school science departments.
PGCE Secondary with Chemistry (with QTS)
Reflect on the thrill of mixing chemicals to observe reactions, understanding the periodic table, or identifying substances through various tests.
Perhaps organic chemistry or balancing chemical equations were the highlights of your academic journey.
Now, envision kindling that same passion for discovery in your students.
As a secondary school chemistry teacher, you'll play a crucial role in guiding young minds to comprehend the chemical principles that govern our world.
Chemistry offers a unique perspective to understand many natural and synthetic processes, and as an educator, you'll have the chance to inspire the next generation of scientists and innovators.
Our PGCE programme is crafted for graduates with a background in Chemistry or related fields such as Biochemistry, Chemical Engineering, Environmental Chemistry, or Pharmaceutical Sciences.
It merges rigorous academic study with substantial classroom experience to prepare you for a successful career in secondary education.
During university-based training, you'll gain a solid grounding in teaching theory and practical techniques, mastering the art of crafting engaging lessons, managing diverse classroom settings and tailoring your teaching strategies to meet the varied needs of students.
You'll delve into a variety of evidence-based teaching methodologies, grounded in the latest educational research.
School placements are a core component of the course, giving you practical, hands-on experience in real classroom settings.
Under the guidance of seasoned mentors, you'll progressively take on the responsibilities of planning, teaching, and evaluating lessons, developing the confidence and skills necessary to excel in chemistry education.
The programme culminates in a recommendation for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), qualifying you to teach chemistry at secondary level.
You will also learn how to teach Biology and Physics to younger secondary students, giving you the advantage of employability in a range of school science departments.
PGCE Secondary with Computer Science (with QTS)
This course is grounded in the principles of computational science, information technology and digital literacy, recognising the critical role of Computer Science in shaping the future of young learners in an increasingly technology-driven world.
You will be taught by an experienced Computer Science educator with an extensive background in both further education and state schools in the Midlands.
With your degree in Computer Science or in a similar Computing discipline, you will engage in a series of interactive workshops that seamlessly integrate theoretical foundations with practical applications.
You will cover pedagogy which could include teaching programming, delivering unplugged computing lessons, resolving misconceptions and using project-based learning.
These could help you be grounded in the essential skills to become a great trainee Computer Science teacher.
Through dedicated mentoring by skilled Computer Science teachers in our partner schools, you will have the opportunity to become a research-informed, proficient, and a creative, socially just educator.
The Computer Science course is further enriched by guest lectures from experts and visits to local establishments providing insights into computing education from both an academic and theoretical perspective.
Students in previous years have said how supported they have felt, with a tailored course and regular tutorials designed to help them succeed.
You will receive comprehensive support in securing employment in schools, including guidance on applications, CVs, and the interview process to help you get start your career in your career.
PGCE Secondary with Drama (with QTS)
Drama is a practical subject, an active subject and a social subject.
It engages the emotions as well as the intellect.
It is a way of creating and interpreting meaning through imagined actions and language.
Drama is lots of different things.
These are just a few and as a drama teacher you are in a position to create and explore what drama is and what drama means, how drama can enrich the world we live in and help create meaning.
The course at Warwick is very well established.
You will be taught by a Drama educator with more than 25 years’ experience working in 11-16 schools, 11-18 schools and 6th form colleges.
You will take part in a series of subject specific interactive workshops that will challenge you to integrate theoretical foundations with practical applications.
Workshops will include an introduction to teaching Shakespeare in the classroom, devising skills at KS3 and 4, developing literacy in the drama classroom.
The course includes significant time in schools where you will be supported by a school-based mentor as you develop your practice creating lessons that are meaningful and relevant.
Throughout your placements you will also receive support from the very experienced university-based team at Warwick enabling you to become a confident, creative, effective education professional.
Warwick is committed to offering comprehensive support in securing employment at the end of your course, including guidance on applications, CVs, and the interview process.
PGCE Secondary with English (with QTS)
The aim of the English PGCE course is to help you find your emerging English teacher identity and to develop a love of teaching English.
Our mission is that, when you join your English department, you in turn inspire a love of English in your learners.
All the subject sessions are taught in person (whether online or face-to-face) and you will have the opportunity to build a community of practice with other English trainees on the course.
The course is taught by highly knowledgeable and experienced English tutors who will support you as you develop your teaching philosophy and classroom pedagogy as well as supporting you with your academic assignments and subject knowledge development.
Both tutors on the course have been English teachers in busy English departments, so fully understand the demands and rewards of being an English teacher.
During the course you will explore how to teach the fundamentals of English as well as looking at familiar and unfamiliar aspects of the subject.
The course begins with a focus on reading, writing and spoken language and moves on to looking at diversity in the curriculum, critical literacy, literary frameworks, and creativity among other topics.
All the sessions are underpinned by reference to seminal and recent research.
You will explore not only what works in the classroom, but also why.
You will develop pedagogies for teaching prose, poetry and drama and there is a focus throughout the course on inclusive English teaching both in terms of authors and texts studied as well as learning to engage and inspire learners with a range of needs.
This course is suitable for anyone with an interest in helping students develop as enthusiastic readers and critical thinkers, particularly with a background in literature, language, creative writing or a related subject that has a focus on analysis and critique.
PGCE Secondary with Geography (with QTS)
There has never been a more exciting time to train to be a Geography teacher.
You will be enabling the next generation to understand and contribute to their world, inspiring them to take on the challenges of the future as well as providing them with some of the best and most important transferable skills.
Our course balances theory with the practical in a highly supportive way.
During subject sessions, you will develop your geographical knowledge and understanding so that you are confident delivering at KS3, GCSE and A level.
This will particularly include:
The course provides you with extensive time in school, working with experienced teachers who will model strong pedagogy, support you as you grow and empower you to reflect on your practice.
You and your mentor in school are supported by University tutors throughout the course.
Training to be a Geography teacher is possible with a Geography or Geography related degree (e.g.
environmental management, environmental sciences, geology, or planning and development).
PGCE Secondary with History (with QTS)
Inspire the Future by Exploring the Past
Do you have a passion for history and a desire to make a lasting impact on young minds?
Imagine bringing the past to life in the classroom - helping students connect historical events to the world they live in today.
If you're excited by the idea of making history meaningful and relevant, our PGCE Secondary with History course could be the next step in your journey.
This well-established programme offers outstanding professional training, preparing you to become a confident and reflective secondary history teacher.
You'll learn how to plan engaging, inclusive lessons and develop creative strategies that ignite curiosity and promote understanding.
There’s a strong focus on diversity and inclusion, ensuring your teaching reflects the richness of the history curriculum and the students you’ll teach.
Develop Through Practical Experience
You’ll enhance your subject knowledge and analytical skills while gaining extensive experience in planning and delivering effective lessons.
The course includes significant time in schools, where you'll learn to put theory into practice in real classroom settings.
Throughout your placement, you’ll benefit from the close support of the university-based team at Warwick, as well as your school-based mentors.
They will guide your development, offer constructive feedback, and help you grow into an effective, thoughtful practitioner.
This course is ideal for those who have studied History, English, Classics, Archaeology, Law, Politics, Arts and Social Sciences, or a related discipline.
Successful completion of the programme leads to a recommendation for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to begin your teaching career in secondary education.
PGCE Secondary with Mathematics (with QTS)
This course emphasises fundamental principles of fluency, mathematical reasoning and problem-solving skills, recognising the crucial role of mathematics in equipping young learners for a complex world.
Integrating content, curriculum and pedagogical content knowledge through research and evidence-based practices, the PGCE maths also introduce and apply the five key ideas of Teaching for Mastery: coherence, fluency, representation & structure, variation, and mathematical thinking.
You will be taught by experienced mathematics educators with research and publications in areas related to practitioner research, teaching for mastery, maths anxiety and mathematical resilience, and teacher resilience.
Building on your subject and pedagogy knowledge, you will engage in subject sessions linking theory to practice.
Pedagogy covered includes effective lesson planning, addressing mathematical misconceptions, developing metacognition and teaching for creativity, equipping you with essential skills to excel as a trainee mathematics teacher.
You will benefit from dedicated mentoring by experienced Mathematics teachers in our partner schools and engaging guest lectures from these schools, fostering your development into a research-informed and creative maths teacher.
Our collaboration with the regional Maths Hub on teaching for mastery further enriches the course, providing valuable practical and theoretical insights into mathematics education.
Previous students have consistently rated the course as excellent and intellectually stimulating, emphasising its effectiveness in preparing them not just to survive but to thrive as secondary maths teachers.
You will also benefit from a tailored course with regular tutorials designed to ensure your success, alongside comprehensive support in securing employment, including expert guidance on applications, CVs, and the interview process, to confidently launch your career as a teacher of maths.
PGCE Secondary with Modern Foreign Languages (with QTS)
Central to the MFL curriculum are the Warwick Teacher Values (WTV): creativity, intellectual curiosity & social justice.
All sessions interweave educational theory and research with application to classroom practice.
Sessions also include opportunities for trainees to reflect on their individual development both in university and on placement.
MFL sessions throughout the academic year aim to develop subject knowledge, introduce pedagogies, promote pupil progress and support trainees with both their academic assignments and classroom practice.
MFL sessions strive to be inclusive, model best practice, and be research informed enabling trainees to become involved in critical discussion which supports the WTV of intellectual curiosity.
You will be taught by an experienced MFL educator with two decades of teaching experience.
Pedagogy covered includes effective lesson planning, teaching using the target language, formative assessment and responsive teaching, adaptive teaching, teaching at KS3, KS4 and KS5 and developing metacognition.
These sessions, alongside others, equip you with essential skills to excel as a trainee MFL teacher.
You will develop your subject content, curriculum and pedagogical knowledge and understanding allowing you time to develop your skills and knowledge of what it is to be an effective MFL teacher.
You will begin to engage with your emerging teacher identities, values and philosophies, moving yourselves towards independence and enabling yourselves to develop resilience.
In our partner schools, you will benefit from dedicated mentoring by experienced MFL teachers.
You will also benefit from a tailored course with regular tutorials designed to ensure your success, alongside comprehensive support in securing employment, including expert guidance on applications, CVs, and the interview process, to confidently launch your career as a teacher of MFL.
Previous students have consistently rated the course as excellent and intellectually stimulating, emphasising its effectiveness in preparing them not just to survive but to thrive as secondary MFL teachers.
PGCE Secondary with Music (with QTS)
Are you passionate about sharing your musical expertise with the next generation?
Are you committed to supporting access to high-quality music education?
Our Secondary PGCE Music course is designed for aspiring teachers who want to inspire, challenge, and support young people through musical engagement.
The course is grounded in exploring the core themes of music education pedagogy, curriculum, assessment, and philosophy through a series of seminars, workshops, and tutorials that integrate theoretical foundations with practical applications.
This course will equip you with the skills, confidence, and understanding to teach music in a secondary school setting while reflecting critically on the role of music in wider society.
You’ll explore diverse pedagogical approaches, work with a broad range of repertoire, and consider how music technology and performance can be applied to enrich learning in inclusive classroom settings.
Through a balance of school placements and university-based study, you’ll develop competencies to plan, teach, and assess effectively across Key Stages 3–5.
You’ll be supported to reflect on your own musical identity and how this informs your own practice, while gaining a robust understanding of curriculum design, pedagogical approaches, assessment procedures, and philosophical positions.
With school placements alongside academic discourse, you’ll gain real-world classroom experience supported by expert mentors and tutors to support fostering creativity, curiosity, and musical independence in young people.
Do you want to teach music in a way that values every pupil’s voice, background, and potential?
PGCE Secondary with Physical Education (with QTS)
Do you remember the excitement of exploring the effects of radiation, starting to understand fundamental forces, or discovering which metals conduct electricity best?
Perhaps astronomy, or mechanical mathematic problems were highlights of your time at school.
Now imagine sparking that same curiosity in your own students.
As a secondary school physics teacher, you’ll play a vital role in helping young people make sense of the physical world around them.
Physics offers a powerful lens through which to understand the world - and as a secondary school physics teacher, you’ll have the opportunity to inspire the next generation of scientists and problem-solvers.
Our PGCE programme is designed for graduates with a background in Physics or a related discipline such as Chemical Physics, Astrophysics, Medical Physics, Geophysics, or Engineering.
It combines academic study with extensive school-based experience to prepare you for a successful career in secondary education.
Through university-based training, you will develop a strong foundation in teaching theory and practice, learning how to plan effective lessons, manage classroom environments and adapt your teaching to meet the diverse needs of learners.
You’ll explore a range of evidence-informed teaching approaches, all underpinned by the latest educational research.
School placements are an integral part of the course, providing you with hands-on experience in the classroom.
Working alongside experienced mentors, you will gradually take on responsibility for planning, teaching, and assessing lessons, building the confidence and skills needed to lead learning in physics.
The course leads to a recommendation for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to teach physics at secondary level.
You will also learn how to teach Chemistry and Biology to younger secondary students, giving you the advantage of employability in a range of school science departments.
PGCE Secondary with Physics (with QTS)
PGCE Secondary with Religious Education (with QTS)
Our PGCE in Religious Education prepares you to teach one of the most dynamic and relevant subjects in today’s diverse classrooms.
Through dedicated subject studies days, you will explore key content across religions, worldviews and ethical issues, while also developing practical, research-informed approaches to teaching RE.
These sessions combine deep subject knowledge with effective classroom methods, equipping you to design inclusive, engaging, and thought-provoking lessons.
Throughout the programme, you’ll benefit from a collaborative learning environment, where you can share expertise and reflect on practice alongside fellow Religious Education trainees.
Your school-based placements are supported by experienced mentors and university tutors who work closely in partnership to ensure consistent, personalised guidance.
This strong collaborative framework provides you with structured opportunities to put your learning into practice, refine your teaching skills, and grow in confidence within the classroom.
With expert support, a vibrant learning community, and a clear focus on reflective, inclusive practice, our RE PGCE will empower you to become an inspiring and impactful educator.
PhD by Published Work (Warwick Medical School)
Our PhD by Published Work is open to individuals who have already undertaken a portfolio of published research to the standard of a PhD.
Warwick Medical School is home to outstanding expertise, with guidance from an academic adviser you will complete and present your published work.
PhD (Warwick Medical School)
Warwick Medical School offers PhDs on a wide range of health-related topics, including health sciences, medical sciences, clinical education, medicine and more.
By studying at Warwick you will gain the confidence and skills to maximise your talents for your future career.
Philosophy and Literature (PhD)
The Philosophy and Literature PhD is a leading programme, suiting students who thrive on independent, interdisciplinary study.
You will undertake a substantial research project as part of an active research community, supervised by experts.
Study Philosophy with English or Modern Languages.
Philosophy and the Arts (MA)
Philosophy and the Arts is an interdisciplinary degree, allowing you to combine philosophy with any or all of three arts disciplines.
This MA is designed for students to take advantage of Warwick's strengths across Philosophy, English, History of Art, and Film and Television Studies.
Philosophy (MA)
Join the Philosophy MA at the University of Warwick.
With research strengths across all main areas of Philosophy, you will discover an unusually broad and extensive range of modules for Master's level study.
Philosophy (MPhil)
2 years full-time; 4 years part-time
The MPhil in Philosophy is a two-year programme for students looking to engage in structured, independent study.
You will undertake focused research at master’s level supervised by experts at the University of Warwick's Department of Philosophy.
Philosophy (PhD)
The Philosophy PhD is a leading research programme, suiting students who thrive on independent study.
You will undertake a substantial research project as part of an active research community, supervised by world-leading experts at the University of Warwick's Department of Philosophy.
Physics (PhD)
Physics
Pursue cutting-edge research on PhD in Physics alongside field experts at the University of Warwick.
Warwick's Physics Department will provide you with a hands-on approach at the forefront of modern physics.
Physics (MSc by Research)
Undertake cutting-edge research on MSc by Research in Physics at the University of Warwick.
Join our experts at Warwick's Physics Department working at the forefront of modern physics.
Political and Legal Theory (MA)
1 year full-time 2 years part-time
Warwick's Political and Legal Theory MA questions how normative analysis might be applied to address matters of public concern by developing a knowledge and understanding of central normative concepts, theories and ideas and their implications for public policy, institutional design and the law.
Explore how questions of right and wrong, of just and unjust, of good and bad arise in and motivate the study of social, legal and political institutions and policy.
Politics and International Studies (PhD)
The University of Warwick's Politics and International Studies department (PAIS) offers the PhD in Politics and International Studies.
Gain a unique opportunity to undertake a research project in one of the UK's largest Politics and International Studies departments.
Politics of Climate Change (MA)
Warwick’s Politics of Climate Change MA provides students with a deep understanding of the political dimensions of climate change.
It explores the political opportunities and obstacles to addressing climate change and its effects at the global, regional and national levels.
Polymer Chemistry (MSc)
Warwick's Department of Chemistry has designed this MSc for students to explore the real-world application of polymers in state-of-the-art research laboratories.
Polymer Chemistry will immerse you in a research-led environment, where you can learn about the synthesis and characterisation of polymers.
Polymer Science (MSc)
1 year full-time; 2 or 3 years part-time
Warwick's Polymer Science MSc covers core concepts of polymer synthesis, with focus on their physical/material properties and industry translation through dedicated business modules.
This MSc is ideal for those looking for a career in polymers and materials processing.
PGCE Primary 5-11 (with iQTS)
Centre for Teacher Education (CTE)
This one-year teaching course is a high-quality, grade 1 programme of professional education designed for candidates teaching outside of mainland England, leading to Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) and master’s level credits.
Our course aims to develop you into a highly reflective practitioner, able to adapt and respond to changes in settings and international educational contexts, and able to take responsibility for your ongoing professional development in preparation for future leadership.
*Course code also differs by assessment method, please visit the Centre for Teacher Education website Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window for more information.
PGCE Secondary (with iQTS)
*Course codes differ by subject and assessment method, please visit the Centre for Teacher Education website Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window for more information.
Postgraduate Certificate in Education International (PGCEi)
This one year teaching qualification is specially designed to prepare you for teaching in international settings, developing you into a highly reflective practitioner, equipped with the skills and knowledge to be a successful teacher.
With a 4 day virtual induction, led by experts from Warwick and Assessed Teaching against International Teachers’ Standards.
You will have ‘Live’ interactive online lectures throughout the course and support from international school leaders and experts.
*Course codes also differ by assessment method, please visit the Centre for Teacher Education website Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window for more information.
Professional Education (PGCert)
5 months part-time
The Postgraduate Certificate in Professional Education is a supportive pathway for eligible, experienced teachers, school leaders and educational specialists to have their work-based learning assessed against the learning outcomes for academic credit towards our MA in Professional Education Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window qualification.
A time-efficient and economical alternative to full or part-time study for the first half of the programme, whilst refreshing and updating candidates’ academic skills in preparation for progressing to the final 18 month MA course.
Predictive Modelling and Scientific Computing (MSc/PGDip/PGCert/PGA)
Full time: 1 year (MSc), 9 months (PGDip, PGCert, PGA)
Part time: 2 years (MSc), 18 months (PGDip, PGCert), 1 year (PGA)
Train in the theory and practical implementation of cutting-edge predictive modelling techniques.
Professional Education (MA)
20 months part-time
This is an MA in Professional Education for ambitious teachers, mentors and leaders working in professional contexts within Primary, Secondary and Further Education.
We encourage you to be curious about what works in education and why, to be creative in your approach to researching as a practitioner, and to have high expectations about the impact your research might have in your classroom and more widely.
Programme and Project Management (MSc)
Programme and Project Management MSc is designed for graduates who want to move into project management, either in their current technical and business field, or into a new field of expertise.
The interdisciplinary WMG department offers you the unique opportunity to gain a management education with real business and industry application.
This course is accredited by the Association for Project Management (APM).
Psychological Research (MSc)
Warwick's Psychology Department offers you the opportunity to gain practical experience in research through placements across different laboratories working on thematically related research, followed by your own research project in which to explore a topic of your choice.
The application deadline for this course is: Friday 10 th July 2026.
Psychology (MPhil/PhD)
The Department of Psychology offers high quality doctoral training and supervision experience in the fields of Behavioural Science, Language and Learning, and Lifespan Health and Wellbeing.
Under the guidance of enthusiastic and motivated academic staff, our MPhil/PhD students undertake exciting research in their chosen fields of study and complete a tailored programme of training courses and professional development opportunities.
Psychology and Education (MA)
Do you work in the education sector and hope to increase your knowledge of psychology to support children with Special Educational Needs and Disabilities to reach their potential?
Are you interested in how applied psychological research translates into classroom practice?
Perhaps your background is in social policy or education and you want to specialise in educational psychology issues?
Psychology (MSc by Research)
Here at Warwick, we pride ourselves in using a rigorous scientific approach to studying the human mind, brain, and behaviour.
The MSc by Research in Psychology will enable you to develop valuable skills in conducting research, data collection and analysis, and scientific writing under the supervision of internationally recognised experts.
iheed Master of Public Health (MPH)
22 months part-time (MSc)
The pandemic has highlighted the essential role that Public Health plays in local, national and international healthcare.
There is no shortage of demand for such professionals, with the WHO estimating a global deficit of more than 500,000 public health workers.
This new Masters is very relevant.
It has a contemporary curriculum designed in response to current global health needs.
It covers all traditional areas of policy, communicable disease control, epidemiology, statistics, social determinants of health, the impact of political policy and health infrastructure.
Public Health (MPH)
1 year full-time or 3 years part-time
Warwick Medical School offers a Master's in Public Health, an interdisciplinary degree, drawing upon expertise across a wide range of subject areas, to explore the complexity of public health issues in the UK and internationally.
The course has been ranked 2nd in the UK and 10th in the world in the Eduniversal Best Master's Ranking 2024 .
Public Policy (MA)
Warwick's Public Policy MA provides you with an interdisciplinary understanding of theories and concepts of policy making, combined with the practice of policy analysis and evaluation, to build an understanding of how governments respond to global challenges such as pandemics and climate change.
Renaissance Studies (MA by Research)
1 year full-time, 2 years part-time
Take the MA by Research in Renaissance Studies under the supervision of a specialist member of the Centre.
Warwick's Centre for the Study of the Renaissance provides an interdisciplinary research environment where you will complete a research project, choosing from a wide range of specialist areas such as book history, history of science, classical reception, social and religious history, history of visual culture, history of education, and literature and theatre.
Renaissance Studies (MPhil/PhD)
Warwick's PhD/MPhil in Renaissance Studies offers you the opportunity to join an exciting, internationally renowned research culture.
Studying at the Centre for the Study of the Renaissance (CSR), you will receive specialist guidance as you conduct your research project.
Scientific Research and Communication (MSc)
Our Scientific Research and Communication MSc is ideal for those looking for a career in science, writing or journalism, research, education and more.
At Warwick you will gain the necessary English language and writing skills and experience in cutting-edge cross-disciplinary research, helping you to learn how to communicate complicated scientific concepts to various audiences.
Smart, Connected and Autonomous Vehicles (MSc)
WMG at Warwick has established a legacy of leading automotive research in collaboration with industry.
Smart, Connected and Autonomous Vehicles MSc aims to address the knowledge gap in machine learning, automated control strategies, connectivity, cyber-security protocols and much more.
Social and Political Thought (MA)
The MA Social and Political Thought is a long-established programme that uses conceptual, historical and theoretical resources to make sense of the complex and fast-changing social and political worlds of which we are a part.
Social Inequalities and Research Methods (MSc)
The Social Inequalities and Research Methods MSc is a wide-ranging course for students interested in social inequality and who wish to develop the research skills necessary to examine it.
Join Warwick Sociology to develop theoretical awareness of the social processes that generate social inequality, and a set of cutting-edge research skills and methodologies to empirically study its causes and effects.
Social Policy and Social Work (MPhil/PhD)
The PhD in Social Policy and Social Work allows you to select a topic of your choice linked to our expertise within the broad field of social policy and social work.
Sociology (MA)
Our Sociology MA is a lively and engaging programme for students interested in grappling with the key social phenomena of our time from racisms and imperialism, to climate catastrophe, to the social effects of AI and Big Tech, to gender identity and trans rights.
The course provides students with valuable skills, knowledge and understanding for life and their careers beyond.
Sociology (PhD)
Work with leading researchers in gender and sexuality, technology and capitalism, race and migration, prisons and punishment, colonialism and ecology, and more.
In Warwick's Sociology department, ranked 8th in the UK (Complete University Guide 2025, Sociology) you will be part of an active and exciting international research culture and receive specialist training and support to thrive.
Statistics (MSc)
Statistics
Available as MSc degree courses, Warwick’s Statistics courses with possible specialisations in Data Science, Finance or Probability aim to cover topics most relevant to a career as a professional statistician or data scientist.
Your training will open the way to employment in many sectors, including marketing, insurance, banking and pharmaceutical industry.
It may also provide the pathway to a research degree (PhD).
Statistics (MPhil/PhD)
Warwick invites you to join our MPhil/PhD course in Statistics.
Study at Warwick's Statistics Department, one of the leading research centres for Statistics worldwide, covering a wide range of topics in Computational, Methodological and Applied Statistics, Data Science, Mathematical Finance and Probability.
You will be trained as a well-rounded researcher through the training programme delivered by the Centre of Doctoral Training (CDT) in Statistics.
You will conduct cutting edge, innovative research under the supervision of one or more faculty members that are experts in the corresponding research area.
Supply Chain and Logistics Management (MSc)
In today’s globalised, fast paced, and highly competitive business environment, supply chains and logistics management play a critical role in developing sustainability and resilience in organisations, enabling them to respond swiftly to market changes, manage risks, and streamline operations.
Our Supply Chain and Logistics Management MSc is designed for graduates looking to work within logistics and supply chain management across a variety of business sectors.
In the multidisciplinary WMG department, you will develop your skills to manage and navigate the complexities of supply networks, relationships, and integrated business functions.
This course is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply (CIPS) and The Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT).
Sustainable Automotive Electrification (MSc)
Sustainable Automotive Electrification MSc is designed for engineering or other STEM graduates with an interest in automotive innovation.
The course is ideally suited to those aspiring to become research managers and technology leaders within the strategically important areas of vehicle electrification and sustainability.
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) (MA)
The University of Warwick's TESOL programme is designed with course features that will appeal to those who want to advance their career in the field of English Language Teaching.
This MA's structure allows Warwick to capture new, cutting-edge developments and showcase staff expertise in a growing range of specialist areas.
Theatre and Performance Studies (MA by Research)
Theatre and Performance Studies
Our MA by Research in Theatre and Performance Studies offers a unique opportunity to design a bespoke programme of research in a department with a strong international reputation for research excellence.
This degree offers the flexibility to undertake a written thesis or a combination of practice as research and written component.
Theatre and Performance Studies (MPhil/PhD)
The PhD in Theatre and Performance Studies offers a unique opportunity to undertake original and independent research at a leading department in its field, known for its internationalism and innovation.
Translation and Cultures (MA)
Are you looking for a MA in Translation and Cultures offering a rigorous academic grounding in the theoretical and practical study of translation?
Warwick will provide you with the knowledge, expertise and critical skills to become a successful intercultural mediator.
This exciting Master's degree will enhance your theoretical awareness, develop your technology skills and sharpen your practical skills to help you grow professionally, opening up opportunities for a successful career in the language industries or further research.
Choose your specialisation through one of three distinctive pathways:
Whichever path you choose, you'll graduate as a confident intercultural mediator ready to make your mark in the rapidly evolving language industries.
We are corporate members of the Institute of Translation and Interpreting in the UK, the Chartered Institute of Linguists , the Globalization and Localization Association (GALA) , and the Association of Translation Companies .
Translation and Transcultural Studies (PhD)
Our approach centres on cultures of, and in, translation.
We are interested in how translation is theorised and practised in artistic, political, and social contexts and in different media.
We also use translation as an analytical and interdisciplinary tool to illuminate processes of migration, displacement, cultural production, transfer, language policy and intellectual histories.
Translational Biomedical Research (MRes)
MRes: 1 year (full time) or 2 years (part time)
The MRes in Translational Biomedical Research will offer you an extensive experimental learning experience in world-class research that spans the pipeline from discovery research to translational research.
You will aim to unravel the fundamental mechanisms of physiological and pathological processes with the view to translate scientific discoveries and knowledge from the laboratory into practical applications to deliver ground-breaking solutions for a healthier future for all.
Women’s and Gender Studies (PhD)
Work with leading researchers in the analysis of how feminism, gender and sexuality intersect with other identities, social divisions and social movements.
You will be based in the Warwick Sociology Department, ranked 8th in the UK (Complete University Guide 2025, Sociology), where you will be part of an active and exciting international research culture and receive specialist training and support to thrive.
World Literature (MA)
The World Literature MA at Warwick draws on the English and Comparative Literary Studies Department's renowned expertise in theoretically-driven world-literary and postcolonial studies to offer a course unique in the UK.
Warwick’s English Department allows you to explore these areas while working with those at the cutting intellectual edge of world-literary studies.
Writing (MA)
Writing is a profession and a passion; it is also an act of community.
Warwick’s MA in Writing introduces you to the real world of writing, surrounded and supported by writing staff and students who share your ambition.
It will show you how to make your way in the world as a writer.
The Warwick Writing Programme, founded in 1996, is the largest and most comprehensive of its kind in Europe and has been ranked first by The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide for eight years in a row.
No items to show
University of Warwick on Facebook University of Warwick on Twitter University of Warwick on Instagram University of Warwick on LinkedIn University of Warwick on YouTube
Live Chat
Tel: Make an enquiry
The University of Warwick Coventry , CV4 7AL , UK

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/visit:
Your
Your Campus Journey
Our world-class campus is made up of a thriving, diverse, and inclusive community.
With an inspirational blend of welcoming, modern facilities and buildings as well as vibrant, green outdoor spaces.
It is an excellent place for everyone to study, research, learn, work, and live.
We benefit from a semi-rural location in the heart of England, meaning that while the countryside is nearby and easily accessible, we are also only three miles (5km) from the buzzing centre of Coventry and on the border with Warwickshire.
To enable you to navigate to, from and around our campus, whether that's on foot or by another mode of travel, you'll find all the information you need right here.
We’re evolving our campus by transforming our buildings, facilities and public realm.
Learn more about the physical changes to our campus, including restrictions to routes, roads, and parking within and around campus.
Routes 41 and 42, introduced as part of a two-year pilot, will stop operating from Friday 26 September 2025 due to low usage.
To minimise disruption, …
From the week commencing 11th August, there will be a partial closure of bays in the Cryfield Village car park Link opens in a new window for approxima…
Scheduled maintenance works are taking place on the Tocil Bridge from Campus to Gibbet Hill W/C 28th of July for one week.
The bridge will remain open…
Latest updates for public transport networks/roads.
Routes 41 and 42, introduced as part of a two-year pilot, will stop operati…
From Monday 18th August - Saturday 20th September, there will be temporary …
UPDATE: The team has made considerable progress, and the new bridge and per…
The University supported Coventry City Council’s proposal to amend speed li…
View our interactive map for both a campus overview and floor plans of all our buildings.
We also have web-optimised PDF versions of our campus map available for download.
The University of Warwick is right in the centre of England, easy to reach by rail, car or plane from all parts of the UK and abroad.
Find out more about our region.
For more information contact us at:
University of Warwick Coventry, CV4 7AL United Kingdom Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 3523

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/about:
Warwick is one of the UK's leading universities, with an acknowledged reputation for excellence in research and teaching, for innovation, and for links with business and industry.
We’re a world-leading university with the highest academic and research standards.
But we’re not letting the story end there.
That’s because we’re a place of possibility.
We’re always looking for new ways to make things happen.
Whether you’re a dedicated student, an innovative lecturer or an ambitious company, Warwick provides a tireless yet supportive environment in which you can make an impact.
And our students, alumni and staff are consistently making an impact - the kind that changes lives, whether close to home or on a global scale.
It’s the achievements of our people that help explain why our levels of research excellence and scholarship are recognised internationally.
It’s a prime attraction for some of the biggest names in worldwide business and industry.
It’s why we’re ranked highly in the lists of great UK and world universities.
All of this contributes to a compelling story, one that’s almost 60 years old.
But who said youth should hold you back from changing the world?
Directions and Travel
Maps of Campus
University of Warwick Coventry CV4 7AL United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 3523 Fax: +44 (0)24 7646 1606
Warwick is a member of the Russell Group : an association of 24 major research-intensive universities of the UK.
Telephone listing
University of Warwick Coventry CV4 7AL United Kingdom Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 3523 Fax: +44 (0)24 7646 1606

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/undergraduate/opendays:
Meet our students and staff, discover more about our courses, student societies, and sports clubs, explore our state-of-the-art campus facilities, and take the next step in your journey with us.
Book your place today for our October Open Days which will be taking place on the following dates:
Book your place Link opens in a new window
Connect with our current students and the Student Recruitment Team to gain valuable insights into life at Warwick.
View upcoming events
We will offer a wide range of activities aimed at helping you get a feel for student life here.
You'll be able to attend department presentations and talks, take campus tours and view different accommodation options.
Everything is designed to give you a deeper insight into what being a student here is like.
Get a sense of what it will be like to live on our beautiful campus.
Our accommodation trails will guide you to residences which will be open to view.
Many of our students will also be opening their rooms and will be sharing their experiences of living on campus.
You can also attend our ‘Living at Warwick’ talk and speak to our Accommodation team at the Information Fair.
Attend departmental sessions to speak to our current students and staff.
You can also meet staff from our student support teams at the Information Fair who will contribute to your student experience.
We also have a number of Student Life sessions running throughout the day (we'd recommend booking onto our ‘ Welcome to Warwick ' talk, alongside ‘ Living at Warwick ’ and ‘ Applying to Warwick ’, as these sessions are popular).
Visit our Sports and Societies Fair to chat to students from a variety of clubs and societies, who’ll talk to you about all the exciting experiences and activities they’ve been involved with, and start you thinking about what clubs and societies you might like to join as a student.
Explore our wonderful campus!
Head to our campus tour tents where our friendly student ambassadors will be ready to take you on a guided tour.
Visit our central campus sites, including Warwick Arts Centre.
If you’re interested in seeing our sports facilities, we also run a separate tour of our Sports and Wellness Hub.
Tours last around 45 minutes.
Click on the boxes below to find out more about our Open Days and find the answers to some of our frequently answered questions.
Once you have booked, we will send you more detailed information, to help you prepare for the day.
If you can't find the answer you're looking for, please email our team at opendays@warwick.ac.uk
We have compiled a list of helpful FAQs to help you navigate Open Days at Warwick.
View FAQs
Our campus is well connected by public transport (shuttle buses in operation from nearby train stations for Open Days), and is easily accessible by road.
Travel options
You are welcome to come and experience what Warwick feels like for yourself, in your own time and at your own pace.
Explore our beautiful campus grounds.
Visit us
Keep exploring Accommodation Arts Campus life Clubs Courses Events Food Housing Local area Nightlife Shops Sports Study abroad Explore Study Support Travel Take the tour Our 360 tour lets you explore campus from your room.
Take a 360 tour Sign up for updates We’d love to keep in touch with you about all the latest news on campus life at Warwick.
Our mailing lists are open to everyone, whether you’re just beginning to think about Warwick, or have us down as a favourite choice.
Sign up to emails
Our 360 tour lets you explore campus from your room.
Take a 360 tour
We’d love to keep in touch with you about all the latest news on campus life at Warwick.
Live Chat Live Chat
Undergraduate Enquiries Make an enquiry
Unibuddy Chat to our Unibuddies

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/services/accommodation:
Whether you're considering joining Warwick for the first time or you’re currently studying with us, living on campus is the best way to experience Warwick.
You’ll find it easier to form friendships, access our comprehensive range of support services and benefit from the amazing facilities campus has to offer whilst never being more than a short walk from your lectures.
Enjoy independent living alongside your fellow students but with the added comfort of being surrounded by the support and safety of the Warwick community should you need it.
Our residences offer a wide range of choice to meet different budgets and needs.
Undergraduate Residences
Postgraduate Residences
Warwick Accommodation | Landlords
Senate House University of Warwick Coventry CV4 7AL
Staff and family
Argent Court University of Warwick Science Park Sir William Lyons Road Coventry CV4 7EZ
Contact us
Phone: +44 (0)24 7652 3772 Email: accommodation at warwick dot ac dot uk
Privacy
Warwick Accommodation privacy notice

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/60:
In our 60th year, we’re honouring our past, celebrating our present, and looking ahead to our future.
And we’re inviting our community to celebrate with us!
There are plenty of events yet to come and lots of opportunities to get involved.
Tickets are on sale now for the homecoming residency of In Pursuit of Repetitive Beats .
Late September sees the installation of a legacy mural art piece as part of the Retreat to Create project , with top UK artist David Speed.
Later on in the year you will be able to explore our Poetry Trail: A Science Art Collision .
One celebration you won't want to miss is our Global Illuminations Light Festival in November , as we reaffirm our commitment to creating a better world, together.
Your browser doesn't support HTML5 video.
Here is a link to the video instead.
Meet some of our amazing community sharing their stories
A multi-sensory joyride into the heart of a working class revolution in dance
Be intrigued, curious and inspired by these scientific insights and their poetic responses
Days in the Community for the University of Warwick's 60th
We invite you to join us in celebrating our anniversary by taking part in a series of special events on campus and in our local community.
As well as those events already listed, we will be adding more as we go into our 60th year in 2025.
To celebrate the 60th anniversary of the University of Warwick, the Library has created a special collection of fiction books from the last 60 years.
Come to the Library's Breathing Space to browse at your leisure or discover the collection online by searching "University of Warwick 60th Anniversary Collection" on the Library website.
Dive into the words and worlds of popular authors!
Our staff team will be creating a set of multilingual resources for families visiting the cathedral during the school summer holidays to reflect on the themes of peace, reconciliation and embracing diversity.
We plan this to be a celebration of how intercultural awareness and empathy for others can be a conduit for peace and are delighted to have enlisted support from the Coventry Young Poet Laureate Aamani Kanda.
We have commissioned Aamani to contribute a poem for our visitor booklet.
Have you had a memorable experience on campus that made you think differently about your relationship to the world around us?
To mark 60 years of the University as a place where people have been forming relationships with the land on which we live, work and study, we’re looking for stories about your encounters with the plants, lichens, trees, fungi, insects, and animals with which we share our campus.
After making its debut last year and becoming the backdrop for many happy family photographs, the ‘Big W’ has been refreshed for this year’s graduation season.
Inspired by the flowers of Madeira, our Gardens team have taken their green fingers and given it a new lease of life, with a nod to our 60th anniversary.
The 60th anniversary energises and animates the ambition laid out in our University Strategy: to point the way ahead so that, together, we can make a better world.
We've come a long way in 60 years.
Delve into our history, and explore the events and achievements that have been formative in ensuring Warwick is a place where everyone can thrive and reach their full potential.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/research/ref/results:
The University of Warwick is one of the UK’s academic powerhouses - 92% of our research is ‘world leading or internationally excellent’, according to a panel of global experts.
The REF (Research Excellence Framework) is the UK’s system for assessing the quality of research in the country’s higher education institutions.
Expert panels made up of senior academics, international members, and research users review submissions from universities every seven years.
In the most recent REF results – announced in May 2022 - a remarkable 50% of our submitted research was awarded the highest possible rating of ‘world leading’ (4 stars).
A further 42% is ‘internationally excellent’ (3 stars).
Other highlights from our REF 2021 assessment include:
Submissions are assessed on the quality of outputs, such as publications, performances, and exhibitions, their impact beyond academia, and the environment that supports research.
Each of these receives a star rating, with four star ‘world-leading’ being the highest.
Our reputation as a global research centre of excellence is matched by our outstanding teaching credentials – we were also named as University of the Year for Teaching Quality by the Sunday Times’ Good University Guide 2022.
Read the stories from our researchers about their work to shape the way ahead to a better world.
Research stories
Discover how our researchers are tackling issues and changing lives through research.
Science
Social Science
Arts

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/research/news:
Learn how Emma’s work using terahertz technology for early detection of skin cancer has helped her carve her niche in a male-dominated field.
From Sri Lanka to Warwick, Wiji’s 40-year career in Economics has seen changes, but her love for research, teaching and collaboration remains constant.
Vice-Provost for the Faculty of Arts Rachel shares her passion and advocacy for the value of the arts for future generations.
Explore how creative and interdisciplinary research is revolutionising healthcare, from fertility treatments and neonatal care, to the mental health of UK construction workers.
Innovation might sound abstract, but its impact is deeply tangible.
D iscover how innovations from Warwick researchers are shaping a better future.
The climate crisis is affecting us all.
Explore how Warwick researchers are developing practical solutions for a more sustainable future.
In unpredictable times, creative thinking is more important than ever.
Uncover how our unlike-minded researchers are addressing the world's most pressing challenges.
United by passion, purpose and Infinite Curiosity, our interdisciplinary research teams bring together diverse thinking to make the world better.
The way ahead is driven by expert researchers who are exploring ways to create a better world for everyone.
Read some of our researcher's stories to learn more about their incredible work.
The International Research Culture Conference (IRCC) invites all those working in research to come together to connect and cultivate an inclusive community of practice.
Learn how the team from the Department of Physics are developing a new technology which could help detect skin cancer.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/news/pressreleases/your_morning_coffee_really_does_make_you_happier:
Researchers from the University of Warwick and Bielefeld University in Germany have tracked the mood of more than two hundred young adults for up to four weeks each.
The young people involved received prompts on their phones seven times a day, asking whether they had recently consumed caffeine and how they felt at that moment.
They found that caffeine-drinkers regularly report a better mood after a cup of coffee or tea in the first 2.5 hours of the day as compared to later in the day.
This finding, published in Nature Scientific Report s , was discovered from 28,000 mood reports collected across the four-week period.
Professor Anu Realo, Department of Psychology, University of Warwick explains how caffeine has this mood boosting effect: “Caffeine works by blocking adenosine receptors, which can increase dopamine activity in key brain regions - an effect that studies have linked to improved mood and greater alertness”
In the study, caffeine consumption was linked to an immediate increase in positive emotions for two and a half hours after waking up, particularly enthusiasm and happiness.
Smaller effects were seen for contentment and for a reduction in sadness.
Yet, it remains unclear whether these effects are related to a reduction in withdrawal symptoms after a night’s sleep.
Professor Anu Realo continues: “Even people with moderate caffeine consumption can experience mild withdrawal symptoms that disappear with the first cup of coffee or tea in the morning.”
The researchers also investigated whether coffee has different effects on different individuals.
It was expected that people with higher levels of anxiety would experience negative mood changes, such as increased nervousness, after consuming caffeine – however this wasn’t always the case.
Justin Hachenberger from Bielefeld University and first author says: “We were somewhat surprised to find no differences between individuals with varying levels of caffeine consumption or differing degrees of depressive symptoms, anxiety, or sleep problems.
The links between caffeine intake and positive or negative emotions were fairly consistent across all groups.”
Still, the study authors caution that caffeine can lead to dependence.
Excessive intake is linked to various health risks and consuming it later in the day can lead to sleep problems.
Professor Sakari Lemola of Bielefeld University and the study’s senior author said: “Around 80 per cent of adults worldwide consume caffeinated beverages, and the use of such stimulating substances dates far back in human history.
Even wild animals consume caffeine; bees and bumblebees prefer nectar from plants that contain caffeine.”
ENDS
Notes to Editors
For more information please contact:
Matt Higgs, PhD | Media & Communications Officer (Press Office)
Email: Matt.Higgs@warwick.ac.uk | Phone: +44(0)7880 175403
The manuscript “ The association of caffeine consumption with positive affect but not with negative affect changes across the day” is published in nature scientific report.
DOI: 10.1038/s41598-025-14317-0
About the University of Warwick
Founded in 1965, the University of Warwick is a world-leading institution known for its commitment to era-defining innovation across research and education.
A connected ecosystem of staff, students and alumni, the University fosters transformative learning, interdisciplinary collaboration, and bold industry partnerships across state-of-the-art facilities in the UK and global satellite hubs.
Here, spirited thinkers push boundaries, experiment, and challenge conventions to create a better world.
18 August 2025

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/news/pressreleases/new_trial_tests_cheap_and_simple_solution_for_toe_osteoarthritis:
A new clinical trial has begun, led by the University of Warwick and University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire (UHCW) NHS Trust, to improve the basic mobility and quality of life of people with osteoarthritis of their big toe joint by using specially designed shoe inserts to manage their pain.
Osteoarthritis affects close to 600 million people worldwide, and 17% of people over 50 in the UK suffer with osteoarthritis of the foot.
The most common joint affected is the first metatarsophalangeal joint, the joint connecting your big toe to the rest of your foot.
It can lead to persistent foot pain, which results in difficulty walking and often limits the activities people are able to do.
Relieving pain and increasing mobility for this condition is the focus of the new BigTOE Trial.
Patient Beverly Henderson, who has helped researchers to shape the trial, described osteoarthritis of her foot as: “Like the inside of your shoe being ‘on fire.’ Pain radiates down from the toe.
Your footwear doesn’t fit.
You end up buying two pairs of the same shoes one a size larger than the other - just to walk.
You’re unable to walk so you can’t prepare food, get a drink, or find and take medication.
You’ll try anything to make the toe comfortable and maybe walk.”
Osteoarthritis of the foot is common and disabling but there is limited evidence on how to treat it, with NICE guidelines focusing on weight management and exercises and, ultimately, surgery.
The BigTOE Trial is looking for another solution, testing whether shoe inserts can limit the impact of the affected joint and improve the person’s mobility that is often limited by foot pain.
Chief Investigator for the trial Dr Michael Backhouse, Associate Professor at Warwick Medical School and part of UHCW’s Institute for Applied & Translational Technologies in Surgery (IATTS), said: "Osteoarthritis is a complex condition that affects the entire joint and can have a profound impact on people's daily lives.
When it occurs in the foot and ankle, it can be especially challenging, not least because there is currently limited evidence to guide effective treatment.
This new trial aims to change that, offering hope of clearer answers for both patients and clinicians.
“This trial, co-designed by patients and a team of experts from the UK and Australia, directly addresses a NICE recommendation for research – to evaluate devices for painful foot osteoarthritis.
If effective, these inserts would be a cheap and simple solution to a common disabling problem and one that could be rapidly implemented in the NHS.”
This £1.9m trial, funded by the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR), has just opened its first sites in Leeds, Kingston, Cornwall, Oxford, Tameside, Torbay, Mid Yorkshire, Northumbria, Dorset, Salford, Rochdale and Bradford.
Soon, a total of 30 sites across the country will trial the shoe inserts.
Brian Welsh, Principal MSK Podiatrist and Dr Jill Halstead PhD, Clinical Lead for Research, BigTOE Trial leads at Leeds Community Healthcare NHS Trust, said: “We are excited to be hosting the BigTOE study.
We have lots of people referred with painful and debilitating osteoarthritis of their big toe, the treatment options for this are limited and we don’t know which one’s work.
This can leave people unable to work and prevent them from partaking in their normal activities, with the only remaining option being joint surgery.
“This trial will help us understand what type of insoles work best for people and has the potential to offer an alternative treatment to joint surgery.”
Emily Neville, Senior Orthotist, PI, and BigTOE Trial lead at Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust said: “There is a distinct lack of research in the speciality of Orthotics so it is brilliant to be able to take part in a trial that will have a direct influence on Orthotic prescriptions provided on the NHS.
I hope that this trial will provide sound evidence for the provision of a simple solution for patients with big toe Osteoarthritis.”
The BigTOE Trial will conclude in late 2027, at which point the results will reveal whether the shoe inserts have improved foot function, foot pain, health-related quality of life and have shown their cost-effectiveness over a one-year period and whether they present a quick-to-adopt solution that could help millions.
Notes To Editors
University of Warwick Press Contact:
Animation Credit: BigTOE Trial
About University of Warwick:
About NIHR:
The mission of the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) is to improve the health and wealth of the nation through research.
We do this by:
NIHR is funded by the Department of Health and Social Care.
Our work in low- and middle-income countries is principally funded through UK international development funding from the UK government.
The BigTOE trial is funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment (HTA) Programme (NIHR134398).
The views expressed are those of the author(s) and not necessarily those of the NIHR or the Department of Health and Social Care.
For more details on the BigTOE trial - https://warwick.ac.uk/bigtoe

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/news/pressreleases/checkmate_university_of:
The University of Warwick will welcome over 1,000 players from across the UK next summer as it hosts the 2026 British Chess Championships – bringing one of the country’s longest-running and most prestigious sporting events back to the region.
Taking place from 1–9 August 2026, the championships will see some of Britain’s top grandmasters, rising stars, and junior players compete across a wide range of age-group tournaments – from under-8s through to seniors.
The event will be staged across venues operated by Warwick Conferences, the University’s award-winning conference and events service.
The tournament will mark the 112th edition of the British Chess Championships, a series which has run almost unbroken since 1904.
Coventry last hosted the event in 2015, when Grandmaster Jonathan Hawkins took the national title and Akshaya Kalaiyalahan won the women’s championship.
The city also welcomed the Championships in 1970.
Paul Bartlett, Director of Warwick Conferences, said: “We’re proud to be hosting the British Chess Championships here at the University of Warwick.
Our campus combines excellent transport links, modern event spaces, and a strong track record in delivering major events – all set within a friendly and self-contained environment that works well for competitors and visitors alike.
“We’re looking forward to welcoming players from across the country to a campus that champions ambition, focus and community – qualities that align well with the game of chess.”
The University has one of the largest and most successful university chess clubs in the UK.
Since 2015, the Warwick Chess Club has gone on to win the British Universities’ Championship three times.
Alex Holowczak, Director of Events for the English Chess Federation, said: “We’re delighted that the Championships will return to the University of Warwick in 2026.
The event continues to grow in size and significance, and Warwick provides the facilities, experience and chess pedigree needed to support that growth.
We’re looking forward to a fantastic event in Coventry.”
The 2025 Championships will take place in Liverpool, with reigning champion Gawain Jones defending his title.
Stevie Connoll, Media & Communications Officer
stevie.connoll@warwick.ac.uk / +44 (0)7824 540791
Here, spirited thinkers push boundaries, experiment and challenge convention to create a better world.
About Warwick Conferences
Warwick Conferences is dedicated to transforming the way training, events and conferences are run by providing innovative environments and excellent service.
With an impressive range of 300 event and meeting spaces available within three venues, the company is very well positioned to cater to a range of client needs.
Warwick’s facilities range from theatres and lecture rooms to outdoor and creative spaces to inspire visitors.
Endless possibilities are available for organisers, whether it’s conferences, dinners, team building, board meetings or brainstorming sessions.
For large-scale operational events, Central Campus Venues can host up to 1,200 delegates.
The facilities inspire and enable delegates to flourish.
This is achieved by focusing on wellbeing, enhancing the experience and creating memorable events.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/news/pressreleases/sleep_problems_in_early_teens_associated_with_future_self_harm:
University of Warwick analysis of data from over 10,000 teenagers has found that sleep problems at age 14 are associated with self-harm behaviour at that age and future self-harm at age 17.
Self-harm in young people is a major public health concern, rates are rising , and the adolescent years presents a critical period of intervention.
Another modern challenge facing adolescents is sleep deficiency, with global reductions in total sleep time and inconsistent sleep patterns, and as many as 70% of teenagers getting inadequate sleep .
Published today in the Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry , researchers at The University of Warwick and University of Birmingham have investigated this relationship between multiple measures of sleep problems and self-harm, using data from over 10,000 teenagers from the Millenium Cohort.
10,000 teenagers, aged 14, were asked about their sleep problems including how long they slept on school days, how long it took to get to sleep, and how often they awoke during the night.
They were also asked whether they had self-harmed at 14, a question they were asked again three years later when surveyed at 17 years old.
Michaela Pawley, PhD Candidate, Department of Psychology, University of Warwick, and first author said: “Using large scale data like this really allows you to explore longitudinal relationships at a population level.
In this analysis, we discovered that shorter sleep on school days, longer time to fall asleep and more frequent night awakenings at age 14 associated with self-harm concurrently and 3 years later at age 17.”
“While this is clearly an unfavourable relationship, one positive from this research is that sleep is a modifiable risk factor - we can actually do something about it.
If the link between sleep and self-harm holds true and with well-placed interventions in schools and homes, there is a lot we can do to turn the tide.”
The researchers found that sleep problems at age 14 were directly associated with self-harm behaviour at age 14 and again at age 17, showing that teenage sleep can have long lasting impacts on self-harm, and could be an avenue to support teenagers at risk.
Sleep problems contributed to risk, even when accounting for other factors that have shown to influence self-harm such as age, sex, socio-economic status, previous instances of self-harm, self-esteem and, importantly, levels of depression.
Importantly, only sleep was consistently significant when looking cross-sectionally (age 14) and longitudinally (age 17).
Senior author Professor Nicole Tang, Director of Warwick Sleep and Pain Lab at the University of Warwick added: “Self-harm is one of the leading causes of death among adolescents and young adults.
It is a sobering topic.
Knowing that poor and fragmented sleep is often a marker preceding or co-occurring with suicidal thoughts and behaviour, it gives us a useful focus for risk monitoring and early prevention."
The researchers were interested in what could explain this relationship and tested the idea that poor sleep is linked with poorer decision making, which increases your risk of self-harm behaviour.
This turned out to not be the case, leaving an open question as to how poor sleep is associated with risk of self-harm.
Regardless, because adolescence is a critical period of vulnerability and potential prevention for self-harm, this study emphasises that sleep health needs to be prioritised in adolescents.
Doing so could have long lasting protective effects.
The paper - “ The Longitudinal Role of Sleep on Self-Harm During Adolescence: A Birth Cohort Study ” is published in the Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry.
DOI: 10.1111/jcpp.70018
If you have been affected by the issues raised in this report and need support:
Children and young people affected by mental health issues can find support, information, and details about their local NHS mental health services at www.youngminds.org.uk/find-help or call Childline on 0800 1111.
For adults, whether you are concerned about yourself or a loved one, you can find local NHS urgent mental health helplines and a list of mental health charities, organisations and support groups offering expert advice, on the NHS website at: www.nhs.uk/conditions/stress-anxiety-depression/mental-health-helplines/ or call Samaritans on 116 123.
About The Millennium Cohort Study (MCS):
The MCS is following 19,517 young people born across the UK in 2000-01, building a uniquely detailed portrait of the children of the new century.
The MCS is funded by the Economic and Social Research Council and a consortium of government departments and managed by the UCL Centre for Longitudinal Studies at the UCL Social Research Institute.
Visit https://www.cls.ucl.ac.uk/cls-studies/millennium-cohort-study/
About the University of Warwick:

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/ug:
View our courses - 2026 Entry | 2025 Entry
As a undergraduate student at Warwick, you’ll be challenged and inspired by leading experts in their fields.
Whether you’re aiming for a successful career or looking to take your existing career to new heights, we’ll provide you with all the skills and knowledge you need to fulfil your ambitions, as well as access to a range of exciting services beyond study.
Download our Prospectus
Our Open Days give you the chance to meet staff and students, visit academic departments, tour the campus and get a real feel for life at Warwick.
Visit our Open Days page to see our upcoming events and to book your place for our October dates.
Explore Open Days
Find out what it is really like to study at the University of Warwick directly from our current students – get answers on campus life, accommodation, study support and wellbeing and more.
You can also read their blogs Link opens in a new window to find out even more about life at Warwick.
Find a student
Discover a large range of both on and off campus accommodation options on our accommodation pages.
Access help and support for applications or with specific requirements.
We’re here to make living easy, so you can study hard.
Accommodation will probably be your biggest expense at University, with food and drink, clothing and socialising also high up on your living costs.
Get a first hand look about what the student academic and social experience is like at the University of Warwick.
Warwick is one of the best universities for employment in the UK.
Our students’ appeal to top employers means we score highly in university employability rankings.
Visit our FAQ section to find the answer to frequently asked questions on the topics of:
You'll always find support on hand, whether you're facing course-related or personal challenges.
Learn more about our specialist support teams.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/pg:
Help us test our new international page for a chance to win a £20 shopping voucher.
Take the Test.
View our courses - 2026 entry | 2025 entry
As a postgraduate student at Warwick, you’ll be challenged and inspired by leading experts in their fields.
Our graduates are some of the most sought-after by leading employers.
We are in the top 70 in the world for our reputation with employers (QS World University Rankings 2025), and we are the 6th most targeted university by the largest numbers of top UK graduate employers (The Graduate Market in 2024, High Fliers Research Ltd.) Link opens in a new window
Our campus is like a small student city, where everything you need is only a short walk away.
With a range of facilities including Warwick Arts Centre, a sports hub, shopping centre, bars, restaurants, and cafés, you’ll be able to try new experiences, stay active, and make new friends.
We know how important it is to feel safe and supported while at university.
We provide a welcoming environment for all students, and our wellbeing and specialist teams are on hand to help with all aspects of postgraduate life.
You’ll also be assigned a Personal Tutor ( PGT ) or a Supervisor ( PGR ) who can offer academic support.
At Warwick we undertake truly amazing research.
Alongside our outstanding educational offering, the excellence and originality of our research, and dedication of our researchers, is what defines our community.
Discover our research
With over 10,000 international students from approximately 157 countries, and 45% of our academic staff from overseas, our campus is truly a diverse and global place which attracts the brightest and best international students and staff.
Learn more
Discover postgraduate life at Warwick by joining one of our virtual or in-person events.
Explore our events
See our postgraduate course fees and find out more about scholarships and funding.
Learn about fees and funding
Read our student blogs and chat with current students to find out more about life at Warwick.
Talk to our students
Want to know more about postgraduate study at Warwick?
Sign up to our emails and you’ll be the first to hear about upcoming events, opportunities to chat with our departments, key dates, and advice on the application process.
Sign up

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/international:
Take the test .
Wherever you’re joining us from, we’re here to help you feel welcome and supported before you arrive and throughout your time at Warwick.
Explore guidance tailored to you, practical advice for your journey, and everything you need to settle in and make the most of your experience.
Join a world-class university known for academic excellence, cutting-edge research, and a vibrant international community.
Our consistently high rankings reflect the quality of our teaching, the strength of our global connections, and the success of our graduates.
Warwick is consistently ranked in the Top 10 in all major UK league tables
(The Times/Sunday Times, The Guardian, Complete University Guide)
Warwick is the 6th most targeted university by the UK’s top 100 employers
Warwick is ranked in the global top 100
(QS World University Rankings 2025)
Stepping onto campus is just the beginning.
You’ll find everything from where to live to budgeting tips to scholarships laid out clearly to help you settle in, thrive, and enjoy university life.
We’re committed to helping you build your future from the very start.
Careers support at Warwick is built around accessibility and global ambition.
You’re not just a student, you’re an emerging professional navigating the international job market.
With tailored tools, expert advice, and a network of peers, employers, and alumni, you’ll be ready to step confidently into your next chapter.
Warwick is home to a diverse global community.
By working with partners worldwide, we create opportunities for students to learn, innovate, and make an impact on the world.
Our international connections also open doors to unique experiences, collaborations, and perspectives that enrich your time at Warwick.
Learn more about our international strategy, research collaborations and global partnerships.
There are many ways to take your studies and experiences to the next level.
From preparing for your degree to broadening your horizons with international opportunities, these pathways help you grow academically, personally, and globally.
Have questions?
Want to connect with current students or attend a virtual event?
There are several ways to access the guidance and information you need.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/cll:
BA Counselling and the Psychotherapeutic Relationship 2025 entry is open for application.
Postgraduate courses for 2025 October start are now open for applications.
Apply now
Part-time short course Introduction to Counselling is open for October start.
Undergraduate courses | Postgraduate courses | Short courses
For more than 30 years the Centre for Lifelong Learning has been a centre of expertise in the education of lifelong learners in different contexts, with a focus on enabling adult learners to achieve their personal and professional goals by accessing a Warwick education, irrespective of background.
1000+
Students
85%
pass with 1st or 2nd class degrees
20+
professional partners
Study our part-time degrees in Child and Family: Mental Health , Early Childhood , Counselling and Psychotherapeutic Relationship and more.
Flexible entry requirements and student support for you to study what you love.
Study Coaching , Career Development and Coaching Studies and Career Education, Information and Guidance in HE through our flexible part-time postgraduate programmes.
Flexible course lengths for those looking to develop their skills and knowledge, particularly useful if you're looking for professional development opportunities, such as in Introduction to Counselling .
Stay informed about what is going on at the Centre.
Read our staff and student blogs , or sign up to our mailing list for latest course information.
Participate in an event to meet like-minded individuals, whether it is to apply for a course , or to stay active and connected on a course .
If you are a current staff or student at Warwick Centre for Lifelong Learning, sign in to view the portal.
Visit our staff portal or Visit our student portal
Westwood Campus, The University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom View us on the interactive campus map

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/research/excellence:
92% of our research is world-leading or internationally excellent.
Our results in REF 2021 demonstrate the world-class quality of our research, our approach, and most importantly, our people.
92% of our research has been assessed to be ‘world leading or internationally excellent’ by a panel of global experts in the Research Excellence Framework (REF2021).
More on our REF results
Science Social Science Arts

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/research/impact:
The University of Warwick is a world-leading research-intensive university with the highest academic and research standards .
Our ongoing commitment to excellence is reflected our performance in the national frameworks, but also in the drive and passion of our people.
United by passion, purpose and Infinite Curiosity , our research teams bring together diverse thinking to make the world better.
Our researchers are shaping the way ahead to build a better world.
Meet the people behind our research and learn more about their projects in a series of videos from across the faculties.
View all of our research centres spanning Arts, Science and Social Sciences, plus our cross-faculty research centres.
Take a look at how our research is making a real difference in the world.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/research/priorities:
Our interdisciplinary research is internationally-leading and impactful.
It's helping to make lives healthier, safer, more resilient and more just.
Our research communities foster interaction and collaboration.
Our Institute of Advanced Study is dedicated to advancing new research ideas, characterised by strong interdisciplinarity, innovation and internationalisation.
Interdisciplinarity also extends into our vibrant undergraduate community.
Through our Institute for Advanced Teaching and Learning , we support interdisciplinary student research across a wide variety of subjects.
What does it take for life to survive and flourish?
How can technology improve healthcare?
How can we find and store sustainable energy?
How do decisions individuals make impact society?
These are just some of the questions and concerns address by our Global Research Priorities.
GRPs are multi-disciplinary networks of academics working collaboratively respond to complex global challenges that can only be tackled through research excellence.
They unite academics from many different disciplines to address some of humanity’s most urgent questions - enabling us to improve the lives of people around the world.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/research/partnerships:
The University of Warwick is renowned for excellence in our innovative approach to working with partners – from the private sector to the NHS to local communities.
Our partnerships help grow our world-leading activity across all our disciplines.
Our links to industry partners and collaborations with organisations such as the Alan Turing Institute act as catalysts for new research networks.
Partner with Warwick
We recognise the importance of collaboration with industry.
We develop new partnerships to undertake world-class research and help companies enhance their innovation.
We're passionate about manufacturing, innovation and technology.
At Warwick Manufacturing Group (WMG), we research, develop, advise, train and collaborate with leading businesses, such as Jaguar Landrover.
The National Automotive Innovation Centre - a partnership between WMG, Jaguar Land Rover and Tata Motors - is driving forward the automotive industry.
An exciting hub for automotive research, it fuses industry with academia to develop future vehicles and mobility solutions.
We bring research and communities together, embedding creatives from the local cultural sector within research projects through our place-based research and culture projects.
These projects address local challenges through innovative collaborations with artists and creatives, to change lives for the better.
We were a principal partner for Coventry City of Culture 2021, in which we supported many local collaborative projects between researchers, organisations, charities and creatives.
We continue to work with partners across the West Midlands on projects supporting local people, economy and communities.
We’re passionate about building enduring international partnerships with like-minded academics and institutions that enrich excellence in research and education.
Our strategic partnerships span Africa, Australia, China, Europe, North America and beyond.
We work closely with the NHS to undertake pioneering research into areas including mental health and wellbeing , miscarriage , premature birth , cardiac arrest survival and cancer diagnosis.
Our research into patient and public involvement (PPI) has contributed to changing how NHS healthcare is researched, evaluated and improved.
It has embedded patient perspectives into the development of health and social care systems.
Our research has also contributed to NHS cost savings.
For example, research and clinical trials led to the increased use of wires to treat fractures (which rose to 42% from just 12% from before trial data was published), representing a £2million cost saving to the NHS.
A research partnership with Warwick can provide access to academic expertise and state-of-the-art equipment and facilities.
We work with businesses and communities to address real-world challenges, and drive economic, social and cultural growth.
Warwick Data is working to interrogate and understand data and the role it plays in our lives.
We’re one of five partners to have founded The Alan Turing Institute for data science.
Our partnership with Monash University, Melbourne, Australia focuses on high impact research.
The National Automotive Innovation Centre is driving the future of the automotive industry.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/research/postgraduate:
Postgraduates form the bedrock of our research culture, helping to establish our reputation for research excellence and making a strong contribution to the intellectual life of our community.
With a postgraduate research degree from The University of Warwick, you'll learn alongside leading experts and receive support and development at every step of your journey.
Join The University of Warwick postgraduate community to gain invaluable academic and life skills to help you in the next steps of your career.
Discover Warwick's Doctoral College, including researcher development opportunities and PhD life.
Find all the information on funding and scholarship opportunities for each stage of your PGR journey.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/research/resources:
Go to WRAP to find a publication
Research expertise
Available facilities and equipment
On our Features page you can find the latest feature length, in-depth articles from our academic staff, as they react to news and current affairs.
Discover articles that answer today's most pressing questions, provoking debate and offering insight into academic life at Warwick.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/business/research-engagement:
Research and Engagement
Explore how our research, industrial engagement and outreach ecosystem can help reinforce your partnership with Warwick.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/business/find-new-talent:
Find New Talent
Connect with us to see how we can support your talent pipeline, from recruitment to short and long term projects.
Find out how we can help take your workforce to the next level.
A government-funded programme that enables collaboration and the transfer of knowledge and technology between a business, a graduate and a university.
Explore opportunities for long-term relationships between academics and industry partners.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/business/develop-talent:
Develop Talent
Talk to us about customising courses and bespoke arrangements.
From executive education to degree apprenticeships, see how our departments and schools can upskill your workforce.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/business/facilities-services:
Facilities and Services
Our facilities and services offer a unique opportunity for businesses to access forward-looking resources and expertise, while benefiting from our supportive and collaborative environment.
Enhance your competitive edge with our comprehensive scientific research and analytical services.
Our tailored solutions include advanced materials analysis, spectroscopy, imaging and testing to meet the unique needs of commercial clients.
Award-winning conference, meeting and event services in a lively, attractive destination.
Whether it’s a space to learn, to be inspired or to get together with others to celebrate, access the facilities and resources to create a lasting, memorable experience.
World-class arts and entertainment venue - and the largest Arts Centre outside of London - featuring the best in film, theatre, music, comedy and orchestral music.
Modern facilities, a diverse programme and community engagement initiatives create a vibrant hub for arts and culture.
Outstanding multi-sport facilities with everything you need to enjoy a healthy, active lifestyle including a purpose-built Sports and Wellness Hub, outdoor pitches, athletics track and Tennis Centre with indoor and outdoor courts.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/business/innovation-commercialisation:
Innovation and Commercialisation
Accelerate the growth and success of your business with Innovation and commercialisation facilities at the University of Warwick.
We offer a range of opportunities to support businesses and entrepreneurs with developing innovative ideas into successful ventures.
The University is committed to forming regional, national and international partnerships to drive innovation in health care for public and patient benefit.
We are forming health missions in priority areas for partners to join and we are leading on the development of a new Health Tech campus at Arden Cross.
As the landscape continues to evolve, it's an ideal time to reshape, refresh and renew our "Excellence with Purpose" 2030 strategy.
This renewed vision will not only elevate our future goals, it will also reaffirm our commitment to making a positive, lasting impact for years to come.
Here we will review our achievements and commit ourselves to a series of goals.
Discover more

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/news-events:
Our community is made up of more people, more opinions, more ideas, more culture, more experiences and more voices than ever before.
Our news pages reflect that and tell your stories and the global impact of Warwick alumni.
Inside Rootes, you'll discover inspiring interviews with alumni including award-winning comedian Frank Skinner, multiple Paralympic medallist Karé Adenegan, and tech entrepreneur Joe Wee, a host of your Warwick memories, and an informative look at the University's growth and transformation across the decades.
You can also hear from Warwick’s new Chancellor and proud alumna, Bience Gawanas, who came to Warwick in the 1980s as a refugee from Apartheid, discover insights into Warwick’s ground-breaking research in women's health and fintech, and see how Warwick's campus is changing.
Meera is a Cyber Security Analyst at AVEVA
Ashley’s passion for drama and performance flourished during their PGCE at Warwick, preparing them to inspire students and lead as a Drama Teacher and Personal Development Lead in Performing Arts.
Bethan found both academic inspiration and lifelong connection during her time at Warwick, laying the foundation for her journey from law student to Partner and Head of Early Talent at Feldon Dunsmore Solicitors.
Growing up, opportunities were limited for Krish.
With tough financial conditions, he often shared a room with four other family members and moved homes frequently.
But with hard work, resilience, and vital scholarship support, he’s now pursuing all possibilities open to him at Warwick Business School.
Arthur de Panafieu is studying to become an actor and comedian in Paris.
Vandana works as a Project Supply Chain Manager at Hitachi Energy
Christine Wong is a Content Manager at BRANDTHINK Malaysia
In Year 8, Gabriela set her sights on Warwick, a dream that seemed out of reach.
But through the Warwick Scholars access programme, Gabriela was given a chance – coupled with her enthusiastic determination, she’s never looked back.
Her confidence has grown with every step and it’s all thanks to supporters like you.
Lubna is the Director of Public Health Emergency Department at the Gulf Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (Gulf CDC).
Mahlia is Assistant Director at Schauspielhaus Zurich (the biggest theatre institution in Switzerland), and freelance Artistic Director in Luxemburg.
Stories of innovators, educators, creatives and change makers.
Incredible stories from your alumni community from around the world.
Wherever life takes you, you're never far from a Warwick connection.
If you graduated within the last five years, we want to hear your story.
Your relationship with Warwick doesn't end when you graduate.
Keep up to date with us by ensuring your current contact details are present and correct.
Wherever you are in the world, whatever you're doing and whatever stage you're at in your post-graduation journey, we want to hear from you.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/services:
Take advantage of a range of benefits and offers that are exclusive to you:
The Careers Service at Warwick is here to help you make career decisions.
You can continue to get advice and support for up to two years after graduation via myAdvantage .
Recent graduates can access a Warwick Careers Graduate toolkit here .
Receive sector insights and professional support as a mentee, or share expertise as a mentor via our alumni community platform, Warwickgrad .
Access mentoring, digital resources, and advice, as well as growing your network with fellow alumni.
Warwick can help you to grow your knowledge and skills.
You can benefit from a 10% tuition fee alumni discount accepted on selected postgraduate degrees.
You can also access a wide range of online resources through your Warwickgrad email address.
Warwick has always been a place that brings brilliant people together.
Join exclusive professional networks across the global Warwick community via Warwickgrad or on LinkedIn.
Stay connected with Warwick to hear about future in-person events.
If you're close to campus, why not enjoy access to the Library, University House (including the Learning Grid), and the Sports and Wellness Hub (when you join as a member) forever?
Apply for an alumni swipecard or renew your existing card online.
Life is always changing, but your relationship with Warwick doesn't have to.
Stay connected to Warwick through newsletters, event invites, and departmental news.
Keep updated with your community by signing up to Warwickgrad or filling in our update form .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/networks:
Wherever life takes you, you’re never too far from another Warwick graduate you can connect with.
Whether you’re interested in expanding your professional network, socialising with fellow graduates or sharing your expertise with the next generation, it’s a fantastic way to stay connected and get involved with Warwick locally.
To stay informed with the latest events and news, please update your contact details .
Let us know how you've been getting on since graduating from Warwick.
Find your online community of professional networks and geographical regions.
One of your biggest connections at Warwick will be with your department.
Warwickgrad is your exclusive, trusted and focused networking space.
Whether you have a passion for inspiring and guiding the next generation, would like to explore your own development, or want to play a more active role in Warwick’s future - this is where you can do all that and more.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/giving:
Warwick’s alumni and supporter community plays an integral role in providing the wealth of support and opportunities available to students.
Through this programme, the entire student lifecycle is considered- right from sowing the seeds at primary school through to encouraging postgraduate research, entrepreneurship and beyond.
The University is committed to matching your support, investing in programmes like IntoUniversity and Warwick Scholars - programmes that are borne from the research of our academics, who have earned national and international reputations for widening participation and inclusion.
By supporting this mission to enhance education and the student experience, you’re empowering young people to achieve their dreams of a university education.
Your commitment helps break down barriers, promotes social mobility and builds a stronger, fairer society.
Together, we’re unearthing the thinkers and leaders of tomorrow who will go on to make a positive impact on the world.
One in four Warwick Students come from a low income background
293 undergraduate students were supported by the Warwick Scholars programme in 2023/24
Over £2.6million was raised toward projects that enhance the student experience in 2023/24
70% of students who attend the Into University Coventry centre go on to progress to university
Our student support programme targets the whole student lifecycle.
From sowing the seeds at primary school through our partnership with Into University, to removing the barriers to undergraduate study through the Warwick Scholars Programme, we’re empowering the thinkers and leaders of tomorrow thanks to your donations.
Into University centres support young people aged seven and up to realise their ambitions, achieve their academic potential and develop vital skills.
Warwick’s Scholars programme ensures that gifted and talented students from disadvantaged backgrounds can take up a place at university.
Every year, Warwick alumni fund innovative, exciting projects designed by students, for students to tackle the issues that affect them most.
This year’s Student Support Impact Report thanks all those who have supported young people to access and excel at Warwick.
Alumni Information for Parents and Families Data Protection statement
For general enquiries regarding donations: Email: benefactors at warwick dot ac dot uk Tel: +44 (0)24 7657 4037
For general alumni queries: Email: alumni at warwick dot ac dot uk Tel: +44 (0)24 7657 4036
Join our team View recruitment opportunities and more

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/family:
Coming to university can be a big adjustment, both for your young person and for you.
As parents or carers of students at the University of Warwick, we understand that you want your young person to feel able to achieve their best.
As a University, we are committed to providing a supportive environment for all.
Sometimes, students encounter personal or academic difficulties.
The University has a number of specialist support services to aid students through challenging times, and enable them to fulfil their potential.
Support services communicate closely with each other (within the bounds of confidentiality) to provide comprehensive and holistic support and will refer students where appropriate.
A student may choose to access support via any of the below services.
An academic staff member based in the student’s department, providing support and guidance on academic progress, personal development, and employability skills.
We provide a range of services that can help your young person to develop the personal resources and skills they need to navigate the challenges of student life.
The Dean of Students' Office plays a key role in enhancing the student learning experience at Warwick.
With a dynamic team of academic, professional services staff, and students, the Dean of Students' Office provides strategic leadership for academic support through the personal tutoring system and the institution’s Inclusive Education approach.
Living alongside students in University accommodation, the Residential Community team provides 24/7 support and organises community-building events.
Our Residential Community Assistants (RCAs), who are current Warwick students, offer peer support and can be found in residences or Residences’ Hubs, wearing pink t-shirts/hoodies.
Located at the heart of campus, the University Health Centre is an NHS service providing GP and other healthcare services to students living on campus or within the catchment area, as well as staff (and their families) residing on campus.
The Multifaith Chaplaincy provides a welcoming space for reflection, support, and community.
Whether your young person is seeking quiet time, socialising with friends, or speaking with a Chaplain in confidence, everyone is welcome, regardless of faith or belief.
They can enjoy a hot drink, meet new people, and find the support they need.
The Warwick Students' Union (WSU) Advice Centre, part of the Students' Union, offers free, independent support throughout your young person's University journey.
Our Advisors, who are not employed by the University, provide guidance on any issues affecting their student experience, with support available via email, phone, or face-to-face appointments.
The Student Funding Support team provides expert advice and guidance on all aspects of financial support, including scholarships, bursaries, loans, and budgeting.
The team is here to help your young person navigate funding options and manage their finances throughout their academic journey.
The Community Safety department ensures the safety and security of everyone at the University, providing 24/7 support year-round.
They also safeguard the University’s physical assets and buildings, helping to maintain the high standards of teaching and research at Warwick.
Everyone at Warwick has the right to feel safe.
Harassment, discrimination, bullying, sexual misconduct, hate incidents, and relationship abuse are not tolerated.
There are options to report incidents either anonymously or with details, and support is available regardless of how a report is made.
The Immigration and Compliance team offers expert guidance and support to international students on all matters related to immigration.
The Visa Advice Team specifically assists with applications for Student Visas, including visas for dependants, handling refused applications, and BRP (Biometric Residence Permit) collection.
Whilst every student’s experience of university is unique, our calendar presents some typical issues that come up across the year, with advice that you can share with your son or daughter.
We've put together answers to your most common questions.
Additionally, you can also watch our video on preparing for the transition to university and the range of support available.
Contacting the University
The UK General Data Protection Regulation and University policy prohibit the disclosure of an individual’s information to a third party.
This means that our staff is unable to give any information about a student currently studying at the the University to a third party - this includes parents and other family members, friends, etc.
All Universities in the UK follow similar guidelines and are bound by the same legislation.
If you make contact with any member of the University and ask about your young person, staff will not be able to divulge any details concerning their academic progress, their wellbeing, their attendance, etc.
For this reason, we encourage parents and students to keep in regular contact with each other.
We realise that this can sometimes be frustrating, but hope you appreciate the reasons for this.
Please see our FAQs for guidance on what to do if you have any concerns .
In general, students are expected to act on their own behalf when dealing with offices and departments within the University, and when requesting services or making complaints.
Parents will not normally be allowed to make requests, or otherwise act on behalf of their young person.
(In certain exceptional circumstances and with the student’s written consent, we may communicate with a third party, if the University deems it is in the interests of those concerned.)
Contacts and additional sources of support
Call us on 024 7657 5570
Find us at Senate House Link opens in a new window
Out of hours emergency help
Contact Community Safety Link opens in a new window on 024 7652 2222 , or see emergency contacts .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/news/expertcomment:
Professor Earle and Dr Quinn from Warwick's history department respond to new research suggesting the potato evolved from the tomato 9 million years ago.
Dr Harjinder Singh Lallie, an expert in cyber security, details the importance of cyber protections, particularly for smaller businesses who can be easy targets for cyber criminals.
Kirsty Warner, Associate Professor in Politics, reflects on the news that the Government will lower the UK voting age to 16 before the next general election.
As we enter peak holiday season, Professor Nicola Pratt from the University of Warwick deploys her new research to show the structural harms of party tourism such as the Cyprus case.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/departments:
The University has 41 departments organised into three faculties.
Academic departments:
Research centres
A range of administrative and campus services support staff and students.
More services…
Contact Us University Address University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, UK Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 3523 Fax: +44 (0)24 7646 1606
Undergraduate Postgraduate International Part-Time Academic Office
Current Vacancies

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci:
The Faculty of Science, Engineering and Medicine at the University of Warwick aims to shape the world’s future through cutting-edge research Link opens in a new window and world - class teaching Link opens in a new window , pushing the boundaries of innovative thinking, and informing the debate on the introduction of new technologies to benefit humanity.
We're shaping the world’s future through cutting-edge research, pushing the boundaries of innovative thinking, and leading new discussions.
Find out more about our vibrant and diverse student community, and what it's like to study science at Warwick.
Please contact us: SEMAdmin at warwick dot ac dot uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/arts:
Explore our student blogs and read posts from real-life students studying Arts at Warwick.
Reuniting all the Faculty departments in one building
89% of our Faculty's overall research activity is classed world-leading or internationally excellent quality.
Find out more about our vibrant and diverse student community and what it's like to study Arts at Warwick.
We're home to a number of departments and research centres spanning the Arts subject areas.
Our research sparks creativity, ignites imagination and unleashes potential.
Learn about our work and the ways in which we engage and collaborate with others, and how our research reaches you.
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 4159 Email: Artsfaculty at warwick dot ac dot uk The Faculty of Arts office is located in room 2.42, Faculty of Arts Building

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc:
Visualise cultivating conversations to inspire thought-provoking questions - our research does just that.
Learn about how we engage and collaborate with others, and how our research reaches you.
Find out more about our vibrant and diverse student community, and what it's like to study social sciences at Warwick.
We dive into social issues, explore enlightening topics and discuss all sorts from big data and public health, to global governance.
Join the conversation @warwick_socsci
Email: fss at warwick dot ac dot uk Faculty of Social Sciences Office, Room S1.53, Social Sciences Building University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/departments/research:
Advice and information for new starters
Learning and Development Centre

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/insite:
Daily campus parking tariffs will be changing from 1 September
Academic Square pond algae treatment
Download your new email signature - visit our Brand Portal
Need extra annual leave?
Explore our Time Back Benefits
In our 60th year we want to celebrate the people that make the University tick with their energy, passion and commitment.
Meet our Humans of Warwick.
Professor Emma Flynn will be leaving her role as Provost - read an update from the Vice-Chancellor.
Meet future students, enjoy a lively day on campus, and have lunch on us!
Sign up by Sunday 31 August and help us make the experience unforgettable.
Make the most of the summer deals at the Sports and Wellness Hub before Thursday 11 September.
Get 12 months for the price of 11, or 25% off your first 4 months, across selected staff and public memberships.
Discover news, views, opportunities & people.
Did you hear Warwick’s new graduation anthem earlier in the summer?
We caught up with the people behind it to find out how they composed the anthem, what inspired them and how they felt creating it.
With autumn fast approaching, take a look through our digital brochure to see what’s happening this season at the Arts Centre.
Check out exclusive staff offers, including discounted tickets for ‘In Pursuit of Repetitive Beats’, and 2 for 1 offers.
Don’t forget, staff and students can get free tickets for the Warwick at 60 talks (subject to availability), as part of our 60th Anniversary celebrations.
With a simple tap of a button, SafeZone connects you directly to our Community Safety Team.
Whether you're working late in a lab, managing a team across multiple sites, or supporting students on campus, download it now for a safer campus for everyone.
A new interactive campus map is now live, with an improved search function, internal layouts and the addition of the Innovation Campus.
Discover more about the new features and what you need to do.
We’re sharing details of this year’s national pay award.
This follows national negotiations and the completion of the dispute resolution process between Higher Education employers and Trade Unions.
Need to know how much annual leave you can carry over, or want to make plans for the new holiday year from 1 October?
Annual leave balances for 2025/26 are now available in SuccessFactors.
Can we achieve a healthier way of life by changing our behaviour?
Discover how Warwick researchers are developing understanding of human behaviour across areas including mental health, elderly care and police-youth relations.
Could you be eligible for the Accelerate leadership development programme , aimed at grade 7 and 8 colleagues who face barriers to career progression?
Learn more at a drop-in session on 12 August and apply by 29 August.
Please log in to see staff forums.
Our people truly make Warwick special.
Meet some of your colleagues in action and celebrate successes.
Find the essential links you need to get to know the University and to help you in your role.
Make the most of your time out.
Discover the arts, entertainment, and eating and drinking on campus.
Explore health and fitness, social groups and family activities.
Take a look at opportunities to progress your career, learn and develop, and expand your horizons.
Learn more about how we are evolving our Professional Services for the future.
Read programme updates and find FAQs.
Follow us on social media to keep up to date.
LinkedIn University of Warwick on Facebook University of Warwick on Instagram University of Warwick on YouTube

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/students:
Read our latest newsletters and find out about news, events, opportunities, and services.
Newsletters
Download the MyWarwick app
Together at Warwick is the new name for everything we do to to ensure that everyone feels like part of our community from day one.
So whether you're just starting or continuing your journey, Together at Warwick will help you feel supported, connected, and celebrated.
Events
18 Aug Rewards with Warwick Sport Get active with Warwick Sport, whether as a member, casual user or participant in our free activity programmes, and receive huge rewards across global brands through our rewards platform.
Download the Warwick Sport app and click the Rewards tile to get started!
Tags: Updates & Offers sport 04 Aug Archives Exhibition: 1965 - The Year When...
The Modern Records Centre have produced a range of snapshots of life in 1965, the year the University of Warwick first opened its doors.
The exhibition, featuring a range of news, from war to fashion, is now open at the MRC Exhibition Room and will run until 19 September 2025.
Tags: library , events 31 Jul Library Summer Building Works The Library is completing a number of building works over the quieter summer period to keep the building up to scratch.
Visit their dedicated page to see what's happening and avoid disruption.
Tags: library , campus life 28 Jul Changes to how you connect to the internet on campus From 30 July, we are changing how your devices connect to the internet on campus, to help keep everyone safer online.
To access the internet on campus, you will need to check the DNS settings on your laptop and mobile devices.
You can find step-by-step instructions here.
Tags: university news 25 Jul Central campus Post Office closes today The central campus Post Office will be closed from today (Friday 25 July), alongside Rootes Grocery Store, for refurbishment as we launch a new Co-Op store in September.
The nearest Post Office in the meantime is at Cannon Park.
Tags: campus life , university news 22 Jul The Big Butterfly Count: 24 July Join us on this butterfly-themed event on Thursday 24th July, 10:00-11:00 and 11:00-12:00, to learn more about the Big Butterfly Count, explore what species we have on campus and have a go at contributing to the world's largest butterfly survey.
This activity contributes to the Warwick Award.
Tags: events , sustainability , campus life Scroll items left Scroll items right
Get active with Warwick Sport, whether as a member, casual user or participant in our free activity programmes, and receive huge rewards across global brands through our rewards platform.
The Library is completing a number of building works over the quieter summer period to keep the building up to scratch.
From 30 July, we are changing how your devices connect to the internet on campus, to help keep everyone safer online.
The central campus Post Office will be closed from today (Friday 25 July), alongside Rootes Grocery Store, for refurbishment as we launch a new Co-Op store in September.
Join us on this butterfly-themed event on Thursday 24th July, 10:00-11:00 and 11:00-12:00, to learn more about the Big Butterfly Count, explore what species we have on campus and have a go at contributing to the world's largest butterfly survey.
Find information about exams and assessments, the Library, study spaces, and more.
Register for your course, collect your ID card, learn how to pay your fees, and find immigration and visa information.
Our priority is to support you and keep you safe to ensure you can reach your highest potential and make the most of your time at Warwick.
There are a number of teams here for you, and we encourage you to reach out if you need any support.
During your time at Warwick, we're sure that you'll fall in love with your surroundings.
Discover what campus and beyond has to offer you.
At Warwick, you’ll find yourself learning skills - and enjoying experiences - that will open your eyes to new opportunities, enable you to develop a global perspective and build upon your employability.
At Warwick, we all contribute to the conversation, in the knowledge that greater achievements can be made by putting power into more hands.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/academicoffice:
Welcome to the University of Warwick Student Administrative Services website.
Student Administrative Services (SAS) is part of the Education Group .
We deliver services and support to students at all levels of study from the point of enrolment to graduation.
This includes managing central student records, centrally scheduled examinations, oversight of module registration, and production of award certificates, official transcripts, as well as the Higher Education Achievement Report (HEAR).
We work closely with academic departments and other professional service teams to support and enable students to succeed in their studies at Warwick .
The Student Administrative Service encompasses a number of teams, each of which have individual pages.
You can visit these pages via the navigation bar at the top of the page.
Academic Resourcing Committee
Education Group
Education Policy and Quality
Space Management & Timetabling

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/artscentre:
Tickets have been added to your basket and will be held in a basket for 10 minutes.
The arts are a place we can all meet.
Find out how to get to us and what you can experience here.
Our creative learning programme aims to bring people of all ages, abilities and backgrounds together, through creativity.
Your support makes a difference.
Find out how you can help us to bring more people together through the arts.
Whether you're looking to host a conference, community or student event or a celebration, we offer a range of spaces with capacities ranging from 2 to 1,340 people
Join Chineke!
Orchestra and soloists Sheku, Isata Kaneh-Mason and Tai Murray as they celebrate a decade of musical excellence and diversity.Featuring…
Join us for an unforgettable evening as we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the iconic Bollywood film, Sholay.This spectacular music and dance show will…
It's 1989 and finding the party is the only thing that matters.
Travel back in time to the heart of the Acid House scene with the UK's biggest VR…
Dakota Johnson plays a New York City matchmaker torn between the perfect match and her imperfect ex in Celine Song’s follow-up to the Oscar-nominated…
Only one man has the particular set of skills...
to lead Police Squad and save the world!
Liam Neeson is the buffoonish Detective Frank Drebin Jr.…
Tom Hiddleston, Chiwetel Ejiofor, Karen Gillan and Mark Hamill star in this genre-bending sci-fi, based on a Stephen King novella and directed by American…
The Mead Gallery is proud to present the first UK solo exhibition of internationally celebrated Japanese ceramic artist Takuro Kuwata.
Opens on Fri 31 Oct
Warwick Classics Society presents Aeschylus’ Oresteia (Libation Bearers and Eumenides), a stand-alone play continuing from 2025’s spectacular Agamemnon.…
From the shadow of Hadrian’s Wall in the north east of England, Kathryn Tickell & The Darkening reach out to the wider world, connecting threads of…
Developing artists is in our DNA.
This season, we're seed funding new Midlands-based work exploring the theme of care.Join us on Thursday 5th February…
Over the past year, we’ve been working with local schools and artists to embed creativity in classrooms in Canley, Hillfields, Foleshill and Tile Hill.…
As the nights begin to draw in, take a look through our digital brochure to see what we have on offer this autumn/winter.
British Art Show 10, the UK’s leading touring exhibition of contemporary art, will open at Warwick Arts Centre in 2026 before heading to four other cities…
We strive to make our Arts Centre a place where everyone can meet.
We're continuously improving our building and offer to make it as accessible as possible.…
Whichever way you travel to the Arts Centre, find out how best to reach us including information on public transport and accessible parking.
Help ensure this patch of common ground - where our whole community can meet and connect through art - will survive and thrive once again.
Warwick Arts Centre University of Warwick Coventry CV4 7FD
Mon-Sun from 30mins before the first event of the day until 15mins after the final event of the day.
If you wish to email us: ticketing@warwick.ac.uk
Want to hear more about our latest events, news and offers?

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/careers:
Here to help you achieve your vision of career success
The Careers team are here to support you throughout your time at Warwick, and after you graduate.
We offer in-person and remote services, flexible to your needs and other commitments.
Follow the links below to jump straight to a task, or the navigation bar above to browse all careers support and resources.
Watch our video introduction to Careers in the help section
myAdvantage : Your portal to browse graduate roles and work experience, and book events, workshops and 1:1 careers advice appointments.
Graduates First : Free psychometric tests.
Student Circus : Job search platform for international students.
GoinGlobal : Worldwide job listings and internships.
Where do I start?
Improve your CV
Write a cover letter
Prepare for an interview
Job application tests
Get application feedback
Look for job vacancies
Apply for further study
Learn about career options
Find out how to get experience
Book an appointment
Warwick Careers Blog
International Careers | Diversity and Careers | Skills Development
If you are unable to attend an event which you have booked, please be considerate and cancel your booking so that someone else may attend.
You can do this by logging into myAdvantage and visiting ' My Dashboard Link opens in a new window ' where you can see your booked events/appointments.
Want to explore the creative industries?
Don't miss your spring guide!
Also includes a quick list of events.
myAdvantage Policies Staff intranet

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/library:
Discover our Library study spaces, bookable spaces & opening times.
Email us: library at warwick dot ac dot uk
Or visit our helpdesk between the hours of 08:00 - 20:00, 7 days a week.
Borrow and return our physical collections
Access e-resources anytime, anywhere
Try our Get it For Me services
We have a range of services and facilities to support students with disabilities or learning differences including apps and software to aid and improve productivity .
We provide research support for students and staff, and help to embed skills support in module teaching.
In person or online.
Contact us by email or Teams.
Browse digital collections
Rare books & special collections
Make a WRAP deposit or search our database
Make your work Open Access
Get support with your Research Data
Book on one of our Researcher Training workshops
The Modern Records Centre is an archive of primary source material relating to political, social and economic history.
Explore our Digital Collections
Search the archives
Follow us on social media
Find out about the free online courses we offer for all students.
Introduction to Referencing
Finding information
Stay connected, enhance your learning and get the most out of your Library by finding out what the Library is doing for you.
Answer one question about your satisfaction with the library service.
Facebook Twitter Instagram

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/studentfinance:
PAY NOW - using Flywire via your Student Records Online account.
Print your invoice/receipt (log in required)
Please see our Frequently Asked Questions page (FAQs).
Please note that Student Information Centre, Senate House, does not accept payment of tuition or accommodation fees.
Payment of tuition fees and accommodation should be made via Flywire .
Information on payment methods can be found on the Student Finance web pages.
There is also a helpful FAQ section which we recommend you look through.
A member of the Student Collections Team (part of Warwick University Student Finance) will be in the Student Opportunity Hub at Senate House every Wednesday between 11:30 am - 1:30 pm (term time only) if you still need help after checking our Frequently Asked Questions

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/about/strategy:
In the past five years, the University of Warwick has seen extraordinary change, both within our walls and in the world at large.
Our achievements have been outstanding, including being named the first Russell Group "University of the Year for Teaching Quality 2022" (by The Times and The Sunday Times), achieving Gold in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023 and receiving a record number of student applications.
At the same time, we've navigated through challenges like the Covid pandemic, Brexit, and a volatile global landscape.
We’re celebrating another year of engaging and collaborative activities that contribute to Warwick’s cultural strategy.
The Warwick Research Celebration event brought our research community together to shine a light on our research excellence and the invaluable contributions from our community.
Unprecented £700m campus investment in our STEM and Social Sciences Connect Programme
Since 2021, with have worked closely with the EY Foundation charity to deliver two employability programmes for young people (aged 16-19 years).
Internationally recognised as world class with impact and purpose, to change the world, making lives healthier, fairer, safer, more just, resilient, and enriched.
Research-led and international in outlook, staff and students co-creating the educational experience.
Transformative and enriching for students and aiding social mobility.
Creating a culture of belonging and inclusion, where students and staff can reach their potential.
Driving the economic, social and cultural growth of our region.
Grow our global networks, engagement and influence.
Champion our diverse global campus community.
Embedding sustainability in our curriculum and research, supporting campus biodiversity and operations to go beyond net zero.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/about/values:
Shaped by Warwick's community, our values represent the way we work together to deliver our strategy and ambitions.
From creating worldwide positive change and striving for student and staff success to creating a vibrant, inclusive campus, our values unite us in being a force for good.
Our values have been created with input from over 800 staff.
They describe what makes us who we are, and when we are at our best.
Pointing the way ahead, going forward and further with purpose is what we have always done at Warwick.
As the world evolves, the way in which we approach our work will change, but our values and how we do things will remain constant.
Our values are not just words on a page but actions and behaviours that are seen, heard, and felt in what we do every day.
Our values are:
Our community has shaped the behaviours that represent our values.
We will be celebrating our colleagues who demonstrate these values in everything they do.
These values and behaviours will be embedded across all areas of our work; from Personal Development Reviews to decision making to recruitment and staff awards.
Read the transcript
Rachel Sandby-Thomas, Registrar
We’re ready to lead, go first and bring the impetus for change.
We have the ambition to break new ground and the rigour and commitment to deliver.
Behaviours:
We're not afraid to do new things or do things differently.
We use our imagination and creativity to make positive change and we go beyond the status quo.
Our ingenuity, energy and resilience come from our diverse community.
We actively seek out different perspectives to stimulate ideas and empathy.
We're always ready to respond and adapt.
We build partnerships and break down barriers inside and outside the university.
We lead with compassion and strive to find the common ground that unites us.
Making a better world depends on all of us playing a part.
We empower others inside and outside the university to create positive change.
You can use these resources to get to know our values, share them with your team and recognise colleagues who are bringing them to life.
Some examples of how we have already demonstrated our values through our actions.
Learn about how we developed our values in collaboration with staff.
Find out more about our values with our frequently asked questions.
Here’s a toolkit for managers to use when discussing the values with their teams.
A handy view of our values and behaviours to share with your teams.
Let us know: Turn on JavaScript to view obfuscated email addresses

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/about/regional:
From job creation to skills development and cultural engagement, University of Warwick continues to play a leading role in growing the regional and UK economy.
Find out how we're making our region a better place to live, work and study.
Watch our new regional video.
2026 Complete University Guide Ranking
2025 is our 60th-anniversary year, marking six decades of transformative education, research, and innovation.
View all news
We're a forward-facing University supporting the:
We're making it a better place for people who study, live and work here and more sustainable for future generations .
We're working with partners across the West Midlands to address challenges that have a direct impact on our region by supporting:
Our world class research is making a real difference to people living here in Coventry & Warwickshire.
We’re supporting local people to access life-changing opportunities through raising aspirations, education and helping local people in our region into employment
We’re supporting our local economy to thrive by creating opportunities for businesses and industries in our region to grow and develop.
We want our local communities to share the benefits of our place in the region, making it a better place to live, work and visit.
Our region is home to a vibrant culture, from the heritage of Coventry to the diversity of Birmingham.
We encourage our communities to support and engage in cultural activities, both on and off campus helping to make our region a healthy and vibrant place.
We’re playing our part in tackling the climate emergency in our region.
Building on our existing research and education programmes and our connections to industry and society.
Read about our economic impact in the region, our social impact and personal stories from people in our region who have been positively impacted by the University.
GET THE KIDS CODING AT OUR ESPORTS CENTRE
Tue 26 – Fri 29 August
Ages 7–12
Kids will design and build their own games, dive into coding, and unleash their creativity, all in a high-energy, supportive environment right in the heart of the UK’s top university for esports.
Book now
British Art Show 10 at Warwick Arts Centre - Sept 2026
Warwick Arts Centre will co-host the opening of British Art Show 10, the UK’s most important touring exhibition of contemporary art.
The exhibition will open in Coventry in September 2026 before touring to Swansea, Bristol, Sheffield and Newcastle Gateshead.
Explore all our 60th anniversary events
.
Resonate year-round events programme
Resonate is a year-round programme of inspiring and interactive events for all ages to spark ideas, curiosity and creativity across Coventry and Warwickshire.
Browse our upcoming events.
Contact us: Regional@warwick.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/global:
On 2 June, Tom Ilube CBE, Chair of the African Gifted Foundation, delivered an inspiring lecture highlighting the remarkable talents of gifted young African women in science and technology from 20 different countries, emphasizing their potential to drive transformative change across the continent.
Co-hosted by Warwick, UPF, Universidad de los Andes, and ASU, the session marked a milestone for European engagement at the U.S.'s largest international education conference.
On 27th May 2025 Fudan University celebrated 120 years since it’s foundation.
Professor Sai Gu, Deputy Pro-Vice-Chancellor (East and Southeast Asia) attended at two day conference to mark the anniversary which included research seminars and roundtables.
The University of Warwick hosted a Chevening Ideas Connect multidisciplinary panel session which brought together over 50 Chevening scholars to discuss responsibilities of universities in the climate crisis.
The University of Warwick and Stellenbosch University (SU) have formally affirmed a comprehensive and strategic partnership that will broaden the reach, impact, and network of both institutions, within their respective regions and globally.
Warwick has proudly presented the inaugural Ashton Award to an extraordinary group of alumni who studied at Warwick between 1979 and 1989, in recognition of their collective achievements in shaping the transformation of Namibia.
Celebrating 60 years of worldwide collaboration!
This year marks our 60th year and we're cherishing our past, celebrating where we are today and looking forward to an exciting future.
Warwick’s diverse global community of students, staff, and alumni is at our core.
We’re dedicated to fostering international diversity, perspective, and understanding—being international is in our DNA.
Join us in marking our anniversary by participating in many special global events both on and off campus - we’d love our vibrant international community to join the celebrations!
Professor Michael Scott, Pro-Vice-Chancellor (International).
Africa is undergoing a remarkable period of economic and social transformation, with higher education playing a key role.
Through deepening our understanding of partner priorities and development needs, Warwick is building collaborations rooted in principles of equality and mutually beneficial engagement.
In 2012 Monash University, Melbourne, Australia and the University of Warwick combined the expertise and resources of two research-intensive universities, to create a ground-breaking international partnership that is at the forefront of excellence and innovation.
Warwick enjoys deep and varied connections with South and Central Asia.
Engaging with our student and alumni communities, research collaborators, and industry and policy partners across this extensive and diverse region, we aim to create a better world together, whist thriving on difference.
Warwick has been committed to engagement with East and Southeast Asia for many years.
We collaborate with leading research institutions across various academic fields, offering our students and staff numerous opportunities for international collaboration.
We play an active role in European higher education, research and innovation, and are proud to be a founding member of the EUTOPIA European University alliance.
Through our membership of prestigious European networks we extend our influence within higher education, research, policy and industry across Europe.
Our academics work closely with counterparts in leading higher education institutions, industry partners and funding bodies across the Americas on a wide variety of projects in both research and education.
We also aspire to attract the best and most talented international students and are pleased to welcome students from across the Americas every year.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/engagement/campuscommunity:
We're really proud of the environment in which our campus is set - this is a great place to live, work, research and study.
Why not come and see it for yourself?
We’ve been working on our plan to develop our campus over the next five years with our need to remain world-class in mind.
Read more about our plans and proposals.
Through our work in the community we're committed to ensuring that we share the benefits of our international reputation, global connections and world-class facilities.
Through the Warwick Institute of Engagement team there are multiple opportunities to engage with our research and our academics - via festivals, events and our work in the community.
Our campus is home to top-class facilities including a gym, indoor climbing wall, swimming pool, tennis centre and 60 acres of sports pitches.
Try out our new outdoor activity area or our holiday camps.
More than 2,000 events are held each year at Warwick Arts Centre – one of the largest multi-artform venues outside London – located on central campus.
Giving access to a packed programme of theatre, music, cinema and visual arts.
Our students volunteer in the local community, giving back through many different projects throughout the year in local schools, community groups and the local environment.
We have a diverse range of cafes, bars and restaurants across campus for all tastes, budgets and diets.
With many outlets open in the evenings and at weekends, come and explore what’s on offer.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/about/profile:
The University of Warwick has a reputation for excellence.
This sees us highly placed in university rankings, achieving top 10 status in UK league tables and recognition as one of the top universities in the world.
in the Guardian University Guide 2025
We have been awarded Gold in all 3 categories of the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF).
Complete University Guide (CUG) 2025
Whether it is our teaching, research, student life or business collaboration, we aim to give people the best experience of Warwick at all times.
By doing this, we’ll keep making an impact on the lives of those both close to home and further afield.
And we’ll continue to be globally recognised for our excellence.
We're as respected for boundary-breaking research as for teaching and business collaborations - our pursuit of excellence and intellectual curiosity is tireless.
We strive to lead rather than follow, and are renowned for our entrepreneurialism and cosmopolitan outlook.
Warwick was ranked at 9 th place in the UK in this year’s guide, unchanged from last year, and was also nominated for The Times’ University of the Year.
The run continues a remarkable record for Warwick, which has featured in the Top 10 every single year since the Guide was first published in 1992.
Warwick was ranked 8th in this year’s Guardian guide, rising one place since last year.
This recognition underscores Warwick’s commitment to providing world-class education, fostering a research-intensive environment, and supporting student success across a variety of academic disciplines.
The press release can be read here
Warwick was ranked 6 th in the Daily Mail University Rankings, where it was also nominated as University of the Year.
The Times Higher Education’s World University Rankings 2024 has named the University of Warwick as one of the UK’s leading universities.
Warwick is 14th in the UK and 106th in the world.
Useful links: World University Rankings 2024 Link opens in a new window and the Times Higher Education methodology Link opens in a new window
The Complete University Guide aims to offer independent UK university rankings, course information and expert advice for every student.
Useful links: Complete University Guide Link opens in a new window and Complete University Guide methodology Link opens in a new window
Warwick is ranked 69 th in the world – making Warwick one of Europe’s top 20 universities.
This year’s QS World University Rankings feature over 1,500 universities across Europe, Asia and the North America.
They evaluate universities according to the following six metrics:
(International Research Network and Employment Outcomes are unweighted ranking indicators)
Useful links: the QS World University Rankings and the QS World University Rankings methodology
Our exceptional academics earned Warwick the title of University of the Year for Teaching Quality in The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2022 .
The award recognised the strong student endorsement of our Covid-19 response, expressed through the positive National Student Survey (NSS) results.
See our press release for the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2022
See our press release for the NSS 2021
In the 2022 National Student Survey, Warwick is the highest-placed Russell Group university for Student Voice, Assessment and Feedback.
The University of Warwick has been awarded Gold in all categories in the government’s latest Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) rankings.
Warwick received the highest ranking available in all three areas: student experience, student outcomes, and overall.
TEF assessors found that most student experience and student outcomes were of “outstanding quality”, including for students from underrepresented backgrounds.
Find out more about our exceptional learning experience
We were named as the University of the Year for Teaching Quality in The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2022 .
We were also named runner-up for University of the Year overall.
The guide, which placed Warwick 8th in the UK overall, cited the University's success in the 2021 National Student Survey (NSS) and its response to the Covid19 pandemic as key reasons for its achievements in the awards.
See our press release for the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024 Link opens in a new window
We are the 6th most targeted university by the UK’s top 100 graduate employers ( The Graduate Market in 2024 , High Fliers Research Ltd.)
The Graduate Market in 2024 is a study of the latest graduate vacancies and starting salaries at the UK’s one hundred best-known and most successful employers, conducted by High Fliers Research during January 2024.
Useful links: The Graduate Market in 2024 Link opens in a new window
We are committed to research that is internationally recognised, with impact and purpose.
This approach saw us ranked 7th overall among the UK’s top research universities in the most recent national assessment of research excellence.
Useful links: Our press release for REF 2021 , and the REF Research Excellence Framework Link opens in a new window
We are recognised for the hard work we put into giving our students a fun, challenging and supportive University experience.
This is demonstrated by the 2022 National Student Survey (NSS) results, which placed us third in the Russell Group for Overall Satisfaction.
Find out more about studying as an undergraduate and studying as a postgraduate .
In the 2022 National Student Survey (NSS), a nationwide survey of final year students, Warwick has been placed third in the Russell Group for Overall Satisfaction.
Warwick also ranked first within the Russell Group for Student Voice and Assessment and Feedback.
Useful links: read our press release about the NSS , visit the NSS website Link opens in a new window , and explore the NSS FAQs including methodology Link opens in a new window
Coventry is the 5th Best Student City in the UK, and 40th in the world (Best Student Cities, QS World University Guide 2023).
External links: QS World University 'Best Student Cities 2023'
Our Purpose: Pointing the way ahead so that, together, we can make a better world.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/about/management-and-governance:
The Vice-Chancellor and President is the Chief Executive Officer of the University and therefore chief academic and administrative officer, and has responsibility for the development and implementation of institutional strategy and delivery.
They are supported by the University Executive Board which, in addition to themselves, comprises the Provost, the Registrar, the Group Finance Director, the Pro-Vice-Chancellors, the University Secretary, the Commercial Director, the Chief Information and Transformation Officer and the Chief Communications and Marketing Officer.
The University Executive Board is supported by a number of sub-groups and reports to the University Council and the Senate.
The Chancellor is the ceremonial Head of the University, whose official duties are to confer degrees on behalf of the University.
Beyond the formal and representational duties, the Chancellor plays a key role in the University’s life by promoting the work and ambitions of the University in the UK and overseas.
The Chancellor also plays an important role in the development and fundraising activities of the University.
Find out more about the Chancellor
Find out more about the Senior Leadership Team
Governance Warwick's governing body is the Council , which oversees the conduct of University business.
The Senate is the University’s principal academic authority, overseeing academic governance .
See here for further information on how the University is governed .
The Scheme of Delegation outlines the responsibilities and delegated authorities for making key decisions in the name of, or on behalf of, the University of Warwick.
Warwick's governing body is the Council , which oversees the conduct of University business.
Council has commissioned the Ethical Assurance Assessment to ensure that the University is open and transparent in all its areas of interest, and that policies and controls are managed in the most ethical way possible.
Find out more about our Ethical Assurance policies .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/sustainability/environment:
Available for both staff and students
At the University of Warwick, our Living Lab is more than just a project - it is a collaborative journey where students, staff, industry partners, and the broader community come together to create and implement real-world solutions that integrate environmental stewardship, social responsibility, and academic excellence, transforming our campus into a living model of sustainability.
There are many ways to reduce your carbon emissions when getting both to and around Warwick Campus.
We're also trialling new innovative ideas for the future.
Check them out to save money and reduce your carbon footprint.
Be a Recycling Hero and help us reduce the volume of items going into general waste.
Learn more about how to correctly dispose of different types of waste on campus.
At Warwick, we are tackling global sustainability in many different ways.
What is your place in that journey and how can you support the safekeeping of our planet?
Green Rewards is an online web platform and app where you log your sustainable actions—like active travel, recycling, and sustainable shopping—and earn Green Points as a result.
Our network of Green Champions help make our University environment and community a greener, healthier, happier place to live, work and study.
Climate Literacy Training is available to all staff and students, and aims to provide awareness on how our way of living is having an impact on the planet, and how we can make a difference by reducing those impacts.
There is Classic and Gold Certificate available.
We are committed to reducing the environmental impact of all our activities.
Laboratory activities are one of the most intensive in terms of carbon impact of the University.
This is due to the energy intensity of laboratory equipment, and the embodied carbon of chemicals and equipment, especially when compared to the more typical academic spaces.
We organise regular sustainability events that are open to both staff and students.
These events are a great opportunity to meet like-minded people, learn more about sustainability and improve your wellbeing through activities such as biodiversity walks.
Explore our upcoming events and register now.
Explore the groups and societies involved in sustainability at Warwick.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/about/contact:
University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, UK
Fax: +44 (0)24 7646 1606
Deaf or hard of hearing?
If you need to call us, there's a service that can help: Relay UK .
Search for the Relay UK app and call us with the help of a specially trained Relay Assistant.
If you are trying to contact a particular member of staff, please use our people search.
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 3772
Email: accommodation@warwick.ac.uk
Undergraduate Admissions Enquiries
PG enquiry form
Tel: +44 (0)24 7657 4036
Email: Turn on JavaScript to view obfuscated email addresses
Tel: +44 (0)24 7649 6000
Tel: +44 (0)2476150708
Communications into and from the Security Gatehouse are routinely recorded, for operational and security reasons
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 2083
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 3222
Email: conferences@warwick.ac.uk
AskHR
Tel: +44 (0)24 76 524611
HR Admin
Tel: +44 (0)24 76 522244
Payroll
Tel: +44 (0)2476 574444
Pensions
Tel: +44 (0)24 76 524699
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 2026
Arden House - +44 (0)24 7652 3904
Radcliffe House - +44 (0)24 7647 4711
Scarman House - +44 (0)24 7622 1111
Tel: +44 (0)24 7615 1710
Tel: +44 (0)7392 125 605
Tel: +44 (0)24 7632 3000
Email: more-info@uwsp.co.uk
Student Records
Tel: +44 (0)24 7657 4333
Awards and Ceremonies
Tel: +44 (0)2476151392
Enrolment
Tel: +44 (0)2476522519
Examinations/Module registration
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 3633
Tel: +44 (0)24 7657 4087
Tel: +44 (0)2476150096
Contact form
Student Collections
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 8472
Student Fees
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 8471
Opening hours
Contact student mobility
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 2206
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 8118
MBA
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 4100
Postgraduate Courses
Tel: +44 (0)24 7615 0333
Executive Programmes
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 4395
General Enquires
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 4306
Alumni Office
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 2813
WMG Admissions
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 4871
Full time masters
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 3691
Part time programmes
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 3976
PhD/EngD
Postgraduate Admissions
Tel: +44 (0)24 7657 4880
Tel: +44 (0)24 7657 2763
For queries about this web site and requests for corrections, please contact Turn on JavaScript to view obfuscated email addresses .
To report technical problems encountered whilst browsing our web site, please contact Turn on JavaScript to view obfuscated email addresses
If you wish to provide feedback or make a complaint about any area of University service, please use our complaints and feedback procedure

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/termdates:
Please note that some courses may have non-standard start dates.
Please refer to your offer letter for confirmation of the start date of your programme.
Thursday 19 September 2024 to Sunday 22 September 2024
Monday 23 September 2024 to Sunday 29 September 2024
Monday 30 September 2024 to Saturday 7 December 2024
Monday 6 January 2025 to Saturday 15 March 2025
Wednesday 23 April 2025 to Saturday 28 June 2025
Thursday 25 September 2025 to Sunday 28 September 2025
Monday 29 September 2025 to Sunday 5 October 2025
Monday 6 October 2025 to Saturday 13 December 2025
Monday 12 January 2026 to Saturday 21 March 2026
Monday 27 April 2026 to Saturday 4 July 2026
Thursday 24 September 2026 to Sunday 27 September 2026
Monday 28 September 2026 to Sunday 4 October 2026
Monday 5 October 2026 to Saturday 12 December 2026
Monday 11 January 2027 to Saturday 20 March 2027
Monday 26 April 2027 to Saturday 3 July 2027
Thursday 21 September 2023 to Sunday 24 September 2023
Monday 25 September 2023 to Sunday 1 October 2023
Monday 2 October 2023 to Saturday 9 December 2023
Monday 8 January 2024 to Saturday 16 March 2024
Monday 22 April 2024 to Saturday 29 June 2024
Monday 26 September 2022 to Sunday 2 October 2022
Monday 3 October 2022 to Saturday 10 December 2022
Monday 9 January 2023 to Saturday 18 March 2023
Monday 24 April 2023 to Saturday 1 July 2023
Saturday 25 September 2021 to Sunday 26 September 2021
Monday 27 September 2021 to Sunday 3 October 2021
Monday 4 October 2021 to Saturday 11 December 2021
Monday 10 January 2022 to Saturday 19 March 2022
Monday 25 April 2022 to Saturday 2 July 2022
Monday 5 October 2020 to Saturday 12 December 2020
Monday 11 January 2021 to Saturday 20 March 2021
Monday 26 April 2021 to Saturday 3 July 2021
Saturday 21 September 2019 to Sunday 22 September 2019
Monday 23 September 2019 to Sunday 29 September 2019
Monday 30 September 2019 to Saturday 7 December 2019
Monday 6 January 2020 to Saturday 14 March 2020
Monday 20 April 2020 to Saturday 27 June 2020
Monday 24th September 2018 to Sunday 30th September 2018
Monday 1 October 2018 to Saturday 8 December 2018
Monday 7 January 2019 to Saturday 16 March 2019
Wednesday 24 April 2019 to Saturday 29 June 2019
International students sponsored on a Student Visa, and who are subject to restrictions on the number of hours they can work each week for immigration reasons, should be aware that the official University term dates and vacation periods relate to undergraduate courses only.
Student Visa holders on Postgraduate Taught, Postgraduate Research and any other type of courses, should refer to our Student Visa Advice pages to learn more about term dates and the working rights.
Exceeding the permitted number of working hours when studying in the UK on a Student Visa is a serious breach of the conditions of your visa.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/jobs:
The University of Warwick is a world-leading research-intensive university with the highest academic and research standards.
We are constantly hiring for a wide range of job vacancies - from academic to professional and commercial services.
⚠️ Important - Internal Vacancies Eligibility ⚠️
Applications for internal vacancies will only be considered from individuals currently employed directly by the University under a University-issued contract of employment, Graduate Teaching Assistants at the University, and individuals currently working for the University through Unitemps.
Current students who do not fall into one of these categories do not qualify as internal candidates (but are eligible to apply for GTA vacancies).
( For Campus & Commercial Services Group vacancies, see here.
)
(Research Excellence Framework 2021)
(The Guardian, and The Times and Sunday Times University Guides 2024)
(Teaching Excellence Framework 2023)
Read first-hand experiences from the women behind the research at Warwick.
Apprenticeships at Warwick
Estates Apprenticeships
Campus Cleaning Services Vacancies
Science Park Opportunities
Service Architect - SearchHigher
Our ambitious University strategy visualises how we will be excellent in everything we do, growing both in student population and research, without ever compromising on quality or sustainability.
By 2030, Warwick will be one of the world's exceptional universities, helping to transform our region, country and world for the collective good.
Warwick is committed to promoting a diverse and inclusive environment and where possible we go beyond legislation to provide a place where everyone can be themselves.
To find out more about our commitment to Inclusion, please take a look at our Social Inclusion pages and our Social Inclusion Strategy .
In committing to the principles of the Athena Swan Charter, we recognise that we join a global community with a shared goal of addressing gender inequalities and embedding inclusive cultures
The Race Equality Charter aims to improve the representation, progression and success of minority ethnic staff and students within higher education.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/about/brand:
Follow us
Our brand portal provides the insight and direction needed to understand our brand and the tools to build outputs that capture the essence of 'Beyond'.
Whether you're creating presentations, designing materials, or planning an event, we're here to help you stay on brand.
From logos and templates to tone of voice and visual guidance, we offer advice and resources to support your project.
© UNIVERSITY OF WARWICK

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/sitebuilder:
Anyone at Warwick can use SiteBuilder to create and edit web pages right in their browser.
There's no software to download, and no special training needed - just get started !
Easily add & arrange text, images, slideshows, video and more with the Components Editor , SiteBuilder's built-in editor.
Its library of components helps make your page more interesting - and we offer ready-made page layouts .
As a public institution, University web content is required to be accessible .
To help, SiteBuilder can run live accessibility checks on your content, flagging up common issues as you work.
SiteBuilder works with Warwick IT accounts to give you control over who can see or edit your content.
Assign permissions to individuals or groups, and display custom content based on who's visiting your page.
We're continually updating and improving SiteBuilder with new features.
We engage with our user community to share news, gather feedback, and make sure your editor meets your needs.
Take a look at a few example pages showing what you can achieve using SiteBuilder's Components Editor:
Each page lists the components we've used, along with links to the relevant help articles explaining how to add them to your own pages.
The SiteBuilder manual explains how to create pages , edit content , and manage your site .
The IDG User Experience team offers a range of advice and services to help with web and graphic design, including ready-made site designs and page layouts, or bespoke websites.
See our site for details of available web design services , or contact webteam@warwick.ac.uk to discuss your requirements.
Call the helpdesk on 024 765 73737 Available 9:00 to 17:00 Monday to Friday Use our online Help Desk at any time to ask a question or track your requests.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/accessibility:
It is a University strategic priority that all staff and students must have access to equal opportunities to thrive and progress at Warwick, irrespective of background, disability, faith, gender, race and sexual orientation.
Warwick is committed to developing accessible and inclusive approaches to ensure that everyone can participate in our community.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/cookies:
This policy covers cookies used on warwick.ac.uk and various sub-domains, such as search.warwick.ac.uk.
Our web content is provided by more than one platform, including SiteBuilder and Optimizely; where a cookie is specific to a certain platform this is stated below.
Most websites use cookies to remember information about you and your preferences, either for the duration of your visit or for repeat visits.
A cookie is a simple text file that is stored on your computer or mobile device by a website, and that website can then retrieve the contents of that cookie.
If we didn't use cookies, our website would think you are a new visitor every time you move to a new page on the site.
For example, if you were to enter your login details and then move to another page, our site wouldn't be able to remember that you'd previously signed in.
Cookies may be set by the website you're visiting ('first party cookies') or by other websites which provide content on the page you're viewing ('third party cookies').
These cookies are necessary for the operation of our website.
For example, those that determine whether you're signed in and who you are.
If you choose "Until I close my browser" - until you close your browser
If you choose "All day" - 12 hours
If you choose "Three months" - three months
If you choose "Indefinitely until I sign out" - indefinitely
In all cases, the cookie is removed if you choose to sign out.
Ensures your requests related to Optimizely webpages are handled by the same server so that you receive a consistent response
Until you close your browser
Protects against the use of Cross-Site Request Forgery to post unauthorised Optimizely content
Enables you to view password-protected SiteBuilder webpages
Determines which web server to direct you to for a consistent experience when using the Optimizely DXP
As above (determines which web server to direct you to for a consistent experience when using the Optimizely DXP)
These cookies improve your experience on the Warwick website, for example by storing your user preferences so that you don't have to re-enter them every time you visit the website.
Stores the number of times you access Optimizely pages over time to enable personalisation of content based on the frequency with which you view it
One year
Stores whether information about your visits to Optimizely content, such as page views, should be remembered after you close your browser
Used to remember if you have previously visited specific Optimizely pages, during your current visit to the site, to personalise the content you see
Used to manage the size of images for you within Edit Mode in the Optimizely Image Editor
These cookies allow us to track the performance and usage of the Warwick website with anonymised "statistics".
We use cookies to track your route around the Warwick website and use the statistics that these create to improve the website's performance and user experience.
For Google Analytics software to distinguish users.
The information we gather includes, but is not limited to, how users interact with the Warwick website, which pages are most frequently viewed, how frequently the users visit the website, traffic source of user visit, demographics data (age and gender), location and device information (make and model).
Any data collected is anonymous and used for statistical reporting only.
Other cookies created by Google Analytics include _gid, AMP_TOKEN and _gac_<property-id>.
These cookies store other randomly generated IDs and campaign information about the user.
We also sometimes embed photos and video content from third-party websites such as YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Flickr.
As a result, when you visit one of our pages containing such content, you may be presented with cookies from these websites.
Our website may also use the website session recording service Hotjar or Mouseflow.
We may collect information on your use of our website, such as pages visited, links clicked, non-sensitive text entered, and mouse movements, as well as information more commonly collected such as the referring URL, browser, operating system and Internet Service Provider.
The purpose of collecting usage information is to better understand how visitors use the website in order to improve our website usability.
We don't use the usage information to identify its visitors.
Data collected is for aggregated, statistical reporting and internal use only.
If you prefer to opt-out of these session recording services you can do so by following the Hotjar opt-out instructions and the Mouseflow opt-out instructions .
Please note you will need to opt-out on each browser that you use.
We don't control the dissemination of these third-party cookies and you should check the relevant third party's website for more information.
We don't sell the information collected by cookies, nor do we disclose the information to third parties, except where required by law (for example to government bodies and law enforcement agencies).
These cookies allow us to track your usage of the Warwick website so we can show you ads that are more likely to interest you.
To indicate to other websites that 'this person visited a particular page, so show them ads relating to that page.'
Between 30 days (the default) and 540 days
We sometimes use Google AdWords Remarketing pixels to assist with our marketing and delivery of online advertising across the Internet, in particular on the Google Display Network.
By better understanding what our audiences are interested in, we can more efficiently promote the University.
The technology to do this is made possible by cookies and as such we may place a "remarketing cookie" during your visit.
AdWords remarketing will display ads to you based on what parts of the University of Warwick's website you have viewed by placing a cookie on your web browser.
This cookie does not in any way identify you or give access to your computer or mobile device.
The cookie is used to indicate to other websites that "This person visited a particular page, so show them ads relating to that page." This way we can show you ads that are personalised to you.
If you do not wish to see personalised ads from the University of Warwick you can opt-out in several ways:
Please note that opting out won't stop you seeing adverts, just that they won't be tailored specifically to you.
If you don’t want websites to store cookies on your computer, tablet or phone, you can modify your browser so that it asks for your permission when a website wants to set a cookie, or you can refuse cookies altogether.
You can also delete cookies that have already been set.
If you wish to restrict or block web browser cookies on your device then you can do this through your browser settings; the Help function within your browser should tell you how.
For Google Analytics cookies, Google provide a Google Analytics opt-out tool which allows you to specify that you don't want to accept their cookies, not just for our site, but for all sites which use Google Analytics.
To find out more information and opt-out of third party cookies, please visit the relevant privacy and cookie policy pages on third-party websites.
To opt-out of the Hotjar and Mouseflow session recording services you can follow the Hotjar opt-out instructions and the Mouseflow opt-out instructions .
To disable personalised ads you can update your preferences by visiting Google's Ads Settings and for third-party vendors' cookies by visiting youradchoices opt-out .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/copyright:
All rights, including copyright, in the content of these web pages (including, but not limited to, the University logo, and all text, layout, graphics, video and audio material and artwork) are owned or controlled for these purposes by the University of Warwick unless otherwise stated.
Content on web pages at Warwick is the responsibility of the page owner and does not necessarily represent the views of the University of Warwick.
In accessing the university's web pages, you agree that you may only download the content for your own personal non-commercial use.
The material on these web pages should not be used, copied, stored or transmitted outside the University without the prior written consent of the University or in accordance with the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/modernslavery:
Modern Slavery is a term used to encapsulate offences defined in the Modern Slavery Act 2015 covering slavery, servitude, forced or compulsory labour and human trafficking.
Business organisations (universities are included within this definition) have a responsibility to ensure that workers are not being exploited, that they are safe and that relevant employment, health and safety and human rights laws and international standards are adhered to, including freedom of movement and communications.
The University of Warwick fully accepts these responsibilities and is committed to meeting its obligations under the Modern Slavery Act.
The University's policy on the Modern Slavery Act can be found here .
The University’s Modern Slavery most recent Annual Statement on Modern Slavery may be viewed below:
University of Warwick
Modern Slavery Act 2015 – University Annual Statement Financial Year ending 31 st July 2024
Introduction
The University publishes an annual statement setting out the steps it has taken to manage effectively the risk of modern slavery existing within either the University or its supply chain.
This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes our slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31 July 2024.
Raising Concerns
All members of the University are responsible for reporting concerns they may have of potential breaches of the University’s Modern Slavery Policy (see below) as soon as possible, whether on the part of other University members or third parties.
Concerns may be raised directly with Heads of Department / Centre / Activity in the first instance or, where this is not felt to be appropriate, to the Secretary to Council.
The University’s Whistleblowing Policy also permits staff, students and anyone contractually associated with the University to raise concerns of serious malpractice in the University.
Heads of Department / Centre / Activity or their representative must report any suspected breaches of the Modern Slavery Act to the Secretary to Council.
About the University
The University of Warwick is one of the UK's leading universities, with an acknowledged reputation for excellence in research and teaching, for innovation, and for links with business and industry.
The University has around 7,000 employees.
The University recruits students and staff from around the world in pursuit of academic excellence and it has many international links within the higher education sector and with commercial and other organisations.
The University is a Real Living Wage employer.
This Annual Statement is made on behalf of the University group, including all our subsidiary and associate companies.
The University turnover in 2023/24 was £860m [1] .
None of our subsidiary or associate companies have a turnover in excess of £36m and so are not required to publish their own separate statements.
All of our subsidiary and associated companies are registered in the UK.
[1] As at Oct 2024 and to be finalised for statutory accounts
Our Supply Chain
The highly-varied activities of a large, multi-disciplinary University necessitate the management of a diverse supplier base.
For the purpose of this annual statement, the University defines its supply base as providers of goods, services or works for which the contracting arrangements are governed by the University’s Financial Procedure for Purchasing, which seeks to ensure transparency of process and achievement of best value.
The University’s supply base spans several broad category areas including: Construction, Laboratory Equipment, Catering, Professional Services, ICT, Facilities Management and Laboratory and Office Consumables.
Across these categories, the University engages with a range of suppliers including large corporations and SMEs, both locally and internationally.
It is recognised that the risk of Modern Slavery occurring will vary across these supply categories and the level of risk may also be impacted by a supplier’s size and location.
For example, it is considered that larger UK registered suppliers, having a turnover in excess of £36m, may represent a lower risk of breaching the Modern Slavery Act as they themselves must publish an Annual Statement, and this might reasonably be expected to raise awareness and drive compliance with the Modern Slavery Act in those organisations and their supply chains.
The University therefore adopts a risk-based approach to mitigating the risk of Modern Slavery in its supply chain.
Compliance Work Undertaken in 2023/24
The University continues its communications programme to raise awareness of Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking through the staff refresher course on the Procurement Financial Procedure.
Across the first tier supplier base, approved suppliers are encouraged to register on our third party supplier engagement tool (NETpositive Futures Ltd), complete impact assessments and create action plans to improve their own supply chains across a range of corporate social responsibility considerations, including awareness of Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking.
Newly appointed approved suppliers awarded contracts via a competitive tender managed by the Procurement Team within the period will have returned a satisfactory Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking declaration confirming compliance to the University’s requirements and expectations.
Procurement Office staff continue to receive any sector updates for example via the Higher Education Procurement Academy (HEPA) or consortia.
Modern Slavery Policy
The University is committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in its supply chains or in any part of our organisation.
We have developed a University Policy in response to the Modern Slavery Act 2015, which may be viewed at the link alongside this document.
In addition to our Modern Slavery Policy, the University has a suite of policies which support the protection of University members and third parties, demonstrate our values and underline our commitment to meet our public responsibilities, including the following:
·Dignity Principles Policy
· Our Guiding Principles
·Child Protection Policy
·Health and Safety Policies
In respect of Health and Safety, we have a code of conduct which contractors engaged by the University must adhere to.
This includes a range of provisions to ensure that workers are protected and their rights are enforced, including the requirements that contractors must: (i) Satisfy themselves that they and anyone they employ or engage are competent and adequately resourced; (ii) Plan, manage and control their own work to ensure any workers under their control are safe from the start of their work on site, and (iii) Provide workers under their control with any necessary information they need to work safely, report problems and respond appropriately in an emergency.
The University also operates a Socially Responsible Investment Policy.
We will use all reasonable endeavours to ensure that we operate our investment policy in a way that is consistent with a range of socially responsible aims, including the need to reduce and ideally eliminate corporate behaviour leading to the exploitation of workers.
Our Future Plans
In respect of our supply chain, the University plans to build on the steps already undertaken and will continue its commitment to reducing the risk of Modern Slavery occurring.
We will continue to monitor supplier base engagement with the NETpositive Futures Ltd Supplier Engagement Tool with the long term aim for all approved suppliers to have completed an impact assessment and be working towards an action plan.
Where outstanding suppliers are themselves subject to the specific obligations of the Modern Slavery Act, we will gather appropriate evidence of their own Modern Slavery Statements as an alternative.
We will continue to monitor our tender documentation to ensure it remains robust and will incorporate any improvements or adjustments as may be considered appropriate throughout the period.
The training needs of Procurement staff will continue to be monitored in order to identify opportunity for further skills development, in particular keeping abreast of guidance or training which may be available through the Higher Education Procurement Academy (HEPA) or at a consortia level.
We will continue to raise awareness of Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking and the obligations set out under the Act through different media: for example, our website, staff forums and assurance documentation.
As the focus of our response to the Modern Slavery Act is primarily on our supply chain, this work will be led by our Group Head of Procurement, reporting through the University Executive Board (via the Group Finance Director) to the University Council.
Support from other professional specialisms, such as Legal and Human Resources, will be sought where appropriate.
Chris Key – Deputy Finance Director

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/conduct:
The University's regulations, policies and procedures on behaviour misconduct (including student harassment and sexual misconduct), and intimate personal relationships between staff members and students are summarised on this page.
This webpage is the 'single comprehensive source of information' required by the Office for Students ( OfS registration condition E6 Link opens in a new window ).
We are committed to taking steps that make a significant and credible difference to protecting students and staff from behaviour misconduct (including harassment and sexual misconduct).
These include:
Analysing and publishing data from our Report + Support portal.
Our annual reports cover student and staff disclosures in the academic years 2020/21 to the present.
Consulting with Warwick Student’s Union on changes to our student policies on behaviour misconduct (including harassment and sexual misconduct).
Students are represented on the committees where these policies are approved.
Regulation 23 Link opens in a new window defines misconduct as 'improper interference in the broadest sense with the proper functioning or activities of the institution, or with those who work or study in the institution, or action which otherwise damages the institution whether on University premises or elsewhere'.
Examples of misconduct can be found under Regulation 23, Paragraph 1.1 Link opens in a new window .
Harassment is contrary to the Protection from Harassment Act 1997, the Equality Act 2010 and the University of Warwick’s Dignity Principles Policy.
Harassment includes unwanted behaviour or conduct which has the purpose or effect of violating a person’s dignity or creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment, or causing a person distress or alarm.
Harassment or bullying may consist of persistent behaviour, although one single act may be considered sufficiently serious to warrant disciplinary action.
Actions may be harassment whether or not the person behaving in that way intends to cause offence.
Actions may also be considered harassment if they are conducted online.
These behaviours or conduct might be because of, or connected to, one or more of the following protected characteristics:
Under our definition, we understand harassment to include domestic violence and abuse (which can also involve control, coercion and threats) and stalking.
We would also consider harassment to include any incidents of physical violence towards another person(s) on the basis of a protected characteristic.
The Student Sexual Misconduct and Relationship Abuse Policy Link opens in a new window defines sexual misconduct as:
Sexual Misconduct covers a broad range of inappropriate, unwanted, or attempted unwanted, behaviours of a sexual nature.
It covers all forms of sexual violence, including penetration without consent, sexual assault, sexual abuse (including online and image-based abuse), non-consensual sexual touching, sexual harassment (unwanted behaviour of a sexual nature which violates your dignity; makes you feel intimidated, degraded or humiliated or creates a hostile or offensive environment), stalking, abusive or degrading remarks of a sexual nature, and a vast range of other behaviours.
The Staff Sexual Misconduct Policy and Procedure Link opens in a new window defines sexual misconduct as:
Sexual misconduct covers a broad range of inappropriate, and unwanted, or attempted unwanted, behaviours of a sexual nature.
It also covers all forms of sexual violence, including sex without consent, sexual assault, sexual abuse (including online and image-based abuse), non-consensual sexual touching, sexual harassment (unwanted behaviour of a sexual nature which violates your dignity; makes you feel intimidated, degraded or humiliated or creates a hostile or offensive environment), stalking, abusive or degrading remarks of a sexual nature, and a range of other behaviours.
Report + Support Link opens in a new window is a confidential online platform for disclosing unwanted behaviours, linked to harassment, sexual misconduct, relationship abuse, discrimination, bullying and hate incidents.
Disclosures can be made anonymously, or with details, by staff, students or visitors to the university.
After reporting with details, you will be contacted by one of our Liaison Officers Link opens in a new window within two university working days to arrange a meeting (online, telephone or in person).
The Liaison Officer will signpost to support at the University and through external charities and organisations, as appropriate.
They will also outline the options available for reporting formally to the University.
Report + Support is a reporter-led service, which means that Liaison Officers Link opens in a new window provide information to reporters who can then make an informed decision on next steps.
The University Dignity Principles Link opens in a new window set out our expectations of how we behave as a community and inform our approach to taking appropriate action when these expectations are not met.
Principle two is clear that we do not tolerate discrimination, bullying or harassment.
Principle three is clear that we do not tolerate sexual misconduct or relationship abuse or violence.
Principle five is clear that ‘we’ means all of us – students and staff alike.
Staff and Students are expected to be aware of and to abide by the standards of conduct required by the University and our community as set out in Our Values and Behaviours.
Link opens in a new window Our values represent the way we work together to deliver our strategy and ambitions.
The Online and Social Media Communications Policy Link opens in a new window sets out our expectations for how our community will behave online, how the University will support them and how the University will take action if inappropriate activity is shared with us.
Reg.
29 Freedom of Speech Code of Practice provides such safeguards as are reasonably practicable to ensure that Freedom of Speech and Academic Freedom within the law is secured for Members, students and employees of the University and for visiting speakers, and to prevent individuals from being drawn into terrorism.
The Personal Relationships Policy and Procedure Link opens in a new window sets out the expectations and obligations with respect to intimate relationships between students and staff and between colleagues.
The policy defines an intimate relationship means an emotional or physical relationship that has sexual or romantic overtones.
The policy prohibits intimate relationships between staff and students where the member of staff has some direct or indirect responsibility for the student and any form of intimate relationships between staff and students who are either under the age of 18 or who are 18 and over and classified as an adult at risk.
While intimate relationships between staff/students outside of this context are not prohibited, they are strongly discouraged by the University.
Staff have an obligation to disclose an intimate relationship with any student, to enable the University to assess whether any potential or actual conflict of interest exists and/or whether the relationship involves sexual misconduct, an abuse of power or other improper behaviour.
Personal Relationships Policy (January 2022 – January 2025)
The following regulations, policies, processes and principles are relevant to behaviour misconduct, including harassment and sexual misconduct:
Allegations of student behaviour misconduct will be dealt with under Regulation 23 Link opens in a new window .
The Process for Responding to Student Behaviour Misconduct Link opens in a new window outlines our process for handling allegations of student behaviour misconduct, including harassment and sexual misconduct.
The student discipline flowchart Link opens in a new window outlines the process.
The Student Misconduct and Relationship Abuse Policy Link opens in a new window sits under Regulation 23 and sets out how we:
Recent previous Regulation, Policy and Process versions
Recent, previous versions of Regulation 23, Processes and the Sexual Misconduct Policy may be found by clicking the relevant links below:
Regulation 23
Regulation 23 (9 April 2025 – 24 June 2025)
Regulation 23 (29 January 2025 – 8 April 2025)
Regulation 23 (26 June 2024 – 28 January 2025)
Regulation 23 (28 June 2023 – 25 June 2024)
Process
Process for Responding to Student Behaviour Misconduct (2 January 2025 - 22 July 2025) Link opens in a new window
Process for Responding to Student Behaviour Misconduct (3 January 2024 – 1 January 2025)
Process for Responding to Student Behaviour Misconduct (22 August 2023 – 2 January 2024)
Process for Responding to Student Behaviour Misconduct (29 March 2023 – 21 August 2023)
General Misconduct Process (until 29 March 2023)
Process for Responding to Disclosures and Formal Complaints of Sexual Misconduct (until 29 March 2023)
Sexual Misconduct Policy
Student Sexual Misconduct and Relationship Abuse Policy (26 June 2024 – 9 April 2025)
Student Sexual Misconduct and Relationship Abuse Policy (26 April 2023 – 25 June 2024)
Student Sexual Misconduct Policy (until 26 April 2023)
For certain courses, such as Medicine and Teaching, a further set of expected behaviours come into force.
On these courses, students must be seen as ‘fit to practise’ and any misconduct that falls short of these defined standards is managed under Regulation 34 Link opens in a new window .
Depending on the type of offence, Regulation 23 Link opens in a new window may also apply.
The Student Discipline and Fitness to Practise Flowchart Link opens in a new window outlines the process.
Regulation 27 Link opens in a new window governs on-campus residential accommodation concerning misconduct in residence.
Whilst this regulation supplements Regulation 23 Link opens in a new window , any offences of a serious nature, as identified by the regulations, will be dealt with under Regulation 23.
Regulation 27 has its own process which is managed by the Head of Residential Community, along with the Residential Community Coordinators, within the Residential Community Team.
This is the process that will be followed should a student be identified as having more than one role at the university.
In these cases, we do not want the students involved to be interviewed multiple times for different disciplinary investigation processes, to minimise disruption to studies and stress.
The Students with multiple roles flowchart Link opens in a new window outlines the process.
The following regulations, policies, processes and principles are relevant to behaviour misconduct, including student harassment and sexual misconduct:
The purpose of the staff sexual misconduct policy and procedure Link opens in a new window is to provide a fair and consistent mechanism for staff disciplinary matters relating to sexual misconduct throughout the University.
The policy is also designed to:
The Disciplinary Policy and Procedure Link opens in a new window is designed to encourage improvements where required in the conduct of employees; it aims also to ensure that the required standards of conduct at work are adhered to, and that any alleged failures to observe these standards are dealt with fairly and equitably.
This policy is closely linked to the Staff Sexual Misconduct Policy and Procedure, as set out above.
The Personal Conflicts of Interest Policy Link opens in a new window provides guidance on areas where an interest or relationship may conflict, or appear to conflict, with an individual’s role, duties or responsibilities at the University.
The policy is to ensure that individuals do not commit acts of impropriety, bias, abuse of authority, favouritism, or leave themselves open to allegations that they have done so.
The principles of this policy apply to all employees and to students.
It is also applicable to individuals who are operating on behalf of the University.
Recent, previous versions of staff policies and procedures may be found by clicking the relevant links below:
Staff Sexual Misconduct Policy and Procedure
Staff Sexual Misconduct Policy and Procedure (November 2024 – April 2025)
Staff Sexual Misconduct Policy and Procedure (April 2021 – November 2024)
Staff Disciplinary Policy And Procedure
N/A
Personal Conflicts of Interest Policy and Procedure
Personal Conflicts of Interest Policy and Procedure (January 2019 - June 2022) Link opens in a new window
In accordance with the Process for Responding to Student Behaviour Misconduct Link opens in a new window and duties and obligations under data protection legislation, the University will provide the individual that has raised an allegation of behaviour misconduct, including harassment or sexual misconduct, against another student, with an outcome of the investigation and an explanation of any actions that the University has taken.
The outcome will include the rationale for the decisions made.
In accordance with the Staff Sexual Misconduct Policy and Procedure Link opens in a new window , The outcome of the Disciplinary Hearing will normally be confirmed by the Chair of the Hearing in writing to the responding party within 10 University working days.
In cases of sexual misconduct, the reporting party will also be informed of the outcome of the Disciplinary Hearing.
In exceptional circumstances, for example where it is deemed that the release of the full information may be damaging to other parties, the outcome information may be redacted.
Current learning and training opportunities for students may be found on the 'Conduct-related support and resources for all students' page Link opens in a new window .
To ensure students are appropriately informed and understand our policies and the behaviours which amount to behaviour misconduct, including harassment and sexual misconduct, all students must complete the 'Student Conduct: What you need to know' Link opens in a new window Moodle upon enrolment each year.
Report + Support deliver training to students that includes:
Report + Support deliver training to staff that includes:
Ensuring confidentiality is a key principle in creating a culture where students and staff feel safe to make a disclosure about behaviour misconduct, including student harassment and/or sexual misconduct.
The Process for Responding to Student Behaviour Misconduct Link opens in a new window , section 2, sets out how we ensure that information received or obtained in connection with incidents of student behaviour misconduct, including harassment and/or sexual misconduct, is handled sensitively and used fairly.
The Staff Sexual Misconduct Policy and Procedure Link opens in a new window , section 14, sets out that all information relating to a sexual misconduct case will be treated confidentially.
Information relating to the alleged misconduct will be shared with only those who have a legitimate requirement to see the documentation as part of resolution to the disciplinary or any consequent procedure and therefore the processing of data for contractual necessity.
We do not and never have used non-disclosure agreements (NDAs) in relation to complaints of student behaviour misconduct, including student sexual misconduct and harassment.
We have been a signatory to English Unis — Can't Buy My Silence Link opens in a new window since it was launched.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/privacy:
An important aspect of complying with data protection legislation is the requirement to process data fairly and lawfully.
In order for the processing to be fair, the University must provide data subjects with accessible information about how their personal data will be used.
The most common way to do this is through a privacy notice.
A privacy notice is a term used to describe all the privacy information an organisation is obligated to make available to an individual when they are collecting personal data.
Links to the University’s core privacy notices can be found below:

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/terms/general:
Warwick.ac.uk and WBS.ac.uk are sites operated by University of Warwick ("We").
We are an exempt charity and company incorporated under royal charter with company number RC000678 and have our offices at Coventry CV4 7AL, United Kingdom.
We are regulated by the Office for Students.
To contact us, please refer to our ‘contact us’ webpage.
By using our site, you confirm that you accept these terms of use and that you agree to comply with them.
If you do not agree to these terms, you must not use our site.
We recommend that you save a copy of these terms for future reference.
These terms of use refer to the following additional terms, which also apply to your use of our site:
If you purchase goods from our site, additional terms and conditions will apply to the sales.
We amend these terms from time to time.
Every time you wish to use our site, please check these terms to ensure you understand the terms that apply at that time.
We will update and change our site from time to time.
We do not guarantee that our site, or any content on it, will always be available or be uninterrupted.
We may suspend or withdraw or restrict the availability of all or any part of our site for business and operational reasons (e.g.
maintenance).
This may happen without notice.
Our site relies on third parties for transmission and delivery and we cannot guarantee the performance of services by third parties.
You are also responsible for ensuring that all persons who access our site through your internet connection are aware of these terms of use and other applicable terms and conditions, and that they comply with them.
We may transfer ownership of our site to another organisation.
If you choose, or you are provided with, a user identification code, password or any other piece of information as part of our security procedures, you must treat such information as confidential.
You must not disclose it to any third party.
We have the right to disable any user identification code or password, whether chosen by you or allocated by us, at any time, if in our reasonable opinion you have failed to comply with any of the provisions of these terms of use.
If you know or suspect that anyone other than you knows your user identification code or password, you must promptly contact us.
We are the owner or the licensee of all intellectual property rights in our site, and in the material published on it.
Those works are protected by copyright laws and treaties around the world.
All such rights are reserved.
You may print off one copy, and may download extracts, of any page(s) from our site for your personal use and you may draw the attention of others within your organisation to content posted on our site.
You must not modify the paper or digital copies of any materials you have printed off or downloaded in any way, and you must not use any illustrations, photographs, video or audio sequences or any graphics separately from any accompanying text.
Our status (and that of any identified contributors) as the authors of content on our site must always be acknowledged.
You must not use any part of the content on our site for commercial purposes without obtaining a licence to do so from us or our licensors.
If you print off, copy or download any part of our site in breach of these terms of use, your right to use our site will cease immediately and you must, at our option, return or destroy any copies of the materials you have made.
The content on our site is provided for general information only.
It is not intended to amount to advice on which you should rely.
You must obtain professional or specialist advice before taking, or refraining from, any action on the basis of the content on our site.
Although we make reasonable efforts to update the information on our site, we make no representations, warranties or guarantees, whether express or implied, that the content on our site is accurate, complete or up to date.
For the avoidance of doubt, we reserve the right to withdraw or alter any of the programmes, tuition fees, entry requirements, facilities or services described on our site.
The choice of subjects may be limited due to timetabling, staffing, availability of student places, and other considerations.
Where our site contains links to other sites and resources provided by third parties, these links are provided for your information only.
Such links should not be interpreted as approval by us of those linked websites or information you may obtain from them.
We have no control over the contents of those sites or resources.
This website may include information and materials uploaded by other users of the site, including to bulletin boards, blogs, forums and chat rooms.
This information and these materials have not been verified or approved by us.
The views expressed by other users on our site do not represent our views or values.
If you wish to complain about content uploaded by other users, please contact us .
We will only use your personal information as set out in our privacy notices .
Whenever you make use of a feature that allows you to upload content to our site, or to make contact with other users of our site, you must comply with the content standards set out in our Acceptable Use Policies.
You warrant that any such contribution does comply with those standards, and you will be liable to us and indemnify us for any breach of that warranty.
This means you will be responsible for any loss or damage we suffer as a result of your breach of warranty.
Any content you upload to our site will be considered non-confidential and non-proprietary.
You retain all of your ownership rights in your content, but you are required to grant us and other users of our site a limited licence to use, store and copy that content and to distribute and make it available to third parties.
The rights you license to us are described in Rights you are giving us to use material you upload .
We also have the right to disclose your identity to any third party who is claiming that any content posted or uploaded by you to our site constitutes a violation of their intellectual property rights, or of their right to privacy.
We have the right to remove any posting you make on our site including if, in our opinion, your post does not comply with the content standards set out in our Acceptable Use Policies.
You are solely responsible for securing and backing up your content.
We do not store terrorist content.
You must not use our site or any information or facilities which are available through it to, or to attempt to:
When you upload or post content to our site, you grant us the following rights to use that content:
We do not guarantee that our site will be secure or free from bugs or viruses.
You are responsible for configuring your information technology, computer programmes and platform to access our site.
You should use your own virus protection software.
You must not misuse our site by knowingly introducing viruses, trojans, worms, logic bombs or other material that is malicious or technologically harmful.
You must not attempt to gain unauthorised access to our site, the server on which our site is stored or any server, computer or database connected to our site.
You must not attack our site via a denial-of-service attack or a distributed denial-of service attack.
By breaching this provision, you would commit a criminal offence under the Computer Misuse Act 1990.
We will report any such breach to the relevant law enforcement authorities and we will co-operate with those authorities by disclosing your identity to them.
In the event of such a breach, your right to use our site will cease immediately.
You may link to our home page, provided you do so in a way that is fair and legal and does not damage our reputation or take advantage of it.
You must not establish a link in such a way as to suggest any form of association, approval or endorsement on our part where none exists.
You must not establish a link to our site in any website that is not owned by you.
Our site must not be framed on any other site, nor may you create a link to any part of our site other than the home page.
We reserve the right to withdraw linking permission without notice.
The website in which you are linking must comply in all respects with the content standards set out in our Acceptable Use Policies.
If you wish to link to or make any use of content on our site other than that set out above, please contact us .
If you are a consumer, please note that these terms of use, their subject matter and their formation, are governed by English law.
You and we both agree that the courts of England and Wales will have exclusive jurisdiction except that if you are a resident of Northern Ireland you may also bring proceedings in Northern Ireland, and if you are resident of Scotland, you may also bring proceedings in Scotland.
If you are a business, these terms of use, their subject matter and their formation (and any non-contractual disputes or claims) are governed by English law.
We both agree to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England and Wales.
Our trade marks are UK registered trade marks of University of Warwick.
You are not permitted to use them without our approval, unless they are part of material you are using as permitted under How you may use material on our site .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses:
Browse all of our upcoming undergraduate courses.
Accounting and Finance BSc (NN34)
3 years full-time
Accounting and Finance with Foundation Year BSc (N4N4)
4 years full-time, 5 years full-time with Placement Year
Accounting and Finance with Placement Year BSc (N40Y)
Ancient History and Classical Archaeology BA (VV14)
3 years full-time 4-8 years part-time
Ancient History and Classical Archaeology with Study in Europe BA (VV18)
Automotive Engineering BEng (H330)
Automotive Engineering MEng (H335)
Biochemistry BSc (C700)
School of Life Sciences
Biochemistry MBio (C1A2)
Biochemistry with Industrial Placement MBio (C1A6)
Biochemistry with Placement Year BSc (C701)
Biological Sciences BSc (C100)
Biological Sciences MBio (C1A1)
Biological Sciences with Industrial Placement MBio (C1A5)
Biological Sciences with Placement Year BSc (C101)
Biomedical Science BSc (B900)
Biomedical Science MBio (C1A3)
Biomedical Science with Industrial Placement MBio (C1A7)
Biomedical Science with Placement Year BSc (CB19)
Biomedical Systems Engineering BEng (H161)
Biomedical Systems Engineering MEng (H163)
Chemistry BSc (F100)
Department of Chemistry
Chemistry MChem (F105)
Chemistry with Industrial Placement MChem (F110)
Chemistry with International Placement MChem (F109)
Chemistry with Medicinal Chemistry BSc (F121)
Chemistry with Medicinal Chemistry MChem (F125)
Child and Family: Mental Health BA (Course Code: Varies by discipline)
Part-time with the Centre for Lifelong Learning
4 years part-time
Civil Engineering BEng (H200)
Civil Engineering MEng (H202)
Classical Civilisation BA (Q820)
Classical Civilisation with Study in Europe BA (Q821)
Classics (Ancient Greek) with Study in Europe BA (Q801)
Classics (Latin) with Study in Europe BA (Q802)
Classics and English BA (QQ36)
Classics BA (Q800)
3 years full-time, 4 years part-time
Classics BA Part-time (Course Code: Varies by discipline)
Part-time with Classics and Ancient History
4-8 years part-time
Computer Science BSc (G400)
Computer Science MEng (G403)
Computer Science with Business Studies BSc (GN42)
Computer Science and WBS
Computer Systems Engineering BEng (G406)
Computer Systems Engineering MEng (G408)
Counselling and the Psychotherapeutic Relationship BA (Course Code: D-X1GB)
Cyber Security BSc (H651)
Data Science BSc (7G73)
Data Science MSci (G304)
Design and Global Sustainable Development BASc (H1L8)
Design Studies
3 years full-time, 4 years full-time with intercalated year
Design for Sustainable Innovation BASc (W201)
Discrete Mathematics BSc (G190)
Discrete Mathematics MEng (G4G3)
Early Childhood BA (Course Code: D-X3B9)
Early Childhood top-up (Course Code: X330)
Economic Studies and Global Sustainable Development BASc (L1L8)
Economics and Management BSc (LN12)
Department of Economics
3 years full-time (or 4 years with a work placement year)
Economics BSc (L100)
3 years full-time (or 4 years with study abroad placement)
Economics, Politics and International Studies BSc/BA (LLD2)
Economics, Psychology and Philosophy (EPP) BSc or BA (L1CA)
Department of Philosophy
3 years full-time (or 4 years with placement or year abroad)
Education BA (X35B)
Education Studies and Global Sustainable Development BASc (XL38)
Electrical and Electronic Engineering BEng (H605)
Electrical and Electronic Engineering MEng (H606)
Engineering Business Management BEng (HN12)
Engineering BEng (H100)
Engineering MEng (H102)
English and Classical Civilisation BA (QQ39)
English and Cultural Studies BA (Course Code: D-Y304)
Part-time with English and Comparative Literary Studies
English and French BA (QR31)
4 years full-time, normally including a year abroad
English and German BA (QR32)
English and Hispanic Studies BA (QR34)
English and History BA (VQ32)
English and Italian BA (QR33)
English and Theatre Studies BA (QW34)
English Language and Linguistics with Intercalated Year BA (Q311)
3 or 4 years full-time, depending on year abroad/work placements
English Literature BA (Q300)
English Literature and Creative Writing BA (QW38)
Warwick Writing Programme
Film and Literature BA (QW26)
Film Studies BA (W620)
French and Economics BA (R1L1)
French and History BA (RV11)
French and Theatre Studies BA (R1WB)
French Studies BA (R120)
French Studies BA Part-Time (Course Code: D-R10P)
Part-time with the School of Modern Languages and Cultures
School of Modern Languages and Cultures
French with Film Studies BA (R1W6)
German and Business Studies BA (RN21)
German and Economics BA (R2L1)
German and History BA (RV21)
German and Theatre Studies BA (RW24)
German Studies BA (R220)
German with Film Studies BA (R2P3)
Global Politics with Integrated Year Abroad in Brussels BA (L202)
Global Sustainable Development and Business Studies BASc (L8N1)
Global Sustainable Development BASc (L8A1)
Health and Medical Sciences BSc (B990)
Hispanic Studies BA (R400)
Hispanic Studies and Economics BA (R4L1)
Hispanic Studies and Global Sustainable Development BASc (R4L8)
Hispanic Studies and History BA (R4V1)
Hispanic Studies and Theatre Studies BA (R4W4)
Hispanic Studies with Film Studies BA (RP43)
History and Global Sustainable Development BASc (V1L8)
History and Italian BA (VR13)
History and Philosophy BA (V1V5)
Department of History
3 years full-time (4 years full-time with study abroad or work placement)
History and Politics BA (VL12)
History and Sociology BA (VL13)
History BA (V100)
History BA Part-Time (Course Code: Q302)
Part-time with History
History of Art BA (V350)
History of Art with Italian BA (V4R3)
Integrated Natural Sciences MSci (CF10)
International Management BSc (N290)
International Management with Foundation Year BSc (N29A)
5 years full-time
Italian and Classics BA (RQ38)
Italian and Economics BA (R3L2)
Italian and Theatre Studies BA (R3WA)
Italian Studies BA (R300)
Italian with Film Studies BA (R3W6)
Law (4 Years) LLB (M101)
Law School
Law and Sociology BA (ML13)
Law with French LLB (M1R1)
Law with German LLB (M1R2)
Law with Humanities BA (MV21)
Law with Study Abroad in English LLB (M108)
Liberal Arts BA (LA99)
Liberal Arts
Life Sciences and Global Sustainable Development BASc (C1L8)
Linguistics with Modern Language with Intercalated Year BA
Law LLB (M100)
Management BSc (N200)
Management with Foundation Year BSc (N20A)
Management with Placement Year BSc (N20Y)
Manufacturing and Mechanical Engineering BEng (HH73)
Manufacturing and Mechanical Engineering MEng (HH37)
Mathematics and Philosophy BA or BSc (GV15)
3 or 4 years full-time
Mathematics and Physics BSc (GF13)
Mathematics and Physics MMathPhys (FG31)
Mathematics and Statistics BSc (GG13)
Mathematics and Statistics MMathStat (GGC3)
Mathematics BSc (G100)
Warwick Mathematics Institute
Mathematics MMath (G103)
Mechanical Engineering BEng (H300)
Mechanical Engineering MEng (H302)
Media and Creative Industries BA (P301)
Cultural and Media Policy Studies
MMORSE (G0L0)
Modern Languages and Economics BA (R9L1)
Modern Languages and Linguistics BA (R9Q1)
Modern Languages BA (8R73)
Modern Languages with Linguistics BA (R9Q2)
Modern Languages with Translation and Transcultural Studies BA (R9Q9)
MORSE BSc (GLN0)
Neuroscience BSc (B140)
Neuroscience MBio (B142)
Neuroscience with Industrial Placement MBio (B143)
Neuroscience with Placement Year BSc (B141)
Philosophy and Global Sustainable Development BASc (V5L8)
Philosophy and Literature BA (VQ52)
Philosophy and Politics BA (V5L2)
Philosophy BA (V500)
Philosophy with Psychology BA (V5C8)
Philosophy, Literature and Classics BA (VQ58)
Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE) BSc or BA (L0V0)
3 years full-time (or 4 years with placement)
Physics BSc (F300)
Physics MPhys (F303)
Physics with Astrophysics BSc (F3F5)
Physics with Astrophysics MPhys (F3FA)
Politics and International Studies BA (L260)
Politics and International Studies with Chinese BA (M168)
Politics and Sociology BA (LL23)
Politics BA (L200)
Politics, International Studies and French BA (M163)
Politics, International Studies and German BA (M164)
Politics, International Studies and Global Sustainable Development BASc (L2L8)
Politics, International Studies and Hispanic Studies BA (M166)
Politics, International Studies and Italian BA (M165)
Politics, Philosophy and Law (PPL) BA (V7MW)
Professional and Intercultural Communication with Intercalated Year BA
Psychology and Global Sustainable Development BASc (C8L8)
Psychology BSc (C800)
Department of Psychology
3 years full-time or 4 years full-time (with intercalated year)
Psychology with Education BSc (C804)
Psychology with Linguistics BSc (C802)
Social Work Degree Apprenticeship BA (Course Code: D-L503)
Sociology and Criminology BA (L314)
Department of Sociology
Sociology and Global Sustainable Development BASc (L3L8)
Sociology BA (L300)
Systems Engineering BEng (HH35)
Systems Engineering MEng (HH31)
Theatre and Performance Studies and Global Sustainable Development BASc (W4L8)
Theatre and Performance Studies BA (W440)

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/apply:
Learn more about our application process.
Key dates for your application to Warwick.
Make an impression and demonstrate your passion for your course.
Find out about what we need from your reference and changes that impact 2024 applicants and beyond.
Read Warwick's Admissions Statement
Find out what happens after you receive an offer from Warwick.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/offer-holders:
We hope this information offers some helpful guidance.
You may also find our Offer Holder Guide and Verification pages helpful.
If you have any further questions, please join one of our regular live chats .
We may ask you to "verify" the qualifications you have achieved and the reference on your UCAS application as conditions of your offer, particularly if you applied directly to UCAS rather than through your school or college.
Find out how to submit official documents for verification.
If you are taking A Level, BTEC, or Access to HE qualifications, we will usually receive your exam results directly from UCAS.
For any other qualifications, including the International Baccalaureate, UK Foundation courses, or qualifications taken outside the UK, please see the "upcoming exam results" section on our verification page for further guidance.
It is your responsibility to ensure that your results are sent to us, and we ask you to do this as soon as they are available.
Offers cannot be confirmed if we do not receive verified examination results by the deadline stated in your offer email.
Please contact the Undergraduate Admissions team Link opens in a new window if you have any questions about getting your results to us.
If you are not a British national, you may need a Student Visa to study in the UK.
Please visit our Immigration & Compliance webpages to find out more information about the visa process, including what we do to issue you with a CAS number.
For most courses, if you are made an offer, you will be invited to a Departmental Open Day to find out more about your specific course and department.
These events will help ensure that you have the information you need to make the decision which is right for you.
Departmental Open Days typically take place from December to June and further information will be sent to you after you receive your offer.
We encourage candidates who are invited to attend a Departmental Open Day to do so if possible, even if they have already attended a general Warwick University Open Day.
When you have heard from all the universities that you applied to, you will receive notification from UCAS.
You may then select one offer as your Firm choice and, if your Firm offer is conditional, another as an Insurance choice.
If you haven't already done so, visit the universities you are interested in, either on an organised open day or informally.
At the moment you might only be able to access Virtual Open Days, so register for those too.
Talk to current students and academic staff if possible and take in the atmosphere.
If you receive two or more offers, you should consider holding an Insurance offer which has grade requirements lower offer than your Firm choice.
If you fail to meet the conditions of your Firm choice, but you have accepted a suitable Insurance offer, you will still have a guaranteed place at university.
You are not obliged to make an Insurance choice but it is sensible to have a back-up.
If all of your offers require the same grades you may still make an Insurance choice but if you fail to meet the terms of either your Firm or your Insurance choice you will not be guaranteed a place and may be released to Clearing.
Your Firm choice should be the university that you consider is best for you, not necessarily the one with the highest offer.
Your Insurance university should also be a place where you would be happy to live and study.
Remember, the decisions that you make at this point are binding, so consider your options carefully.
It is not possible to turn down your Firm choice in favour of your Insurance choice at results time if you meet the terms of your Firm choice.
Terms and Conditions 2025 (PDF) Link opens in a new window

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/studentfunding:
Get information about undergraduate tuition fees and course expenses for Home, EU and Overseas students
Find out more about the types of living costs you should consider when thinking about applying to Warwick
Read about UK and EU student loans and find links to further funding information from the UK Government
Find details of the scholarships and bursaries that may be available to help fund your study at Warwick

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/visits:
We understand how important it is to visit and explore your future university before you apply.
That’s why we have put together a range of online and in-person options to help you discover more about your course, visit campus and get a sense of life at Warwick.
We attend Higher Education exhibitions and fairs throughout the year, where you can meet and chat to a Warwick representative.
Our Open Days are one of the best opportunities for you to find out about Warwick.
We love having the chance to meet with you, and know how important it is to experience being here before you choose to apply.
Our campus Open Days are taking place in June and October this year.
Find out about our Open Days Link opens in a new window
If you are unable to make it to campus, we also run Virtual Open Days so you can find out more about Warwick from the comfort of your own home.
A Talk and Tour lasts around two hours.
It starts with a presentation about Warwick’s approach to teaching and learning, and how this helps our students develop an agility of thinking that gears them up for a successful future.
This is followed by a campus tour, which is the perfect opportunity to see our fantastic facilities, speak to current students and gain an insight into the student experience.
Find out about our Talk and Tours Link opens in a new window
If you are made an offer to study at Warwick, you will be invited to both campus and virtual events to help you get to know your course and department in more depth.
Booking is by invitation only, and the events usually take place between February and April.
We are committed to helping students make informed decisions about their future in Higher Education, so we provide a tailored service for students in Years 11 to 13.
See how your school can engage with us

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/explore:
See transcript and audio description for 'From Warwick: Anywhere'
Studying at the University of Warwick means you'll be a part of a world-​leading University, experience research-led teaching in state of the art facilities and never be bored.
Take our virtual campus tour and explore our learning spaces, accommodation, sports facilities, bars, shops, green spaces and more from the comfort of your room.
Take a 360° tour
Find out about our campus facilities and events, and things to do in the local area.
Read our first year campus accommodation guarantee and learn more about living on campus.
Hear directly from our student bloggers, as they share their own experiences of living and studying at Warwick.
We have been named the University of the Year for Teaching Quality by The Times and Sunday Times .
Discover what makes our teaching so transformative.
Whether you enjoy a big night out, taking part in sports and activities, or just catching up with friends, there’s plenty to get involved with.
Find places to eat and drink, plus options for grocery shopping and day-to-day tasks, such as laundry and banking.
Your wellbeing is hugely important to us.
We will be there to support you at every step, whenever you need us.
Meet our support teams.
Whether you are looking to work or volunteer alongside your studies or just want advice about graduate employability, find out more here.
Explore the amazing opportunities available to enjoy the arts through Warwick Arts Centre and our live campus events.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/teaching-excellence:
Our expert teachers work alongside, and in partnership with, students to create new knowledge.
Together, we challenge expectations.
We ask the difficult questions and find the answers in between.
Warwick’s academics bring their research expertise directly into the classroom, but we know that no one person has all the answers.
So our teachers are also learners.
Our students also challenge.
Always listening, always learning, we are united by our desire to learn more.
We are powered by our passion for excellence.
Warwick was recently awarded Gold in all categories of the latest Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF).
This result recognises the innovation, collaboration and determination of our teachers, and the University's commitment to putting student learning and success at the centre of what we do.
We were also awarded University of the Year for Teaching Quality in 2022 by The Times and Sunday Times.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/schools:
Register your interest in attending our 2024 in-person Open Days
Bookings for campus visits for groups of Y11, Y12, and Y13 students is now open.
Find out more here.
Keep in the loop with our admissions and opportunities for schools and colleges.
Join our schools mailing list.
We have developed a range of digital resources and physical interventions to support you and your students.
Use the links below to find out about the different ways to engage with Warwick.
You can also keep in touch by joining our teachers' mailing list for the most up-to-date information.
We are delighted to welcome school groups to our campus.
Our School Warwick Visits include a presentation and a guided tour of campus.
Find out more about visiting our campus.
Our team frequently attend HE Fairs and give presentations at schools and colleges across the UK.
Arrange for a Warwick representative to visit your school/college .
Come and meet us at a local exhibition or fair.
Find out more about upcoming exhibitions and where you can find us .
We regularly run subject specific events such as workshops, webinars and talks for students and teachers.
Find out more about upcoming opportunities.
View our digital resources including recorded webinars, videos, and more.
Find out more about Widening Participation information for schools.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/apply:
The information below explains how to apply for most of our taught postgraduate courses.
Some courses have different application processes.
Find out more about applying for the Warwick MBA Link opens in a new window , MBChB Graduate Entry Medicine Link opens in a new window , and PGCE courses Link opens in a new window .
Browse our courses Link opens in a new window .
You can apply for as many postgraduate courses as you want, but if more than one application is successful you can only accept a place on one full-time course.
That's why we have put together a range of online and in-person options to help you discover more about your course, visit campus, and get a sense of postgraduate life at Warwick.
Explore our postgraduate events Link opens in a new window and find out why Warwick could be the right choice for you Link opens in a new window .
All courses have their own entry requirements, which can be different depending on the programme of study.
Check the entry requirements on a case-by-case basis by searching for a course Link opens in a new window and visiting the course page.
As a guide, the minimum standards we generally require for taught courses are at least a Lower Second Class UK Honours degree or equivalent, although some courses require an Upper Second Class or First Class Honours degree.
We welcome applications from candidates offering many different international qualifications.
You can see how your current degree score or GPA equates to the British system on the International Office equivalent scores page Link opens in a new window .
When applying, please include your marksheets/transcripts and the grading criteria used at your institution.
We require evidence that your English Language capability is of a level that will enable you to succeed on your chosen course of postgraduate study.
Different courses ask for different standards of English language achievement which you can find on the course webpages.
See further details on English language requirements .
We also offer pre-sessional English courses Link opens in a new window that may help you to meet our English language requirements.
The on-time deadline for taught postgraduate courses starting in September/October 2025 was 02 August 2025.
We will still accept late applications, however cannot guarantee that the application will be processed in time to complete the admissions process if received in September or there are a number of conditions to meet.
If applying late please include your degree certificates and transcripts, English proficiency evidence (if needed) and ensure referees can submit references promptly to allow time for CAS and VISA processing (if applicable).
If you have any queries, please contact our Postgraduate Admissions Service Link opens in a new window .
Applications for courses that start in September and October 2026 will open in Autumn 2025.
There are a number of funding routes available Link opens in a new window to postgraduate students including postgraduate loans (Home and EU only), University scholarships, fee awards, and department bursaries and scholarships.
Applicants for taught courses can apply online through our application portal.
You don’t need to complete your application all at once, you can start now and save for later.
In order to avoid delays in receiving a decision, you'll need to upload scanned copies of all relevant supporting documents before you submit your application.
Further information as to which supporting documents we require can be found below.
You may find it helpful to save these in one place before you start your application.
Before you can submit your application to us, you will be required to pay an application assessment fee of £75 (2025 entry).
We aim to provide applicants with a decision as soon as possible after their application.
We therefore begin processing applications immediately upon receipt of the application assessment fee.
For this reason the application assessment fee is non-refundable.
Other cancellation rights that applicants have are not affected.
Find more information about the application assessment fee and how to make a payment Link opens in a new window .
Once you start your application, the online system will inform you as to which supporting documents and information we require.
The following information should help you prepare for your application.
Certificates and transcripts should be uploaded in colour wherever possible.
The information below explains how to apply for most of our research postgraduate courses.
Find out more about applying for the Doctor of Business Administration Link opens in a new window and the Economics Master of Research (MRes/PhD) Link opens in a new window degrees.
If you’re a visiting postgraduate research student , please refer to our guidance for visiting students for full details, including course selection, dates, and required documentation.
Browse our list of research courses by department Link opens in a new window .
Read around your chosen subject area as much as possible and start to draft your research idea.
You may want to consider whether our departments offer an advertised project or explore PhDs at jobs.ac.uk Link opens in a new window .
You can use our search tool to explore the research areas of expertise in each of our departments.
Please visit PhD by Published Works Link opens in a new window for more information about an alternative PhD route that may be more suitable for you.
For research degrees, one of the single most important points to consider is whether the academic department you are applying to shares your academic interests.
All departments at Warwick are more than happy to discuss their areas of expertise with potential students, so we urge you to make contact before proceeding with your application any further.
Find a supervisor Link opens in a new window whose research aligns with your chosen subject area.
We advise you to make contact with and secure a supervisor before you apply.
If you cannot find a suitable potential supervisor, we would recommend that you send a short summary of your research interest to the administrator in your chosen department.
Please note that for applications to Warwick Business School (WBS), this step should be omitted.
Find out more about how to apply for WBS courses Link opens in a new window .
Different academic departments request different things as far as a proposal and/or application is concerned.
You can find out more about research proposals by department Link opens in a new window on the course webpages or using our search tool , and we encourage you to discuss this with your department and/or potential supervisor directly.
As a guide, the minimum standards we generally require for research courses are at least an Upper Second Class UK Honours degree or equivalent.
You can see how your current degree score or GPA equates to the British system on the International Office equivalent scores table Link opens in a new window .
The application process for courses that start in September and October 2026 will open in Autumn 2025.
Some departments will publish application deadlines on their department website and/or course pages.
Please check these pages carefully before you make your application.
Places are often limited, so we recommend that you submit your application as early as possible.
Some applicants may need to obtain a student visa to study in the UK.
For research courses that start in September and October 2025, the application deadline for students who require a visa to study in the UK was 2 August 2025 (unless otherwise stated) .
For courses starting at other times of the year, we would recommend that you submit your application a minimum of 3 months prior to your intended start date.
This should allow sufficient time to complete the admissions process and to obtain a visa to study in the UK.
Apply for a research course online now through our application portal.
Are you ready to apply?
Complete and submit your course application form now.
After you’ve applied, you'll gain access to the Applicant Portal.
From there, you can check the status of your application, upload documents, update your details, and much more.
Find out more and read our additional guidance to help you complete key aspects of the application process.
We welcome applications from disabled students, including those with long-term health conditions, mental health difficulties, autism, sensory or mobility impairments, and Specific Learning Difficulties (SpLDs).
Admissions decisions are based on academic merit, and we offer reasonable adjustments during the application process and throughout your studies.
See Warwick’s postgraduate admissions policy for full details of our approach to postgraduate admissions.
It outlines the principles, criteria, and procedures that guide our decision-making.
Have a question about applying?
Explore our postgraduate application FAQs for answers on entry requirements, deadlines, supporting documents, and more.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/funding:
See all the information and resources you need about postgraduate tuition fees and expenses.
Find out about the different funding routes available, including; postgraduate loans, scholarships, fee awards and academic department bursaries.
Find out more about the cost of living as a postgraduate student at the University of Warwick.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/meet-us:
Join a live chat with our staff and students, who are here to answer your questions and help you learn more about postgraduate life at Warwick.
You can join our general drop-in sessions or talk to your prospective department and student services.
Our in-person and online information sessions run throughout the year.
They are a great way to learn more about our postgraduate courses and departments, chat to current students and staff, and find out more information about accommodation, careers, and how to apply.
We attend study fairs around the UK and across the globe.
These events give you the chance to explore our range of postgraduate courses, find out what it’s like studying at Warwick, and speak directly with our student recruitment team.
A talk and tour lasts around two hours, and starts with an overview presentation of what it’s like studying at Warwick, along with key information about postgraduate study.
The talk is followed by a campus tour with a current student, which is the perfect way to explore our beautiful campus.
Your selected filters
These individual one to one chats are a quick way to ask questions and engage with the accommodation team.
Whether you have an accommodation application query, or you'd like more information about our residences or living on campus - come along and chat with the team!
An event for offer holders in Africa to find out about the opportunities available to them at Warwick, and ask any questions they may have.
Current Warwick students will be present to share their experiences with students and answer questions.
All eligible offer holders from Africa will have received an invitation via email for this event.
If you feel this applies to you, but you haven't received an invitation, please get in touch with the team to query this directly at africa@warwick.ac.uk
Audience: Offer Holders
Time: Local Time to the UK (BST)
The best way to learn more about Warwick is directly from us!
Meet our staff and ask questions in our one-to-one live chats.
Talk to us if you've already applied, received an offer - or even if you're yet to apply to Warwick.
We want to hear from you.
Audience : Enquirers, Applicants and Offer Holders
Description: Chat with a representative from the University of Warwick at the upcoming QS Connect & Fair, Mexico City.
Attending this event will give you access to all of the exhibitors, as well as attending the free seminars and talks.
Please click the link to find out more and register.
Audience: Enquirers, Applicants and Offer Holders, Postgraduate.
Event: In-Person Exhibition
Time: Local Time to Mexico City
Description: Chat with a representative from the University of Warwick at the upcoming QS Connect & Fair, Bogota.
Time: Local Time to Bogota
Join us at an upcoming Open Day in China so you can get a view of what it's like to study with us.
If you have any questions about our courses, the application process or the University experience, our alumni, students and staff will be on hand to help.
If you have any issues booking a place for the Open Day, please get in touch with the team at EastAsia@warwick.ac.uk
Audience: Enquirers and Offer Holders
Time: Local Time to China
Description: Chat with a representative from the University of Warwick at the upcoming QS Connect & Fair, Lima.
Time: Local Time to Lima
Description: Chat with a representative from the University of Warwick at the upcoming QS Fair, Sao Paulo.
Time: Local Time to Sao Paulo
Description: Chat with a representative from the University of Warwick at the upcoming Study in the UK Virtual Fair for Latin America.
Event: Virtual Event
Time: CST
Description: Chat with a representative from the University of Warwick at the upcoming Education UK Day, Izmir.
Attending this event will give you access to all of the exhibitors.
Audience: Enquirers, Applicants and Offer Holders, Undergraduate, Postgraduate.
Time: Local Time to Izmir
Description: Chat with a representative from the University of Warwick at the upcoming SI-UK UK University Fair 2025, Toronto.
Time: ET
Description: Chat with a representative from the University of Warwick at the upcoming Education UK Day, Istanbul (Europe).
Time: Local Time to Istanbul
Description: Chat with a representative from the University of Warwick at the upcoming Education UK Day, Istanbul (Anatolia).
Description: Chat with a representative from the University of Warwick at the upcoming SI-UK UK University Fair 2025, Calgary.
Time: PT
Description: Chat with a representative from the University of Warwick at the upcoming SI-UK UK University Fair 2025, Victoria.
Description: Chat with a representative from the University of Warwick at the upcoming UK Education Fair Bogota.
Description: Chat with a representative from the University of Warwick at the upcoming SI-UK UK University Fair 2025, Vancouver.
Description: Meet with Warwick's Latin America representative, at the Feria FIDERH Fair on the 4 October 2025.
Attending this event will give you access to all the exhibitors.
Audience: Enquirers, Applicants and Offer Holders, interested in Postgraduate Taught or Research Study.
Time: Local Time to Mexico
Description: Come meet our Economics team at the QS Masters Fair in London on Saturday 4 October.
We look forward to meeting you and sharing more about how a Master's in Economics from the University of Warwick can boost your career.
Description: Chat with a representative from the University of Warwick at the upcoming IDP Study Abroad Roadshow in Istanbul.
University of Warwick will be in attendance at the QS Milan Masters event.
This is a great opportunity to meet with your Warwick representative and ask any questions that you may have.
Registration for this event is essential using the link above.
Audience: Postgraduate Taught and Research enquirers and applicants.
Time: Local Time to Milan, Italy.
Description: Meet with Warwick's Latin America representative, at the EuroPosgrados Fair in Mexico City on the 8 November 2025.
Try changing your search term or filters.
We'll also add more events throughout the year - sign up to our mailing list to be notified about new events

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/whywarwick:
Warwick is a place of challenge, where we’ll encourage you to question your existing ideas and to stretch yourself academically.
But we also want you to challenge us.
We’re ready for you to ask us the tough questions; to help our teachers and researchers find new ways of inspiring and supporting you; to ensure we offer you opportunities to unlock your true potential.
You can make that happen at Warwick, in a research-rich environment that nurtures your desire to ask questions and challenge convention.
If you're focused on getting ahead in a fast-moving world, join our Russell Group that’s ever-present in the lists of the UK’s and the world’s greatest universities, giving you the backing you need.
If you’re excited about conducting your own sustained research project, we can provide the tools and opportunities for you to make a significant impact, whether locally or on a worldwide scale.
Whatever your motivations and background, you can feel at home here.
With world-class academic and leisure facilities, a major arts centre and much more, come and enjoy our campus.
Warwick is a hub of creative, pioneering thinking, bringing world-class research into teaching.
We invite you to operate outside of your comfort zone, with teaching delivered by academics at the head of their fields.
Our close-knit community brings together staff and students from all over the world.
With gorgeous green spaces and woodland areas, a Sports and Wellness Hub, Arts Centre, plenty of places to eat and drink, and even a supermarket nearby, our campus has everything you need right on hand and more.
We’ll help you fulfil your ambitions by giving you the skills and knowledge to propel your career further.
We were marked out as the 5th most targeted university nationally by the UK’s top 100 graduate employers (The Graduate Market in 2023, High Fliers Research Ltd).
We want you to feel safe, supported and reassured as you become part of our welcoming, international community.
When it comes to housing preferences, we know that one size doesn’t fit all.
That’s why we have a wide variety of options on-campus and off-campus to ensure you feel at home.
While you’ll enjoy the benefits of our great campus facilities, it’s definitely worth exploring the local area.
Whether you’re a country-lover or you enjoy city life, our campus is perfectly positioned to offer you the best of both worlds.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/meet-our-students:
Our current students and alumni know Warwick postgraduate life best.
Hear directly from our amazing community to learn more about what it’s really like to study at Warwick.
"The teaching at Warwick has been nothing short of exceptional ."
"I can do anything I set my mind to."
"Everyone is really passionate about what they do."
“My supervisors have been invaluable, supporting both my academic and personal well-being, fostering a positive professor-PhD student relationship that I truly appreciate.”
Hear about Ephie's experience at Warwick
“I got everything that I needed and I’m very grateful for the support from my supervisors.”
Hear about Assem's experience at Warwick
“You can stroll in the central piazza, explore Warwick Arts Centre, visit events in the Oculus, relax in the cafes, meet new friends, and do your favourite activities by joining societies.
The University of Warwick has everything you need.”
Hear about Dany's experience at Warwick
“Warwick provides excellent libraries, research labs, sports facilities, student accommodation, and social spaces, creating an environment that is conducive to learning, studying, and personal growth.”
Hear about Raad's experience at Warwick
“During my time at Warwick, I've been fortunate to build meaningful connections and collaborations that have enriched my postgraduate journey.”
Hear about Retivea's experience at Warwick
“Studying at Warwick had a profound impact on my career ambitions and future goals.”
Hear about Ruhan's experience at Warwick
“My experience with the teaching at Warwick has been nothing short of exceptional.
It has been an enjoyable, challenging, and fun journey all rolled into one.”
Hear about Samyak's experience at Warwick
“There are multiple opportunities to showcase your talents and develop new skills.”
Hear about Shabbeer's experience at Warwick

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/unibuddy:
Choose a student and create an account below to get started.
You can also read student stories about what life on campus is like by clicking the 'Content' tab.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/international/admissions:
Each course has its own entry requirements, which may differ depending on the programme.
You can check a course’s details on its course page Link opens in a new window or look up information by country .
Details of required English Language qualifications and examinations.
Prepare for your degree with Warwick’s one-year International Foundation Programme.
All of the information and links on fees, living costs and international scholarships
Get answers and ask questions about applying to and studying at Warwick, by meeting us at an event , talking with us in our weekly Live Chat or contacting your regional team.
Received an offer from Warwick?
You can find advice and guidance here on preparing for your studies at Warwick, including information on our Welcome Week.
An accredited range of tailor-made programmes and courses offering support and assitance to international students.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/international/countryinformation:
Locate your region using the accordion menus.
These pages are designed to provide key information about applying for a course, qualification equivalencies for our entry requirements, and other specific information relevant to you.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/international/meetus:
During the year, Representatives from the University of Warwick will attend fairs and exhibitions, visit schools and universities and hold receptions for offer holders.
Find out where you can meet us here.
The best way is to experience one of our Open Days .
Alternatively, there are other ways you can visit as an Undergraduate or Postgraduate applicant.
If you are visting independently or as part of a school, please follow this guidance.
Warwick has a dedicated team, both in the UK and globally, who are able to provide you with assistance and support throughout your application to Warwick.
Throughout the year, we will be hosting Offer Holder Receptions in many countries.
You can find out more on upcoming trips here.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/international/visa:
Get help with applying for your UK Student visa , Dependant Visa , or Visit Visa .
We can also help you find out what type of visa you need for your studies, for Graduation , or for your Pre-Sessional English course .
Find out how to enrol on your Warwick course if you hold citizenship outside the UK and Ireland, and view our guidance on what to enter as part of your course registration process for different types of UK immigration status.
Studying with a Student Visa?
You may want to know what work you can do whilst studying, or what happens if you need to travel outside the UK .
If you've got resits or an extension , you're switching courses , or you need to take a break , we've got useful information for you too.
We're here to help you plan your next steps, whether that's a Graduate Visa , Skilled Worker Visa , or another option .
We can also help you understand what work you can do after your course while still holding your Student Visa.
Whether you need advice on your personal situation , want to request a letter , or need to tell us about a change in your circumstances , we're here to help.
Need to make a Student Visa application, but don't have your CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies) yet?
Check that you meet the requirements then...
Not sure what something means?
Check our helpful guide.
We want our service to be as helpful as possible to all Warwick students.
Whether you think we could be doing something better, or you want to tell us about something we're doing well, we want to hear from you.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/international/contact-us:
Warwick has a dedicated team, both in the UK and globally, who are able to provide you with assistance and support.
Regardless of your study level or enquiry, we are here to help.
For support with applications, course-specific questions and visa information, attend one of our live events or contact our Regional Team.
The University of Warwick works with highly selected agents in countries around the world, who support prospective students in their journey to Warwick.
To find the contact details for your country, please see our Country Information pages.
We also have representative offices in China, Hong Kong and Singapore.
Visit the representative office pages to find their address, contact information and managers.
Connect with us on Facebook , Twitter , Instagram , LinkedIn , VK , Weibo or find us on WeChat
If you require local support on visa applications, you may wish to contact our overseas representatives in the first instance.
Please visit your country information page Link opens in a new window for details.
Support is available on the Student Immigration & Compliance pages Link opens in a new window .
If you cannot find what you are looking for use the contact form via the following button to get in touch.
We offer a 10-week or 6-week Pre-sessional English programme (with face-to-face and online options) in the summer each year.
Contact the team if you have any questions.
Our International Foundation Programme is a one-year course for international students who want to prepare for their future undergraduate studies.
Find out about their courses and contact the team today.
Find out what it is really like to study at the University of Warwick directly from our current students – get answers on campus life, accommodation, study support, international help, wellbeing and more.
Choose a student from our list and create an account to get started.
At Warwick, we encourage you to expand your horizons as well as your mind.
You can build an intercalated year into your degree, giving you the opportunity to enrich your learning by spending time overseas.
Contact Student Mobility for questions and queries regarding topics of studying or working abroad.
To find out what you should do before you leave home, travel arrangements to campus, key collection, and practical support in the first few weeks of arriving in the UK view our Welcome to Warwick Link opens in a new window and Guidance for New International Students Link opens in a new window pages.
If you cannot find the information you are looking for, contact the team using this online form .
Once you have settled in, your Personal Tutor is usually your first point of contact during your studies.
Our Student Union Advice Centre offers free and confidential advice for any problems in relation to studies, accommodation, money or personal issues.
If you require any immigration advice, visit the Student Immigration Knowledge Centre.
You can also contact the team online, attend a drop-in session, or book an appointment with an International Student Adviser.
If you are unsure who to contact, visit the Student Information Centre which is open 7 days a week at the very heart of campus (Senate House).
A full list of our support services for all students is also available if you require any further assistance that has not been covered here.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/international/agent:
At Warwick, we carefully select and appoint agents in countries around the world, who are able to provide high quality support to prospective students in their journey to university study in the UK.
The University of Warwick works with dedicated Agents and Representatives across the world, who can provide you with information, support and advice on studying with us.
Before you consider working with an Agent, please read this guidance from the British Council : The Student Guide to Choosing an Education Agent
If you're considering applying to the University of Warwick via an Education Agent, you can find information on accredited agents in your country on our Country Information Link opens in a new window pages.
For our International Foundation Programme contacts, see here Link opens in a new window .
The University of Warwick is committed to the UK Agent Quality Framework (AQF), which is designed to maintain the highest standards of agent management.
We have signed the pledge with the British Universities International Liaison Association (BUILA) and the British Council, to help ensure the UK remains a leading study destination for international students.
For further information on our work with agents please contact us at int.recruitment@warwick.ac.uk .
Please note that official agents of the University of Warwick receive a commission payment for supporting incoming students for their services.
The University does not pay commission to agents representing students from United States or eligible to receive US federal loans.
We acknowledge that sometimes Students or Applicants may need to get in touch regarding an agent that the University of Warwick works with.
If this is the case, we have processes in place where you can submit this information to us.
All complaints made to the University are handled confidentially, and in accordance with the Enquiry and Applicant and Student Privacy Notice.
All complaints must be submitted by the Student or Applicant.
No third party complaints will be considered.
If the complaint is being made by a current applicant to Warwick, any complaints regarding agent support will be handled with complete separation from any admissions decision.
To access the Agent Portal please click here .
To monitor applications tagged to your agency, please click here.
All applications must be sent to us either via UCAS or via our Direct Application Portal .
Forgotten your password or login details?
Get help here .
Our network of local agents provide information, counselling, and guidance to highly motivated and academically excellent students seeking admission to the University of Warwick.
Further information on the code of conduct adhered to can be found here.
For further guidance, please also refer to the British Council's guidance for agents , the UKCISA Code of Ethics and the QAA's Quality Code for UK higher education.
The University is very selective in its choice of agents, and the number of appointments made is strictly limited.
Unsolicited international student applications from non-appointed agents will be treated as direct applications from students and will not result in the payment of commission.
The University of Warwick is not currently looking for any new agents or representation.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/scholarships-and-bursaries:
Find out about the many different funding routes available for Undergraduate and Postgraduate study at the University of Warwick.
You can apply for scholarships through the central University, UKRI Centres for Doctoral Training, your department, industry, charitable foundations and governments.
Use our search and filtering tool to find the different scholarship opportunities available for Undergraduate and Postgraduate study.
What is the difference between a scholarship and a bursary?
See our FAQs pages if you have a question.
We hope that you should be able to find all the information you need on these web pages, but if you still have a question please contact our scholarships team.
We welcome applications to our Sanctuary Scholarships scheme for prospective students who are seeking Sanctuary in the UK.
For more details, please click the links below
If you are a UK asylum seeker, the University of Warwick is pleased to provide a bursary for a tuition fee discount so that you will pay the Home rate of tuition fees while your asylum application is under consideration by the Home Office, rather then the Overseas rate.
We can help you find, and apply for the right funding opportunities for studying at the University of Warwick.
You can also speak to us on a live chat .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/cll/courses:
We offer a range of courses to help you progress in your chosen career:
Career Education, Information and Guidance in Higher Education Link opens in a new window
For more information, visit Professional Development
See our full course list
Find a course by course level.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/cll/yourwarwick:
Facilities and support
Extra curricular
Term dates
Preparing to start
CLL Student stories
CLL staff and student blogs
CLL Alumni stories
Warwick student bloggers
Student support team
Funding your studies Link opens in a new window
Carer's support
General student support and wellbeing services

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/cll/about:
Discover the rigorous research work our staff have conducted in relation to the broad field of lifelong learning.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/cll/research:
The University of Warwick is one of the UK's leading universities and the quality and impact of our research is demonstrated by our excellent research rankings.
The Centre provides doctoral research opportunities in early childhood practice, adult education, career development work, coaching, counselling, psychotherapy, and social work.
We also support research projects related to widening participation, formal/informal learning, and linked areas of social studies.
An overview of Centre for Lifelong Learning and researching with us.
The Centre's doctoral programme is led by Dr Phil McCash p.t.mccash@warwick.ac.uk
Read the stories of our PhD students to find out about their experience.
Find out about our current research students and their projects.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/cll/our-research:
What do we mean by career?
This article by Dr Phil McCash explores the background to the study of career in the pioneering Chicago School of Sociology.
These origins, he argues, give the field a coherent basis for research and practice.
Dr Sarah Cousins and Hilary Minns explore the value of sharing rhymes and stories with very young children.
They present some of the research underpinning this approach and offer students and teachers starting points for developing such a pedagogy.
Lynne Campbell (previously Lynne Johnson) worked as part of a small HECSU funded research team at The Open University to compare the efficacy of e-guidance and telephone career support for students' career learning, development and progression.
Dr Phil McCash, co-editor of The Oxford Handbook of Career Development, discusses the biggest obstacles in the career development field and how organisations can enhance employees’ careers.
Gill Frigerio, with Danish co-author Miriam Dimsits, considers how career development practitioners work with people who feel a sense of calling to commit themselves to global sustainability in their careers.
Ian Day explores the 'myth' that coaches can not ask the 'why...?' questions, and asks why this is?
Dr Tania Lyden considers whether social groups perceive similar gains from career mentoring in HE and how social difference influences career mentoring interactions.
This research project from Dr Nalita James explored learners' experiences of English for Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) and their perceptions of how learning the English language has supported their integration and community cohesion in Leicester.
The Centre for Lifelong Learning (CLL) supports research and scholarship related to the broad field of lifelong learning.
We interpret learning as taking place throughout our lives from birth through childhood and adulthood to the end of life.
It includes lifewide learning across our many different social roles and spaces undergirded by appropriate social supports.
Learning is also lifedeep and extends to learning in the particular socio-cultural contexts that give rise to our distinctive values, beliefs, and identities.
We welcome a very wide range of life experience in CLL and support creative and well-crafted research and scholarship projects with potential for individual, social, and/or cultural transformation.
Our research and scholarship are organised in terms of four interconnected themes: concepts; people-focused professions; wellbeing and identity; participation and collaboration .
We seek to enthuse staff, students, and the wider community with this vision.
See our staff research interests by selecting the 'Academic, teaching and research' filter in the left column.
See our current PhD students and their research projects.
See if you are eligible for a CLL PhD scholarship to cover your tuition fee in researching with us.
Read more featured research from our staff and explore our research projects further.
Dr John Gough
Discover more about research in the Centre for Lifelong Learning.
Are you a member of staff at CLL?
Share your research and scholarship by filling a simple online form.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/cll/alumni:
Your student days are just the beginning of your lifelong link with Warwick.
Your ever-growing, thriving, global community of more than 283,000 alumni supports and enriches your student experience.
And after graduating, you automatically become a member of that powerful community too.
Share your experiences and expertise, and play your part in shaping the future of Warwick.
*According to internal statistics collected in April 2022
Our alumni are primarily based in the UK, Irish Republic, China, France, and the US
Most of our local alumni live in Coventry, Birmingham, Nuneaton, Rugby, and Leamington Spa
53% of our alumni are between 40-59 years old, and 22% are over 60 years old
30% of our students became Social Workers, 9% became Counsellors, and 9% became Teaching Assistants
31% of our students entered Higher Education and Education, and 27% in total entered Social Work and Public Health Activities
43 alumni became mentors, 91 became donors
As Warwick Alumni, you're entitled to a bunch of appealing benefits, including a Swipe Card, Warwickgrad.net, Mentoring opportunities, Career Support, and exclusive Alumni Journals and Publications.
See Warwick Alumni Benefits and Services for more information.
We cannot wait to hear about your journey after leaving us.
We publish Alumni Stories regularly to celebrate the continuous efforts our alumni puts into developing their learning, working and giving back.
Warwick Alumni also publishes Warwick Alumni Stories to celebrate the achievement of our all time alumni.
Share your story by answering some Quickfire Questions.
Your journey at Warwick does not stop when you complete your courses.
Warwick Alumni regularly shares university news and events that are relevant to you.
Missing your CLL community?
Stay tuned on our latest news, events at CLL and connect with CLL staff and fellow alumni by following us on LinkedIn Link opens in a new window .
We are also on Twitter Link opens in a new window , Facebook Link opens in a new window and Instagram Link opens in a new window .
There are other ways to engage with Warwick as our alumni, including participating in recruitment events, e-mentoring, venturing, and giving back.
Find out how to get involved as Warwick alumni .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/cll/contact:
Please fill in your details below to ask us a question.
If you’d like to receive regular updates about the Centre or a particular course, please join our mailing list .
This data on this form will be used to send you the information you have requested.
We will store the fact that you have requested the information, any correspondence between the University and yourself, and your contact details to receive the information, but we will not send you any information beyond that which you have requested, nor will we use the data for any other purpose.
The University of Warwick is the Data Controller of any information you have entered on this form and is
    committed to protecting the rights of individuals in line with Data Protection Legislation.
The
    University's Data Protection webpages provide further information on your rights and how the University
    processes personal data.
If you wish to submit a data subjects rights request, make a complaint or report a
    suspected personal data breach, please contact the University’s Data Protection Officer by email at infocompliance@warwick.ac.uk .
reCAPTCHA is a utility used to verify you're not a robot filling out this form.
Unfortunately this has failed to load correctly.
Please try reloading the page.
If the problem persists, or if you are in a country which blocks Google products, please contact us by using the ‘page contact’ link at the foot of this page.
Centre for Lifelong Learning Westwood Campus University of Warwick Coventry CV4 8UW
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 4617 Email: cll at warwick dot ac dot uk
Find us on the Interactive Campus Map .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/cll/currentstudents:
Become a part of the CLL community
Main building includes classrooms, academic and admin offices
Make real connections with like minded people
The main campus has lots to offer all students
Create connections with fellow students to support your learning
This page contains the CLL Departmental Handbook as well as Course handbooks for 2+2, Early Childhood and Social Studies.
They can be viewed online or downloaded for future reference.
Here you will find links to useful resources such as:
Find out a little more about your student support team, what they do, and how they can help you during your studies.
Information about what the SSLC's are, how they benefit you and who your course reps are.
Your go to place for all things career related.
Find out about who to contact with careers enquiries and about upcoming events/workshops
Your 'One Stop Shop' for student discounts.
Check out what is available to you and how you can save yourself some money while studying.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/outreach:
Our team combines passion, creativity and innovation to inspire young minds and maximise their potential, through unique opportunities both in school and on campus.
Our work spans many geographical reaches, supporting young people and their parents/carers to make informed decisions on a local, regional and national level.
We run a wide range of events and activities for young people aged between 9 and 19, targeted at state school educated students, students who would be the first in their family to attend university, students from low socio-economic backgrounds and students who come from neighbourhoods where there is low progression to higher education.
Read our latest impact report here Link opens in a new window .
wp_warwick
Widening Participation Team, University House, University of Warwick, Kirby Corner Road, CV4 8UW

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/outreach/wpatwarwick:
Our aim is to enhance and encourage access to higher education for all those who have the potential to study at university, regardless of background, and to ensure that the students studying at the University of Warwick are representative of our local and wider national communities.
Ensuring the university is accessible to students from all backgrounds is one of the strategic priorities set out in Warwick's University strategy, demonstrating our commitment to widening participation and the significance placed on this important work.
Please visit the What we offer page to see the many ways in which you can engage with our work or contact outreach@warwick.ac.uk with any questions.
" I would like to say a heartfelt thank you for your generosity and for giving students like me the opportunity to study at Warwick.
The scholarship programme has been a huge part of my university experience, and I hope that future students will be able to have the experiences that I have had."
Grace Bend Modern Languages, 3rd year

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/outreach/whatweoffer:
The Widening Participation and Social Mobility team supports non-selective state secondary schools that have a high proportion of students from widening participation backgrounds in the local area.
If your school does not fall within this criteria you can contact our Student Recruitment team and request a visit to campus or an in-school visit.
Please visit their webpages for more information.
Link opens in a new window
We offer a broad and exciting range of activities for students across the curriculum ranging from Key Stage 2 to Key Stage 5.
We also provide several residential summer schools for the different age groups, and many subject-specific activities.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/outreach/digitalactivity:
For digital events for all post 16 students and school groups visit the Schools webpages .
Whilst the WP Team are unable to come out to your school, we are happy to run a webinar on one of several topics linked to Thinking about University.
Sessions are between 45 minutes to 1 hour in length and topics include:
Making the most of Year 12/Year 13
University vs Apprenticeship
Suggest a topic to us?
Are you a teacher or careers advisor?
Subscribe to our Teacher Mailing List to receive further communications and updates from Warwick.
Visit Digital Resources for Schools
or Digital Events for Schools

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/outreach/disruptededucation:
Warwick recognises that some students can face particular obstacles when accessing higher education.
We are committed to ensuring that these obstacles are mitigated as far as possible.
Emily Watkins and the Widening Participation Lifecycle Team is responsible for supporting students at the University are independent because they have left a care background, independent students who are estranged and the University's Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught Sanctuary Scholars.
The team are more than happy to help with any questions or queries you or your supporters may have.
Click on the relevant box below for further information on the support available.
Emily Watkins
Widening Participation Lifecycle Officer
'Disrupted Education' is a term used to describe students who have experienced significant, personal barriers to their education.
They may, for example, be:
UCAS has introduced boxes on the university application form in the 'More about you' section so that you can highlight your circumstances to universities when you apply.
There is more information about this on UCAS's webpages Link opens in a new window for specific groups of students.
You can find out more about the support available from Warwick for students who have experienced disruption to their education below.
This webpage is useful for students who have been looked after for at least 3 months at any point in their childhood.
This care may have been provided in many different settings, including:
This webpage is for young people under the age of 25 who were in the care of their local authority for at least 13 weeks at any time since the age of 14, including some time after their 16th birthday.
This is also relevant to students under 19 who have left care and have been living independently.
An 'estranged student' is a young person under the age of 25 who is studying without the support and approval of both of their parents due to a breakdown in their relationship – this might be their birth, step or adoptive parents, and sometimes their wider family members.
Students in this situation are able to apply to Student Finance England (or equivalent student finance bodies in Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland) as ‘Independent and Estranged’.
You could apply for student finance as an estranged student if:
The webpage focuses on Warwick as a University of Sanctuary, including information about our Sanctuary Scholarships:
If you are a student with caring responsibilities, balancing your caring role with your university studies might sometimes be a challenge, but there are lots of places where you can access support while you’re at Warwick.
This webpage has more information about support services available at Warwick and in the wider community.
We've compiled a list of other links and resources that are particularly useful for students who have faced educational disruption.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/outreach/universityofsanctuary:
Higher Education Institutions in the UK have a proud and radical tradition of supporting refugees and people in the asylum system.
The University of Sanctuary award recognises commitment to creating a culture of safety, solidarity, and empowerment for people seeking sanctuary within, and beyond, university campuses.
Learn more about Universities of Sanctuary here .
Warwick has been recognised as a University of Sanctuary since 2017.
Emily is here to support Undergraduate Sanctuary Scholars and Postgraduate Taught Sanctuary Scholars with any questions, comments, or concerns.
You are welcome to get in touch using the details below:
Emily Watkins , Widening Participation Lifecyle Officer
If you are a Postgraduate Research Sanctuary Scholar, or have an enquiry about 'Doctoral Access Scholarships - Sanctuary', please contact the Doctoral College by emailing doctoralcollege@warwick.ac.uk .
"As a refugee, I have never felt I am different from the other colleagues here at Warwick.
I have always been supported by the department and my supervisors and that proves why, among other factors, Warwick is among the pioneering universities in the world."
Sanctuary Student, Centre for Education Studies

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/outreach/partnerships:
The University has a number of partnerships with other HE Institutions, schools and colleges, local authorities, third sector and charitable organisations and sector bodies and industry.
We see effective partnerships as positive vehicles to enhance the work that we do.
Read more about our partnerships here.
IntoUniversity provides local learning centres where young people are inspired to achieve.
At each local centre IntoUniversity offers an innovative programme that supports young people from disadvantaged backgrounds to attain either a university place or another chosen aspiration.
The Brilliant Club are an award winning University access charity.
They work with schools and universities across the UK.
The charity exists to increase the number of pupils from underrepresented backgrounds progressing to highly-selective universities.
ThinkHigher is one of 29 partnerships within Uni Connect (formerly the National Collaborative Outreach Programme).
The networks aim to help streamline Higher Education outreach for local schools, as well as exploring new ways of delivering outreach to meet local needs and priorities.
Since 1997 the Sutton Trust has worked to address social mobility.
They fight for social mobility from birth to the workplace so that every young person – no matter who their parents are, what school they go to, or where they live – has the chance to succeed in life.
Realising Opportunities (RO) is a unique collaboration of leading, research-intensive universities, working together to promote fair access and social mobility of students from groups underrepresented in higher education.
upReach help disadvantaged students from across the UK to realise their potential.
They provide a highly personalised programme of support to each undergraduate student (who are known as an "upReach Associate”).
Through successful partnerships with 45 top employers and universities, they offer Associates access to a comprehensive range of opportunities and activities to broaden their horizons, understand career pathways and develop the skills, networks and experiences needed for career success.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/outreach/studentprojects:
The Social Mobility Student Research Hub aims to improve access to and participation in research for students from under-represented groups.
It offers funded opportunities to enable undergraduate and postgraduate taught students from under-represented groups to carry out research projects on topics relating to widening participation, social mobility, diversity, inclusion, and inequalities.
All students receive research training and have a postgraduate research student mentor to support them through the research process.
This year the Research Hub is being led by Dr Tammy Thiele (Widening Participation Evaluation and Evidence Manager) and Dr Ellis Ryan (WP Evaluation and Evidence Officer), with co-investigators from professional and academic departments, including: Professor Emma Smith, Dr Becky Morris, Kate McCarthy (WP Evaluation and Evidence Officer) and Dr Daniel Cashmore (WP Data Analyst).
If you want to find out more about the Social Mobility Student Research Hub or if you wish to collaborate with us, please get in touch by emailing Turn on JavaScript to view obfuscated email addresses
Applications can be made through our online form here Link opens in a new window .
For more information about the project please visit our applications page Link opens in a new window where you will find a role description in addition to resources that may support you in writing in an application.
Applications for the 2024-2025 programme are now closed.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/outreach/contact:
If your school does not fall within this criteria, please contact the Student Recruitment team Link opens in a new window to request a campus or in-school visit.
Head of Widening Participation
Widening Participation Manager (Sustained Engagement)
Widening Participation Officer (Pathways to Law, Banking & Finance, and Engineering)
Widening Participation Officer (UniTracks)
Widening Participation Assistant Officer
(Pathways to Law, Banking & Finance, and Engineering)
Widening Participation Assistant Officer (Realising Opportunities)
Widening Participation Assistant Officer (UniTracks)
Widening Participation Manager (Educational Partnerships)
Widening Participation Officer (Educational Partnerships - Primary)
Widening Participation Officer (Educational Partnerships - Secondary)
Widening Participation Events & Operations Coordinator
Widening Access and Lifecycle Manager (Widening Access and Student Success)
Widening Participation Lifecycle Officer (Warwick Scholars Undergraduate programme and upReach Lead)
Widening Participation Lifecycle Officer (Priority groups and progression to postgraduate study)
Widening Access Officer (Warwick Scholars Access Programme)
Widening Participation Evaluation and Evidence Manager
Widening Participation Evaluation and Evidence Officer
Data Analyst
Widening Participation Faculty Engagement Manager (Arts)
Widening Participation Faculty Engagement Manager (Social Sciences)
Widening Participation Faculty Engagement Manager (Science, Engineering, and Medicine)

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/degree-apprenticeships:
Welcome to
Effective: 18th February 2025.
Existing Apprentices Update
The following is a summary of the recently announced changes to Functional Skills/Level 2 qualifications for Degree Apprentices (over 19).
If you are currently on programme, you will be required to undertake a Progress Review within the next 5 weeks and it is for you, the apprentice, and your employer to determine whether you will continue to undertake the Functional Skill/s - your Apprenticeship Tutor will support in this, as some Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Bodies (PSRB), such as Social Work England require a Level 2 qualification in English and/or maths.
You will be asked to ensure this is noted as part of the Progress Review, and should you wish to continue, we will honour the funding of this through our provider, Runway.
Should both your employer, and you, decide this qualification is no longer required, with the support of your tutor's advice, we will withdraw you from the Functional Skill with immediate effect.
Please do seek clarification from your Apprenticeship Tutor should you require further guidance.
Changes to Functional Skills Requirements for New Apprentices
During the week commencing 10 February 2025, the government announced — and this has now been confirmed in the latest issue of the Department for Education’s Funding Rules — that the requirement for apprentices aged 19 or older to pass Level 2 Functional Skills in English and maths in order to complete their apprenticeship will be made optional for new starters.
So, what does this mean for prospective apprentices?
It is important to note that, the above guidance is subject to any PSRB (Professional, Statutory, and Regulatory Body) requirements in relation to English and Maths, as well as any programme-specific entry requirements that mandate a higher level of attainment in these subjects for entry.
In such cases, the PSRB or programme specific requirements will take precedence over the recent policy change for functional skills.
The Work-based and Professional Learning Team will integrate the discussion on functional skills into the onboarding process for new applicants, ensuring it receives the attention it deserves.
The above guidance is subject to any further updates or revisions to the functional skills requirements.
We will continue to monitor government announcements and respond to any future policy changes in this area.
Choose both work and study.
Combine the development of academic knowledge and practical skills whilst earning a salary, by undertaking a degree apprenticeship at the University of Warwick.
Find out more about the exciting opportunities a degree apprenticeship at Warwick can open up to you.
We offer a variety of degree apprenticeship courses in a range of subject areas.
To apply for one of our courses, you’ll need to find an employer with a vacancy for a degree apprentice.
In addition, we can discuss potential degree apprenticeship training with an employer who you may have already contacted.
Search our course list or find a vacancy.
8th in the UK (Guardian University Guide 2024)
Ranked Goldf or student experience, student outcomes, and overall (Teaching Excellence Framework 2023)
69th globally (QS World University Rankings 2025)
We provide a platform for the curious; we inspire, we excite, and we invigorate.
This means as an apprentice, you'll develop the agility of thinking and breadth of experience that will enable you to rise to any future challenges and make a positive difference in the world.
As an apprentice, you’ll have access to our state-of-the-art campus facilities, with purpose-built laboratories, learning grids (equipped with collaborative spaces and interactive presentation technology) and places for independent study.
You’ll also be able to make use of our Sports and Wellness Hub, Arts Centre, Library, restaurants and shops.
We’re developing a dedicated Degree Apprenticeship Complex on campus and opened our first Degree Apprenticeship Centre for apprentices studying manufacturing and engineering in September 2019.
This innovative space provides an exciting learning environment for apprentices with open spaces for collaborative and individual work, technology-enabled seminar rooms and a purpose-built laboratory.
Looking to find out more about Degree Apprenticeships at Warwick?
Use the link below to complete an enquiry form, and a member of our team will be in touch.
For more information contact our dedicated apprenticeship team at apprenticeships@warwick.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/degree-apprenticeships/apprentices:
Combine academic knowledge and practical skills to help you thrive in the workplace, whilst earning a salary.
You’ll be a full-time employee learning skills on the job for around 80 percent of your time, with the other 20 percent enjoying all the fantastic opportunities degree-level study can bring.
Studying a degree apprenticeship at Warwick gives you the opportunity to learn from academics at the forefront of thinking in their subject, surrounded by other independent thinkers.
You’ll study through a mix of in-person classes and via our virtual learning platforms.
Warwick recently received a ‘Gold’ rating in all three areas of the Teaching Excellence Framework 2023, so you can expect to be challenged and inspired at every step by your teachers.
Earn a salary while you learn.
Develop skills and knowledge.
No tuition fees.
Build your professional network.
We’ll also support you to apply what you’ve learned to your area of work and job role, through an individual project agreed with your employer.
And you’ll benefit from regular review meetings with your apprentice tutor, where you will be tasked to think reflectively about your progress, to ensure you’re developing the skills and understanding you need to succeed in your working role.
While on campus, you’ll be able to immerse yourself in campus life, meeting and sharing ideas with degree apprentices from a host of different sectors and organisations.
You can also take full advantage of our incredible campus facilities.
These include an Arts Centre housing theatres, cinema, art gallery, and concert hall, as well as our Sports and Wellness Hub featuring a 12-lane swimming pool, state-of-the-art gym, and climbing wall.
Discover what life is like as an apprentice.
Sabrina Irfan describes how she splits studying and work, how she’s getting a head start in her career.
Understand what life as a Civil and Infrastructure Engineering degree apprentice is really like by reading about Sabrina's apprenticeship journey.
Applied Engineering Programme degree apprentice Jordan Albutt was nominated for the EW BrightSparks 2020 Award , which highlights the most promising electronic engineers in the UK.
Jordan reflects on his role, skills and experiences and recent successes with Rolls-Royce.
Congratulations to Tamsin Leaman-Hewitt who won the Young Rail Professionals Apprentice of the Year Award .
Tamsin has also been shortlisted for the Amazon Everywoman Apprentice of the Year.
Read more about her experiences as a Civil Engineer degree apprentice.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/degree-apprenticeships/employers:
Bring a wealth of knowledge, skills, and fresh thinking into your organisation
Warwick have contributed to two new manuals, co-authored by Industry and Government, to set out how flexibilities in apprenticeships can be used and delivered in construction and health and social care, to meet the needs of employers and apprentices.
Some employers are already making use of apprenticeship flexibilities and are seeing the benefits of this, in workforce satisfaction, productivity, and improved value for money.
Construction - our Civil and Infrastructure Engineering degree apprenticeship offers block release training, giving apprentices concentrated periods to focus on academic learning and extended periods in the workplace to put new knowledge and skills into practice.
There is also flexible learning for more experienced individuals who are able to build on their existing skills and complete more quickly.
Health and Social Care - our Social Work degree apprenticeship Link opens in a new window offers day release, allowing apprentices to manage their academic study and caseload commitments effectively.
Both offer flexible learning for more experienced individuals who are able to build on their existing skills and complete more quickly.
We will help you identify minimum educational or experience requirements and establish whether you’d like to upskill your existing workforce or take on new talent.
If your ambition is to recruit new talent into the organisation, then we can ensure that your opportunities reach high-calibre candidates.
Our Degree Apprenticeships Team are here to support you through every stage of the process, from recruitment and selection, to guiding you through your contractual responsibilities and enrolling your apprentices onto the degree programme.
We’ll discuss your organisational requirements to ensure that we meet your needs as an employer, in the development of your apprentices to meet the current and future challenges of your business.
You will be given a dedicated skills and training expert who will continue to support you throughout the duration of the apprenticeship.
Apprenticeship Levy
The Apprenticeship Levy was introduced by the UK government in April 2017 to fund apprenticeship training and assessment in England.
Levy payments can be used to upskill existing staff or recruit new talent and there is no upper age limit.
If you are an employer in England with an annual payroll over £3 million you will pay 0.5 percent on anything over £3 million into the Apprenticeship Levy.
The UK Government provide an annual levy allowance of £15,000 as well as a 10 percent monthly top-up on the funds you pay in, meaning you can get out more than you pay in.The levy is paid to HMRC and the funds are held in the employers Digital Apprenticeship Service account.
For more information see the governments guidance.
Funding without the Apprenticeship Levy
If your annual payroll is less than £3 million you will not pay the Apprenticeship Levy but are still eligible for funding.
You will pay 5 percent towards the cost of training with the government funding 95 percent.
There is a limit of 10 apprenticeship starts per financial year and you must reserve this funding through your Digital Apprenticeship Service account.
Apprenticeship Levy Transfers
Employers that pay the levy can transfer their unused apprenticeship funds to help other organisations pay for apprenticeship training.
For further details on how to do this please visit the governments guidance.
If you would like to receive a transfer from another employer, you can search for funding opportunities here.
Additional Government Support
To support the creation of high-quality apprenticeships the Government can offer incentive payments for employers who hire new apprentices.
Contact our Apprenticeships Team to check the incentives currently available and if your company is eligible.
For more information visit the Education and Skills Funding Agency guidance Link opens in a new window .
Generally, Level 6 degree apprenticeships last between three and five years and Level 7 degree apprenticeships lasts two to three years.
The length varies depending on the course.
Apprentices spend 80 percent of their time learning on-the job and the remaining 20 percent training off-the-job studying towards their degree.
On-the-job learning
As apprentices are in full-time employment, most of their training takes place in the workplace.
The 80 percent of their time learning on-the-job covers the job specific tasks that the apprentice would complete during their regular working hours.
Off-the-job training
Off-the-job training is defined as learning undertaken outside of an apprentice’s normal working environment, this can include training delivered at the apprentice’s normal place of work but must not be delivered as part of their normal working duties.
Off-the-job training must equate to a minimum of 20 percent of the apprentice’s total working hours.
Studies will usually take place through either day release or block release a week at time spread throughout the year, depending on the course.
Apprentices will also study using our Virtual Learning Environment meaning they can learn from their home, office or further afield at a time that suits them.
"My experience working with Warwick university has been first class to date.
Having worked with several universities and experienced various levels of apprenticeship delivery, I would rank Warwick highly."
Emerging Talent Development Partner, J.
Murphy & Sons Limited
"Warwick University have been a brilliant training provider to work with.
They have been on hand right from advertising the apprenticeship vacancies, helping to facilitate with interviews and providing excellent support to our apprentices throughout their course".
Apprenticeship Programme Manager, Laing O’Rourke
"We have had a very good experience with the degree apprenticeship programme at the University of Warwick with regards to training for Advanced Critical Care Practitioners with two of our trainees now qualified and two further trainees starting the course.
The trainees are well supported throughout.
"
Dr Matthew Martin Consultant - Anaesthesia and Intensive Care Medicine
Apprenticeship Standards are developed by employer-led groups known as trailblazers and outline the knowledge, skills and behaviours required for a specific job role.
Standards are managed by the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education and details of all available standards can be found on their website.
To be able to offer an apprenticeship the following rules must apply:
To apply for an degree apprenticeship, the government require the apprentice to:
- UK nationals - UK nationals are eligible for funding if they have been ordinarily resident in the UK, the British Overseas Territories, or Crown Dependencies (Channel Islands and Isle of Man) for at least the previous three years before the start of the apprenticeship.
- UK nationals in the EEA - UK nationals who have been living in the EEA prior to their apprenticeships are eligible for funding if they have been ordinarily resident in the EEA for at least the previous three years before the start of the apprenticeship; or, have been ordinarily resident in a combination of the UK and EEA for at least the previous three years before the start of the apprenticeship.
- EEA nationals in the UK - Irish nationals are eligible for funding if they have been ordinarily resident in the UK, Ireland, or the EEA for at least the previous three years before the start of the apprenticeship.
- All other EEA nationals are eligible for funding if they have obtained either pre-settled or settled status under the EU Settlement Scheme; and have been ordinarily resident in the EEA, Gibraltar, or the UK for at least the previous three years before the start of the apprenticeship.
- Please note there are other residency criteria that cover a range of individual circumstances, for example family members of UK and EEA nationals.
Please contact the Apprenticeships Team at Turn on JavaScript to view obfuscated email addresses if you feel the above points have not covered your situation.
Each apprenticeship will also have specific academic entry requirements set by the University and the employer which you would also need to achieve.
Contact our Apprenticeships Team for further details about the flexibility of these and our other apprenticeship programmes

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/degree-apprenticeships/courses:
We offer a range of successful undergraduate (Level 6) and postgraduate (Level 7) degree apprenticeship courses.
All have been carefully developed with industry and professional bodies to meet current and future skills needs.
New programmes are currently in development and when they become available they will be published here.
Therefore we advise you to check this page for further details or contact our Degree Apprenticeships Team for the latest information.
If you’re a business who’d like to work with us, or you’re interested in doing a degree apprenticeship, and your area of interest isn’t listed, please get in touch with our Degree Apprenticeship Team .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/degree-apprenticeships/vacancies:
We work with a range of employers who recruit apprentices.
As soon as any vacancies with our employer partners become available, they will appear here.
You can also register your details in our enquiry form so that we can notify you via email of vacancies in your subject of interest as they become available.
If you’re a business who’d like to work with us, or you’re interested in doing an apprenticeship, and your area of interest isn’t listed, please get in touch with our Apprenticeship Team .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/degree-apprenticeships/current-apprentices:
All the information that you need as a current apprentice can be found on this page.
If there is anything else that you need support or advice on, please contact our Degree Apprenticeships team .
Each of our apprenticeship programmes has been carefully mapped to the appropriate Apprenticeship Standard to ensure apprentices gain the specific Knowledge, Skills and Behaviours (KSBs) required for their job role.
The process below outlines 10 key stages of an apprenticeship so you know what to expect from your programme.
You will also receive an invitation to create a 'My apprenticeship' account from the Department of Education (DfE).
Your ' My apprenticeship ' account will allow you to:
So please look out for the email which will be sent to your Warwick email address and create your account.
As a Warwick apprentice, you have access to a wide range of campus facilities.
With gorgeous green spaces and woodland areas, a Sports and Wellness Hub, Arts Centre, plenty of places to eat and drink, and even a supermarket nearby, our campus has everything you need right on hand.
As well as your academic tutors you will have a dedicated University Apprenticeship Tutor to provide you with both academic and pastoral support.
They will also meet on a regular basis with yourself and your Line Manager at work to discuss your progress.
Below are some quick links to the applications that you will be using on a regular basis as part of you studies.
OneFile Link opens in a new window – The e-portfolio system used to compile the portfolio of evidence required for successful completion of your apprenticeship.
Your Apprenticeship Tutor will use OneFile to set assessments and tasks, give feedback, monitor learning progress and off-the-job training, record attendance and document progress reviews.
OneFile guidance and support can be found here Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window
Moodle Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window – The University's Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) is a web platform that provides you with access to online course materials, activities, assignment submission and communication tools.
Every module has a Moodle page.
Tabula Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window – Tabula allows you to receive important announcements, check assessment marks and your timetable, give course and module feedback, contact your lecturers and supervisors, access forms and change contact details.
Warwick email Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window - This is the address that we will use to contact you and you should use it to email members of staff.
Please make sure you check your Warwick email account daily and do not let your inbox become full.
MyWarwick Mobile App Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window - In the MyWarwick app students can access key links and contact information and regular news updates and announcements.
t can also be used to view teaching timetables, coursework deadlines, check emails and create alerts.
You can find details of all IT information and services for students here Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window .
We want you to feel safe, supported and reassured as you become part of our welcoming community.
Wellbeing Support Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window - can help you to develop the personal resources and skills needed to navigate the challenges and opportunities of student life.
You will be able to access our services via our Wellbeing Portal – choose an online or in-person appointment to help identify your needs and explore the best options for you e.g.
referral to Counselling and Psychotherapy Services.
You will also be able to access our Wellbeing Masterclasses and our Steps to Wellbeing Programme, to help you focus on your individual wellbeing needs.
Disability Services Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window - Disability Services encourage students to declare any disability or learning difference so that they can discuss support requirements to enable reasonable adjustments to be made for the duration of their studies.
The University's Values Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window - These principles represent our expectations of how we behave as a University Community, both as individuals and as an institution.
They also inform our approach to taking appropriate action when these expectations are not met.
Values Moodle Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window - This should be completed upon enrolment each year, and communicates your rights and responsibilities as members of the Warwick community that enable us to create a working, living and learning environment where everyone feels welcomed and safe to be themselves, where everyone is treated with dignity and respect, and where there is equal opportunity for all to reach their potential.
Dignity at Warwick Policy Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window - This outlines unacceptable behaviours and the process for reporting and dealing with inappropriate behaviour.
We expect all members of the University to recognise their responsibilities to:
Report and Support Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window - Everyone at the University of Warwick, whether studying, working, or visiting, has the right to feel safe.
Harassment of any kind is completely unacceptable, and our community is an environment where prejudice and socially unacceptable behaviour are never tolerated.
Disclosures about any inappropriate or concerning behaviour can be made to Report and Support.
University Feedback and Complaints Procedure Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window - We aim to provide all users of the University with high quality and efficient services.
We recognise though that there may be occasions where expectations are not met and on these occasions we encourage you to provide feedback.
You may also submit a complaint about a service if the level of service falls significantly short of what you might reasonably expect.
The Student Funding team Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window provides help and advice regarding student funding, including bursaries, scholarships and hardship funds.
Wellbeing and Student Support Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window - Wellbeing and Student Support provide a range of services that can help you to develop the personal resources and skills you need to navigate the challenges and opportunities of student life.
Includes links to sources of Emergency support Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window , and Self-Help resources Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window .
Community Safety Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window - The Community Safety department is a team of individuals dedicated to protecting the safety and security of everyone who lives, works and studies at the University.
They have an on-Campus presence 24 hours a day, 365 days a year to provide pastoral support to everyone within our community.
24-hour Control Centre
(general enquiries)
Emergency
(fire, police, ambulance)
The Disability Team Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window is part of Wellbeing and Student Support at the University of Warwick.
They encourage existing students and applicants to declare any disabilities and contact them to discuss their support requirements to enable us to make reasonable adjustments for the duration of their studies.
Health Centre Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window - A University practice situated in the heart of the campus serving the Students who live on campus or within the catchment area and Staff (including their family) who live on campus.
Chaplaincy Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window - Our Chaplains are available to support anyone at the University: people of all faiths and none.
Dean of Students' Office Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window - The Dean of Students' Office works with Warwick staff and students university-wide to further our commitment to excellent academic and pastoral support as part of a strong learning community.
Residential Community Team Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window - The Residential Community Team offers a bespoke support program for students residing on campus.
Their goal is to build a safe and welcoming community for all students living in on-campus residences and create a sense of belonging.
Students' Union Advice Centre Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window - The Students' Union Advice Centre is a free, professional, confidential, non-judgmental service, independent from the University.
If you are experiencing a problem in relation to your studies, accommodation, money or personal problems they can offer you advice, guidance, information and options to help you resolve your problem or signpost you to the right service who can help you.
Whistleblowing Policy Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window - Whistleblowing is speaking up about certain types of actual or potential wrongdoing that you have seen or know about whilst at work, that may cause a danger to others or be illegal.
The Whistleblowing Policy aims to encourage you, whether student, staff, or anyone contractually connected to the University, to report your concerns about a suspected wrongdoing as soon as possible in the knowledge that your concerns will be taken seriously, investigated appropriately and confidentiality respected.
Safeguarding and Prevent
Safeguarding Policy Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window - sets out our responsibilities, processes and procedures and outline how we will:
Provide a safe and supportive environment for our staff, students, apprentices and volunteers in the course of our work and university led activities
Provide a safe and supportive environment for children and Adults at Risk who engage with our staff, students, apprentices and volunteers in the course of our work and University led activities
Ensure that staff, students and apprentices facilitating or supporting programmes and activities working with children and Adults at Risk have defined responsibilities, as set out in the associated documents
Ensure that staff, students and apprentices engaging with children and Adults at Risk receive relevant safeguarding training and understand their role and responsibilities
Ensure that there is a clear reporting and escalation route Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window should staff, students or apprentices become aware of a safeguarding concern
Prevent Duty Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window - outlines how compliance with the Prevent Duty is managed at Warwick, and how to report and how concerns are managed by the Student Support Referral Pathway Link opens in a new window
Warwick Apprentice Core Skills
The Warwick Apprentice Core Skills Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window Resource has been designed to help you further develop the non-academic, Knowledge, Skills and Behaviours (KSBs) that you’ll need to successfully complete your apprenticeship.
The Moodle resource directs you to a wide range of training courses and useful information resources that will help you develop those vital transferable core skills valued by your employer.
Some of the skills development activities can also help you achieve the Warwick Award Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window .
Warwick Award
The Warwick Award Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window provides official recognition from the University of your skills development throughout your time with us.
From your academic modules, completion of Warwick Apprentice Core Skills courses, work-based learning, through to involvement with sports teams, volunteering, caring responsibilities and more – the skills involved can all help you progress towards earning the award.
You’ll see that many of the Warwick Core Skills are the same as the Apprentice Core Skills, so as a degree apprentice you’ll have a head start on your skills development and achievement of the Warwick Award.
The Skills Team Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window can be contacted at skills@warwick.ac.uk.
Careers
The Careers Team are here to support you during your apprenticeship and offer lots of Events Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window each year including career fairs and career workshops.
There is also the Student Opportunity Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window YouTube channel which has lots of short video clips you may find useful.
There are some key documents that will outline the roles and responsibilities of you the apprentice, your employer and the University that you will refer to throughout your apprenticeship programme.
An apprenticeship agreement must be signed by yourself and your employer before the start of the programme and outlines key details about the apprenticeship such as; training length, apprenticeship programme and amount of off-the-job training hours.
Your Training Plan will outline the planned content and schedule of training, your responsibilities as well as those of your employer and the University.
It must be signed by all three parties.
It also includes links to key University policies below, that you may need to refer to during your apprenticeship.
If you have any questions regarding these policies please contact your Apprenticeship Tutor in the first instance.
You will be given your Apprentice Handbook during Induction.
It will outline your relationship with the University, and the rights and the services to which you are entitled.
It is an extension of the Apprenticeship Agreement and Commitment Statement providing further detail on respective roles and responsibilities, as well as programme specific information.
It will be a useful resource throughout the duration of your apprenticeship.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/degree-apprenticeships/contact-us:
Get in touch with us: apprenticeships@warwick.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/degree-apprenticeships/university-staff:
Through Degree Apprenticeships, we are looking to diversify our educational offer, align ourselves with key national government policy changes and respond to a changing external landscape to ensure that we contribute to regional and national employment needs.
Degree Apprenticeships will allow us to enhance our relationships with business, both private and public sector, ignite new ones, and will provide a means of offering alternative educational pathways, entry points and student experiences.
We are committed to investing in this initiative as a means of widening access and participation, and enhancing student employability.
Interested in doing an external apprenticeship yourself?
Contact us to discuss the options!
Get involved.
This is a University-wide initiative.
As an academic department there are a couple of ways you can get involved:
There are a number of things to consider before embarking on this journey.
Get in touch with the team to find out more.
Achieve more - do an apprenticeship Are you a member of University staff considering your own career?
Apprenticeship training costs can be funded for both new and existing members of staff at all levels.
An apprenticeship could help you develop the skills you need to reach your full potential here at Warwick, and could be the start or progression of an exciting career.
You'll be inspiring positive change both inside and outside of the workplace.
Find out everything you need to know to kick start your development by visiting the staff apprenticeship pages , or contact the staff apprenticeships team .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/events:
Whether you want to chat in person and explore our campus, or send in your questions online and watch on demand, you’ve come to the right place.
Join us and discover more about what makes Warwick such a special place to study.
You can also sign up to our emails to be kept up to date about events relevant to you, and when new sessions are added.
Select your filters below.
If you still can't find what you're looking for, try selecting a Subject Area of Interest, Support Service or Region too.
Level of study
Status
Event frequency
See more
We have many Support Services available at Warwick.
We invite these services along to attend many of our events so anything thinking of studying at Warwick can find out more about them.
Add your region to find events hosted either in your Country or specifically for nationals of.
If there aren't any events coming up, please look at the enquirer or offer holder pages for more opportunities to connect.
Advice and guidance is also available via the International pages , our Regional Teams and our Agent Network .
Events from today onwards Previous events Next events
You can click on an event to display further information about it.
The toolbar above the calendar has buttons to view different events.
Use the left and
                        right arrow icons to view events in the past and future.
The button inbetween returns you
                        to today's view.
The button to the right of this
                        shows a mini-calendar to let you quickly jump to any date.
The dropdown box on the right allows you to see a different view of the calendar, such
                        as an agenda or a termly view.
If this calendar has tags, you can use the labelled checkboxes at the top of the page to select
                        just the tags you wish to view, and then click "Show selected".
The calendar will be redisplayed
                        with just the events related to these tags, making it easier to find what you're looking for.
Connect with our Student Visa Advice Team to ask questions about UK Student visas.
Open to all non-UK applicants, offer-holders and current students.
All appointments and queries are one to one.
For CAS enquiries please contact the relevant admissions services or join the "Studying at Warwick Live Chat"
What hypothesis test would you use to test whether the death rate on a medical unit has suddenly increased?
How would you follow up a significant result which showed the risk of death had doubled?
The conviction of a UK nurse, Lucy Letby, for murdering seven newborn infants has resulted in debate about whether the conviction was safe.
Investigating clusters of deaths, infectious diseases or collapses in healthcare settings pose various statistical challenges for forensic investigations.
In this interactive session, we will explore the standard statistical techniques and role of hypothesis testing in epidemiology and public heath.
However, their use is not established within criminal investigations.
We will consider how statistics are used in actual convictions and miscarriages of justice.
Discussion of the important implications of this for Lucy Letby and similar cases will be encouraged.
Prof Hutton is a University of Warwick professor who works in interdisciplinary statistics.
She was engaged by the Cheshire police to assist with collecting and evaluation evidence related to deaths at the Countess of Chester Hospital and Lucy Letby.
She has collaborated with health professionals and lawyers for many years.
Her more mathematical research is inspired by questions raised by patients, doctors and lawyers.
Talk to current staff and students about the Data Science, Mathematics and Statistics, MORSE programmes in Warwick.
The Data Science programme is jointly delivered by the Computer Science, Mathematics and Statistics departments.
The MORSE programme is jointly delivered by the Mathematics, Business School, Statistics and Economics departments.
Still can’t find what you’re looking for?
Sign up to our emails to be kept up to date as and when new events are added.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/events/faqs:
We have compiled a list of helpful FAQs to help you navigate Online Sessions at the University of Warwick.
Accessibility Note - For those using screen readers, on the below FAQ's please select the ' >> ' widget next to the section title to unhide the text so it becomes visible to the screen reader.
If you are an Undergraduate applicant or offer holder with us for 2023 entry, you will be sent a personalised login link to your registered email address to Your Warwick Webpage.
Once there, scroll down to Online Sessions and select the Register for Online Sessions Now .
After completing the registration, you will be sent an email verifying your account.
Once verified, you will be taken back to Your Warwick Webpage, where you and select which session(s) you're interested in.
When joining the session, you will be asked to enable your webcam and microphone.
Please do not do this unless you are attending an interactive session.
Any questions you have can be asked in the live chat text boxes.
You can access the link to your session in the following ways:
If you are an applicant or offer holder as noted in the FAQ above, you will be sent a personalised login link to your registered email address to Your Warwick Webpage.
Follow this process:
We will avoid one-to-one online interaction with anyone under 18 if no other trusted adult is also in the session.
If this situation occurs by accident, for instance because another participant has lost connection, we will terminate the session.
Since our sessions may include some under 18s, we discourage swearing and do not allow content of a violent or sexual nature.
You are able to enter the virtual room from 2 minutes before your session is due to start.
Please be aware that all of our sessions will be recorded, so please do not enable your webcam or audio if you do not wish to appear.
You will need to be logged in to watch any on demand videos or live sessions.
Head back to Your Warwick Webpage and select the Log In button under Online Sessions.
Enter your registered email and follow the personalised link emailed to you.
You can access our event platform through the webpage on a desktop computer, laptop, or mobile device.
Our event platform officially supports Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Apple Safari and Microsoft Edge (Chromium).
You may be able to use other browsers, but they are not officially supported.
If possible, we recommend using a device with the above-listed browsers.
We also recommend you disable all pop-up blockers and ad-blockers as they might interfere with the session broadcasting.
To test your system settings before the event starts you can use this free tool Link opens in a new window .
Don't worry, many of the sessions are being recorded and will be available to watch on demand afterwards.
Please remove the session from your Registered Sessions by deselecting the Save a Seat icon to allow someone else to attend.
Be sure to check your spam or junk folder in your inbox first to see if it is in there.
If your email is not in there and has not come through, contact us on digitalevents@warwick.ac.uk with your name and the email address you booked through and we will help to resolve this for you.
Any comments you post in a Group Chat Room will appear to all attendees in the session.
If you have joined a 1:1 session, your comments will only be visible to the advisor you're connected to, and other advisors as necessary.
If you are an Undergraduate applicant or offer holder with us for 2023, you will find o n Your Warwick Webpage under Online Sessions My Interests and My Registered Sessions .
These will list out the sessions you have starred or saved a seat for.
We recommend you add your sessions to your own personal calendar to get reminders of what sessions you have booked.
You can do this by selecting Add to Calendar and you can choose to add to your Google, Outlook, iCal or Yahoo account.
Please try the following troubleshooting if you experience problems accessing your sessions:
If you are still having problems please email digitalevents@warwick.ac.uk and we will do our best to assist you.
Please avoid sharing any personal information within the session.
This includes your address, surname, email address, phone number, university or place of work, usernames or any sensitive personal information.
Yes.
As long as there are still places available, you can register for sessions that are about to begin.
You can also join an in-progress session, so don’t worry if you’re running late.
If you're no longer interested in a session, or want to release your seat for someone else, simply deselect the Interested In icon or the Save a Seat Icon and confirm the prompt.
Moderators will not enable your microphones and webcam, should you happen to leave them on, unless you join an interactive session.
To be alerted when your sessions are starting soon we recommend adding the sessions to your calendar by selecting Add to Calendar (Google, Outlook, iCal or Yahoo) on each session page.
Have a look back at you list of Online Sessions to see if the session is repeated at any point.
If it isn’t running again, many sessions are recorded and will be available after the event has finished.
Please do not record the online session, take screenshots, or share images or recordings of the session, via emails or on social media.
If you wish to review or revisit any of the sessions, they will be made available to you at a later date.
All on demand videos will be captioned in English.
If you would like captioning during sessions, you may wish to try installing the Google captioning plug-in Link opens in a new window .
If you need support with this or have any other accessibility requirements for any Online Sessions, please contact us at digitalevents@warwick.ac.uk.
You can access all Live Chats via this link: https://meetandengage.com/universityofwarwick
The live chat system makes use of Macromedia Flash technology that requires the Flash 7 browser plugin, which can be downloaded from the Flash download page Link opens in a new window .
Disclaimer : Any views and/or opinions represented by University staff and members during the live chat are personal to them.
They belong solely to those individuals making such representations and do not reflect the views/and or opinions of the University of Warwick.
The University of Warwick is not responsible for such views and/or opinions and gives no warranty as to their accuracy and accordingly accepts no liability however so arising from them.
In the unlikely event that you see or hear anything upsetting or inappropriate in the course of the online event, please use the Q&A live chat to contact the moderator privately.
If you wish to let us know about something after the event has finished please contact digitalevents@warwick.ac.uk .
If you are currently an applicant to the University of Warwick or are in receipt of an offer, please note that specific details about your application cannot be discussed in a Group Chatroom as there will be other participants in the virtual room.
You are free to discuss applications in 1:1 Chatrooms, such as our Studying at Warwick Live Chat.
If you have any accessibility requirements for any Online Session, please contact us as digitalevents@warwick.ac.uk.
You might find the following helpful:
Frequently asked questions Link opens in a new window This page explores our commonly asked questions, for example:
Overseas representatives - Contact the right team for you.
International support - Everything about applying and entry requirements, visas, and more.
Convert your timezone Link opens in a new window - All event times are in UK local time.
You can use this timezone converter to check the local time in your country.
If you'd prefer not to live chat with us, find other ways to connect with us.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/wmg/education/postgraduate:
Develop yourself professionally and accelerate your career.
Our part-time Master's courses will enhance your knowledge and management skills in your specialist field and strengthen your career potential.
Our industry-focused Master's programmes are designed for working professionals, so your employer will see how your learnings are directly applied at work and support your ambition as a future leader.
You’ll study for three years on a part-time basis, attending lectures and seminars, and undertaking group tasks based on real scenarios.
The first two years focus on modules followed by work-based assignments, and the final year focuses on a company-based dissertation.
Our highly-relevant programmes will help you make a difference to your company and achieve your goals.
Be empowered to shape your future.
Get in touch with us
Do you want to discuss any of our programmes?
Email us to arrange a time convenient to you for one of our team to call you:
wmgptmasters@warwick.ac.uk Link opens in a new window
Key information
How to apply Link opens in a new window >
Frequently asked questions Link opens in a new window >
Our Master’s degrees are designed to give you the flexibility and choice to direct your own education in a way that works for you.
We have two courses on offer, both leading to an MSc from the University of Warwick.
Fast-track your engineering leadership career.
Keep up-to-date with emerging new technologies, develop the analytical and evaluation skills to assess complex business challenges and learn the key management skills to drive success.
Strengthen your team's skills in evaluating, managing and improving end-to-end supply chain performance and help them identify how supply chains contribute to business strategy.
This course is designed for partner companies to sponsor their employees to join the programme.
Our Dean of WMG, Professor Robin Clark, shares how you can benefit from studying with us on one of our part-time programmes.
The University of Warwick will celebrate its 60 th anniversary in 2025.
Despite its relatively short history, Warwick has become one of the UK’s, and indeed the world’s, leading research universities.
1 st Warwick ranked UK 1 st for teaching quality ( The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2022)
8 th Warwick is ranked 8 th in the UK ( T he Guardian University Guide 2025)
92% of Warwick's research has been assessed to be 'world-leading' or 'internationally excellent' in the Research Excellence Framework ( REF 2021 )
Part-time MSc graduate, Joanna, shares her experience of studying at Warwick in this short video.
“Juggling work with your studies can be difficult but it actually builds your resilience and determination.”
We've compiled answers to some of the common questions about our programmes and the application process.
See our FAQs
Email us if you have any queries about our part-time Master's programmes and we will be happy to help.
Get in touch
Looking to study full time?
We have a range of Master's courses for you to consider.
View our full-time courses
Discover our Skills Centre, designed to give you a competitive edge through short expert-led courses.
See our short courses
Study
Research
For Business
WMG

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/med/study/cpd:
Course Areas
At Warwick Medical School, we offer courses that can help you develop your skills and knowledge, so you can provide even more effective care.
Our courses are developed with and led by passionate, expert, healthcare professionals.
Whether you’re looking for a Continuing Professional Development (CPD) opportunity, or you want the academic challenge of postgraduate study to help you specialise, there’s something for everyone.
Flexible learning which will help you to further your skills to improve patient care is our priority.
Life at Warwick
Flexible learning for professional
How do I apply?
360 degree tours of campus
CPD courses
Fees and funding
Induction module for all postgraduate taught students
FAQs
IT requirements
Masters A-Z
Modules A-Z
Course calendar
Transferable Skills
Moodle
Current PG students homepage
Wellbeing Support Services
Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/learn-english:
At Warwick, we offer a wide range of short courses ranging from Summer Schools to tailor-made English language programmes to provide support with the internationalisation of companies and institutions around the world.
Find out more about the opportunities available.
We have Summer School courses available for 16-17 year olds looking to experience university life, as well as for over 18s, looking to explore new subject areas across a range of disciplines and at different levels.
Our Weekend Retreats have been designed for executive-level managers seeking professional development and networking opportunities, engaging with of-the-moment themes.
Courses run Friday - Sunday.
Our range of Pre-Sessional English Programmes prepare students for both Undergraduate and Postgraduate university study by developing their academic English and study skills.
The Department of Applied Linguistics work with individuals, businesses, management, and academic groups.
They are experienced in training students, teachers, teacher trainers, course designers, educational managers, and more.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/summer-with-warwick:
July and August 2025
Your University Adventure Starts Here.
15-25 July 2025
If you are an enthusiastic and motivated 16-17 year old student wishing to have an unforgettable and inspirational summer experience, our Warwick Pre-University Summer School is for you.
Engage with like-minded peers from around the world on this ten-night programme, which will give you a taste of undergraduate teaching from top Warwick faculty and a true experience of what life is like at University.
Unlock Your True Potential.
13 July - 2 August 2025
The University of Warwick Summer School provides a unique combination of learning and debating with renowned academics and high-profile guest speakers, living alongside your peers in the heart of England and enjoying a fun and engaging social and cultural programme and chance to make lifelong friends.
The three-week Summer School offers the chance to live and study on the incredible Warwick campus.
Ages 18+.
Learn English
There are a wide range of courses in all areas of English Development, including, an accredited range of tailor-made programmes, to provide support and assistance to international students.
Alliance Intensive Study Programme (AISP)
AISP offers students the flexibility and access to student mobility and an immersive active learning practice.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/research/recognition:
(QS World University Rankings 2024)
We’re committed to appointing and developing the world's best academics and nurturing talent in a highly supportive environment.
Our research Fellows are working on a range of exciting projects across a wide spectrum of disciplines, contributing to our research strategy and delivering real-world impact.
The University of Warwick is one of the UK’s academic powerhouses, with 92% of our research assessed to be ‘world leading or internationally excellent’ in REF 2021.
We were also featured in the UK’s top 5 institutions for Economics (2 nd ), Classics (3 rd ), Computer Science (4 th ) and Business and Management (5 th ).
Working collaboratively with our business, policy and community partners is at the heart of our purpose.
Find out more about our results in the Knowledge Exchange Framework 2024.
We’re proud to be one of the world’s top universities, ranked 67th in the world and 9th in the UK.
In the most recent Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) we’ve been awarded Gold in all categories: student experience, student outcomes, and overall.
Our National Centre for Research Culture works closely with key partners and HEIs nationwide, serving as a long-term hub for knowledge curation, training and innovative research into research culture.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/research/supporting-talent:
We support, foster and showcase the talent and ambition of all our researchers.
Alongside our outstanding educational offering, the excellence and originality of our research, and dedication of our researchers and research enablers, is what defines our community.
We’re committed to leading the way by providing a positive research culture and an environment that supports all academics to thrive to deliver the best research.
From simplifying the doctoral application process, to helping under-represented groups progress their research careers, our programme of work includes a wide range of projects which aim to benefit academics, partners and everyone who plays a crucial role in supporting research.
Our research is made possible by the brilliance of our PhD students, researchers, technicians, and academics – the foundation of our research community.
We’re working to ensure that all levels of our research community have the tools and resources available to develop their careers and enjoy unrivalled support which allows them to carry out their best work.
With world-class facilities and a collective goal to build a better world for everyone, Warwick is an exciting place to conduct research.
As a new researcher joining us, regardless of your area, you'll be central in helping us to realise our collective vision, and we’ll work to ensure you have the tools to succeed in your field, regardless of your career stage.
Sign up to our internal research newsletter, Spotlight, to hear from Professor Caroline Meyer (Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Research).
The termly newsletter shines a light on our community’s research and innovation activities, and celebrates our discovery, creativity and ingenuity.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/research/supporting-talent/impact-academy:
Get support at all stages of the impact journey - from developing an idea through to evaluation and evidence gathering
Connect to the different expert teams and network with a wider community of impactful scholars across the university
Discover how your colleagues are using their research to provide innovative solutions and make a positive difference to society
The Warwick Impact Academy brings together the teams and resources that can support you on your impact journey - a one-stop-shop for all things research impact.
Find out more below about translating research into social, cultural, technological, and economic change, and how this is supported:
The Research Impact team offers support and expertise throughout the impact journey - from developing an idea and stakeholder mapping, to evaluation and evidence gathering.
Warwick Innovations identify end-users for innovative research and help academics protect their IP whilst making real-world impact.
Get help and advice on connecting with external organisations who value university-driven R&D, seek innovative talent, and desire creative, knowledge-based solutions.
Warwick Institute of Engagement supports researchers in working with the public to deliver people-centred, collaborative impact.
Fill in our contact form and we’ll point you in the right direction:

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/research/research-infrastructure:
Our state-of-the-art facilities and expert technical staff help enable our researchers to meet their maximum potential.
Our network of 13 Research Technology Platforms cater for a range of disciplines and they are available for both our own researchers and external partners from industry and academia.
Search the library database to find reading lists, articles, research publications and more.
You can also find out more about events for staff and students and access our Modern Records Centre .
The Warwick Research Archive Portal (WRAP) is the home of the University's full text, open access research content and contains, journal articles, Warwick doctoral dissertations, book chapters, conference papers, working papers and more.
Warwick Scientific Services enables external users from industry and academia to access The University of Warwick’s world-class research facilities and expertise.
We are proud of our technical staff who underpin the teaching and research at Warwick.
Find out more about our Technician Commitment initiatives.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/research/research-culture-at-warwick:
Our research culture work aims to cultivate a vibrant environment where researchers and research-enablers can thrive.
From undergraduate and postgraduate researchers to postdocs, technicians, research managers, professional services colleagues, and mid- and senior-career researchers, we believe that a culture that supports all talent and celebrates success can positively benefit research career paths and improve the quality of our research.
At Warwick, our research community is full of innovative solutions, driving our collective efforts to enhance research culture.
Through our Enhancing Research Culture funding from Research England, we posed a simple but important question to the community:
"What are the key research culture priorities of the groups your represent, and how would you use up to £10K or £50K to address them?"
To establish a shared vision, we have devised a 5-adjective summary of what good research culture looks like:
Our research community can be happy , creative , and productive .
Our research can be open and sound .
Our approach to Research Culture at Warwick is collaborative.
The National Centre for Research Culture (NCRC) was established to improve research culture across UK higher education.
Working closely with key partners and HEIs nationwide, it serves as a central hub for knowledge curation, training and innovative research into research culture.
We are dedicated to supporting the development of everyone who contributes to research.
From our research technical professionals to researchers and research-enabling teams, we recognise the vital role each individual plays within our vibrant research community.
Our Research Culture work has led to the creation of the Researcher Training Working Group, a community of practice bringing together colleagues across the university with responsibility for researcher development at departmental or institutional levels.
This group plays a key role in advancing our initiatives, including the creation of the Researcher Training and Development Directory Link opens in a new window , a centralised resource that highlights development opportunities for every career stage.
Warwick undergraduate students are enabled to carry out research projects through the Undergraduate Research Support Scheme Link opens in a new window and Institute for Advanced Teaching and Learning (IATL) .
Our Researcher Development programme Link opens in a new window , co-designed with Warwick’s PGRs, focuses on enhancing key areas such as research methodologies, writing, career progression, productivity, and well-being.
The Institute of Advanced Study Link opens in a new window offers a wide-reaching programme of events and training, designed to help postdoctoral researchers and early-career professionals build successful careers, foster valuable networks, and develop innovative ideas.
Through our Early-Stage Researcher Development Framework Link opens in a new window , we empower individuals to make informed, strategic decisions about their careers.
In addition, we offer tailored initiatives, such as a comprehensive researcher induction Link opens in a new window and a Research Leadership programme Link opens in a new window , which equip individuals at all career stages with the skills to lead and drive innovation.
Warwick has championed the Technician's Commitment Link opens in a new window since its inception and a Warwick Team is currently leading the UK Technology Specialist Network Link opens in a new window which provides training and development opportunities for research technical professional colleagues.
Our research aims to tackle society’s most complex challenges and to deliver meaningful impact through collaboration with non-academic partners.
To support this ambition, we have established programmes such as the Interdisciplinary Research Spotlights Link opens in a new window , which build capacity in interdisciplinary research, and the Impact Academy Link opens in a new window , which strengthens our ability to deliver transformative research outcomes.
We strongly value and recognise all contributions to research teams, including from our research enabling colleagues who are often instrumental in driving excellence in practice.
The research culture team is actively collaborating with partners in the sector, including the Association of Research Managers ( ARMA Link opens in a new window ) and the Professional Research Investment and Strategy Managers ( PRISM Network Link opens in a new window ) to improve parity of esteem for research managers & administrators, project managers, and all those who identify themselves as ' third space Link opens in a new window ' research professionals.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/research/research-culture-at-warwick/stemmentalhealth:
Across bachelor’s, master’s, PhD, and postdoctoral studies in chemistry, anxiety often surfaced in high-pressure laboratory settings, which affects focus and performance.
Many students and researchers experience similar challenges; however, there is a big stigma around mental disability that discourages disclosure and help-seeking.
These realities drive a commitment to mental health inclusion as a main part of diversity in the chemical sciences and inform practical efforts to build environments where those with anxiety feel safe to discuss needs and request reasonable adjustments.
To translate this commitment into concrete action, a dedicated initiative was launched.
Breaking the Stigma: Supporting People with Anxiety and Mental Health in Chemistry is an RSC-funded project that aims to reduce stigma around mental disability and support individuals with anxiety in chemical laboratories, fostering inclusive environments through awareness, resources, and advocacy in academic and research settings.
This page shares that perspective and highlights actions, resources, and collaborations aimed at fostering an inclusive academic culture in which people with mental health challenges can participate fully and thrive.
This workshop builds a practical foundation by clarifying what stress, anxiety, and confidence mean in practice through real-world examples.
It provides information on chemistry-specific stressors in learning, assessment, and laboratory work, and offers space to discuss negative experiences that can trigger anxiety in chemical laboratories.
In addition, this workshop introduces evidence-based CBT techniques to manage stress and anxiety to reduce the fear of making a mistake in a lab environment.
The session struggles to show practical ways to embed safety, clear communication, and supportive mentoring in laboratories for a better environment.
Download the workshop PDF
In this workshop, the influence of anxiety and stress on laboratory attention, decision-making, and risk awareness is examined.
Practical techniques for maintaining safety focus under pressure are introduced, including brief grounding routines, simple checklists, paced communication, and structured pauses.
Inclusive practices that support diverse learners and researchers are outlined, such as clear roles, plain language prompts, and accessible help channels.
Methods for continuous improvement connected to wellbeing are provided, including reflective safety huddles, near-miss learning logs, and supportive supervision agreements that surface early warning signs and enable timely escalation.
This workshop grounds participants in EDI principles and respect.
By integrating these concepts, it is possible to create EDI plus Respect as the foundation of a safe, inclusive laboratory culture.
EDI+R could encourage early help seeking by signposting university counselling, disability support, and peer networks.
Reasonable adjustments such as flexible timing or quiet work blocks sustain environments.
Psychological safety in meetings with PGR and PGT students enables concerns to be raised without judgement, using evidence informed feedback on behaviours and skills.
Promote balanced workloads, rest, and safe practices.
Invest in supervisor training and escalation pathways for urgent concerns.
Dr Frane Vusio completed a PhD at the University of Warwick Medical School in July 2021 and focuses on urgent and emergency mental health services for children and adolescents and reform models.
Interests include relapse and recovery, post-crisis self-management, early intervention, prevention, compassionate care, and psychiatric approaches to mental health crises.
He is a Clinical Associate in Applied Psychology with NHS Scotland in clinical and psychoeducational settings.
He delivered three workshops with speakers to link psychological safety and inclusive teaching with lab risk management, opening sessions defining stress, anxiety, and confidence, outlining safety culture and the RAMP approach, and introducing CBT techniques.
He synthesised actions linking EDI and respect with planning, roles, checklists, near-miss learning, and escalation pathways.
Three recorded workshops trace a path from understanding anxiety and stress in laboratories to embedding inclusive safety practice.
Recordings are available in the invited speaker sections.
Session one builds shared definitions of stress, anxiety, and confidence and explains how these shape attention, decision-making, and risk perception.
Session two emphasises practical study and lab routines that sustain safety under pressure, using checklists, brief grounding, clear communication scripts, and near-miss learning.
Session three focuses on supervision and culture building, applying EDI plus Respect, RAMP, accessible assessment practices, and defined escalation pathways to support continuous improvement efforts in daily laboratory practice.
He is an assistant Professor at the Department of Chemistry at the University of Warwick and shared evidence from student experiences in teaching labs, mapping anxiety drivers, and demonstrating how role-play, leadership structures, and scaffolded tasks build confidence and reduce anxiety.
Watch the first recording workshop here.
Visit his webpage: Click Here
He is a postdoctoral research fellow at the School of Engineering at the University of Warwick.
He shared his experiences about safety under pressure using real-world examples and coping routines, linking clear communication, brief grounding, and near-miss learning to safer lab practice.
Watch the second recording workshop here.
He is an associate professor at the School of Mathematical and Physical Sciences at the University of Sheffield.
He focused on supervision and inclusion, introducing EDI plus Respect, RAMP, and the chemistry laboratory anxiety instrument with practical guidance on expectations, feedback, and signposting, and building psychologically safe research groups through consistent routines and reflective review.
Watch the third recording workshop here.
Visit his webpage: click here.
Four podcast series comprising 29 episodes build on the workshops and invited talks, turning key themes into practical conversations.
Episodes explore anxiety, stress, and confidence in laboratories; CBT-based skills for focus and emotion regulation, safety under pressure using RAMP, checklists and grounding, inclusive practice and psychological safety, effective supervision and mentoring, fair assessment, and real case reflections with the speakers.
Special Thanks to Dr Katy R.
Mahoney for editing and producing these 4 series of podcasts.
Series 1 Tackling a lack of motivation with behavioural activation
Episode 1 Link opens in a new window Episode 2 Episode 3 Episode 4 Episode 5 Link opens in a new window Episode 6
Series 2 Creating a supportive lab culture
Episode 1 Episode 2 Episode 3 Episode 4
Series 3 Exercises to promote good mental health and wellbeing
Episode 1 Episode 2 Episode 3 Episode 4 Episode 5 Episode 6 Episode 7 Episode 8 Episode 9 Episode 10 Series 4 Casestudies for reducing anxiety and stress in chemisty labs
Episode 1 Episode 2 Episode 3 Episode 4 Episode 5 Episode 6 Episode 7 Episode 8 Episode 9
This project (Application: 253866675) was funded by the Royal Society of Chemistry's Inclusion & Diversity Fund Link opens in a new window , which is supported by the Chemists' Community Fund.
Dr Ehsan Ezzatpour Ghadim
Dr Frane Vusio
Dr Katy R.
Mahoney
Contact us:
Email: diversity@rsc.org
Email: ResearchCulture@warwick.ac.uk
Accessibility Grants

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/research/research-culture-at-warwick/celebration-event:
The Warwick Research Celebration on 7 April 2025 at The Slate brought together our research community to celebrate our research excellence and impact.
As we celebrate our 60 th anniversary, the Warwick Research Celebration looked back on our collective achievements, and ahead to how we're working to make the world a better place.
The event included an awards ceremony to recognise the contributions of individuals and teams to research successes.
The event included an awards ceremony to celebrate the contributions of individuals and teams to research successes.
Thanks to Sir David Normington, Chair of Council for presenting the awards.
The categories were:
Watch the two new videos shown at the event below.
As part of our commitment to fostering an inclusive and dynamic research environment, the event included a showcase a selection of projects from the Enhancing Research Culture initiative and outstanding student research.
Thanks to everyone working on the stands throughout the day.
Stands featured:

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/research/research-culture-at-warwick/initiatives:
Developing a positive research culture is a key priority for us and is central to our research strategy.
We want Warwick to be the best place to do research, where our research community can feel happy, creative and productive , and where the research itself is open and sound .
Our research culture initiatives are dedicated to fostering an inclusive, collegiate and dynamic research environment where all researchers and research enablers can be themselves and thrive to produce the best quality research.
Our work spans several themes:
Inclusive Research Communities
Wellbeing of Researchers and Research Enablers
Equality, Diversity & Inclusion
Research and Research Support Careers
Researcher Development & Training
Creative Research Environment
Research Integrity
Open Research
We aim to build inclusive research communities and establish ways to ensure the voices and opinions of researchers and research enablers are heard and influence decision making.
Research Culture Forum : We previously established a Research Culture Forum which reported into our University Research Committee, giving it visibility at the highest level.
This group brought together researchers at all levels, including early career researchers, research students and technical staff, with Professional Services Staff from HR, Social Inclusion and Research Support, ensuring voices from all stakeholders are heard and discussed, to share best practice and influence developments in this area.
We are now transitioning to a more action-oriented approach by developing a Research Strategy Group to replace the forum.
This new group will drive the implementation of a research culture strategy and action plan, which we aim to co-create with the research community.
We’re inviting representatives from our research community, including PGRs, postdocs, early and mid-career researchers, research technical professionals, and professional services staff, to help shape Warwick's Research Culture action plan Link opens in a new window .
Warwick Research Celebration : In its second iteration this year, this annual celebration event recognises excellent contributions to research from all corners of the university.
The event includes our Research Celebration Awards ceremony.
The event takes place each April.
Catalogue of Enhancing Research Culture Projects Link opens in a new window : We believe that enhancing research culture is a community effort and have encouraged creative ideas and initiatives from a broad spectrum of the research community.
We have used funding from Research England to support 100+ research culture projects .
Warwick Values Link opens in a new window : Shaped by Warwick's community, our values represent the way we work together to deliver our strategy and ambitions:
Technicians Commitment Link opens in a new window : Our work to improve well-being and career development for technicians is sector leading.
We are joint lead on the Midland Innovation’s TALENT Link opens in a new window programme and have signed up to the Technician’s Commitment, which ensures greater visibility, recognition, career development and sustainability for technicians across all disciplines.
Following our commitment to enact the recommendations of the TALENT Commission, we are amongst the first UK institutions to pilot a Technical Specialist Promotional Framework Link opens in a new window .
This framework will enable technical specialists to progress based on their own merit against a modified version of the four criteria used for the Academic Progression and Promotional Framework, providing recognition for excelling in a role whilst remaining a specialist.
We are committed to appointing and developing the world's best researchers and nurturing talent in a highly supportive environment.
Bullying and harassment: We know that there are issues with regards to supervisor bullying and are looking to tackle these through value-based culture change.
We have introduced training and are promoting value-led behaviours, empowering people to challenge inappropriate behaviour.
We have established effective mechanisms for reporting bullying and harassment.
We are ensuring that supervisors are adequately trained and knowledgeable, and that students have more than one supervisor to provide additional support.
We are encouraging conversations at departmental level which explicitly set out expectations of acceptable behaviour in the research environment.
Diversity of thought is critical for innovation and creativity and essential for successful research.
Establishing diverse research teams are at the top of our priority list together with a culture that supports diversity in all aspects.
Strategy: Our recently launched Social Inclusion Strategy and refreshed People Strategy work together to increase diversity of research staff and students, ensuring they have the right skills and are supported to achieve their potential.
Recognition: We have developed an accessible and inclusive academic promotions process.
We showcase the work and celebrate the ‘good news stories’ of all levels of researcher across all disciplines, ensuring we highlight our diversity and measure success through a wide range of measures.
Leadership and development: We believe in and promote inclusive leadership and expect our leaders to act within a behavioural framework.
ED&I is embedded into our performance management processes and all staff are expected to complete training on ‘Warwick Principles and Social Inclusion’.
We have launched a leadership development initiative, the INspire programme , to encourage future leaders from wide diversity groups.
We aim to eliminate both the gender and ethnic pay gap by 2030 and to increase gender and ethnic minority representation at senior levels.
We want Warwick to be the best place at which to work and do research and are demonstrating our commitment through our policies and practices.
Fixed term contracts: We recognise that fixed term contracts are challenging for researchers and impact significantly on their well-being and are investigating options for more longer-term research posts.
Academic Returners Fellowship: We are committed to addressing the recruitment and retention of excellent academic talent and recognise that absence due to maternity/adoption/extended paternity and long-term parental leave can have a detrimental impact on research programmes and subsequent publications.
We therefore provide central ‘buy-out’ funds for the teaching and administrative duties for those on full academic contracts, for between six or twelve months, to enable staff to fully concentrate on their research work upon returning from long term leave.
We have improved our training and development provision, tailoring it to the research community, with particular emphasis on early career researchers, to launch the global research stars of tomorrow.
Our Researcher Training Working Group , a community of practice bringing together colleagues with responsibility for researcher development across Warwick, has developed a Researcher Training and Development Directory Link opens in a new window , highlighting development opportunities for every career stage.
Our Doctoral Researcher Development Link opens in a new window programme supports Warwick PGRs across all stages of research and disciplines.
The programme is co-designed with Warwick PGRs and offers development in Methodologies, Writing, Careers, Productivity and well-being.
The RDO programme enables PGRs to get the best out of their time at Warwick, and the best out of themselves.
Tailored provision: We have developed a researcher specific induction and a Research Leadership training programme.
Early-Stage Researcher (ESR) Development Framework: We have developed a career development framework, cultivating an environment where each ESR is enabled and empowered to make confident and informed decisions about their professional progression, and the direction and development of their research interests.
Empowering ECRs: Our Institute of Advanced Study organises a twice-weekly flagship training and events programme designed to help postdoctoral researchers establish a research career, network, and develop creative ideas.
We are fostering an environment in which researchers can be creative and productive, engaging in fulfilling work and being the best they can be.
Removing Administrative Barriers: We create a highly productive research environment by tightly coordinating work by professional services departments supporting researchers.
We have established a Research Operations Group, which brings together departments supporting research to agree joined-up approaches to overcome challenges and barriers, and to develop new and innovative approaches.
Interdisciplinary Research: Creative thinking often comes out of interdisciplinary research synergy.
We encourage all our researchers to engage in interdisciplinary research making cross-discipline collaborations accessible to all and support this through our Interdisciplinary Research Spotlights Link opens in a new window programme and our network of interdisciplinary research centres.
We are strongly committed to ensuring the highest standards in the conduct of all research and recognise our obligations to uphold the integrity of academic research, complying with the ‘Concordat to Support Research Integrity.’
Research Ethics: We have a robust research ethics approval process, supported by our expert and dedicated research ethics committees, and underpinned by constantly evolving systems and processes.
Training: We have mandated research integrity training for all our staff and students undertaking research, covering good research conduct, researcher responsibilities, and best practice and offer a high level of support to all our researchers in this area.
Responsible Innovation: We are developing our knowledge of the responsible innovation agenda through training and plan to expand and communicate this knowledge to the wider academy, to ensure responsible innovation is incorporated into research plans.
We are committed to implementing fair and responsible approaches to research to ensure transparency and accessibility for.
Open Research Group : We have established the Open Research Group as a formally constituted sub-committee of the University Research Committee, to lead on developing open research strategies and supporting processes and to promote good practice.
Citizen-led research: We encourage our researchers to undertake the co-creation of research with non-academic stakeholders and are committed to engaging the public with our research, through the Warwick Institute of Engagement .
Open Research resources : we have training and guidance information to support research practice.
Warwick is a member of the nationwide ReproducibiliTea network.
This provides an an excellent opportunity to contribute to open science as a university.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/research/research-culture-at-warwick/rcen:
The Research Culture Enablers Network (RCEN) is a solutions-focused group dedicated to exchanging, debating, and challenging ideas to improve research culture.
We aim to eliminate inequities, generate new knowledge, and drive meaningful change.
RCEN members have co-created the following list of top ten shared priority areas for research culture:
Dr Jonathan Pietrowski, Research England
Grace Murkett and Dr Maria Weikum, University of Strathclyde
Dr Cristina V.
Martin, University of Edinburgh
The Research Culture Enablers Network: Building a Better Culture Together Link opens in a new window
RCEN network lead Dr Rika Nair and committee members Dr Elisa Clemente and Dr Cathal Rogers discuss the origins and aspirations of the network, delve into why it's crucial for professionals to collaborate, and discuss how this can drive significant advancements in research culture.
Evolution of Research Culture: Career Paths and Strategic Roles Link opens in a new window
The Research Culture Enablers Network is an initiative of the National Centre for Research Culture Link opens in a new window .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/research/sign-up:
Past content

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/business/innovation-commercialisation/healthinnovation:
The UK’s health and care needs are changing and evolving.
At The University of Warwick, our long-standing reputation for research excellence, innovation and strong partnerships mean we are uniquely placed to develop health innovations and solutions to cope with this demand – solutions that will have a positive, lasting impact.
Our healthcare research is already having real-world impact through:
Now, we want to go one step further.
Our ambition is to establish a health innovation ecosystem with national and international reach and influence.
We will harness our strengths as a University with an established Medical School, and draw together external partners from academia, industry, and the NHS, to transform the UK’s healthcare system.
Our aim?
To improve patient outcomes, population health, and grow economic activity.
We are driving the delivery of a HealthTech Campus at Arden Cross to stimulate growth in health technology and increased investment in our region.
Our innovation-led, multidisciplinary research culture has produced real-world impact, addressing current and future global health challenges.
We have an established reputation for developing pioneering partnerships that bring together the brightest minds to tackle innovation-led health research.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/research/ncrc:
Online registrations for the International Research Culture Conference on Wednesday 17th September 2025 are still available to the 5th September 2025.
Register here!
Join us for regular research culture conversations, with resources and guest speakers.
The research culture enablers network is dedicated to creating change in the research culture space.
The National Centre for Research Culture (NCRC) at the University of Warwick connects people and ideas to showcase, share and shape best practice in research culture.
Learn more about why we established the NCRC and the benefits of a positive research culture.
Discover who we are , and why we are passionate about research culture change.
If you have any ideas on how we can work together, or for any queries, please do get in touch.
The NCRC hosts an annual international research culture conference, bringing together the research community to inspire transformative ideas and empower communities to work together to improve research culture for everyone.
Over the last two years we have welcomed over 800 delegates to hear about research culture initiatives, collaborate, network and discuss solutions.
IRCC25 will take place on Wednesday 17th September 2025.
Further event information can be found here.
You can view some of our conference recordings, presentations, programmes and abstracts from our previous conferences here.
The Research Culture Enablers Network (RCEN) has been created as a solutions-focused group designed to exchange, debate, and challenge ideas surrounding research culture, with over 250 members.
We facilitate a regular series of online research culture events, free for everyone to engage with.
Find out more about how to get involved.
We promote the sharing of best practice in research culture through Exchanges: The Interdisciplinary Research Journal.
Link opens in a new window We also work with the Doctoral Education and Academia Research Centre (DEAR) on evaluation of research culture initiatives.
We're working to tackle the under-representation of Black academics in UK Higher Education.
The Warwick PATHWAY Programme offers a range of opportunities and initiatives along the entire career pathway, and aims to create a community of aspiring Black researchers.
We are keen to collaborate with other institutions to understand how initiatives similar to these are being evaluated and how we can create sector wide change.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/research/knowledge-exchange:
We’re passionate about searching for answers to the world’s most complex questions and want to share the knowledge we gain to contribute to creating a fairer, better world for all.
The Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF) is part of the government’s Industrial Strategy.
To help businesses, local government, charities and community groups find universities with particular strengths in these areas of knowledge exchange, Research England (part of UKRI) developed the Knowledge Exchange Framework – a part-metrics, part-narrative based survey of where the strengths of individual universities lie.
KEF is intended to increase efficiency and effectiveness in the use of public funding for knowledge exchange and create a culture of continuous improvement in universities.
It aims to address the full range of knowledge exchange activities undertaken with partners.
Universities work with many different types of partners to ensure that this knowledge can be used for the benefit of the economy and society - known as knowledge exchange (KE).
See examples of our work, from innovative collaborations with industry to community engagement and local growth and regeneration.
Our 2024 KEF results surpassed the sector average in several key areas, with a strong performance in business engagement and research partnerships.
Vice-Chancellor of The University of Warwick, Professor Stuart Croft, commented: “Our performance in the latest KEF assessment showcases our continued leadership in driving innovation and collaboration across industries and communities.
From work with local artists to ground-breaking developments in manufacturing, sharing knowledge and bridging the gap between academic and industry is at the heart of our University.
Find out more about opportunities to get involved and work with us using the links below.
With decades of experience working with global organisations, Warwick helps business innovate and increase their competitive edge.
Find out about our knowledge partnerships, research networks internship and graduate recruitment opportunities and more.
We’ve established collaborations with local organisations, working together to learn new ways of exploring arts and culture.
Our projects unite creatives, researchers, businesses, charities and other partners to collectively share knowledge.
Warwick has an important part to play in the local region, providing economic, social and cultural support.
The Warwick Institute of Engagement allows us to maximise the exchange of knowledge between the university and society, helping to drive innovation.
Our alumni network is almost 300,000 strong and ever-growing.
We have a wide range of opportunities available for our alumni to help us break down barriers, discover new opportunities and help support people reach their potential.
Our academics' research is at the heart of our quest for answers to the world’s complex questions.
We offer a range of support for researchers, helping to launch new projects, facilitating knowledge exchange and connecting with new partners.
Read the press release to learn more about our results in the 2024 Knowledge Exchange Framework.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/services/ris:
Ideate has now been replaced with Worktribe.
Find out more, including how the new system can support your research.
New streamlined procedures for PIs and Departments.
Spotlight shines a light on our community’s research and innovation activities.
The University will be implementing new IT systems to replace EPrints.
You are welcome to send an enquiry to the Research and Impact Services, Administration Team
E : risadmin@warwick.ac.uk
Find support for all stages of your research impact journey
Worktribe - Research Management system
Dr.
Navdeep Bains Director of Research & Impact Services
Please contact Karen Julian, Departmental Administrative Officer & PA to the Director Tel: (024) 765 24760 Email: Karen dot Julian at warwick dot ac dot uk
Research & Impact Services University House University of Warwick Coventry CV4 8UW Tel: (024) 765 75732 R&IS Staff
Research Ethics Committees University Research Committee Financial Regulations for Research Research Professional Ideate Queries

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/departments/academic:
Centre for Academic and Professional Development

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/arts/film/cthhmr:
The Centre for Television Histories (formerly the Centre for Television History, Heritage and Memory Research) provides a forum for a multidisciplinary community of researchers working on aspects of television’s histories and cultures.
The Centre aims to provide new ways of thinking about television’s historical and cultural significance, through collaboration and innovation.
The Centre is part of the dynamic research and teaching culture in the University of Warwick’s Department of Film and Television Studies .
It is closely affiliated to the Centre for Cultural and Media Policy Studies , and partnered with Connecting Cultures .
The Centre acts as a focus for the high-quality research and learning undertaken at the Warwick in the field of television history, and facilitates the development of new and dynamic methods and practices.
Members work from a variety of critical perspectives, and engage in dynamic ways with television’s content, cultures, and industrial practices, forging new trajectories for television research.
Film and Television Studies School of Creative Arts, Performance and Visual Cultures, Faculty of Arts Building, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL
View location on campus map
General queries: SCAPVCenquiries at warwick dot ac dot uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/arts/ren:
PhD students
MA students
2025-6, MA Modules Open to External Students
Undergraduates
Prospective students
Why study with us?
Funding your PhD
Areas of expertise
Medievalists at Warwick
Research projects
Research collaborations
Our research fellows
Prospective research fellows
STVDIO seminar series
Online reading group is open to all
Palaeography (English, Latin & Italian) designed to help doctoral students and early career fellows who are working in archives and libraries to make better sense of the materials they are reading and understand common conventions of transcription.
Latin for research aims to help participants develop the ability to read and understand Renaissance texts.
Three streams available.
Greek for research a short course to introduce the complete beginner to the main elements of classical Greek.
We have close links with the following organisations:
ICLS ~ The International Courtly Literature Society (British Branch)
FISIER ~ International Federation of Societies & Institutes for the Study of the Renaissance k opens in a new window Link opens in a Johns Hopkins University
Newberry Library including funding opportunities (travel) and various fellowships
SEFR ~ Society for European Festivals Research
SNLS ~ Society for Neo-Latin Studies
IANLS ~ International Association for Neo-Latin Studies
The CSR organises special study days – and, subject to demand, longer courses.
Our next event will be on Thursday 25th September on the topic of 'Elizabeth and the Elizabethans'.
Details and registration HERE .
________________________________________
Warwick Renaissance Society: events, outings
Seminar Series programmes (Arts)
Centre for the Study of the Renaissance Room 2.38, Faculty of Arts Building University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL UK Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 4587 renaissance at warwick dot ac dot uk Office Hours: Monday-Thursday, 09:00-17:00

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/arts/history/ecc:
The Early Modern and Eighteenth-Century Centre (EMECC) reflects the core strength of early modern and pre-modern history in Warwick’s Department of History.
Covering a large time period (1450 to 1850), the Centre works on major research projects , as well as providing an interdisciplinary forum for academic and postgraduate students in the humanities.
We organise a range of events throughout the academic year, including workshops, seminars, postgraduate training sessions, works in progress, book launches, and conferences.
No events to show.
EMECC was established in Spring 2017, growing out of the former Eighteenth Century Centre, the Early Modern Forum (a major AHRC-funded project), and the core strength in early modern history of Warwick's Department of History.
It enjoys close relations with the Global History & Culture Centre and the Centre for the Study of the Renaissance at Warwick, and is involved in several partnerships and networks with scholars and institutions around the world.
Explore our programme and past events
See our projects and collaborations
Find out more about our members
CFP Crisis, Continuity, and Transformation in Eighteenth-Century Studies , 25-26 June 2025.
Deadline for abstracts 1 November 2024.
A tribute to Natalie Zemon Davis (1928-2023).
Centre Director: Dr Naomi Pullin
Research Centre Coordinator : Amy Evans
E-mail: EMECC@warwick.ac.uk
You can join our mailing list here .
How to find us:
FAB 3.42, Department of History, Faculty of Arts Building, University of Warwick, University Road, Coventry, CV4 7EQ
Central Campus
@EmeccWarwick

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/ehrc:
The principle aims of the EHRC are:
More information
Professor Mark Philp
Dr Pierre Purseigle
Professor Christoph Mick
Centre Co-Directors:
Dr Claire Shaw (on maternity leave) and Charles Walton
Research Centre Co-ordinator:
Meg Boatemaa
E-mail: Turn on JavaScript to view obfuscated email addresses
FAB 3.14, Department of History, Faculty of Arts Building, University of Warwick, University Road, Coventry, CV4 7EQ

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/arts/history/ghcc:
With expertise in Africa, the Americas, Asia and Europe, the interests of the Global History and Culture Centre's members span the globe.
The study of the connections between different regions, peoples, things, and environments in global historical perspective lies at the core of the Centre's activities.
GHCC forms an important part of the Department of History and the wider University of Warwick.
Established in 2007, the Centre has been at the forefront of the development of global history as an integral part of the field of history in the UK and internationally.
Read more about the Centre's development and major projects on our new GHCC History Link opens in a new window pages.
Find out more about our current and ongoing research on the GHCC Research Link opens in a new window pages and on the GHCC Blog Link opens in a new window .
The Centre also hosts many other research projects and fellowships supported by a variety of funding bodies.
We engage in teaching , graduate research , host visiting academic fellows, participate in research networks, and organise symposia, conferences, and seminar series.
Our members' research broadly falls under, but is not confined to, three large thematic clusters:
1.
Material Life in a Globalising World
2.
Power and Politics in the (Post)-Colonial World
3.
Histories of Science and the Environment.
For full details, see our publications Link opens in a new window and research Link opens in a new window pages.
Summer Programme 2025
Global History and Culture Centre | Department of History University of Warwick | Coventry CV4 7AL | United Kingdom Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 3350 | Email: globalhistory at warwick dot ac dot uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/eng/bmei:
The Biomedical Engineering Institute ( BMEI ) is a Centre that brings together broad research capabilities in the School of Engineering, and beyond, in the field of biomedical engineering.
Staff at BMEI work on a breadth of cross-cutting problems underpinning real-world applications in the field of biomedicine, across a spectrum of perspectives from fundamental science to technological device development.
Our knowledge and expertise covers the breadth of biomedical engineering, including:
We have an undergraduate elective teaching program for those interested in biomedical engineering in our undergraduate intake - see here Link opens in a new window for more details on our Biomedical Systems Engineering course.
We also have a dedicated MSc programme in biomedical engineering, you can get more information about this programme by looking here.
Take a look at a video explaining our MSc in BME here .
The Institute has access to state-of-the-art laboratory facilities.
Please click the link to find out more.
Click here to follow our LinkedIn page for regular updates.
#SeminarSeries - Smart Technologies in Support to Friendly Aging - Prof Ratko Magjarević, Mr Krunoslav Jurčić [20 June 2024 ]
Metamaterials for Biomedical Imaging – EU research grant for Warwick Academics
Double International Collaboration Awards for Biomedical Engineers
Showcasing Biomedical Engineering Expertise
Warwick Researcher takes on the Race Against Dementia
New neurotechnology network set to tackle diagnostic and management backlogs
The ingredients for an antimicrobial mathematical modelling broth
School of Engineering , University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/dimap:
The Centre for Discrete Mathematics and its Applications (DIMAP) has been established in March 2007 by the University of Warwick , partially funded by an EPSRC Science and Innovation Award EP/D063191/1 of £3.8 million.
The Centre builds on a collaboration among
The DIMAP is co-located in the adjacent new Computer Science and Mathematics buildings and it is directed by a Management Board led by Prof.
Artur Czumaj , with the advice on scientific direction from the DIMAP Advisory Board .
DIMAP is a multidisciplinary research centre supporting an internationally competitive programme of research in discrete modelling, algorithmic analysis, and combinatorial (discrete) optimisation.
It aims to support a thriving Industrial Affiliates Programme, and develop collaborative research rooted in discrete mathematics, involving researchers at other UK universities.
The Centre also contributes to the development of undergraduate modules and taught postgraduate modules within degrees offered by the participating departments.
With a number of internationally renowned researchers , an extensive programme of scientific seminars (including Combinatorics Seminar ), international workshops and visiting researchers , and a multidisciplinary angle, DIMAP is one of the leading international research centres in discrete mathematics and its applications in computer science and operational research .
PhD positions are available at the Theory and Foundations (FoCS) group in the Department of Computer Science , University of Warwick, UK.
See here for more information
Advances in Combinatorics is an overlay combinatorial journal, which follows a model established by the journal Discrete Analysis for diamond open access.
The journal aims to be a diamond open access journal at the level of the very top combinatorial journals.
It has no printed copies; instead the journal provides links to the published versions of the articles on arXiv.
The journal was launched in June 2018 and has just published the first five papers with additional papers to be published by the end of 2019.
The editorial board consists of Béla Bollobás, Reinhard Diestel, Timothy Gowers, Dan Kráľ, Daniela Kühn, James Oxley, Bruce Reed, Gábor Sárközy, Asaf Shapira and Robin Thomas, with Timothy Gowers and Dan Kráľ (one of the DIMAP members) also acting as the managing editors.
Additional information on the aims of the journal and ethical publishing in general can be found in this blog post by Tim Gowers.
Graham Cormode , a DIMAP centre member since 2013, is one of the 95 new Fellows of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) , class 2020.
The ACM Fellows program recognizes the top 1% of ACM Members for their outstanding accomplishments in computing and information technology and/or outstanding service to ACM and the larger computing community.
Fellows are nominated by their peers, with nominations reviewed by a distinguished selection committee.
Dan Kráľ , who has been affiliated with Warwick and its DIMAP centre since 2012, is one of the 52 new Fellows of the American Mathematical Society (class 2020).
The Fellows of the American Mathematical Society program was created in 2013 to recognize members who have made outstanding contributions to the creation, exposition, advancement, communication, and utilization of mathematics.
If you would like to apply for a research fellowship to be held at DIMAP, please contact us in plenty of time about the application.
There are several (very) competitive Fellowship schemes to support talented researchers (some restricted to people who do not currently have a permanent UK position) for periods of 1 - 5 years.
These are offered for example by the EPSRC, the Royal Society and by the EU/ERC.
All provide a full salary plus support for travel, computing, etc; some, as described below, offer funding for a research team.
The person who wishes to hold the Fellowship applies via a nominated host institution (which need not be their current home institution, and some schemes actively encourage or even demand mobility).
DIMAP and Warwick have hosted many holders of such Fellowships.
We welcome enquiries from anyone considering applying for such Fellowships nominating DIMAP and the University of Warwick as the host institution.
Please either contact a relevant member of the academic staff, or email the DIMAP Director or the Head of the relevant Department (of Mathematics or Computer Science) giving brief details of the planned application.
We need to know well in advance for administrative reasons, but we can also offer help in deciding which scheme is right for you and navigating through the financial and eligibility regulations etc.
DIMAP has appointed several internationally renowned researchers, including the following:
DIMAP has funded also several post-doc positions and PhD fellowships, with the appointments at the Department of Computer Science , the Warwick Mathematics Institute , and the Warwick Business School .
Research by Vladimir Deineko, WBS Associate Professor of Operational Research and member of DIMAP, has recently provided two examples of academic research translating successfully into practice.
Read more here .
DIMAP Seminar
Combinatorics Seminar
Workshop on High-Dimensional and Complex Data Algorithms , May 12 - 15, 2025, Venice
Workshop Algorithms & Complexity @ Warwick , September 23 - 24, 2024, University of Warwick
DIMAP Theory Highlights 2024 , Radcliffe, May 17, 2024
Computational Complexity Conference (CCC 2023) , July 18 - 20, 2023
Workshop on Algebraic Complexity Theory (WACT) , March 27 - 31 2023
DIMAP Theory Day , December 12, 2022
AlgoUK Workshop , September 17 - 18, 2019
Workshop "Measurability, Ergodic Theory and Combinatorics", July 8 - 12, 2019
DIMAP Workshop: Research Day 2019 , May 31, 2019
Warwick-Weizmann Workshop 2019 , May 13 - 17, 2019
DIMAP Workshop on Advances in Modern Graph Algorithms , April 8 - 11, 2019, Venice
Workshop on Strcutural Sparsity, Logic and Algorithms , June 18 - 21, 2018
Workshop on Data Summarization , March 19 - 22, 2018
10 Year Anniversary DIMAP Workshop , December 11 - 13, 2017
Workshop in Honour of Mike Paterson's 75th Birthday , December 14, 2017
Conference on Extremal Combinatorics , September 18 - 22, 2017
One Day Birmingham-Warwick Combinatorics Meeting , June 9, 2017
Workshop on Algorithms, Logic and Structure , December 12 - 14, 2016
25th British Combinatorial Conference (BCC) , July 6 - 10, 2015
LMS-CMI Research School on Regularity and Analytic Methods in Combinatorics , July 1 - 5, 2015
DIMAP Logic Day , June 1, 2015
25th British Combinatorial Conference , July 6 - 10, 2015
ICMS Workshop on Extremal Combinatorics , July 14-18, 2014
DIMAP Algorithms Day 2014 , May 21, 2014
Workshop on Phase transitions in discrete structures and computational problems , May 5 - 9, 2014
Big Data in the Mathematical Sciences , November 13, 2013
ICALP 2012 , July 2012
22nd Postgraduate Combinatorial Conference ( PCC 2012 ), August 2012
Warwick-Weizmann Workshop 2011 , September 2011
DIMAP Workshop on Combinatorics and Graph Theory , April 2011
Workshop on Extremal and Probabilistic Combinatorics , July 2010
Summer School on Approximation and Randomized Algorithms , July 2010
AAIM 2010 , July 2010
Mathematics of Phase Transitions , November 12 - 15, 2009
DIMAP workshop on Public Transport and Public Service Operations , April 20, 2009
25th British Colloquium for Theoretical Computer Science ( BCTCS 2009 ), Dept.
Computer Science and DIMAP , April 6 - 9, 2009
DIMAP Algorithms Day , DIMAP , October 24, 2008
Mike66 , a workshop in honour of Professor Paterson's 66th birthday, DIMAP , September 18 - 19, 2008
19th Postgraduate Combinatorial Conference ( PCC 2008 ), July 2008
Workshop on Flexible Network Design , July 2008
Biennial International Symposium on Combinatorial Optimisation ( CO 2008 ), March 2008
OWL (Oxford-Warwick-London) Joint Seminar, May 10, 2007
ESCAPE 2007 , April 2007
DIMAP Workshop on Algorithmic Game Theory , March 2007

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/physics/research/cfsa:
Our research focuses on plasma physics applied to the grand challenges of magnetic and inertial fusion power, space physics, solar physics, and astrophysics.
Our work spans fundamental theory, observation, and the analysis of experimental data, combined with high performance computing.
The Centre has a strong record of joint work with the UK fusion research programmes, as well as extensive engagement with space plasma and solar physics missions.
Directors: Prof.
S.
C.
Chapman and Prof.
R.
O.
Dendy
Warmest congratulations to Sihui Zhong, who has been awarded the RAS Keith Runcorn Thesis Prize 2024 for her PhD thesis titled “Decayless Kink Oscillations of Solar Coronal Loops”, completed under the supervision of Professor Valery Nakariakov.
Older News
CFSA has a longstanding collaboration with the fusion plasma theory group at CCFE Culham .
Some CFSA staff are also core members of Warwick’s Centre for Scientific Computing and Centre for Complexity Science.
CFSA is a member of the European Fusion Education Network Association (FUSENET) Link opens in a new window .
Tony Arber leads the cluster in the UK MHD Consortium Link opens in a new window and chairs the Collaborative Computational Plasma Physics Link opens in a new window consortium.
Valery Nakariakov is the leader of the MCSA SE international network "Dynamics of the solar corona in the era of data intensive observations", led the MC IRSES network "Radiophysics of the Sun" and held the European Research Council Advanced Fellowship "MHD Wave Diagnostics of the Solar Atmosphere".
Erwin Verwichte coordinates the data-analysis work-package for the UK consortium for the development of detectors for the Daniel K.
Inouye Solar Telescope .
CFSA is a member of Warwick's Centre for Space Domain Awareness .
Oxford-Imperial-Warwick Centre for Postgraduate Training in Plasma Physics and High Energy Density Science: Warwick University's Centre for Fusion, Space and Astrophysics is a partner with teams at Oxford University and Imperial College London for our intake of PhD students in all branches of plasma physics.
The joint Programme will significantly enhance opportunities for advanced training and for collaborative research at PhD level.
All three university teams have strong links internationally, and with the large facilities at key plasma research centres in our region, including the Culham Centre for Fusion Energy, the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory and AWE.
CFSA is international!
CFSA has a strong and lively international character and is proud to attract staff and students from all corners of the globe.
We actively encourage prospective PhD students from abroad to apply and explore with us how they can join our group and research efforts.
Four of recent international PhD alumni shared some of their experiences with us.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/med/research/hscience/healthec:
Welcome to CHEW, an academic community of health economists working in Warwick and based at the Medical School.
The Centre researches the socioeconomic value of health and healthcare in a range of contexts seeking to inform policy and improve health and wellbeing.
The team work variously on NIHR-funded research (particularly clinical trials), NICE appraisals, health technology assessments and global health issues.
CHEW also contributes health economics expertise to the NIHR Research Support Service.
CHEW places particular emphasis on developing its members to achieve their potential in research and teaching.
This involves time for training, qualifications, support and mentoring.
Formed in 2018, CHEW is an emergent and growing Centre, learning together and exploring new themes – a dynamic place.
Thank you to colleagues from other universities who collaborate with us or contribute to our seminar programme.
In July 2024 we hosted HESG – thank you all for attending!
To find out more about CHEW and our mission statement, please go here .
CHEW Twitter Link opens in a new window
Warwick CTU Link opens in a new window
Warwick Evidence Link opens in a new window
NIHR ARC West Midlands Link opens in a new window
Warwick Centre for Global Health Link opens in a new window
Warwick Department of Economics Link opens in a new window
Zeeman Institute (SBIDER) Link opens in a new window
If you would like to get in touch, please contact the team using CHEW@warwick.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/ciu:
email : S dot M dot Dixon at warwick dot ac dot uk - mobile: 07920 531275 - Linkedin
Click link to Department of Physics Group / Click link to School of Engineering Group
Click here to provide us with any feedback for the CIU webpages

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/statistics/crism:
"Founded in 2006, CRiSM’s original aim was to increase capacity in statistics in the UK.
Now CRiSM is the centre for all research in statistics (in the widest sense) at Warwick Statistics, one of the largest departments of statistics in the world.
With dedicated CRiSM fellows - free to choose their own research agendas; multiple workshops and seminar series; PhD studentships; a broad visitor program; and hundreds of research publications each year, CRiSM seeks to foster excellence in Statistics, Probability, Mathematical Finance, Machine Learning, and Data Science, starting from fundamental methodological research and moving all the way through to impact.
We hope you'll find the various research activities taking place as stimulating as we do.
The philosophy of CRiSM is that maximum impact of statistics as a discipline requires concentrated research and training in the methodological core of the discipline."
Tel: +44 (0) 24 7652 2290 Department of Statistics University of Warwick Coventry CV4 7AL

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/physics/research/astro/csda:
The CSDA draws from the experience and expertise of a wide range of research groups Link opens in a new window at the University of Warwick to tackle issues relating to the safety and sustainability of satellite operations in the space domain.
Research activities within the CSDA aim to address a variety of SDA problems, including:
Over the past six decades, a population of orbital debris has accumulated in near-Earth space.
Abandoned spacecraft, rocket bodies and fragments from explosions and collisions coexist in orbit with the active satellites we rely on.
With large constellations of satellites licensed for launch, and vast quantities of debris still invisible to the current generation of surveillance networks, the challenges facing SDA are numerous.
Two regions are of particular concern.
Low Earth orbit (LEO) plays host to the most densely populated orbital bands, as well as the International Space Station.
Certain parts of the LEO region are thought to be on the cusp of triggering the so-called "Kessler Syndrome", a runaway process whereby a collision generates fragments that seed further collisions, and so on.
The geosynchronous (GSO) region, situated at a much higher altitude above the Equator, has a limited number of orbital slots, and is known to contain a population of faint, poorly characterised debris.
Updates on CSDA research, outreach and opportunities.
The recording from the latest GNOSIS Connect webinar, delivered by Prof.
Ingo Waldmann (Spaceflux), is now available via the GNOSIS YouTube channel Link opens in a new window .
A calendar of CSDA/relevant events.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/eng/research/grouplist/fdrc:
The Fluid Dynamics Research Centre (FDRC), established in 1996, is a unifying centre for researchers in Fluid Dynamics across all departments of the University of Warwick.
The FDRC organises a programme of seminars, workshops, conferences and other meetings.
Our research-seminar series is one of the oldest, continuously running seminar series in Fluid Dynamics in the UK.
Based in the School of Engineering, the aim of the Centre is to promote and carry out collaborative interdisciplinary research, facilitating exchange of expertise and sharing of technology in relevant disciplines, including Engineering, Chemistry, Mathematics, Physics and the School of Life Sciences.
The FDRC maintains a balanced programme of fundamental and industrial research projects.
The Centre has long-standing links and collaborations with industry.
Whenever challenging new opportunities arise we seek to expand existing industrial partnerships and to establish additional ones.
Our co-ordinated, integrated interdisciplinary approach benefits project partners through the concurrent availability of cross-disciplinary theoretical, computational and experimental expertise in Fluid Dynamics and Flow Measurement from all academics and departments associated with our Centre.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/maths/research/mrc:
Welcome to the Mathematics Research Centre.
The MRC is a national resource, whose mission is to promote mathematical sciences research across the UK and internationally.
We’re a hub of events all year-round and a place where mathematicians can collaborate – something we’ve championed and facilitated ever since the University of Warwick itself was established.
The MRC calendar is always busy, with a host of one-off workshops and conferences throughout the year, as well as Seminars, Colloquia, and MIR@W (Mathematical Interdisciplinary Research at Warwick) Days.
See what’s on offer and how you can attend.
If you're due on campus for one of our events or to meet with some of our staff, please check out our visitor information, which includes directions, details about Wi-Fi access, and useful contacts within the MRC for you to be aware of before you join us.
The MRC's history is rich and almost as long as the University's itself.
Discover our story, as well as lots of details about our famous Maths Houses - the Grade II* listed buildings that are used as accommodation for visiting academics.
The best way to get in touch is via email: Turn on JavaScript to view obfuscated email addresses
Drop us a line with your query and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
You can also find our address and further contact information on our visitors' page .
We ask all of our visitors to the WMI and the Research Centre to abide by our Code of Conduct .
Please read this before attending any of our events, Attending an event assumes acceptance of our Code of Conduct .
Any current Warwick Mathematics Institute staff with queries about the administration of Research Events or the Maths Houses, please head to the MRC pages on our Intranet (requires a Warwick staff login).
Undergrad and Postgrad admissions
Other contacts
Mathematics Institute Zeeman Building University of Warwick Coventry CV4 7AL Directions
Staff Intranet

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/physics/research/condensedmatt/nmr:
The Millburn House Magnetic Resonance Lab contains 11 magnets dedicated to solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), ranging from 2.3 Tesla up to 23.5 Tesla ( 1 H frequency of 100 to 1000 MHz).
Capabilities include a large array of probes, with over 30 in active use, ranging from fast magic angle spinning (rotor diameter 0.5 mm, 150 kHz), to specialist probes such as double-rotation (DOR) and static NMR.
A 700 MHz solid-state NMR spectrometer is also housed separately in the NMR hall in the Material and Analytical Sciences (also MAS) building.
The multidepartment group has a wide range of solid-state NMR research interests encompassing the development of multinuclear solid-state NMR methodology and pu lse-sequences combined with calculations and application to materials science , biological solids and pharmaceuticals and supramolecular chemistry .
A consortium led by the University of Warwick has been awarded a £17 million grant from the UKRI Infrastructure Fund to procure a 1.2 GHz Nuclear Magnetic Resonance instrument at 1.2 GHz.
The high-field spectrometer will serve the national research community in the physical and life sciences.
It adds to the already significant NMR capabilities here which include the existing 850 MHz and 1 GHz high-field solid-state NMR National Research Facilities.
Read press release .
You can also see our current research , staff , PhD students and publications .
NMR Links How To Find Us
PhD positions Post-doctoral positions

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/tia:
Welcome to the Tissue Image Analytics (TIA) Centre, based in the Computer Science department at the University of Warwick.
Current research in the TIA centre is focussed on the application of image analysis and machine learning algorithms in order to further our understanding of the biology and entangled histological patterns of complex diseases such as cancer.
We strive to be a hub of research excellence in the area of computational pathology and associated research areas , in order to tackle grand challenges in cancer diagnostics and treatment with a multi-disciplinary team of researchers and to make positive impact on the lives of cancer patients.
Our research thrives on a growing network of collaborations with the academia, NHS hospitals and industry.
New TIA Demos Page Live NOW!
Upcoming TIA Seminars Link opens in a new window
Warwick spinout to revolutionise AI for cellular pathology
The University of Warwick announces the signing of a spinout agreement with Histofy to commercialise cutting-edge artificial intelligence (AI) tools for pathology.
Using artificial intelligence, the technology will analyse tissue samples from people with suspected cancer and accelerate diagnosis by functioning even when the pathologist is unavailable.
Watch expert talks, AI-driven histology analysis, and cutting-edge research in computational pathology.
Our videos include TIA Centre Seminars and past conferences, highlighting breakthroughs in computational pathology and beyond, whilst featuring insights from our multidisciplinary team and other experts across academia, the NHS, and industry.
Research at the Tissue Image Analytics Centre is focussed on developing AI and machine learning based algorithms for early detection and personalised treatment of cancer as well as for furthering our understanding of cancer biology.
Sign up to our TIA Centre Newsletter mailing list below!
TIA Centre, Dept of Computer Science, University of Warwick, CV4 7AL Email: tia@warwick.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/wcpm:
The Warwick Centre for Predictive Modelling (WCPM) is an interdisciplinary research centre focussed on providing a framework for the application of predictive modelling and uncertainty quantification (UQ) tools in science and engineering research.
The Centre runs an MSc course in Predictive Modelling and Scientific Computing .
These mathematical tools provide a powerful new way of thinking about how to model complex systems and how to translate research outcomes into improved technology and design.
WCPM was established at the University of Warwick
The director of the WCPM is Prof.
James Kermode and the Centre has academic staff members from a range of departments, and enjoys close links with Chemistry , Life Sciences , Mathematics , Statistics , Physics , Warwick Business School, Warwick Medical School and WMG as well as with the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Modelling of Heterogenous Systems (HetSys).
See our News and Research pages for more details.
Directions: The Centre is located in the D-block extension on the 2nd floor of the main Engineering building at Warwick.
Structure of WCPM
The Centre is structured around a core of mathematical techniques in close collaboration with researchers in Mathematics, Statistics and Computer Science.
Information flows in two directions between this inner core and an outer ring where the application domain expertise of researchers based in departments throughout the Faculty of Science as well as at Warwick Business School.
The techniques illustrated on the middle ring provide some examples of the approaches used in the Centre.
A new Assistant Professor (R+T) position in WCPM is now open for applications, associated with our new MSc in Predictive Modelling and Scien…
Our new MSc course in Predictive Modelling and Scientific Computing is now open for applications for an October 2023 start.
Full details can…
Together with the HetSys CDT, WCPM is hosting an Industry Study Group featuring challenges from National Grid ESO and Adjacency.
The event r…
Internal Pages of the WCPM
email: sciencefacultyboard@warwick.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/lifesci/wcc:
Review of research and innovation that will impact the English agricultural and horticultural workforce
See below to find out about our community engagement
See below for the latest blogs from the Warwick Crop Centre
LinkedIn
@ wmgwarwick Link opens in a new window
@ freshproduceknowledge Link opens in a new window
Warwick Crop Centre School of Life Sciences University of Warwick Innovation Campus Stratford-upon-Avon CV35 9EF Email: cropcentre at warwick dot ac dot uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/med/research/hscience/wrn:
We focus on understanding and improving care through high quality research relevant to nursing
We have four inter-related research themes:
Vision - to generate knowledge that makes a difference in nursing, health and social care and is developed through partnership with researchers, health care professionals, patients, carers and the public.
Mission - to undertake high quality research relevant to nursing, health and social care that impacts on practice, education and policy.
Values - we aim to demonstrate collegiality, integrity, fairness and respect within an environment that is both supportive and challenging
Impact - we intend that our research has impact on practice, education and policy, with the aim of improving health and social care.
Some examples of WRiN involvement in current studies:
PIPER
MELD
QRDC
GRACE
REGAIN
For full list, click on theme leads .
Watch our short videos that explain some of our research findings and why they are important.
Tweets by Research in Nursing
How to find us
Health Sciences Division, Warwick Medical School
Warwick Medical School University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL Tel:+44 (0)24 761 50614
Director: Professor Kate Seers

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/law/research/centres/ccls:
The CCLS is a research and teaching collective committed to critiques centered around race, class, and gender, and their intersectionality.
We seek to analyse and address some of the most pressing social, political, economic, and environmental problems and law’s complicity in creating these problems.
We work in a wide range of disciplines.
We welcome collaborations with artists and activists as well as students and academics interested in any of the following: law and protest, law and anti-imperialism, law and aesthetics, law and neoliberalism, decolonising legal thinking, and most broadly the deployment of social, feminist, critical, anti-imperialist, queer and Marxist theory in the understanding of legal problems.
We are interested in developing collaborative ways of working together which might disrupt some of the hegemonic practices in contemporary academia.
From the outset the Centre will seek to produce work together.
We will set themes which gather the different ideas and projects, editing a series of books that will aim to inform pedagogies and research agendas.
We aim to bring together the wide variety of critical orientations to law which have thrived at Warwick Law School for many years.
Warwick’s law in context approach has fostered an environment in which academics and students seek to understand law in its political, economic, and social context.
We are not limited to Warwick (or HE institutions), and seek to develop a wide network.
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 3075 Email: law dot xo at warwick dot ac dot uk School of Law, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/economics/research/centres/cage:
Team cohesion and people skills are often overlooked in management training.
But new research highlights the vital role of frontline leadership, especially a...
Tuesday 12 Aug 2025
Despite decades of progress toward gender equality, boys and girls across the developed world continue to choose very different educational paths.
Women rema...
Tuesday 5 Aug 2025
In the UK, small boats crossing the English Channel represent a tiny share of overall immigration and yet attract disproportionate media and political attent...
Monday 21 Jul 2025
A new study finds a surprising disparity in the gender dynamics of parenthood, with British mothers facing a significantly larger earnings penalty when their...
Thursday 17 Jul 2025
Reviewing historical data and qualitative research for large scale analysis to understand patterns of global economic growth.
Analysing the attention economy and the models that guide information processing and decision-making.
Investigating the social and economic causes and consequences of mental ill health and the inclusion of women in society.
Designing research and data analysis to provide policy insight and support capacity building.
Wednesday 23 Apr 2025
Monday 19 Feb 2024
Monday 31 Oct 2022
Monday 18 Aug 2025
Friday 25 Jul 2025
Wednesday 6 Aug 2025
Wednesday 6 Nov 2024
Tuesday 14 May 2024
Centre for Competitive Advantage in the Global Economy (CAGE) Department of Economics , University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)24 7615 1176 Email: cage dot centre at warwick dot ac dot uk
Sign up to our newsletter

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/law/research/centres/centre-global-health-law:
The Centre for Global Health Law is an interdisciplinary centre dedicated to advancing expertise in global health law.
Law is central to government responses especially within the contexts of pandemics such as COVID, Ebola, Zika, Marburg etc.
The Centre provides an innovative and collaborative space for researchers and students worldwide to engage with a plurality of critical approaches to global health law, such as feminist critiques, post-colonial and decolonial critiques, and socio-legal studies.
Sharifah Sekalala – Director
Sharifah is a Professor of Global Health Law at the University of Warwick and the Director of the Warwick Global Health Centre.
Contact us: CGHL@wawick.ac.uk
Follow us:
A project which examines how health-related data governance in Canada, Germany, and the UK can better serve structurally marginalised communities.
Through policy analysis and community engagement, it aims to advance health data justice, ensuring equitable and inclusive health outcomes
An interdisciplinary project which seeks to analyse the regulation and migration of health data in Sub Saharan Africa - Uganda, Kenya and South Africa.
A project that aims to document diverse lived experiences of crisis endings and to articulate ethical responsibilities of global health institutions post-crisis
By conducting a comparative analysis of regulations in China and the United Kingdom, this project examines the complexities of cross-border health data transfers and aims to establish robust safeguards that uphold public health priorities and privacy rights.
A project which explores critical issues of equity and human rights in global vaccine access amidst the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/law/research/centres/chrp:
The Centre for Human Rights in Practice (est.
2006) provides a focus for academics, students, practitioners and activists who wish to advance the study and promotion of human rights at local, national and international levels.
Lacuna is an online magazine published by the Centre that challenges indifference to suffering and promotes human rights.
It aims to fill the gap between the short-term immediacy of daily journalism and long-term academic analysis.
It offers opportunities for new writers to publish alongside experienced journalists and activists.
Write for Lacuna
Follow Lacuna on Threads @lacunamagazine

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/law/research/centres/globe:
The Centre brings together staff and postgraduate students working in areas of international economic law, business and commercial law, corporate governance and financial regulation.
It provides a platform for coordinating, facilitating and publicising the research and policy-related activities of colleagues as well as hosting external scholars, policymakers and early career researchers in related fields at Warwick.
The Centre also acts as a focal point for teaching and research on our specialised postgraduate taught and research degree programmes.
The Centre broadly embraces the Warwick Law School contextual and interdisciplinary approach to law, governance and regulation that situates questions of substantive law, policy and regulation within a broader social, economic and political environment.
Our research, policy and teaching interests include the following: international trade law, international investment law, comparative private law, international business transactions, international and comparative tax law and policy, global intellectual property rights, law of natural resources, climate change and environmental law, international law and sustainable development, international financial regulation, company law and corporate governance, global competition law and international arbitration.
Warwick Law School has a strong tradition of research, policy work and teaching in the area of International Economic Law.
Our research spans a broad range of issues relating to the law and governance of the global economy - international trade law, international financial law, international investment law, intellectual property rights law, labour law, global competition law and international tax law and policy.
We are engaged in a variety of theoretical and empirical research in these fields of law and this informs our teaching across the different undergraduate and postgraduate programmes, especially the specialist LLM programme on International Economic Law.
We also engage in policy consultations with a range of different organisations, including international organisations and tribunals, government agencies, NGOs and charities.
Warwick Law School researchers have been active in the fields of regulation and governance of corporate and commercial activity.
Scholarship at Warwick in these areas have focused on regulatory and governance theory and their application across the commercial and corporate sector, including the regulation of banks and financial institutions, international corporate finance, corporate governance and corporate social responsibility, competition law and policy and international business transactions.
Our work spans both local and national contexts and is strongly influenced by contemporary events.
This research informs our teaching at the Law School, including on our LLM in International Economic Law and International Corporate Governance and Financial Regulation.
International law and development is one of the hallmarks of research and teaching at Warwick Law School.
A key strand of our activities have been focused on the relationship between law and the global economy, including intersections between international economic law and sustainable development and issues of social justice and human rights arising from law and economic globalization.
Our research have also focused on the impact of economic activities on the environment and natural resources and the role of law and non-legal regulatory measures in both contributing to or mitigating these dislocations.
An important focus of work has also been on the dynamics between developed and developing countries in international law and the global economy.
Staff research in these areas feed into our specialist LLM programme, International Development Law and Human Rights.
An important strand of the research, teaching and policy work at Warwick Law School has been centred on national and international financial regulation, including the law, governance and regulation of banks, other financial institutions and the financial sector as a whole.
Our research in financial regulation, law and governance range from banking regulation, responses to financial and banking crises, financial sector insolvencies, sovereign debt restructuring, international public finance, Islamic finance, microfinance and procurement issues relating to the financial sector.
Key aspects of our scholarship in these fields include examining comparative approaches to regulatory architectures of financial governance and supervision as well as exploring the social and economic impacts of financial regulation and governance (or failures thereof).
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 3075 Email: law at warwick dot ac dot uk School of Law, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, United Kingdom Staff intranet

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/economics/research/centres/creta:
The Constitution of CRETA .
Vienna University of Economics and Business
7th May
7th - 14th March
27-29 November 2024
28th November 2024
30th Oct - 4th Nov
24th - 28th Oct 2022
23rd - 25th Oct 2022
3rd - 7th October
12th - 17th September
4th - 14th September
Sebastiaan Maes
KU Leuven
14th - 25th March
Jose Ignacio Rivero Wildemauwe
Université de Cergy-Pontoise
17th Jan - 17th June
Dimitri Migrow
University of Calgary
4th October - 15th December
Yiannis Vailakis
University of Glasgow
6th - 8th March
Keisuke Teeple
University of California, Davis
Nikolaos Kokonas
University of Bath
31st Jan & 1st Feb
Anastasios Dosis
ESSEC Business School
21st - 24th Jan
Eva Vivalt
Australian National University
4th - 6th Dec
Adrien Vigier
Norwegian Business School
3rd - 7th Dec
Udara Peiris
National Research University, Higher School of Economics
29th Nov - 3rd Dec
Jingyi Xue
Singapore Management University
26th - 30th Nov
Ani Guerdjikova
University of Grenoble Alpes
25th Nov - 30th Nov
Xinxi Song
Capital University of Economics and Business
18th - 25th Nov
Nicholas Klein
University of Montreal
21st - 25th Oct
Monica Giovanniello
University of Balearic Island
11th - 15th Oct
Shurojit Chatterji
9th - 12th Oct
Aviad Heifetz
The Open University of Israel
25 - 29 June
18th -25th June
Sander Heinsalu
11th - 14th June
Timothy N.
Bond
Purdue University
10th & 11th June
Giulio Trigilia
University of Rochester
5th - 12th June
Spyros Terovitis
University of Amsterdam
5th - 9th June
Guillem Ordonez-Calafi
University of Bristol
2nd - 9th June
Sambuddha Ghosh
Boston University
5th - 9th May
7th - 10th May
22nd - 30th April
Nikos Kokonas
15th + 16th April
Dezso Szalay
University of Bonn
6th - 13th March
Ina Taneva
University of Edinburgh
7th - 15th March
Christophe Chamley
8th - 10th March
Can Urgun
Princeton University
5th & 6th March
Thomas Epper
University of St.Gallen
4th - 8th February
17th January 2019
Michele Biavati
Rice University
19th & 20th Dec 2018
30th Nov - 1st Dec
Olga Gorelkina
University of Liverpool
28th & 29th Nov
Ji Yan
City University of Hong Kong
21st & 22nd Nov
Tasos Dosis
1st November
The University of Calgary
28th Oct - 1st Nov
Myrna Wooders
Vanderbilt University
17th October
10th October
Julia Wirtz
9th - 11th October
2nd - 6th October
Enrico Minelli
Università degli Studi di Brescia
11th - 17th September
11th & 12th August
Anastasios Karantounias
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
13th July
Giorgos Galanis
Goldsmiths, University of London
27th & 28th June
Patrick O'Callaghan
The University of Queensland
17th - 18th June
Marina Halac
Columbia Business School
10th - 12th June
7th - 10th June
Niccolo' Lomys
University of Mannheim
5th - 10th June
Costas Arkolakis
Yale University
31st May
Larry Samuelson
30th May
29th May - 1st June
Yuichi Kitamura
Yale University, School of Management
27th May - 2nd June
Harry Di Pei
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
20th May - 25th May
Dezsö Szalay
15th - 24th May
Monica Giovanelli
University of Verona
4th - 11th May
Jonathan Eaton
Penn State
7th - 9th May
Takuya Ura
UC Davis
25th March - 5th April
Anton Kolotilin
UNSW Business School
15th & 16th March
Safis Moustafa Chatzouz
Dutch Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment
Tasos Karantounias
National Research University Higher School of Economics
22nd - 24th March
David K.
Levine
Washington University
5th - 9th March
Fabio Maccheroni
Bocconi University
1st March
Ehud Lehrer
Tel-Aviv University
26th February
Sebastián Cea-Echenique
29th Nov - 6th Dec
Johannes Hörner
21st - 22nd Nov
Piero Gottardi
European University
16th - 17th Nov
Tatiana Mayskaya
8th - 9th Nov
1st & 2nd Nov
5th Sept - 5th Oct
12th - 15th July
8th - 10th June
Amrita Dhillon
Kings College, London
22nd - 26th May
Peter Matthews
Middlebury College
17th & 18th May
Rahul Deb
University of Toronto
2nd - 20th May
5th - 9th April
10th March
2nd & 3rd March
21st Feb - 4th March
Matteo Foschi
Max Weber Fellow at the European University Institute
21st & 22nd February
Johannes Schneider
Universidad Carlos III de Madrid
14th - 17th February
Valantis Vasilakis
Bangor University
9th & 10th February
Siyang Xiong
6th & 7th December 2016
31st Oct & 1st Nov 2016
Christoph Wolf
24th - 26th October 2016
Hugo Hopenhayn
UCLA Department of Economics
5th & 6th Oct 2016
23rd & 24th June 2016
Miltos Makris
University of Southampton
9th June - 11th June 2016
9th June - 12th June 2016
Apostoles Philippopoulos
Athens University of Economics and Business
31st March - 2nd April 2016
Capital University of Economics & Business
27th March - 1st April 2016
Kostas Koufopoulos
University of Piraeus
7th - 10th March 2016
27th Feb 2016
26th & 27th Feb 2016
17th Feb 2016
4th - 8th Feb 2016
Francesco Giavazzi
4th Feb 2016
3rd - 6th Feb 2016
Stefan Traub
University of Bremen
8th Jan - 11th Jan 2016
11, 12 & 13th Dec 2015
9th & 10th Dec 2015
19th - 24th Nov 2015
26th November 2015
Rui Lui
University of Leicester
25th November 2015
2nd - 6th August 2015
31st July - 3rd Aug 2015
26th July 2015
30th May - 31st May 2015
Jean-Jacques Herings
Maastricht University
18th – 21st May 2015
Since its creation in 2006, CRETA has run a seminar series with external and internal talks on economic theory and applications.
We have also co-organized the XVI European Workshop on General Equilibrium; hosted an annual lecture in Economic Theory; co-organised one-day workshops jointly with the Department of Economics at the University of Birmingham; and hosted an annual Summer School in Economic Theory and its applications.
CRETA conferences
Find out more about our conferences.
CRETA lunchtime workshops
Find out more about our workshops.
CRETA Seminars
Find out more about our Seminars.
Department of Economics, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/pais/research/researchcentres/csd:
The Centre for Studies in Democratisation (CSD) is a welcoming forum for all Politics and Warwick researchers whose work puzzles over, analyses, dissects or otherwise engages with questions of democracy or democratization.
The Centre is methodologically pluralistic and intellectually open; its remit includes theoretical, empirical, comparative, postcolonial, normative, feminist, critical, institutional, regional, and international and global perspectives.
The Centre’s goal is to build new and revived activities to provide a lively forum for debating, deliberating and supporting our thinking and research on democracy and related themes.
On this page you will find links to current and future activities of the Centre.
Elsewhere on the site Current students Staff intranet News & Events Find us Politics and International Studies, Social Sciences Building, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK Talk to us People search Connect with us Facebook Instagram
Current students
Staff intranet
News & Events
Politics and International Studies, Social Sciences Building, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK
Facebook Instagram

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/pais/research/researchcentres/csgr/people:
Marco Andreu
Email: marco.andreu@socialdesign.ch | Website
James Brassett Email: J.Brassett.1@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Reader in International Political Economy
Shaun Breslin Email: Shaun.Breslin@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Professor of Politics and International Studies
Christopher Browning Email: C.S.Browning@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Reader in Politics and International Studies
George Christou Email: G.Christou@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Professor of European Politics
Chris Clarke Email: c.d.clarke@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Associate Professor of International Political Economy
Ben Clift Email: B.M.Clift@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Professor of Political Economy
Sahil Jai Dutta
Email: s.dutta@gold.ac.uk | Website
Lecturer in International Political Economy
Juanita Elias Email: Juanita.Elias@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Professor of International Political Economy
James Harrison Email: J.Harrison.3@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Associate Professor School of Law
Oz Hassan Email: O.A.Hassan@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Associate Professor
Charlotte Heath-Kelly Email: C.Heath-kelly@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Alexandra Homolar Email: A.Homolar@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Associate Professor of International Security
Chris Hughes Email: C.W.Hughes@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Professor of International Politics and Japanese Studies
Ruben Kremers
Email: r.s.kremers@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Doctoral Researcher
Caroline Kuzemko Email: C.Kuzemko.1@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Franklyn Lisk Email: F.Lisk@warwick.ac.uk | Website
CSGR Professorial Research Fellow
Fabian Pape
Email: F.Pape@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Johannes Petry
Email: j.petry@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Shirin Rai Email: Shirin.Rai@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Lena Rethel Email: L.Rethel@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Ben Richardson Email: B.J.Richardson@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Sharifah Sekalala Email: Sharifah.Sekalala@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Vicki Squire Email: V.J.Squire@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Professor of International Security
Diane Stone Email: Diane.Stone@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Celine Tan Email: Celine.Tan@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Reader School of Law
Matthew Watson Email: Matthew.G.Watson@warwick.ac.uk | Website
Centre for the Study of Globalisation and Regionalisation University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom Email: csgr at warwick dot ac dot uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/wbs/research/irru:
Employment relations strategy
Equality & diversity Link opens in a new window
Globalisation and work
Dr Manuela Galetto (left) and Dr Deborah Dean (right) are IRRU's first Co-Directors and Dr Umar Boodoo, Seminar Series Co-ordinator (bottom right).
We are the latest in a long line of Directors of the Industrial Relations Research Unit and proud to be the first to share the role since the Unit’s inception in 1970.
While the world of work seems to both change and remain the same, the excitingly varied work of our members and associate fellows continues IRRU’s distinguished tradition of rigour and relevance.
I nvestigate, R eflect, R eport,
U nderstand.
During the widespread industrial action across the UK, Dr Manuela Galetto and Dr Deborah Dean provided regular media commentary on this current wave, along with analysis of the government's proposed new legislation for 'minimum service levels' during strikes.
+
The circle of IR life!
IRRU Co-Director Manuela Galetto's review of eminent previous IRRU member Richard Hyman's new book:
In the Industrial Relations Journal
Twitter / X @IRRUDirector
Over five decades of empirical research and theoretical reflection on the ever-changing world of work, IRRU has been in the vanguard of emergent debates in the fields of industrial relations, employment, and human resource management.
IRRU has also made a central and substantive contribution to WBS’s mission to work in partnership with policy and practice to catalyse the impact of its work.
Prior to Brexit, IRRU, in collaboration with Warwick’s Institute for Employment Research, was the UK national centre for the EU observatory, EurWORK, looking at industrial relations, working conditions and restructuring, supplying features and reports on national development, and thematic comparative analysis.
Images of Coventry by Mark Pemberton Photography
(Twitter: @MarkPem28587357 , Instagram: @pemberton_mark and website: www.markpembertonphotography.com/ )
General enquiries
Warwick Business School University of Warwick Coventry, Warwickshire, UK, CV4 7AL
enquiries at wbs dot ac dot uk +44 (0)24 7652 4306

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/wbs/research/ikon:
IKON is a multidisciplinary research centre within in Warwick Business School.
We apply theoretical perspectives from social and organization theory to empirical studies of the creation, translation and use of knowledge and innovation.
IKON has international reputation and advises on organization studies, innovation studies and information systems, particularly on the social and information processes and networking practices in innovation and how they are influenced by specific organizational and institutional contexts.
IKON's key research themes are:
IKON is comprised of a distributed network of researchers working in the area of innovation, knowledge and organizational networks.
Our WBS academics include:
The advancement of practice-based studies in organization, administrative and social studies.
How should we think about organisational change as if change mattered?
A process and practice perspective ,
University of Warwick, 08 - 10 July 2025.
Telephone: +44 (0)24 7652 4306 Email: enquiries at wbs dot ac dot uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/economics/research/centres/qapec:
QAPEC provides a context to pursue research excellence in quantitative and analytical political economy combined with impactful and interdisciplinary collaborations.
QAPEC is a founding member of the UK consortium of researchers in quantitative and analytical political economy (PolEconUK), of the European Political Economy Consortium (EPEC), and a partner of the Quantitative and Analytical Political Science program at Princeton University (QAPS), and the Political Science and Political Economy group at the London School of Economics.
Specifically.
QAPEC aims to:
Massimo Morelli
Leonard Wantchekon
Monika Nalepa
Stefan Krasa
John Duggan
QAPEC organises the annual CEPR Conference in Political Economy, jointly with the QAPS group of Princeton University and with Eccles School of Business of the University of Utah.
The conference, held at the University of Warwick in Venice venue, brings together the top theoretical and empirical economists and political scientists across Europe and North America.
The conference builds on the experience of the previous successful meetings organized annually since 2013.
QAPEC runs a weekly seminar series at the University of Warwick main campus, jointly organized with the PSPE group at the London School of Economics.
QAPEC participates in the organization of the bi-weekly PolEconUK webinar series.
In these seminar series, international speakers present their work in quantitative and analytical political economy, and interact with the QAPEC group of academics.
Title to be advised.
Title to be advised
The Political Science and Political Economy (PSPE) research group at the LSE brings together faculty and PhD students who do quantitative and/or formal research on political institutions, political behaviour, public policy, and political economy.
The QAPS program was established in 2009 to support theoretical and quantitative research in political science and its dissemination.
The program supports graduate students through QAPS fellowships, hosts host post-doctoral research fellows, organises quantitative skills workshops and conferences.
The European Political Economy Consortium fosters high-quality research in political economy by facilitating exchange among the leading European centres in political economy.
It consists of five founding institutions, including Warwick.
The Political Economy UK Group is a network of institutions, economists and political scientists working in political economy.
We host an annual Conference in the Spring/ Summer organised by one of the member institutions.
Our objective is to disseminate and share research in political economy conducted in the United Kingdom.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/sociology/research/centres/socialtheorycentre:
The Social Theory Centre, founded in 1997, is devoted to the promotion, development and discussion of social theory.
We are based in the Sociology Department but have members from across the humanities and social sciences.
Our primary activities consist in organising symposia, workshops, the Authority & Political Technologies network, and early career training events.
Our members are involved in running important social theory websites including Global Social Theory and Critical Legal Thinking .
The centre also provides an important locus of activity for faculty and students involved with the MA programme in Social and Political Thought.
Derya Ozkul
Sanjay Sharma
Nisha Kapoor
Gala Rexer
Bernard Koomson
Event Name :- Critical Dialogues on Artificial Intelligence
Presented By :- Centre for Cultural and Media Policy Studies
When :- Friday 6th June
Where :- Faculty of Arts Building
Event Name :- Political Captivity of Palestinians in the Time of Genocide Link opens in a new window
Presented By :- Lena Meari
When:- Thursday 8th May 2025, 4:00-5:30pm
Where:- S0.19, Social Sciences Building
The idea of ‘civil order’ produces an idealised image of a well-ordered society, obscuring complex realities of inequality, violence, and repression, and reinforcing boundaries between those who abide by norms of civility and those who do not.
The focus of this workshop will be on the aesthetic dimension of civil order: on the sensual experiences that give civic life the semblance of orderliness, through images, representations, architecture, symbols, and processes of exclusion.
By attending to the ways in which modern state power organizes the phenomenal world, we explore how the deliberate generation of affects, atmospheres, and emotional states shapes the many senses of civil order.
The workshop is organised by Daniel Matthews (University of Warwick), Henrique Carvalho (University of Warwick), and Simon Gansinger (MPI Freiburg).
This event is generously sponsored by the Centre for Critical Legal Studies , the Social Theory Centre , the Criminal Justice Centre , Warwick Law School , and the Institute of Advanced Studies at the University of Warwick.
Workshop website
https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/law/research/centres/ccls/civilorder/
Location: Seminar Room (C0.02), Institute of Advanced Study, Zeeman Building, University of Warwick.
Coffee and lunch breaks will take place in the Common Room (C0.06).
Programme
You can view the full workshop programme here .
Registration
Please register via the registration form Link opens in a new window to help with catering.
Event Name :- Beyond the Time of Genocide: Social Pain as a Site of Social Action and Hope in the Gaza Strip Link opens in a new window
Presented By :- Orouba Othman
When:- Wednesday 15th January 2025: 4pm-5.30pm
Where:- A0.23, Social Sciences Building
Elsewhere on the site Current students Staff intranet About us Find us Department of Sociology, Social Sciences Building, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK Talk to us People search Connect with us Facebook Twitter
About us
Department of Sociology, Social Sciences Building, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK
Facebook Twitter

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/philosophy/research/researchcentres/wma:
The Warwick Mind and Action Research Centre (WMA) exists to promote and coordinate work in the philosophy of mind, the philosophy of action, and adjacent areas.
The Centre is strongly interdisciplinary in spirit, seeking to bring into contact work in philosophy and empirical research in psychology.
Topics that are central to the work of members of the Centre include: consciousness, attention, perceptual experience, perceptual knowledge, agency and action explanation, memory, self-knowledge and self-consciousness, first- and second-person thought, and the development of social understanding.
The centre originated with an AHRB-funded interdisciplinary project on Consciousness and Self-Consciousness (1997-2004).
Since then it has continued to host a succession of projects such as The Second Person ; Time: Between Metaphysics and Psychology ; Perception, Rationality and Self Knowledge : and The Communicative Mind (for a full list see Past Projects ) .
Information about the Centre’s on-going and past activities can be found on our Events and Graduate pages.
Researchers or prospective students who wish to contact the centre should write to: n.eilan@warwick.ac.uk and wma@warwick.ac.uk
WMA Talks: Throughout 2025-2026, WMA will be hosting a series of exciting and insightful talks.
The activities are open to all philosophy postgraduate & undergraduate students at Warwick as well as all staff & faculty members.
MEEP meetings, talks and workshops concern issues that lie at the intersection of problems normally discussed under the headings of ‘ M ind and E pistemology’, on the one hand, and ‘ E thics and P olitical Philosophy’, on the other.
The Warwick-Geneva-Leipzig Interdepartmental collaboration aims to foster a connection between the Philosophy Departments at these universities on subjects surrounding the philosophy of mind and psychology broadly conceived.
Apart from its ongoing activities, WMA currently hosts the projects The Communicative Mind (UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship) and Incredible Beliefs (Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship).
Our past projects include interdisciplinary projects on Consciousness and Self-Consciousness , Causal Understanding , the Second Person , Time: Between Metaphysics and Psychology , and several others.
For further details see past projects and some of the edited volumes they yielded.
Department of Philosophy, Social Sciences Building, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom View location on campus map Tel: +44 (0)24 7657 5178 Email: philosophyoffice at warwick dot ac dot uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/arts/schoolforcross-facultystudies/igsd:
Connecting ideas, policies, people and action as a gateway to sustainable
To promote principles of good governance in the context of environmental policies to meet global biodiversity conservation targets, increase climate change adaptation and improve human well being.
This theme aims to push the boundaries of our knowledge and practices to underpin transformation to a more sustainable and resilient future in the Anthropocene.
We focus on understanding change through resilience –human, societal, inter-species, planetary – as a way of living, and governing complexity, with a focus on the community of relations.
Our work focuses on environmental governance; complex ecosystems and climate change; resilience.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/camacs:
News: £2M UKRI NetworkPlus bid “Mathematical Innovators in the Digital Space” (MInDS) awarded
We are pleased to announce that, as part of a collaborative bid with the IMI at Bath, the School of Mathematics and Physics at QUB, and the UK Knowledge Exchange Hub for Mathematical Sciences, we have secured £2m in funding from UKRI to develop a professional career space for impact-driven mathematical sciences.
This is a four-year initiative that will start in April 2025.
The Centre for Applications of Mathematical & Computing Sciences (CAMaCS) links Warwick’s world-leading research in the departments of Mathematics , Statistics, and Computer Science with external partners to bring value to society through impact.
Established in 2023, CAMaCS works to create new forms of partnership across interdisciplinary boundaries within academia as well as across intersectoral boundaries between academia and public, private, and third sectors.
Building on Warwick's excellence in interdisciplinary collaboration and extensive institutional experience in large-scale knowledge exchange (as evidenced in - for example - the successes of the Warwick Manufacturing Group in applied manufacturing engineering), CAMaCS is outward-facing, inclusive, and problem-driven.
CAMaCS provides an exciting opportunity to help define the future role of mathematical and computing sciences in our society and economy.
Click on "what we do" below to read about our flagship activities and mechanisms, including:
Zeeman Building University of Warwick Coventry CV4 7AL
Contact email: Turn on JavaScript to view obfuscated email addresses
Team intranet

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/med/about/centres/cfel:
WMS researchers have identified a womb lining problem that causes some preventable miscarriages, paving the way for new tests and treatments.
Cluster Randomised Controlled Trial of a Service to Support the Mental Health and Coping of Parents with Excessively Crying Infants.
The Big Baby Trial is to find out if starting labour earlier than usual, at 38 weeks, makes it less likely that shoulder dystocia will happen in women whose babies appear to be bigger than expected.
This new Centre is a hub of multidisciplinary expertise, pioneering research that will lead to more successful pregnancies, better health for parents and children, and new treatments and tests.
Partnering with industry and the UHCW NHS Trust, the Centre will accelerate the development of new clinical tests and treatments and support education and training of healthcare staff.
The Centre for Early Life is a hub of multidisciplinary expertise, pioneering research that will lead to more successful pregnancies, better health for parents and children, and new treatments and tests.
Find out more about the Centre.
The Centre brings together experts from across the University of Warwick, including Warwick Medical School, the Institute of Digital Healthcare, Warwick Mathematics Institute, and the Departments of Chemistry, Computer Science, Psychology, and Statistics.
Explore the profiles of our members to find out more about their specialties and research interests.
Professor Siobhan Quenby from Warwick Medical School, talks about her medical research into miscarriage causes, support and treatments.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/cdi:
On this episode of CDI-TV, we're quiet quitting before joining the great resignation - or perhaps we're mad as hell and we're not gonna take it anymore!
Join us in person or online for a live research conversation in which we try to uncover what quitting and resignation tell us about our relationship to the meaning, practices and politics of work culture, and whether giving up has anything in common with anti-work, neo-Luddism and other strategies of refusal.
This hybrid event will be an open conversation between Cecilia Ghidotti , a scholar of quitting in the cultural industries, and Craig Gent , a researcher and activist working in the tradition of operaismo.
Location: FAB1.16 and CDI-TV.
Time: Monday of 23rd June, 17:00-18:00
Public Talk by Sebastian Giessmann
Blockchain and AI clash and converge as distinct yet increasingly entangled network technologies—one rooted in immutability and decentralization, the other in generative acceleration and pattern extraction.
Despite their differing logics, both drive extractive, energy-intensive infrastructures under late capitalism.
This talk examines how their convergence, with a particular focus on cases like Worldcoin, shapes a new and contested 'seventh' layer of network culture.
Location: FAB0.08
Time: Wednesday 25th of June, 10:00-11:00
Friday 7th March 2025, 9:30-17:30, Oculus Building (OC0.04), University of Warwick
Social life is increasingly being the object of interventions from engineering and economics.
Platforms, AI and Big Tech are driving a growing engineering of the social, often without transparency and accountability.
This event encourages interdisciplinary dialogue to problematise our present, explore alternatives, and address societal concerns amid growing public backlash against Big Tech.
Keynote Speakers: Noortje Marres and Mona Sloane
This event is co-organised by the Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies with the Edinburgh Futures Institute in collaboration with the Centre for Digital Inquiry and the International Sociological Association’s Working Group 10 on Digital Sociology.
Warwick's hub for critical digital research.
The CDI brings together researchers across humanities, social sciences and sciences to think with and through our digital condition.
We use and develop digital research techniques and associated tools to advance knowledge about culture and society ('thinking with' the digital), while also taking up the digital as a substantive critical topic ('thinking through' the digital).
Read more about the CDI .
Discover the research projects we have supported and hosted, covering themes such as data infrastructures, platform governance, app studies, digital intimacy and AI.
Our work engages with critical questions around digital infrastructures, cultural shifts and the politics of technological change.
The CDI interdisciplinary research network at Warwick brings together researchers, practitioners and organisations to critically examine digital technologies and pursue experimental alternatives.
Find out how to join and contribute to our future research projects.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/physics/research/astro/ceh:
Welcome to the website of the Centre for Exoplanets and Habitability (CEH) at the University of Warwick.
The CEH is a cross-disciplinary research centre that draws upon expertise from departments across the university.
It is a collaborative project which works with both the sciences and arts in order to consider life beyond, and on, this planet.
Please explore our webpages, and feel free to contact us if you would like to get involved.
The Centre for Exoplanets and Habitability convenes a Postgraduate module, "Habitability in the Universe", which is run by the Institute for Advanced Teaching and Learning Link opens in a new window .
This module is open to all postgraduates, from all disciplines, and covers the subject of habitability from myriad perspectives.
More details can be found on the module's home page Link opens in a new window .
Image credit: Artist's impression of Upsilon Andromedae d and it's moons, by Luciano Méndez.
Used under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported license.
David Armstrong: d.j.armstrong@warwick.ac.uk Jonathan Heron: jonathan.heron@warwick.ac.uk / +44 24 7615 0530

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/arts/history/research/centres/cgjs:
Centre Director: Dr Anna Hájková
Centre Co-ordinator: Meg Boatemaa (e-mail: Turn on JavaScript to view obfuscated email addresses )
Sign up to our mailing list to stay up to date with our events and news
The CGJS welcomes all academic, research, teaching, and professional services staff and undergraduate and postgraduate students in the University with an interest in the field of Global Jewish Studies.
We seek to establish a unique institutional place within the United Kingdom for the study and dialogue on the diversity of Jewish experience, heritage, and culture.
We want to explore research on the past, presents, and futures of the Jewish communities, which includes but is not limited to religious practice, bringing together academic and professional staff, postgraduates and undergraduates, and the wider public.
In the first phase we will look to develop four main themes:
Tue, 11 Feb 2025, 4pm
Talk by Will Jones (Warwick University), 'Visualizing Vulnerability: Exploring Male Experiences of Sexual(ized) Violence in the Concentration Camps.'
Venue: FAB 3.30 and Teams (Hybrid)
Thu, 6 Mar 2025, 4pm
Lecture by Dr Noëmie Duhaut (University of Southampton), 'Adolphe Crémieux and the blind spots of French universalism.'
Venue: Oculus, OC1.09 and on Teams (Hybrid)
Wed, 30 April 2025, 4:15pm
Talk by Bryan Cheyette (University of Reading), "Decolonizing testimony: Frederick Douglass and Primo Levi"
Venue: Oculus, OC1.03
Staff Intranet - Calendar

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/cim:
The Centre offers Masters level courses examining Digital Media and Culture (MA), Data Visualisation (MASc), Big Data and Digital Futures (MSc), and PhD programmes.
Research culture forms an important part of the Centre, covering a specialist range of subjects and interests relating to academic strengths in Interdisciplinary Methodologies.
Discover our REF contribution
CIM is dedicated to expanding the role of interdisciplinary methods through new lines of inquiry that cut across disciplinary boundaries, both intellectually and institutionally.
Our exciting interdisciplinary environment prepares Masters and PhD students to respond creatively and critically to the rapidly evolving challenges of a world transformed by new ways of collecting and visualising data and digital processes.
CIM's mission is to conduct world-class research by pioneering, testing and promoting interdisciplinary methods and approaches.
For more news and updates on our research projects please visit our blog Link opens in a new window .
Bluesky Link opens in a new window
Mastodon Link opens in a new window
LinkedIn Link opens in a new window
Instagram (@cimethods) Link opens in a new window
Mastodon
Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies , University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL View our location on Central Campus Tel: 024 761 51758 | Email: cim at warwick dot ac dot uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/mentalhealth:
Our mental health research is influencing healthcare With one in four people experiencing a mental health problem during their lives, research in this field is increasingly important at Warwick.
At the Centre for Mental Health and Wellbeing, we work across multiple disciplines, creating impactful research that can be translated into policy and practice.
Collaborate with us
With one in four people experiencing a mental health problem during their lives, research in this field is increasingly important at Warwick.
We conduct rsearch across three themes: Child & Adolescent Mental Health , Workplace Mental Health and Global Mental Health .
Within these themes, interdisciplinary teams examine mental health through multiple perspectives, including psychology, history, data science, sociology, maths, engineering and clinical sciences - collaborating within the University and beyond.
From learning disorders to youth mental health to mental health and productivity, the Centre for Mental Health and Wellbeing Research conducts research into a broad range of salient topics.
Through our interdisciplinary approach into various aspects of mental health and mental illness, we are working to improve the health and wellbeing of people in the UK and globally.
Centre for Mental Health and Wellbeing Research University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/cidd:
Centre for Research in Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (CIDD) University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 8UW, United Kingdom Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 3638 · Fax: +44 (0)24 7652 4472 View our location on Westwood Campus

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/copr:
COPR is an interdisciplinary centre bringing together research expertise from across the whole university to interrogate contemporary challenges in policing.
As well as partnering with police, we work closely with a range of third sector, health, criminal justice, arts and community partners creating real world impact.
We offer a new approach to policing research, bringing together interdisciplinary teams from a variety of theoretical and methodological standpoints, with expertise in areas such as organisational & individual behaviour, criminal law & procedure, psychology & criminal justice, digital forensics, cyber security, ethics, immigration, AI, policing technologies, trust & confidence in policing, as well as legal regulation of criminal investigations, police custody & suspects' rights.
Professor Jackie Hodgson & Professor Kim Wade are co-directors of COPR .
You can contact us directly at copr@warwick.ac.uk
Centre for Operational Police Research University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/philosophy/research/researchcentres/phillit:
The CRPLA provides a unique forum for cross-departmental enquiry into the intersections between philosophy, literature and the arts.
Its goal is to promote theoretical reflection in these subject areas, while drawing on the expertise of subject specialists to put pressure on philosophical assumptions that might otherwise pass unquestioned in ‘philosophy of art,’ ‘philosophy of literature,’ etc.
The upshot is genuinely interdisciplinary research that poses new questions and proposes new theories and methodologies.
The departments affiliated to the Centre include Philosophy , English and Comparative Literary Studies , The School of Modern Languages and Cultures , History of Art , Classics , and Film & Television Studies .
All members of the University and the wider community are, however, welcome to attend our events .
The Centre is currently run by Co-Directors Eileen John Link opens in a new window and James MacDowell Link opens in a new window , with the assistance of the other members of the CRPLA Managing Committee, including representatives of the postgraduate community – see the full list of staff associated with the work of the Centre here .
The CRPLA has a dynamic programme of events Link opens in a new window that promote cross-disciplinary research: we organize regular seminar papers, workshops and reading groups throughout the academic year, while also organizing special lectures and major international conferences.
Our annual programme is supplemented by the contributions of distinguished Visiting Scholars.
The diversity of the Centre’s research is reflected as well in the list of current and former Associate Fellows.
As a complement to its interdisciplinary research programme, the CRPLA is closely associated with the undergraduate degree in philosophy and literature .
Members of the Centre are actively involved in teaching on this degree and on the one-year taught MA in Philosophy and Literature, and contribute to the doctoral programme in Philosophy and Literature.
If you would like to be added to our mailing list please email Gemma dot Basterfield at warwick dot ac dot uk ; for all other inquiries about the work of the Centre please email one of the Co-Directors, Eileen John eileen dot john at warwick dot ac dot uk or James MacDowell James dot MacDowell at warwick dot ac dot uk .
You can also find us on Facebook
Theodor Adorno Monument in Frankfurt
Centre for Research in Philosophy, Literature and The Arts Department of Philosophy , Social Sciences Building, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 3421 Fax: +44 (0)24 7652 3019

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/arts/history/chm:
History of Medicine, Science and Technology
The Centre for the History of Medicine, Science and Technology (CHMST) brings together expertise in related fields across the University of Warwick.
Founded in 1999 , the Centre for the History of Medicine relaunched in 2025 as the Centre for the History of Medicine, Science, and Technology.
We cover the full range of medical and scientific disciplines, from genetics and anthropology to chemistry and mathematics, as well as the technologies associated with them.
The Centre is based within the History Department, but we collaborate as part of interdisciplinary projects across the university and beyond.
Tel: 44 (0)24 7657 2601 Email: hist.med@warwick.ac.uk Faculty of Arts Building, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7EQ

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/sociology/research/centres/gender:
Like us on Facebook Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window
Follow us on Twitter/X Link opens in a new window

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/crew:
Connecting Research on Work and Employment (CREW) is a new network founded with the approval of Senate in 2014.
The CREW network is devoted to the promotion and development of research on work and employment in the broadest sense.
It seeks to facilitate interaction between researchers across departments and faculties, and provide a common focal point for the internationally recognised work and employment research community at the University of Warwick.
As a supportive, cross-departmental network we are developing synergies:
This site contains information about who we are and the activities we organise .
CREW welcomes members and participants from all faculties and departments who have an interest in work and employment in a range of institutions and organisations and formal, informal and household contexts.
To join the network, please email crew at warwick dot ac dot uk
Researchers at the Warwick Institute for Employment Research have been tracking a large sample of UK graduates from their application for a place in Higher Education in 2005/6, through graduation in 2009/10 and into their subsequent careers.
Most recently they were contacted in 2020-21 as they were experiencing the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.
The seminar will focus on:
What do the accounts of their experiences reveal about the effect of higher education on their capacity to survive the social and economic impacts of the pandemic?
What might this tell us about the future of work for highly qualified workers?
This hybrid seminar seminar starts with a sandwich lunch - it is an opportunity to meet other members of the CREW network.
Speakers: Kate Purcell, Peter Elias, Gaby Atfield and Erika Kispeter.
Date and time : 1-3.30 pm, Thursday, 10 March, 2022
Venue : Wolfson Research Exchange, Warwick University Library/Zoom
Please register on Eventbrite: face-to-face event and the online event (starts at 1.30 pm).
Speakers: Tracey Warren and Clare Lyonette
Date and time: 2-3 pm, Tuesday, 16 March 2021
In this webinar we explore the impact of COVID-19 on the paid and unpaid work of working class women, including comparisons with women and men in other class groupings.
The seminar draws on new survey data on the impact of COVID-19 on women and men in the UK.
In 2020, participants in the ‘UK Household Longitudinal Study’ were invited to take part in new monthly surveys and 17,450 participants filled in a first-wave questionnaire in April.
Our study looks at employed women and men, and class variation in their experiences, over time.
The project ‘Carrying the work burden of the Covid-19 pandemic: working class women in the UK’ is funded by the Economic and Social Research Council, as part of UK Research and Innovation’s rapid response to COVID-19 (Project ES/V009400/1), and is in partnership with the Women’s Budget Group.
Photo: Tim Dennell via a CC-BY-NC 2.0 licence .
At the first CREW webinar Lorenzo Feltrin will introduce the concept of noxious deindustrialisation, drawing on his research in Grangemouth, Scotland.
Lorenzo Feltrin holds a PhD in Politics and International Studies (University of Warwick).
His research interests are in the areas of labour, social movements, and political ecology.
Lorenzo was a member of the research team working on the European Research Commission (ERC)-funded project Toxic Expertise .
Date and time : 2-3.30 pm, 17 February 2021
Venue : Eventbrite/Teams
Please register on Eventbrite .
(Photo by Wikipedia user: John, CC BY-SA 3.0 )
What are UK unions doing in different sectoral contexts?
What obstacles are they are facing and how can they overcome these obstacles?
The starting point for discussion will be the findings of a recently completed project Agreenment .
Date and time: 3pm – 5 pm, 19 February 2020
Venue: Warwick Business School, Room 1.003
Panel:
Sam Mason - Public and Commercial Services Union
Sarah Woolley – Bakers, Food and Allied Workers Union
Simon Boxley – UCU, University of Winchester
Nick Lawrence - UCU, University of Warwick
Moderator: Ania Zbyszewska – Carleton University (Canada)
The event includes ‘afternoon tea’ and opportunities for networking.
Registration is not necessary, but if you are planning to attend, please RSVP to help us with planning: crew@warwick.ac.uk .
DATE: 2 May 2019 TIME: 9:30-17:00 LOCATION: R1.04 Ramphal Building
This one day PhD Training Module seeks to explore interdisciplinary perspectives (theoretical and methodological) on the topic of Gender and Work, drawing on the research and teaching expertise across different disciplines, and delivered by members of the Connecting Research on Employment and Work (CREW) network at the University of Warwick.
It is open to all research students at the Midlands Graduate School Doctoral Training Partnership institutions, including all years of the MPhil/ PhD programme.
It is not credit bearing, but provides an opportunity for students researching topics on work, gender and family to meet each other.
It is also open to MA students to audit, subject to space.
For further information on this advanced training session and to register please visit the relevant webpage .
Connecting Research on Employment and Work (CREW) University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom Contact us: crew at warwick dot ac dot uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/law/research/centres/cjc:
The Criminal Justice Centre is home to an exciting and internationally renowned group of criminal justice scholars, whose expertise spans a wide variety of areas, including comparative criminal justice, criminology, criminal law theory and practice, criminalisation, the criminal process, policing, border criminologies, international criminal law, transitional and restorative justice, the sociology and the philosophy of punishment, and prisons research.
The Centre's members are socially and critically engaged, and are keen to hear from members of the local community, as well as media and national and international organisations.
A list of members, with links to their profiles and descriptions of their expertise, can be found in the CJC's Community page Link opens in a new window .
Research at the CJC is inherently interdisciplinary.
Although hosted at the School of Law, the Centre has members from many other departments in the University of Warwick, including Philosophy, Sociology, Psychology, Politics and International Studies, French Studies, and the Warwick Business School.
The main purpose of the CJC is to foster research and collaboration among its members.
Every year, it holds a series of events; besides its regular seminar series, the Centre also organises workshops, conferences, and a range of impact and public engagement activities.
It also hosts leading scholars and early-career researchers through its visitors' programme, and organises events for its vibrant PhD community.
The CJC's current director is Dr Amanda Wilson Link opens in a new window .
The Centre's administrator is Lotte Young Andrade Link opens in a new window .
Faye Claridge, a CJC memer, exhibit's her artwork in major shows Unearthed and We Roar.
Read more...
Silvia Gomes has released her new book today (30th April) with co-author Dixie Rocker- "Gender, Prison and Reentry Experiences- A Matter of Time".
Link opens in a new window This book examines the reentry journeys of incarcerated men and women about to leave Portuguese prisons.
" Gender, Prison and R…
Laura Lammasniemi has released a podcast episode as part of a wider series entitled, The Age of Consent .
The podcast series aims to explore ideas of consent, where these ideas come from and how they are used, particularly within law, and the social and legal evolutions of these ideas.
More informati…
Do you have an event in mind that you would like to propose?
If so, please click here .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/ces/research/dear:
The Doctoral Education and Academia Research Centre (DEAR) is an interdisciplinary Substantive University Research Centre that was founded in October 2023 by Prof Emily F.
Henderson (Director) and Dr James Burford (Deputy Director) in the Department of Education Studies .
The Centre comprises a collective of researchers from diverse disciplinary backgrounds who conduct research on the core substantive topics of doctoral education and academia .
Research focusing on doctoral education and academia refers to (i) any research where doctoral education and/or doctoral students are the focus and (ii) any research where academics are the focus, e.g.
those working in leadership, teaching and/or research in higher education institutions.
A key aim of DEAR is to create a unique hub of expertise in this area which is recognised nationally and globally as contributing to evidence-based practice and policy in higher education institutions, with a particular orientation towards inclusivity and social justice.
DEAR partners with Warwick’s National Centre for Research Culture ( NCRC ).
(Image credit: Rhiannon Nichols)
Learn about the work of the Centre Link opens in a new window .
The DEAR Centre's people include the management team and staff, the DEAR Centre Collective, the Advisory Board and the Doctoral and Postdoctoral Group.
Find out more Link opens in a new window .
DEAR also has an Affiliate scheme for individuals at Warwick and beyond and for organisations.
Find out more about the scheme and the current DEAR Affiliates
DEAR's flagship project is WAHEI Link opens in a new window
Learn more about our portfolio of projects Link opens in a new window
Learn more about our Doctoral and Post Doctoral Group Link opens in a new window
Find out about our events, including the DEAR Centre's Celebration Series at: https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/ces/desresearch/dear/eventnews Link opens in a new window
Email us at: Turn on JavaScript to view obfuscated email addresses
You can find us on LinkedIn Link opens in a new window
Education Studies, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom View our location on Central Campus Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 3800 Email: educationstudies at warwick dot ac dot uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/wcas:
Warwick has world leading facilities offering Analytical Science across a broad range of areas.
We are focussing on the development of our Research Technical Professionals (RTProfs).
Warwick Analytical Sciences currently offers two options of postgraduate study.
See our Current AS CDT students
AS CDT 2019 cohort
AS CDT 2020 cohort
WASC has recently been awarded £1m ( EP/V007688/1 ) to expand the access to Warwick's analytical equipment infrastructure, with a particular focus towards supporting research and postgraduate training and, concurrently, expanding multi-disciplinary collaboration and end-user engagement.
Meet our Principal Investigator, Co-Investigators, Research Technology Professionals and Management Committee.
A list of our external partners
Tel: +44 (0)24 7615 0221 Fax: +44 (0)24 7652 3819 E-mail: ascdt at warwick dot ac dot uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/wamic/research:
Warwick researchers are investigating AMR across the scales : from small molecule therapeutics to bacterial targets, from rapid diagnositics to predictive epidemiology.
Management
Medicine
Mathematics
Read about our "5D AMR" Strategy

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/med/about/centres/crc:
The Warwick Cancer Research Centre brings together expertise from across the Health GRP to provide a distinctive interdisciplinary approach.
Collaboration with University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire (UHCW) as well as national and international colleagues provides opportunities to have real impact on the diagnosis and treatment of cancer.
Warwick Cancer Centre Invited Lecture: Prof Peter Lay, University of Syndey First Molecular Biomarkers of the Circadian Clock Workshop UK government approves new technology that could speed up analysis of cancer screening samples: The go-ahead is based on research co-led by Warwick Medical School’s Clinical Trials Unit.
This calendar's schedule is empty.
If you want to find out more about our work, please get in touch at crc@warwick.ac.uk.
Support us
If you have any queries about donating to the Cancer Research Centre please contact susie dot carr at warwick dot ac dot uk , Senior Development Manager.
Clinical Trials Unit Building, Warwick Medical School Gibbet Hill Campus, University of Warwick Coventry, CV4 7AL Email crc@warwick.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/med/about/centres/cahrd:
The Warwick Centre for Global Health is a dynamic research and education network working with individuals, disciplines and organisations in health and social systems around the world.
​
Our mission is to co-develop transferable lessons, practical solutions and build capacity to address global health challenges and inequalities.
While our multi-disciplinary team of researchers, teachers, professional staff and students are drawn from departments and units across the University of Warwick, the heartbeat of our Centre's activity lies in our broader global networks.
For more information about the Warwick Centre for Global Health, contact Turn on JavaScript to view obfuscated email addresses

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/wisb:
WISB delivers an integrated, internationally leading programme of research, innovation and training for synthetic biology.
WISB is a BBSRC/EPSRC funded Synthetic Biology Research Centre (SBRC), supported through the UK Research Councils' Synthetic Biology for Growth programme.
Further information can be found on our website:
Contact Us
Life Sciences Building Gibbet Hill Campus, The University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 3894 Fax: +44 (0)24 7652 2052
wisbrtf at warwick dot ac dot uk
Tel: +44 (0)24 7652 2807 Email: wisb@warwick.ac.uk
Warwick Integrative Synthetic Biology (WISB) centre, Life Sciences Building, Gibbet Hill Campus, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, United Kingdom
WISB receives funding from UK Research Councils' (EPSRC/BBSRC) under the Synthetic Biology for Growth programme.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/wesic:
Warwick Environmental Systems Interdisciplinary Centre (WESIC) connects researchers from across Warwick University faculties to find solutions to global challenges, including climate change, sustainability and environmental pollution.
Our expertise spans the Life and Environmental Sciences, Technology, Engineering, Social Sciences, Humanities and Arts.
Dr Molly Williams, School of Life Sciences has launched a Consortium for the Application of CRISPR in Ecology ('CACE').
The aim is to Unite global exp…
More
WESIC is led by a multidisciplinary cross-faculty team which includes researchers from the School of Life Sciences, Global Sustainable Development and Engineering
Meet our team
To get involved, and to receive news of WESIC events, please join our mailing list by contacting us on WESIC@warwick.ac.uk
Follow our LinkedIn page for regular updates.
WESIC has set up an initiative to use the Warwick University campus as a 'Living Lab' find out more here:
https://warwick.ac.uk/sustainability/environment/takeaction/livinglab/
Warwick provides an exciting variety of undergraduate and postgraduate opportunities for interdisciplinary study of global environmental change, sustainability and practical solutions to environmental challenges.
Find out more
The climate crisis is closer than you might think.
The food we eat, the products we buy, the car we drive, the place we choose to live…so many things play a small but significant role in the global story of ecological instability - whether we’re contributing to the problem or feeling the effects.
Click here to learn more about the University Of Warwick's campaign to highlight polymer and plastic waste, how to utilise earthworms for healthier soil, and much more.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/research/warwickquantum:
Warwick Quantum is a new interdisciplinary research initiative bringing together the quantum technology work in the Computer Science , Mathematics , Chemistry and Physics Departments as well as the School of Engineering and the Warwick Manufacturing Group .
Our vision is to provide a bridge between these areas to make an impact on quantum computing and quantum technologies at all levels, from theory and foundations to hardware and industrial applications.
We hosted the Warwick Quantum launch event in Warwick on Friday 11th July.
The speakers included Dmitry Budker , Sir Peter Knight , Helena Knowles , Gerald Milburn and Michael Cuthbert .
Matthias Caro (Co-Director)
Gregory Epiphaniou
Ravi Desai
Randa Herzallah
Julie Macpherson
Carsten Maple
Gavin Morley (Co-Director)
Neophytos Neophytou
Raj Pandya
Hatef Sadeghi
Vishal Shah
Amos Chan
Animesh Datta
Ben Green
Scott Habershon
Katarzyna Macieszczak
Reinhard Maurer
Maksym Myronov
Mark Newton
Rudolf Roemer
Sara Sangtarash
Vedran Sohinger
Daniel Ueltschi
Sathyawageeswar Subramanian (Royal Commission 1851 Research Fellow)
Mahshid Delavar (postdoc)
Theodoros Kapourniotis (Postdoc)
Ninad Rajgopal (Postdoc)
Nils Hertl (Postdoc)
Svenja Janke (Postdoc)
Oscar Douglas-Gallardo (Postdoc)
Benedikt Klein (Postdoc)
Sam Hall (Postdoc)
Sharmila Balamurugan (Postdoc)
Elnaz Darsheshdar (Postdoc)
Aiman Khan (Postdoc)
Colin Stephen (Postdoc)
Anis Rahman (Postdoc)
James March (Postdoc)
Stuart Graham (Postdoc)
Hugo Aaronson (PhD Student)
Marcel Dall'Agnol (PhD Student)
Jamie Friel (PhD Student)
Natalie McHugh (PhD Student)
Nikhil Bansal (PhD Student)
Jack O'Connor (PhD Student)
Georgios Athanasopoulos (PhD Student)
Daniel Corken (PhD Student)
Connor Box (PhD Student)
Billal Sohail (PhD Student)
James Gardner (PhD Student)
Shayantan Chaudhuri (PhD Student)
Wojciech Stark (PhD Student)
Joe Gilkes (PhD Student)
Matthew Stoodley (PhD Student)
Dylan Morgan (PhD Student)
Mariia Radova (PhD Student)
Michael Luya (PhD Student)
Peter Halat (PhD Student)
Andrew Jackson (PhD Student)
Aaron Malcolm (PhD Student)
Ellen Devereux (PhD Student)
Sourav Das (PhD Student)
Stuart Graham (PhD Student)
Alex Newman (PhD Student)
Joe Gore (PhD Student)
Karishma Gokani (PhD Student)
Andrew Rout (PhD Student)
Grega Saksida (Phd Student)
Adrian Araque Alvarez (PhD Student)

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/physics/staff/academic/rball/wsam:
Associated research groups/centres:
The new centre also aims to draw in individual interested researchers from wider depts such as Life Sciences, Maths, Engineering.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/pais/research/researchcentres/wicid:
Established in 2019, WICID’s mission is to address urgent problems of inequality and social, political and economic change on a global level through our research and impact work.
Interdisciplinary, critical and robust analyses through collaborative knowledge building and exchange characterize WICID’s approach and ensure impact in the fields we work in.
Interdisciplinary, critical and robust analyses through co-production of knowledge and knowledge exchange characterise WICID’s approach and ensure impact in the fields we work in.
We aim not only to learn from each other but also to create together new methods of research, new analytical insights and propose new solutions, based on a robust evidence base.
Our work aims to transcend disciplinary and methodological boundaries.
We recognise the interlinking and overlapping complexity of development challenges and this reflects in our thematic focus.
Our research engages with gender with a focus on issues of work, value, violence and health; with peace, conflict, and justice assessing links between governance forms and inequalities focusing on labour, social policy, justice and legacies of violence; with mobilities focused on the causes of migration, effectiveness of different migration-development initiatives and critical assessments of humanitarian and aid programmes; with health tackle the pressing links between health, governance and social inequalities.
Other themes include, environment , climate, education , aid , partnerships .
Develops appropriate, innovative and interdisciplinary methodologies to pursue our research.
Our focus on bridging epistemic divides and developing critical pedagogy will ensure the fostering of global networks necessary for our research to have impact.
The WML works with our global partners to research and produce critical knowledge exchange and teaching materials.
We also work together to produce inventive indicators and development measures to advance rigorous research on our themes.
We pursue collaborations with scholars in the UK and in particular our global partners to explore the possibilities of enhanced engagement through digital media.
We will produce working papers and academic publications through our collaborative research that speak directly to policy-making and policy review.
While different disciplines may often work alongside each other, international development research, policy and practice are better served by an integrated approach with active collaboration across disciplines on joint research and dissemination of outcomes.
With this approach in mind WICID undertakes a series of activities to generate and support interdisciplinary international development research:
Through our interdisciplinary research projects and related activities we prioritise inclusive and diverse working collaborations both between Warwick colleagues and with our partners globally.
Think Development Blog Editor
Director, WICID
Shirin Rai (SOAS University of London)
Oyinlola Oyebode (Queen Mary University of London)
Noorzaman Rashid (Centre for Engineering & Manufacturing Excellence)
Nidhi Sadana Sabharwal (Centre for Policy Research in Higher Education/National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration)
Assheton Carter (CEO of TDI Sustainability)
Azrini Wahidin (University of Sydney)
Ursula Read (University of Essex)
Yvette Hutchison (Theatre and Performance)
Vicki Squire (Politics & International Studies)
Sharifah Sekalala (Law)
Camilla Maclean Link opens in a new window (Warwick Business School)
Jonathan Vickery (Cultural Policy)
Clement Imbert (Economics)
Emily Henderson Link opens in a new window (Education)
Davide Piaggio (Engineering)
Romain Chenet Link opens in a new window (Global Sustainable Development)
Aditi Kumar is an Art historian and Cultural practitioner.
She completed her PhD in 2020, her research focuses on visual histories and identity politics of marginalised communities.
She has a keen interest in postcolonial theory, various identity formations in the nation-states and their reflections through visual cultures of the Global South.
Presently, she is working with the Jammu & Kashmir diaspora communities settled in the UK.
As a visiting fellow she aspires to continue and expand her work on diaspora communities at Warwick.
At WICID, she aims to reconceptualise Partition as an ongoing and unfinished aspect of colonisation which underpins contemporary international conflicts.
Daeun is a PhD candidate in the department of PAIS.
Before joining Warwick, she received an MSc in Comparative Politics and a BSc in Government from the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE).
She previously worked at the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) policy centre and an international parliamentary network.
Her doctoral research examines legitimation practices in a peacekeeping partnership between the African Union and the United Nations.
At WICID, she is supporting the centre's research and impact work, administrative tasks, and engagement with broader network.
Nadia is a MA student in International Political Economy in PAIS.
Her main interest surrounding the nuclear and energy sector.
Aside from this, she has conducted previous research within South Asian Studies, looking at the potential to curate an interdisciplinary module of the region and a South Asian network at her undergraduate university (Lancaster).
At WICID, she is supporting the Policy Working Group, working closely with the Management team.
Justina’s research examines socio-economic justice in conflict-affected societies, focusing on power dynamics between the state, private sector, and civil society.
She holds a PhD in development studies from Coventry University, where her thesis examined victims' participation in Colombian Collective Reparations and Territorially Focused Development Programmes.
Justina has previously worked in human rights advocacy with organisations like Amnesty International and the Council of Europe, as well as grassroots civil society groups.
Her work bridges academia and policy, offering critical insights into transitional justice, development, and peacebuilding practice.
During her visiting fellowship with WICID, Justina will examine how and to what extent participatory mechanisms in peacebuilding, transitional justice, and reconstruction efforts shape socio-economic outcomes for communities in conflict-affected societies.
Drawing on case studies from Colombia and Ukraine, she explores how grassroots justice claims are mediated within liberal practices that promote the neoliberal development model.
The research aims to produce a series of outputs that contribute to both academic scholarship and policy practice, offering critical insights into how participatory processes might be reimagined to centre the agency and socio-economic rights of conflict-affected populations.
Mouli Banerjee is currently pursuing her PhD at PAIS.
Before joining the University of Warwick, she has been a DAAD Helmut Schmidt Scholar at the University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany, and a Legislative Assistant to a Member of Parliament (LAMP) Fellow in New Delhi, India.
With an interdisciplinary background in literature and politics, her current research focuses on performative politics and political parties in India.
Sonia Garzon is a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow at the Department of International Politics at Aberystwyth University, and in fall 2020 she will be a visiting researcher at Warwick Interdisciplinary Research Centre for International Development (WICID).
Her research lies at the intersections of peacebuilding, transitional justice, and gender and its intersectionalities.
In particular, Sonia’s MSC research interrogates how race, gender, class, and spatial intersectionalities become entangled in resistance to peace.
Building on the case study of Colombia, her work explores how these intersectional movements can move towards adversarial forms of peacebuilding.
Sonia’s previous research has examined the gender impact of forced displacement in urban contexts and investigated the impact of right-wing populism in post-conflict and transitional societies.
Dr Sonia Garzon has also received grants from the EU’s Erasmus Mundus Program, CEU doctoral program and from Jaume I University.
Before joining Aberystwyth University, Sonia was a doctoral fellow at the department of Gender Studies at the Central European University (CEU, Budapest), where she obtained her PhD in Comparative Gender Studies.
She holds MAs in Women’s and Gender Studies from Granada University, International Relations from Łodz University (Poland), and Cooperation & Development from Jaume I University (Spain).
She is also graduated from the School of Gender Studies at the Universidad Nacional de Colombia.
Sonia contributes to the co-authored blog The Gender and War Project, and prior to her academic career Sonia worked in gender-focused programs in Bogotá (Colombia) where she provided accompaniment to women’s grassroots organizations in feminist economic literacy and women’s political empowerment.
More information on her work can be found at https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Sonia_Garzon_Ramirez
Mouzayian was a visiting fellow at WICID until September 2021.
She has a PhD in Politics and International Studies (2013), MA in Globalisation and Development (2008), both from PaIS in Warwick University, and a BSc in Sociology (2005) from Nigeria.
She has been a lecturer in Political Science and International Relations at Nile University of Nigeria, Abuja since October 2013.
Her research primarily focuses on everyday resistance within politics, political economy and critical development studies.
During her fellowship, she worked research analysing women's use of space and time in the household.
The research uses digital methods for data collection and the Participant Information Leaflet is available.
Mouzayian has also been a member of the Editorial Team for WICID's Think Development blog.
Kerem was a visiting fellow at WICID.
He is currently a Teaching Fellow at PAIS.
Previously, he has worked as a Teaching Associate at Aston University and a Lecturer at the University of Nottingham and the University of Wales Trinity Saint David.
He studied at the Middle East Technical University for a BSc in International Relations and a Minor degree in International Economics.
He has an MA in International Political Economy from the University of Warwick and he received his PhD in Political Science from Boston College in 2013.
He has held postdoctoral positions at Université Laval and McGill University.
His research interests include political economy of natural resources, transparency, energy geopolitics, global production networks, environmental politics, surveillance, and Eurasian politics.
During his fellowship at WICID, he published a Think Development blog: Reconfiguration of the natural gas production network in Europe.
Mauricio is a PhD student in PAIS.
His research focuses on contested practices and changing conceptions of sovereignty in cross-border migration from Venezuela along the South American Andes.
Previously, he worked as a public policy adviser and researcher on security, cross-border human mobility, and global institutions for over ten years.
He also taught various courses in International Studies at undergraduate and post-graduate levels during the same period.
He completed an MSc in Global History at the London School of Economics (UK), an MA in Global Studies at the University of Leipzig (Germany), and a BA in International Relations at the Del Rosario University (Colombia).
Jennifer is a researcher and practitioner specialising in violent conflict and development, with a focus on gender, faith and local approaches.
She is currently Senior Research Associate at the Joint Learning Initiative on Faith and Local Communities (JLI) Link opens in a new window and Postdoctoral Researcher in the Department of Sociology at the University of Warwick.
Jennifer has worked for universities, NGOs and international organisations in Europe, the Middle East, South Asia and the US.
During her visiting research fellowship at WICID, she will continue her work on Preventing Violent Extremism (PVE), development, gender, race and faith with Nicola Pratt Link opens in a new window and Juanita Elias Link opens in a new window .
You can find out more about Jennifer’s work on her personal website Link opens in a new window and her Twitter profile Link opens in a new window .
Annika is a MA student studying Political and Legal Studies.
She also completed her undergraduate degree at the University of Warwick where she studied Politics and International Studies.
She has previously worked as a research assistant for Nicola Pratt and is currently working as a MA research assistant for Briony Jones.
Her interests lie within development studies and international relations of the Asia-Pacific.
At WICID, she is supporting Daeun and Briony with research tasks.
Shreyanshi joined PAIS to pursue an MA in International Relations after receiving the PAIS MA Scholarship for 2020-21.
Before joining PAIS, she completed a BSc in Economics with a minor in International Relations from Shiv Nadar University in India, which allowed her to hone qualitative and quantitative research skills.
She draws inspiration from Feminist and Postcolonial International Relations and her current research interests centre on optics and Indian Foreign Policy.
The Warwick Interdisciplinary Research Centre for International Development is focused on championing a truly collaborative approach between researchers, research users and research beneficiaries worldwide.
This requires that our researchers take the time needed in getting to know potential collaborators, seeking common interests and complimentary expertise that so that partnerships will be mutually beneficial and productive.
By building relationships overtime, we will get to know the intellectual passions and research strengths of our individual and institution
partners.
There are world class research institutions with excellent reputations and impact in their field in all parts of the world with whom we will collaborate to build our research capacity and theirs.
Through our interdisciplinary research projects and impact work we will prioritise inclusive and diverse working collaborations both between Warwick colleagues and with our partners globally.
This network brings together academic and non-academic staff from Warwick who are working in the area of academic mobility and immobility.
BREM promotes interdisciplinary dialogue across the intersecting themes of migration, ‘race’/ethnic relations and bordering practices, broadly defined.
Research at CAGE examines how and why different countries achieve economic success.
CREW brings researchers and practitioners together to participate in conferences, research workshops, seminars and lectures.
CSGR was founded to advance research and analysis of the changing dynamics of global order.
CSWG is a centre of research and teaching in women's, gender and feminist studies.
GLOBE seeks to engage with Warwick and external scholars interested in collaborating in related fields of scholarship.
Warwick Medical School researchers investigate solutions to global health challenges.
The Critical South Asia Group at Warwick brings together staff and research students whose scholarly work focuses on South Asia.
The group draws upon the wide-ranging inter-disciplinary backgrounds and academic expertise that we bring together as a collective.
A student-led initiative at the University of Warwick to connect researchers from the Global South and resist their invisibility in academia.
GSI welcomes all interested researchers to engage in academic discussion and collaboration, share cultures and experiences and most of all, to form a community that is fully supportive.
Warwick Centre for Global Health is a global research network bringing together individuals, disciplines and organisations to develop practical solutions to health needs.
In particular, Warwick Centre for Global Health works globally, and particularly with resource limited nations to transform health systems and improve health worldwide.
Monash GPS is a research centre focused on issues of gender, peace and security.
Its vision is to build globally-recognised, gender-inclusive research evidence to deliver peace and security globally.
Launched in 2012, Carers Worldwide is the only organisation working exclusively and strategically with unpaid family carers in the Global South.
It promotes recognition of unpaid family carers and draw attention to their needs amongst communities.
IGDC promotes interdisciplinary research and engagement that contribute to a transformative agenda that is equitable, fair and sustainable.
The CCDP's research focuses on the factors and actors that are implicated in the production and reproduction of violence within and between societies and states, as well as on policies and practices to reduce violence and insecurity and enhance development and peace-building initiatives at the international, state and local levels.
CWDS is a research and advocacy institution engaged with and committed to women’s rights and to the discipline of women’s and gender studies.
ICTJ works across society and borders to challenge the causes and address the consequences of massive human rights violations.
We affirm victims’ dignity, fight impunity, and promote responsive institutions.
The network promotes the study of parliaments and people.
We support inquiry, scrutiny and debate through research, grantmaking, training, engagement and publications.
The Centre for Trust, Peace and Social Relations is a multi-disciplinary research centre that tackles many of the most critical and sensitive contemporary challenges facing society.
The Gothenburg Centre for Globalization and Development seeks to integrate and develop research on globalization at the University of Gothenburg.
Swisspeace is a practice and research institute dedicated to advancing effective peacebuilding.
Partnerships with local and international actors are at the core of its work.
Led by women African human rights activists, ANEKED is an independent, non-political and non-religious civil society organisation that campaigns against forced disappearances and summary executions, advocating for justice for victims and their families.
SIDS is a development and resilience-focused think tank which provides high-quality capacity development, research, policy briefs and publications, and graduate programs.
The institute is committed to contributing to Somalia’s economic development and political stability through innovation, research and capacity development.
Key study areas include development and poverty, resilience, markets, health and nutrition, environment and disaster risk reduction, peacebuilding, conflict resolution and mediation using indigenous methods, stabilization and durable solutions.
SIDS believes that development is the sum of the contributions from different groups and institutions.
Therefore, SIDS established partnerships with the Federal and State line ministries, academic institutions, CBOs and other I/NGOs.
WICID will extend the theoretical and empirical boundaries that shape our understanding of a variety of topics through its research.
Please browse our current and past projects below.
Funder: Wellcome Trust
Investigator(s): Sharifah Sekalala (WICID Steering Committee)
Partners: Patricia Kingori (Oxford), Dora Vargham (Berlin), Ruth Odgen (Liverpool), Laura Salisbury (Exeter), Hadijah Wurie (Sierra Leone), Deborah Dinz (Brazil), Emily Chan (HongKong)
This interdisciplinary project with colleagues from Oxford, Liverpool, Exeter, Sierra Leone, Brazil and Myanmar explores the way in which global health deals with the ‘end’ of global health crises.
Focusing on pandemics; health crises due to climate change and anti-microbial resistance, the project has been awarded a Wellcome Discovery Award worth £6.4 million pounds.
Wellcome Discovery Awards fund established researchers to deliver significant shifts in understanding that could improve human life health and wellbeing.
Funder: UKRI
Investigator(s): Iyiola Solanke (PI, University of Leeds); Shirin Rai (WICID Advisory Board); Gargi Bhattacharyya (UEL); Claudia Bernard (Goldsmiths); Anna Gupta (RHUL); Monica Lakhanpaul (UCL); Maria Stokes (Southampton); Florence Ayisi (USW); Raminder Kaur (Sussex); Sabu Padmadas (Southampton)
Two viruses – COVID-19 and discrimination – are currently killing in the UK (Solanke 2020), especially within BAMEFC who are hardest hit.
Survivors face ongoing damage to wellbeing and resilience, in terms of physical and mental health as well as social, cultural and economic (non-medical) consequences.
Psychosocial and physical trauma of those diseased and deceased, disproportionate job-losses, multi-generational housing, disrupted care chains, lack of access to culture, education and exercise, poor nutrition, ‘over-policing’ hit BAMEFC severely.
The impact of these viruses cause long-term poor outcomes.
Co-POWeR investigates their combined impact on practices for wellbeing and resilience across BAMEFC in the UK to create an holistic idea of vulnerabilities damaging BAMEFC, broadening/deepening existing work as well as conducting new research.
Systemic deficiencies have stimulated BAMEFC agency, producing solidarity under emergency, yet BAMEFC vulnerability remains, requiring official support.
We produce evidenced recommendations enabling official mitigation of disproportionate damage to the wellbeing and resilience of BAMEFC.
Empowerment is a core consortium value – co-design, co-production, capacity-building and engagement informs our methodology.
Alongside recommendations, regular reports and meetings, outputs to benefit BAMEFC within the grant period include digital educational resources and cultural materials (films, plays, exhibition).
Funder: AHRC and DFID under the Collaborative Humanitarian Protection Programme
Investigator(s): Prof Vicki Squire (PI, WICID), Dr Briony Jones (Co-I, WICID), Dr Olufunke Fayehun (University of Ibadan), Dr Leben Moro (University of Juba), Prof João Porto de Albuquerque (University of Glasgow), Prof Dallal Stevens (Warwick Law), Rob Trigwell
Partners: University of Ibadan, University of Juba, International Organisation for Migration
Data and Displacement assesses the data-based humanitarian targeting of assistance to internally displaced persons in two contexts that are characterised by conflict and high levels of displacement: northern Nigeria and South Sudan.
It examines the production and use of large-scale data in each case, focusing on the operational and ethical challenges that arise in the collection and use of such data.
The project employs mixed methods, combining a range of data analysis techniques with qualitative analysis of in-depth interviews.
It emphasises the importance of involving local stakeholders in the assessment of data-driven processes of targeted assistance, in particular IDPs themselves.
In so doing, the project aims to explore issues such as barriers to participation in data collation processes for ‘at-risk’ groups, the implications of data-based targeting on intersecting and spatial inequalities, and the impacts of large-scale data use for humanitarian principles such as ‘do no harm’.
Funder: Warwick International Partnership Fund
Investigator(s): Dr Briony Jones (WICID), Dr Mouzayian Khalil-Babatunde (WICID), Dr Adou Djane Dit Fatogoma (Centre Suisse de Recherche Scientifiques en Côte d’Ivoire)
Partners: NOFNA (Notre Forêt Notre Avenir)
Inequalities and inequities in distribution, access and management of natural resources is at the heart of most development problems in the Global South.
And this overlaps with issues of governance at all levels.
The history of natural resource management is steeped in colonial and postcolonial power contentions.
Ontological and material precedence of western power and structures over global order and development goals/policies/approaches marginalize alternative ways of being and doing development, and Global South politics must contend with and overcome this limitation.
The importance of peoples’ voices articulating their experiences in negotiating the relationship with natural resources in their communities/countries is still not full acknowledged or incorporated into policy decision-making.
Trust building between communities and formal state structures/processes/policies/personnel is thus a key principle in the methodological design of this project, which: works with communities to capture their voices and expertise for natural resource management and generates a space for key stakeholders to hear and incorporate this expertise .
By bringing the different actors together they will have the space to reflect and discuss, together, to imagine creative outcomes and solutions for national resource management challenges.
Our project will also generate important knowledge about how local expertise can be incorporated into policy decision-making and what happens in the encounter between local voices, international goals, and national regulations.
Investigator(s): Sharifah Sekalala (PI, WICID Steering Committee), Bitange Ndemo (University of Nairobi, Kenya), Pamela Andanda (University of Witwatersrand, South Africa)
With the dramatic increase in the collection of health data in recent years, health apps have been promoted as offering huge advances in the health of people in the Global South, but they also pose risks to privacy and ultimately to health outcomes.
The project team will evaluate the data protection regimes and engage with key stakeholders in Kenya, South Africa and Uganda, to establish the extent to which they protect their citizens’ health data, especially in cross-border Health activities.
Investigator(s): Emily Henderson (PI, WICID Executive Management); Nidhi Sabharwal (PI, WICID Advisory Board); Ann Stewart (Co-I, Warwick Law)
This a 4-year research project (2022-26) that draws on and furthers the reach and impact of the first Fair Chance Foundation (FCF) project ‘A Fair Chance for Education: Gendered Pathways to Educational Success in Haryana’ (2017-21) ( www.warwick.ac.uk/haryana ).
This new project takes a key finding from the first project which has significant potential for impact.
This is the vital but currently under-utilised potential of faculty members in rural and semi-urban Higher Education (HE) institutions to have a positive effect on young peoples’ HE participation and their life chances.
This project recognises the potential role of rural-serving state universities and government colleges based in rural and semi-urban areas as HE knowledge hubs and strengthening their efforts in delivering on the equity and social justice agenda for HE in India.
Funder: Fair Chance Foundation; Warwick Collaborative Postgraduate Research Scholarships; Centre for Education Studies; Warwick Law School
Investigator(s): Prof Ann Stewart (PI, Warwick Law); Dr Emily Henderson (Co-I, WICID)
Partners: Dr Manish Jain (Ambedkar University, India); Dr Nidhi Sabharwal (NIEPA, India); Prof Nandini Manjrekar (TISS Mumbai, India)
A Fair Chance for Education: Gendered Pathways to Educational Success in Haryana is a five-year action research project that seeks to determine the gendered factors that contribute to educational success for young people in Haryana, India.
Haryana experiences significant gender-based practices that affect the ability of young people to access and remain within the education system, and to progress into higher education.
The project therefore focusses on gendered social relations and gender differences in choices, obstacles and opportunities for young people as they progress through the education system, and ultimately intends to devise a programme of actions that can bring about positive social change.
Funder: Swiss Network for International Studies
Investigators: Dr Lisa Ott, swisspeace (PI) Dr Briony Jones, WICID (Principal Member) Dr Mina Rauschenbach, University of Lausanne (Principal Member) Camilo Sanchez, DeJusticia Colombia (Principal Member) Heli Hernando, ProBusqueda El Salvador (Principal Member) Ana Julia, ProBusqueda (Principal Member)
Partners: swisspeace; University of Lausanne; DeJusticia in Colombia; Pro Busqueda in El Salvador; United Nations Committee on Enforced Disappearance; International Committee of the Red Cross
The Warwick University Interdisciplinary Research Centre for International Development launched this international photography project.
As the world goes through lockdown there are myriad stories of how peoples' lives have changed during this period.
It is this shift that we wish to record through photographs.
Funder: The Leverhulme Trust
Funder: Monash-Warwick Alliance
Principal Investigators: Prof Shirin Rai (WICID); Prof Jacqui True ( Gender Peace and Security , Monash)
Co-Investigators: Juanita Elias, Nicola Pratt & and Jayanthi Lingham (Warwick); Samanthi Gunawardana & Melissa Johnston (Monash)
This study aimed to uncover the gendered outcomes of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) policy responses to the pandemic in Indonesia, the Philippines, and Vietnam.
In collaboration with researchers from each of the three countries and based on field work conducted from July 2021 to January 2022, the study examined the different experiences of women and men in the MSME sector.
Specifically, the study examined how women and men have been consulted in policy design; the extent to which policy responses included gender analysis in design or application; factors influencing priorities in designing policy; the gender breakdown of beneficiaries of the policy support; the types of support measures which benefitted women the most; and the lessons or recommendations at could be drawn from these three country case studies.
Funder: Warwick GCRF Catalyst Grant
Partners: Center for Health, Human Rights and Development (CEHURD)
Rapid urbanization in Uganda drives economic development, but inadequate planning has also led to slum growth.
Young women, in particular, face increased risks of HIV/AIDS infections, sexual assault, unsafe abortions and lack of access to basic services in slums.
This project focuses on enabling young women in slums to achieve sexual and reproductive services rights through exploring how human rights can give them agency to proactively seek health services and redress when their rights are violated.
Funder: Swiss National Science Foundation and Swiss Development Cooperation
Investigators: Prof.
Laurent Goetschel, University of Basel (PI) Dr Briony Jones, WICID (Co-I and Project Lead) Dr Leben Moro, University of Juba (Co-I), Dr Gilbert Fokou, Centre Suisse de Recherches Scientifiques en Cote d'Ivoire (Co-I)
Partners: swisspeace; University of Juba, Centre Suisse de Recherche Scientifiques en Côte d’Ivoire
Funder: ESRC
Partners: University of Malta, Hellenic Foundation for European and Foreign Policy.
Funder: NIHR
Partners: African Population and Health Research Centre, Independent University, Bangladesh, The Aga Khan University, University of Ibadan
The aim of the NIHR funded Global Health Research Unit on Improving Healthcare in Slums is to work collaboratively to improve health service delivery in slums, benefitting the population of low and middle income countries by reducing morbidity and mortality at the population level, and doing this at the smallest possible cost to both individuals receiving health services and wider society.
WICID Policy Brief Series addresses contemporary issues of international development and inequality within research.
We especially welcome submissions of an interdisciplinary nature and those in collaboration with the Global South.
Policy briefs are short, standalone documents that draw on a particular issue and provide policy recommendations or implications supported by evidence.
They usually prompt certain change or action by conveying clear message to specific audience(s).
If you wish to contribute to this series, please email wicid@warwick.ac.uk for more information.
Click the Policy Brief cover or title to access
Author: Briony Jones
In a context of cuts to official development assistance as well as a global polycrisis it is more important than ever to think in a nuanced and joined-up way about the current challenges for human flourishing and wellbeing.
The upcoming Second World Summit for Social Development offers a space in which this is possible.
This policy brief makes the case for policies which acknowledge and leverage the intersections between peace and social development.
Author: Adou Djané Dit Fatogoma, Briony Jones, Mouzayian Khalil, Sita Akoko Kondo, André Djaha Koffi
Inequalities and inequities in distribution, access to, and management of, natural resources are at the heart of many development challenges in the Global South.
The integration of local communities as partners in the governance, protection, and use of natural resources is vital for sustainable development.
Learning from a case study of community action to preserve one of the last remaining rainforests in Côte d'Ivoire, we can see the importance of joined up governance, adequate resourcing, and a partnership model for working with local communities.
Author: Susana Lozada, Fundación Abba Colombia
Peru is currently immersed in one of its worst political crises, with a divided society in need of immediate and long-term solutions to long-standing discontent and inequalities.
After the protests of January 2023, the Peruvian population is demanding radical changes derived from the loss of trust in the government and the worsening of the social crisis within the country, as job opportunities and access to health, housing, and food become increasingly precarious.
Communities are raising their voice to demand immediate change.
People are claiming radical solutions to bring sustainability and relief to the crisis, after the dismissal of President Pedro Castillo.
With new president Dina Boluarte in power, Castillo’s former vice-President, the Peruvian population keeps demanding drastic changes.
Related protests have led to major human rights violations, as the government is not open to a peace dialogue allowing to reach agreements offering radical solutions to the Peruvian population.
At the same time, it has been difficult to reach an agreement at the National Congress to hold presidential democratic elections in 2023.
[Español]
Susana Lozada, Fundación Abba Colombia | Traducción por: Juan Manuel Pongutá Forero
Perú se encuentra actualmente inmerso en una de sus peores crisis políticas, con una sociedad dividida en necesidad inmediata de soluciones a largo plazo sobre inequidades y descontentos de larga data.
Tras las protestas de enero de 2023, la población peruana está demandando cambios radicales derivados de la pérdida de confianza en el gobierno y el recrudecimiento de la crisis social en el país, mientras que el acceso a oportunidades laborales, a la salud, vivienda, y alimentos se ha vuelto cada vez más precario.
Las comunidades están levantando sus voces para demandar cambios inmediatos.
Las personas están clamando soluciones radicales que traigan sostenibilidad y alivio a la crisis, luego de la destitución del presidente Pedro Castillo.
Con la nueva presidente Dina Boluarte en el poder, anterior vicepresidente de Castillo, la población peruana continúa exigiendo cambios drásticos.
Las protestas relacionadas han llevado a un incremento de violaciones de derechos humanos, a medida que el gobierno no está abierto a un dialogo pacífico que permita alcanzar acuerdos que ofrezcan soluciones radicales a la población peruana.
Al mismo tiempo, ha sido difícil alcanzar un acuerdo en el Congreso Nacional para sostener elecciones presidenciales democráticas en 2023.
The WICID Methods Lab ensures that we develop appropriate, innovative and interdisciplinary methodologies to pursue collaborative research.
The Lab works with our global partners to research and produce critical knowledge exchange and teaching materials.
We also work together to produce innovative and accurate indicators and development measures to advance rigorous research on our themes.
The Lab, therefore, work with both quantitative and qualitative methods.
We will pursue collaborations with scholars worldwide to produce working papers and academic publications on our collaborative research that speak directly to policy-making and review.
Our focus on bridging epistemic divides and developing critical pedagogy also ensures the fostering of global networks necessary for our research to have impact.
We work together with our partners to research and produce critical knowledge exchange and teaching materials.
The Lab, therefore, work with both quantitative and qualitative methods and engage with methodological debates in pursuance of rigorous and interdisciplinary research.
We pursue collaborations with scholars in the UK and in particular our global partners to produce working papers and academic publications on our collaborative research that speak directly to policy-making and review.
WML researches how we learn and therefore how to study development.
Fundamentally, we live in a complex world; complexity defines it.
We need ways of seeing and studying that are innovative enough to understand and address these complexities.
We also live in a deeply unequal and often violent world.
Histories of violence, colonialism and change have shaped societies and processes of knowledge production, leading to forms of epistemic privilege as well as marginalisation.
We need challenging, complex and compound pedagogies, methods and methodologies to understand and communicate this complexity.
WICID does not treat knowledge production as an individual enterprise; it has a collaborative approach towards research and learning.
Ideas such as co-production of knowledge and interdisciplinary work are now prominent in academic research and teaching and policy pronouncements in the field of international development.
What is less clear is how these complex ideas are conceptualised, operationalised and communicated.
WML will develop strategies of researching and learning alongside our partners in ways that are easily communicable and interdisciplinary.
Critical pedagogy builds on the work of education theorists who critiqued and fundamentally challenged the imposed forms of teaching and learning under colonial regimes of violence.
Critical pedagogies challenge rigid ‘teacher’ ‘learner’ distinctions and foster joint exploration and knowledge generation.
Importantly, critical pedagogies also encourage us all to interrogate the contexts in which we teach, learn and collaborate to produce knowledge and thus to be self-reflective in our work practices.
Critical pedagogy looks for alternative ways of seeing and understanding the development work, its structures of injustice and the politics of knowledge within.
The Lab helps to develop interdisciplinary work by going beyond using one or other methodology; rather we will attempt to integrate different approaches.
Evidence, data analysis and affective and effective arguments all come together to shift ground.
The choice of methods, we believe, needs to be based on pragmatic considerations; methodological considerations shouldn’t trump the nature of our inquiry.
Concept building is an important area of work for WICID – we support the construction of concepts and their critical evaluation.
We pay attention to the relation between concepts and measures, as well as the relationship between concepts and case studies and the trade-off between validity and operationalization.
More and more data is now available.
However, there are specific gaps.
WICID will address how to manage and access this data, how to find the relevant information and techniques that are the most relevant to address specific questions.
It will also address the issue of data gaps – why these gaps not others?
What does this tell us about the inequalities we are enmeshed in but often do not recognise.
WICID also supports the development of not only new, more innovative indicators but more accurate and tailored ones for assessing development problems.
In order to do this, we need to think about scale, mapping and sampling – all-important to understand how the complex issues around us might be translated into specific measures that could help us address practical development problems.
WICID researchers communicate their research design, their methodologies and their findings to each other and to a wider audience of members, policy-makers, and other researchers in clear, straightforward and transparent ways.
Without such communication, new ways of seeing are not possible; we need to get out of boxes of specialisms and address the urgent development problems in the most creative, honest and methodologically innovative ways.
Critical pedagogy and methodological innovation need honesty that can bring researchers together, educate policy-makers and the general public and generate new questions for research.
The Lab does exactly this – in collaborative, rigorous and innovative ways.
WICID Methods Lab produces toolkits to help develop new methodological approaches to research and impact.
Our toolkits are hosted by the University of Warwick Press and can be accessed here .
If you are interested in contributing to the Toolkit Series, please see the guidelines for authors here .
Please click on the arrows below to read our Toolkit Series.
Research and other collaborative partnerships between institutions in the Global North and the Global South have been key to furthering knowledge development and sharing knowledge on a global platform.
However, partnerships have been plagued with ethical dilemmas related, but not limited to, division of labour, roles and relationships, accrued benefit and output, in addition to factors that have led to epistemic injustice.
There have been significant efforts made by actors in this milieu to adopt best practices and guidelines that seek to overcome these challenges and push for more equitable partnerships.
The focus on equitable partnerships between Global North and Global South institutions has been welcome and indeed necessary.
What is overlooked is the movement toward greater South/South partnerships.
The toolkit explores the ways in which partnerships among actors in the South can provide a new plain for equitable partnerships.
However, partnerships among actors in the South must also seek not to replicate or entrench inequalities.
The toolkit aims to provide guidelines to avoid these pitfalls by introducing a self-audit that would assist institutions in the South to establish a framework that provides an equitable organisational culture that can then be reproduced in its partnerships in order to promote holistic engagement.
Appreciative Inquiry (AI) was initially developed as a research method, aimed at generative theory-building and inquiry.
However, over time people started using AI for organisational change.
AI is a process of discovery, aimed at building change based on the strengths of an existing team or organisation.
There are five principles that underpin AI: 1) constructionist principle; words create worlds, 2) simultaneity principle; inquiry creates change, 3) anticipatory principle; image inspires action, 4) poetic principle; what we focus on grows and 5) positivity principle; positive questions lead to positive change.
AI consists of five distinctive steps, the 5-D cycle.
Steps include: 1) definition, 2) discovery, 3) dream, 4) design and 5) destiny.
This toolkit explains the underlying principles and the 5-D cycle, and presents potential questions that can be asked during each step of the 5D-Cylce.
Finally, this toolkit shares some examples of how AI has been used in hospitals in India and the tourism sector in Nepal.
The experiences and marginalisation of international organisation employees with caring responsibilities has a direct negative impact on the type of security and justice being built in conflict-affected environments.
This is in large part because international organisations fail to respond to the needs of those with caring responsibilities, which leads to their early departure from the field, and negatively affects their work while in post.
In this toolkit we describe this problem, the exacerbating factors, and challenges to overcoming it.
We offer a theory of change demonstrating how caring for carers can both improve the working conditions of employees of international organisations as well as the effectiveness, inclusivity and responsiveness of peace and justice interventions.
This is important because it raises awareness among employers in the sector of the severity of the problem and its consequences.
We also offer a guide for employers for how to take the caring responsibilities of their employees into account when developing human resource policies and practices, designing working conditions and planning interventions.
Finally, we underscore the importance of conducting research on the gendered impacts of the marginalisation of employees with caring responsibilities, not least because of the breadth and depth of resultant individual, organisational and sectoral harms.
Studying labour/time is an important research area, which allows us to make sense of the rhythms of everyday life of people in different contexts and societies.
It is also a complex task that address the result of the research question, which inquires how and why people spend their time on social reproduction.
Answering this question requires a systematic methodology involving both qualitative and quantitative research methods.
In this Toolkit we make the argument for bringing two important methodologies that study the everyday – Time-Use Surveys and Shadowing – to develop an a Feminist Everyday Observatory Tool.
We discuss the strengths of Time-use Survey and Shadowing as methodologies and show where the gaps lie in their design and how to address these.
We then introduce a Three Step Method that we have developed through trialling this methodology in four pilot studies – in India, Ukraine, Myanmar and Sri Lanka.
We examine the challenges that our Feminist Everyday Observatory Tool method poses for researchers as well as its advantages and suggest that it is an important contribution to the methodological toolkit for researchers of the everyday and of gender structures of time, space, violence and social reproduction.
Gender equality has been highlighted as key to accomplishing the Sustainable Development Goals, but gender analysis is often missing and misunderstood in research.
As men and women have distinct roles and responsibilities, their experiences and perspectives on issues can be quite different.
It is important to note, however, that men and women are not homogenous categories – differences of class, race, sexuality etc.
intersect with gender to produce complex perspectives among groups.
Thus, gender needs to be mainstreamed into every component of research in complex ways: identification of a problem; conceptual framework; methodology; implementation; and analysis and interpretation of the result (Callamard, 1999).
The aim of this Toolkit is to help researchers to gain a better understanding of how to mainstream gender into their research from the initial phase of constructing research questions and/or hypotheses to the concluding phase of data compilation, analysis and reporting.
It also provides a practical checklist on how to prepare the Gender Equality Statement for inclusion in grant applications.
Facilitator:
Emily F.
Henderson , Reader, Department of Education Studies, University of Warwick (Twitter: @EmilyFrascatore )
Contributors:
Ahmad Akkad , Doctoral Researcher & Research Assistant, Department of Education Studies, University of Warwick (Twitter: @AhmadAkkad_ )
Penny Plowman , External Research Associate, School of International Development, University of East Anglia ( @PJPlowman )
Nidhi S.
Sabharwal , Associate Professor, CPRHE/NIEPA & Honorary Associate Professor, Department of Education Studies, University of Warwick (Twitter: @01Nidhi ).
Vicki Squire , Professor, Department of Politics & International Studies, University of Warwick (WICID Steering Committee)
Briony Jones , Reader, Department of Politics & International Studies, University of Warwick (WICID Director)
Romain Chenet , Teaching Fellow, Department of Global Sustainable Development, University of Warwick
Maria Gavris , Senior Teaching Fellow, Department of Global Sustainable Development, University of Warwick
Marco J Haenssgen , Assistant Professor, Department of Global Sustainable Development, University of Warwick
This annotated bibliography provides resources for understanding social reproduction, especially the gendered dimensions and costs of social reproductive labour in conflict-affected environments.
The underlying concern is that non-recognition and under-valuing of social reproduction (including care work) within households and communities leads to human depletion.
Depletion occurs when human resource outflows exceed resource inflows as a result of carrying out social reproductive work over a threshold of sustainability, making it harmful for those engaged in it (Rai, Hoskyns, & Thomas, 2014, p.
4).
Non-recognition, especially by state and international financial institutions, also affects directly and indirectly the policy and development strategies that could reverse this depletion.
WICID is pleased to collaborate with partners around the world in developing and sharing innovative methodologies.
We review Visiting Fellowship applications on a rolling basis.
To apply to be a Visiting Fellow at WICID send your application materials via email as a Microsoft Word or PDF document to wicid@warwick.ac.uk
Application Requirements :
WICID's Commitment:
We are inviting applications to the WICID Funding Support Grant Scheme for the academic year 2022 - 2023.
WICID aims to connect researchers and support funding bids for cutting-edge, interdisciplinary and global south research.
Such research may be connected to the four organising themes of WICID: gender, health, governance, and mobility.
We will also support research funding bids on alternative themes.
The WICID Funding Support Scheme is open to researchers at the University of Warwick who demonstrate they meet the criteria outlined in the guidance Link opens in a new window
Our funding support takes two forms:
For the academic year 2022 - 2023 WICID is able to make 2 grants of up to £1,500 each (total fund £3,000).
Submissions and any queries relating to the Funding Support Scheme should be emailed to: WICID@warwick.ac.uk
Keith Hyams and colleagues received WICID Funding to support a project examining ethics and social justice issues within the COVID-19 pandemic relating to both the effects of the virus and the effects of the response measures implemented on residents of slums in four countries.
Marco Haenssgen and colleagues received WICID funding to support a field-visit, on-site networking, and a grant development workshop for their project on health-related behavioural change research.
Unfortunately the initial visit has been postponed due to COVID-19, but the team hopes to re-organize.
On February 29, 2020, members of an international interdisciplinary project team working on enforced disappearance met in Basel to discuss their current work and to plan a future GCRF network grant.
Members from Colombia, El Salvador, Switzerland and the UK were present.
WICID funding supported the travel and logistical costs associated with the workshop.
WICID supports the on campus events of the CSAG, including a discussion entitled “Kashmir Under Siege.”
In 2021-22 academic year, WICID led The Turing Global South Mobility Scheme, which offers placements in the global south to undergraduate or postgraduate students at the University of Warwick whose work is focused on research, learning, and exchange in these countries.
The selection process was rigorous and successful applicants were announced in March 2022.
Students have committed to a placement of one month with the host organisation and have undertaken a piece of contained research which is either related to their dissertation and/or of relevance for the host institution.
The successful applicants and their placements are:
Mihaela Sirinatu : India – Jawarhar Lal Nehru University, New Delhi
Ben Roberts : Côte d’Ivoire – Swiss Centre for Scientific Research
Saskia Wagner : Côte d’Ivoire – Swiss Centre for Scientific Research
The Turing Scheme is a UK Government funding scheme that offers mobility opportunities to UK students which enhance their skills and reinforce their learning through:
WICID Co-Director Dr Briony Jones who has led on the programme for WICID said “This is an exciting new scheme which allows students to benefit from WICID’s diverse Global South partnerships.
We are delighted to be able to bring our student community together with hosts in Côte d’Ivoire, India, and South Africa.” For information on our students and their placements read our news release Link opens in a new window .
The WICID ‘Dragons' Den’ style event is an opportunity for researchers at the University of Warwick to bid for funding to resource projects and activities which support the development of funding bids or research ideas in line with WICID’s aims.
The winners of the competition and their research projects are:
We dnesday 28 May 2025
13:00-14:30 (BST)
Online – instructions for joining will be emailed later
In a world that is alive with vibrant possibilities for transformational change, using foresight and futures thinking enables us to navigate the complexity and uncertainty that we encounter.
By actively imagining and exploring the flourishing futures that we want to create where inequalities are addressed, we can challenge old narratives and assumptions that are keeping us stuck as changemakers, so that we create new, dynamic ways forward today.
Elaine invites us to step into our future changemaker self, to entangle ourselves in our relationships with place and to find hope through collective imagination and engagement with our communities.
Elaine France brings together 30 years of experience in social development to catalyse flourishing futures through foresight, responsible innovation and entrepreneurship, working with multi-stakeholders including Nature, in intergenerational, multi-cultural settings, including the UN, Government Advisory, Public Sector, Private Sector and Civil Society.
She is the Founder of Flow In Action ( https://www.flowinaction.org ) providing capacity-building to changemakers; and, Futurist in Residence and Guest Lecturer at Geneva Responsible Entrepreneurship Center at the University of Geneva.
Read past archived think development blog posts here >>
You can read previous WICID Newsletters in our past newsletter archive Link opens in a new window .
WICID is a Premium Institutional Member of the Development Studies Association (DSA) Link opens in a new window UK

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/arts/ccs:
The Centre for Caribbean Studies was established in 1984 as one of the first research centres in the UK dedicated to the region.
It encourages study of the Caribbean from a comparative, cross-cultural and interdisciplinary perspective through academic events, fellowships and research projects.
Bussa emancipation statue, Barbados.
c_Joanne Norcup
In 2010 it was renamed the Yesu Persaud Centre for Caribbean Studies in honour of the support given by the Guyanese philanthropist and businessman.
For 2024/25 the co-directors of the Centre are Professor David Lambert and Professor Ben Richardson.
Presentations were given by Kate Astbury on War and Resistance in the Caribbean: The Monuments at St Paul's , Maureen Cottle on Coventry's Caribbean history, and Lily Crowther on Leamington Spa and the Black Atlantic .
The Walter Rodney Annual Lecture was held on Tuesday 29th October.
The YPCCS pays respects to Dr Ameena Gafoor following her recent passing.
Unfortunately this year's Ameena Gafoor public lecture planned for 13th May has had to be postponed, but we hope to reschedule this for the next academic year.
The Yesu Persaud Centre for Caribbean Studies provides two sources of funding:

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/zeeman_institute:
We specialise in using mathematical and statistical methods to understand problems and predict solutions in biology, ecology and epidemiology.
We are around 25 academics and associated PDRAs and PhD students from Maths, Stats, Computer Sciences, Life Sciences and Medicine.
Higgins, D; Looker, J; Sunnucks, R; Carruthers, J; Finnie, T; Keeling, MJ; Hill, EM (2025) Introducing a framework for within-host dynamics and mutations modelling of H5N1 influenza infection in humans.
JOURNAL OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY INTERFACE 22
Gowers, RP; Richardson, MJE (2025) Resonances in the voltage statistics and upcrossing rate of a minimal dendritic neuron model with a passive membrane.
PHYSICAL REVIEW E 111
Eigentler, L.; Reinhold, K.
(2025) Maintenance and evolution of phenotypic variance in a prey defence trait examined with a dynamic predator–prey model for clonal populations.
JOURNAL OF EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY.
voaf082
The SBIDER team provided a considerable amount of model-based evidence to help policy during the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Zeeman Institute for Systems Biology & Infectious Disease Epidemiology Research (SBIDER) specialises in bringing sophisticated mathematics to challenges in biological sciences.
Our research spans from the theoretical to practical policy advice, and from the genome to the population.
We are a team of around 20 staff from across campus with individuals based in Maths, Stats, Computer Science, Life Sciences and Medicine.
At the core of our research is a desire to better understand and predict the biological world.
Ivy Kombe , an Wellcome Trust fellow, arrives in Warwick next week (early August).
Ivy will be joining us for around two years.
Her fellowship is focused on the vacccine pipeline from trials to deployment.
Ivy is also linked to the ViGOR project and w…
Rawlings, NN; Bailey, M; Courtenay, O (2025) Leishmaniasis in deployed military populations: A systematic review and meta-analysis PLOS NEGLECTED TROPICAL DISEASES 19
Roberts, I; Everitt, RG; Koskela, J; Didelot, X (2025) Bayesian Inference of Pathogen Phylogeography using the Structured Coalescent Model PLOS COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGY 21
Aschauer, N; Parnell, S (2025) Analysis of mathematical modelling approaches to capture human behaviour dynamics in agricultural pest and disease systems AGRICULTURAL SYSTEMS 226
Guyver-Fletcher, G; Gorsich, EE; Jewell, C; Tildesley, MJ (2025) Controlling endemic foot-and-mouth disease: Vaccination is more important than movement bans.
A simulation study in the Republic of Turkey INFECTIOUS DISEASE MODELLING 10 702-715
Hill, EM; Prosser, NS; Brown, PE; Ferguson, E; Green, MJ; Kaler, J; Keeling, MJ; Tildesley, MJ (2025) Incorporating heterogeneity in farmer disease control behaviour into a livestock disease transmission model Preventive Vet.
Med.
219 (2023) 106019 PREVENTIVE VETERINARY MEDICINE 236
Gowers, RP; Richardson, MJE (2025) Resonances in the voltage statistics and upcrossing rate of a minimal dendritic neuron model with a passive membrane PHYSICAL REVIEW E 111
Carson, J; Keeling, M; Ribeca, P; Didelot, X (2025) Incorporating Epidemiological Data into the Genomic Analysis of Partially Sampled Infectious Disease Outbreaks MOLECULAR BIOLOGY AND EVOLUTION 42
Seibel, RL; Tildesley, MJ; Hill, EM (2025) Unifying human infectious disease models and real-time awareness of population- and subpopulation-level intervention effectiveness ROYAL SOCIETY OPEN SCIENCE 12
Webber, JJ; Montenegro-Johnson, TD (2025) Poromechanical modelling of responsive hydrogel pumps JOURNAL OF FLUID MECHANICS 1009
Helekal, D; Koskela, J; Didelot, X (2025) Inference of Multiple Mergers while Dating a Pathogen Phylogeny SYSTEMATIC BIOLOGY
Kaye, AR; Guzzetta, G; Tildesley, MJ; Thompson, RN (2025) Quantifying infectious disease epidemic risks: A practical approach for seasonal pathogens PLOS COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGY 21
Keeling, MJ; Hill, EM; Petrou, S; Tran, PB; Png, ME; Staniszewska, S; Clark, C; Hassel, K; Stowe, J; Andrews, N (2025) Cost-effectiveness of routine COVID-19 adult vaccination programmes in England VACCINE 53
Koki, C; Shields, R; Sweetman, R; Boyle, J; Khan, O; Keung, SNLC; Arvanitis, TN; Devall, AJ; Burroughs, NJ; Quenby, S (2025) Fertility, time to pregnancy, and pregnancy outcomes among women with recurrent miscarriages in the UK: a prospective observational longitudinal study LANCET REGIONAL HEALTH-EUROPE 55
Didelot, X; Helekal, D; Roberts, I (2025) Ancestral process for infectious disease outbreaks with superspreading JOURNAL OF THEORETICAL BIOLOGY 607
Inman, A; Spiritosanto, E; Evans, BL; Lutton, JE; Tada, M; Bretschneider, T; Haas, PA; Smutny, M (2025) A multi-tiered mechanical mechanism shapes the early neural plate NATURE COMMUNICATIONS 16
Higgins, D; Looker, J; Sunnucks, R; Carruthers, J; Finnie, T; Keeling, MJ; Hill, EM (2025) Introducing a framework for within-host dynamics and mutations modelling of H5N1 influenza infection in humans JOURNAL OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY INTERFACE 22
Rand, DA; Sáez, M (2025) Bistable boundary conditions implying codimension 2 bifurcations NONLINEARITY 38
Didelot, X; Ribeca, P (2025) KPop: accurate and scalable comparative analysis of microbial genomes by sequence embeddings GENOME BIOLOGY 26
Koh, JMJ; Cunniffe, NJ; Parnell, S (2025) Assessing delimiting strategies to identify the infested zones of quarantine plant pests and diseases SCIENTIFIC REPORTS 15
Curran-Sebastian, J; Dyson, L; Hill, EM; Hall, I; Pellis, L; House, T (2025) Probability of extinction and peak time for multi-type epidemics with application to COVID-19 variants of concern JOURNAL OF THEORETICAL BIOLOGY 608
Yang, ZY; Davies, H; Clapham, J; Lopez, L; Bratcher, HB; Tiong, A; Didelot, X; Maiden, MCJ; Carter, PE; Ren, XY (2025) Phylodynamic analysis of a prolonged meningococcal epidemic reveals multiple introductions and pre-epidemic expansion INFECTION GENETICS AND EVOLUTION 129
Althobaity, YM; Tildesley, MJ (2025) Exploring the epidemiological characteristics of Mpox in the Arab Gulf countries SCIENTIFIC REPORTS 15
Prosser, NS; Hill, EM; Gow, L; Cavallaro, M; Tildesley, MJ; Keeling, MJ; Kaler, J; Ferguson, E; Green, MJ (2025) Descriptive analysis of national bovine viral diarrhoea test data in England (2016-2023) VETERINARY RECORD
Ellis, J; Lázaro, E; Duarte, B; Magalhaes, T; Duarte, A; Benhadi-Marín, J; Pereira, JA; Vicent, A; Parnell, S; Cunniffe, NJ (2025) Developing epidemiological preparedness for a plant disease invasion: Modelling citrus huanglongbing in the European Union PLANTS PEOPLE PLANET
Ogi-Gittins, I; Steyn, N; Polonsky, J; Hart, WS; Keita, M; Ahuka-Mundeke, S; Hill, EM; Thompson, RN (2025) Simulation-based inference of the time-dependent reproduction number from temporally aggregated and under-reported disease incidence time series data PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY A-MATHEMATICAL PHYSICAL AND ENGINEERING SCIENCES 383
Bierkens, J; Kamatani, K; Roberts, GO (2025) Scaling of piecewise deterministic Monte Carlo for anisotropic targets BERNOULLI 31 2323-2350
Muter, J et al.
(2025) Stalling of the endometrial decidual reaction determines the recurrence risk of miscarriage SCIENCE ADVANCES 11
Medina-Aguayo, FJ; Everitt, RG (2025) Annealing Strategies for Variance Reduction in Balance Heuristic Estimators STATISTICS AND COMPUTING 35
Musundi, S et al.
(2025) Emergence and transmission dynamics of the FY.4 Omicron variant in Kenya VIRUS EVOLUTION 11
Rehman, SSU; Nasar, MI; Mesquita, CS; Al Khodor, S; Notebaart, RA; Ott, S; Mundra, S; Arasardanam, RP; Muhammad, K; Alam, MT (2025) Integrative systems biology approaches for analyzing microbiome dysbiosis and species interactions BRIEFINGS IN BIOINFORMATICS 26
Crucinio, FR; Durmus, A; Jiménez, P; Roberts, GO (2025) Optimal scaling results for Moreau-Yosida Metropolis-adjusted Langevin algorithms BERNOULLI 31 1889-1907
Hu, SG; Dai, HS; Meng, FL; Aslett, L; Pollock, M; Roberts, GO (2025) Statistical disaggregation-A Monte Carlo approach for imputation under constraints SCANDINAVIAN JOURNAL OF STATISTICS
Nyiro, JU; Bukusi, E; Mureithi, MW; Walumbe, D; Nyaguara, A; Kipkoech, C; Nyawanda, B; Bigogo, G; Otieno, N; Aol, G; Audi, A; Murunga, N; Berkley, JA; Nokes, DJ; Munywoki, PK (2025) Prevalence and Predictors of Adverse Birth Outcomes and Their Implications in Assessing the Safety of New Maternal Vaccines in Kenya PEDIATRIC INFECTIOUS DISEASE JOURNAL 44 S114-S118
Ogi-Gittins, I; Polonsky, J; Keita, M; Ahuka-Mundeke, S; Hart, WS; Plank, MJ; Lambert, B; Hill, EM; Thompson, RN (2025) Real-time inference of the end of an outbreak: Temporally aggregated disease incidence data and under-reporting INFECTIOUS DISEASE MODELLING 10 935-945
Chávez, VA; Brown, N; van den Bosch, F; Parnell, S; Dyke, A; Hall, C; Karlsdottir, B; Marzano, M; Morris, J; O'Brien, L; Williams, D; Milne, AE (2025) Early detection strategies for invading tree pests: Targeted surveillance and stakeholder perspectives JOURNAL OF APPLIED ECOLOGY 62 857-871
Mitja, O et al.
(2025) Guidance for conducting and evaluating serological surveys to assess interruption of yaws transmission in the context of an eradication target PLOS NEGLECTED TROPICAL DISEASES 19

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/business/about:
About our team
Warwick Business Partnerships connects organisations with world-class expertise to drive growth and innovation.
Its aim is to create deep and long lasting relationships to support the University of Warwick.
Contact us to explore how we can create lasting impact together.
I've been with the University of Warwick for over seventeen years, currently serving as the Director of Business Partnerships.
In my role, I lead the development of the Business Partnerships Strategy, working to raise Warwick’s profile among businesses and helping to manage key relationships with major partners like National Grid, BOSCH, BT, Schneider Electric and Infineum.
I’m also responsible for overseeing the account management system that helps us maintain these strategic partnerships.
Before this, I held several leadership positions across the university, including Director of Operations and Director of Executive Education at Warwick Business School.
I was also heavily involved in setting up WBS London (Shard), expanding Warwick’s presence in the capital.
My background includes an MBA in Higher Education Management and professional development across a range of managerial areas.
When I’m not at work, I enjoy spending time with my family and keeping fit.
I'm always looking for ways to stay connected with colleagues and partners across the business and education sectors.
I joined the Business Partnerships team at Warwick in 2023.
In my role, I support academics within the Faculty of Arts and Warwick Manufacturing Group by linking them with external stakeholders for research and education opportunities.
I have extensive experience in the Higher Education sector, building strategic partnerships and helping academics create impact through external engagement activities.
Before this, I worked for a benevolent association, developing a business development offering for the charity.
Outside of work, I’m a parent governor at my 9-year-old daughter’s school and a board member of the Leicester Print Workshop, where I bring my experience in strategy and partnership development, alongside my passion for arts and culture.
Outside of work I enjoy yoga, cycling, and spending time with friends and family.
As an Associate Director in the Business Partnerships team at the University of Warwick, my role is to create and support strategic partnerships between academia and industry with the intention of generating real world impact.
I’ve been with Warwick since June 2023.
During this time, my main focus has been to support academics within the STEM disciplines, including Life Sciences, Engineering, Chemistry, Physics and Maths/Stats.
My career to date has primarily been in the higher education sector, focused on commercialising research, finding innovative solutions, and fostering collaboration for stakeholders in academia, industry, and cross-sector organisations.
Outside of work I enjoy weightlifting, generally keeping active and traveling.
I began my role in June 2023 and I'm thoroughly enjoying it!
I wear multiple hats.
Firstly, I support our fabulous faculty by forging connections with external organisations for research and educational purposes.
Secondly, I collaborate closely with stakeholders beyond our University, delving into their challenges, offering tailored advice and identifying where we can create value.
I also host the "Women Leaders: Tales, Trails and Truths" podcast, where I interview senior women leaders across sectors to share their authentic leadership stories and insights.
Previously, I was a Business Development Manager for Executive Education courses at Warwick Business School.
With experience spanning Canada, Greece and the UK, I've learned it comes down to cultivating meaningful relationships.
Whether through partnerships, podcasting, or networking events, I love connecting people and sharing news about what's happening at Warwick so please connect with me on LinkedIn.
My journey at Warwick began as a Philosophy undergraduate over 26 years ago, and I'm a proud alumna of this vibrant institution.
Over the years, I've had the privilege of gaining a diverse range of experiences, which have equipped me to work collaboratively with a multifaceted perspective.
I find great joy in connecting with people and leveraging my experience to facilitate meaningful collaborations and build fruitful networks.
I thrive on ‘joining the dots’ and exploring the potential of each new journey.
If I had to choose a favourite moment at Warwick, it would be right now!
Although my husband might argue that it was when I met him here at Warwick!
Every day brings new opportunities and challenges, and I thoroughly enjoy the variety and diversity that each meeting or task brings.
Each day is a chance to embark on something new and exciting, making my work here truly fulfilling.
I've been at the University in various roles since 2013 focussing on project management and event production.
Before that I worked in disparate educational fields; starting out with Computer Science in the late nineties in Brighton, specialising later in human computer interaction (UX) and then moving to London to work in the media as a trained television director for a few years.
I moved to Solihull in the West Midlands just after the millennium to teach Theatre Studies in secondary education before returning to higher education to research creativity, media literacy and remix culture.
Alongside my developmental work and general project management duties I specialise in AI and FinTech.
In my spare time I design, build and shoot with multi-camera video rigs, fuss over Michael the cat and play cricket.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/business/case-studies:
Warwick Business Case Studies
Image credit: Football Association of Wales

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/business/case-studies/esports-centre:
The hum of high-performance PCs, the glow of LED-lit gaming rigs, and the palpable excitement of testers pushing gaming technology to its limits.
This was the scene at Warwick’s Esports Centre when Samsung Electronics UK launched its product testing initiative.
More than just a gaming hub, the Centre became an innovation lab, bringing students, researchers, and industry experts together to shape the future of gaming technology.
Samsung partnered with the University of Warwick to explore how next-generation gaming technology could enhance user experience.
Over six months, students, faculty, and community members engaged in hands-on testing, experimenting with cutting-edge displays, high-refresh-rate monitors, and game-optimised hardware.
For many participants, it was their first foray into gaming technology, an experience that opened doors to new perspectives on interactive design and digital entertainment.
The collaboration was more than a technological showcase; it was an intersection of research and real-world application.
Warwick’s role extended beyond providing space—it actively facilitated the research process, gathering user feedback that would directly influence Samsung’s product development.
From performance testing to ergonomic usability studies, the Esports Centre became a hub where academia met industry, fostering an ecosystem of innovation.
The initiative not only enhanced Samsung’s understanding of consumer behaviour but also provided invaluable opportunities for students.
Through participation in structured focus groups and hands-on trials, students gained firsthand experience in UX research, product testing, and technological evaluation skills that are increasingly relevant in today’s digital economy.
“This partnership is a testament to the University of Warwick’s commitment to not only embrace commercial brands but also actively support product testing.
By offering students a diverse range of experiences, we aim to foster an environment where higher education and business seamlessly merge to create boundless opportunities” said Elenore Li, Events and Marketing Coordinator.
Warwick’s Esports Centre is proving that esports is more than competition.
It is a gateway to technological advancement and industry collaboration.
The success of this partnership with Samsung sets a precedent for future projects, positioning the Esports Centre as a premier venue for innovation, testing, and research in the gaming industry.
For direct connection with the Esports Centre, please contact Mick McLaughlin.
Mobile: 07748 116040
For further information please visit: Warwick Innovation District

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/business/case-studies/baringa:
Decarbonising the UK’s housing stock plays a critical role in helping the UK meet its net zero targets.
A recently published thought-leadership collaboration between Baringa Link opens in a new window , TrustMark Link opens in a new window , Travis Perkins Link opens in a new window and WMG(Supply Chain Research Group) University of Warwick, examines the opportunities open to the UK to meet these targets.
In the UK, decarbonising the UK housing stock plays a critical role in supporting the transition away from fossil fuels.
Heating systems are responsible fornearly a third of the nation's annual carbon footprint, and the domestic heating sector alone contributes 17% of this total.
This statistic rivals the emissions generated by the entire fleet of the country's petrol and diesel vehicles.
Yet the UK has some of the oldest and leakiest housing in Europe, with around two thirds being rated EPC D and below, according to the Green Building Council, therefore retrofitting is a mammoth undertaking.
Research to date has mainly focused on driving demand among homeowners and this has left a gap in skills and resources - the technologies, merchants, installers and contractors - who can meet this demand at scale.
Yet to achieve the UK government target of Net Zero by 2050 requires over 2 million homes a year undergoing retrofitting by 2030.
Working with Baringa, Dr Alok Choudhary and Aitana Ucles (PGR - postgraduate research)) explored what is needed to scale-up the supply chain centring on three topics: (1) the green skills gap, (2) the lack of standardise certification, and (3) the complexity within the supply chain.
The published report summarises how opportunities in policymaking, adoption of technologies and UK manufacturing could support the scale up needed for Net Zero.
The construction industry has neither the capability nor volume, within the current workforce to undertake retrofitting proficiently.
To fill this gap, policy and regulation need to incentivise entry into, and growth of, the workforce, by supporting standardised training that integrates skills with Level 2 qualifications.
Raising awareness and incentivising CPD opportunities for the workforce should also bridge across trades and recognise regional differences.
Homeowners and lenders need assurance on the quality and sustainability of retrofitting.
The government and Trustmark can go some way to reduce the barriers to adopting quality standards and certification, while complexity of sourcing, logistics and sustainability within the supply chain requires a new business model to deliver a sustainable long-term materials supply.
It is vital that the construction sector creates a viable economic model that allows the supply chain to support the shift towards more energy-, carbon-, and cost-efficient homes.
The recommendations in this ground-breaking report show how it is possible to capitalise on the significant business opportunities and create a supportive environment for green retrofitting.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/business/case-studies/innovationandhealth:
Scaling up innovative research into a new product requires a flexible and adaptive ecosystem of support from the University of Warwick.
As Cytecom, a Spinout company developing bacterial detection technology has found, Innovation Vouchers can help build capacity, which attracts new funding and equity investment.
It is an exciting time to work on the bioelectricity of bacterial cells.
Dr James P Stratford and Dr Munehiro Asally of Warwick's Integrative Synthetic Biology Centre Link opens in a new window , demonstrated that electrical stimulation affected bacteria.
Forming a Warwick Spinout based on their research, their initial concept was to develop a device that could control bacteria through electrical impulses.
These ideas soon pivoted when, by market testing through an Innovation to Commercialisation of University Research (ICURe) grant, they found that the value of the technology lay in its ability to count bacteria in minutes rather than the standard procedure, which took days.
Building the capacity and skills within a Spinout is critical when scaling-up a prototype into a new, portable health technology.
In 2022, at the point Cytecom was testing the prototype for commercialisation, Dr Magda Karlikowska joined as Chief Executive Officer.
To develop a market for their device, Cytecom needed to run a lab validation programme across 10 labs, including NHS labs across the UK.
Scaling up the prototype and accelerating the detection of living bacteria from minutes to seconds meant bringing additional expertise in machine learning into the team.
When Magda approached the Business Partnership team, they recognised the potential of the device and suggested that Innovation Vouchers would help Cytecom access academic expertise in applied machine learning.
The vouchers (£15,000) would build their in-house capacity and help them engage with WMG (Warwick Manufacturing Group) through a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP).
Innovation Vouchers fund collaborative projects between small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and Warwick’s world-class academics.
The Innovation Vouchers and KTP with WMG have cleared the way for Cytecom to apply for and win £1.5 millionin NIHR funding, with match funding through the KTP.
Over the next three years the company will scale-up its technology, collaborating with the NHS and the universities of Warwick and Leicester University.
The prototype already produces results 48 times faster than the standard plate counts used in medical and industrial testing.
This can save lives, but also benefit the economy in other business areas, like food and drink production, by detecting contamination in manufacturing processes.
Over the past two years a health technology community has started to develop in the West Midlands.
The Government is now supporting regions, and this includes a West Midlands Health Tech Accelerator.
All Start-Ups in the ecosystem are kept informed of resources including academic, accounting, legal, engineering and hospital partnerships.
Bringing entrepreneurs developing medical products together, develops an informed and skilled peer group who understand NIHR funding, equity investment and how to run a business.
“What is really exciting about the Midlands at the moment is that it is one of the regions the government has pledged to support.
It is now a thriving hub of life science industries, institutions, Startups and University spinouts.
So we were delighted that our work was recognised at the Medilink Midlands Business Awards Link opens in a new window 2024.
Cytecom won in the category 'Delivering Innovation to Health and Care' as well as earning the 'Winner of All Winners' prize, out of nine of the most innovative life sciences companies and industry collaborations in the region.”
Magdalena Karlikowka , CEO Cytecom

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/business/case-studies/sleepintervention:
Four UK-based organisations are collaborating with Dr Talar Moukhtarian, Warwick Medical School, to reduce sleep problems in shift-workers and improve their well-being and productivity.
In the UK one in every three workers are affected by sleep problems, which results in around 200,000 working days being lost each year due to insufficient or poor sleep.
In 2022, Dr Moukhtarian and her team developed a hybrid sleep and stress management programme Link opens in a new window to improve workplace health, wellbeing and productivity in collaboration with industry partners across the Midlands region.
The success of the programme highlighted a treatment gap for sleep problems that affected shift-workers, particularly blue-collar workers.
Cognitive Behavioural Therapy for insomnia (CBT-I), is the first line treatment when tackling insomnia, but requires consistent scheduling of sleep and wakefulness and periods of sleep restrictions, something that shift-workers cannot accommodate.
To tackle this treatment-gap, Dr Moukhtarian’s team at Warwick, including postdoctoral fellow Dr.
Amber Tout, in partnership with colleagues from Monash University, Melbourne, is now collaborating with construction, manufacturing, and rail industries – J.Murphy & Sons Limited, Lisi Aerospace, HSQE Partnership, and COLAS RAIL – to develop a sleep intervention specifically tailored to shift-workers.
This partnership is co-producing a programme of interventions that embed within organisational culture to prevent and manage sleep issues at the start of employment, before employees develop problems.
Severe problems with sleep lead to stress and anxiety in this population, sometimes called Shift Work Disorder (SWD), which is estimated to affect 26.5% of shift-workers.
The research programme of workshops, discussion groups and interviews with industry managers and workers is complete and the therapeutic intervention, psycho-educational materials and digital CBT-I are in the final stages of review.
Co-producing the programme with managers and workers has raised awareness, at all levels of these industries, of the impact of sleep quality on mental health, productivity and job satisfaction.
Reducing the business cost of sickness absence, staff turnover, and workplace accidents and injuries is a business priority.
The next research stage is to test the effectiveness of this intervention and analyse the return on investment of implementing this tailored sleep programme.
There are a range of interventions and products available to companies aiming to improve the mental health and productivity of workforces, however none have been embedded into Health and Safety Executive regulations.
Dr Moukhtarian’s evidence-based, shift-worker-focused sleep programme plans to demonstrate the health economics and business value so that it can be rolled out nationally as part of Health and Safety training.
New funding will allow her to expand the steering consortium beyond its current partners, to include other industries, SMEs, unions, and government agencies and departments.
The programme has already been endorsed by The Sleep Charity, The Rail Safety and Standards Board, and the Society of Occupational Medicine, as sleep disturbance in shift-work is not just an inconvenience, it is linked to both health and business risks, and we should be considering real-world interventions to improve working conditions.
"In many organisations, there are established health and safety regulations primarily focusing on physical safety, and in recent years, efforts have begun to incorporate mental health provisions as well.
However, a significant gap remains in addressing the unique needs of shift workers, particularly regarding sleep.
The ultimate objective, especially for shift-based organisations, is to integrate sleep considerations into health and safety protocols, including employee induction, training programmes, and potentially probationary reviews.
It is crucial for organisations to monitor their employees' sleep patterns and assess how they may affect well-being, as sleep quality inevitably impacts work productivity."
Dr Moukhtarian, Assistant Professor in Mental Health, Warwick Medical School

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/business/case-studies/warwicks_applied_statistics:
Dr Martine Barons has a passion for using mathematical modelling to improve people's lives.
Through developing mathematical support tools, she is working with a variety of businesses, industry, and government agencies to help solve complex social challenges.
Martine is collaborating with the Warwick Food Forum (WFF) to reduce food insecurity through creating an Integrated Decision-making Support System (IDSS) that contrasts and filters different types of complex information.
This mathematical tool helps decision-makers compare different policy approaches and select the best combination of options to reduce as much as possible the burden of food insecurity on families in Warwickshire, and to identify where further resource would make the most impact.
In the UK food insecurity has been increasing as the cost-of-living crisis, climate change and geo-political upheavals have affected the ability of households to consistently afford or access sufficient healthy and nutritious food.
In 2023 a UK government survey of 6,000 adults revealed that nearly a quarter (23.4%) of households with children and 14.8% of households without children reported experiencing food insecurity.
The difficulty in making decisions within complex systems is predicting which combination of actions will give the ‘best’ results.
Levels of food insecurity in part are predicted by the cost of living, which in turn is dependent on weather, farming subsidies, climate-change, social benefits, charity provision and geo-political stability.
By bringing together expert judgements, data and models, and the relationship between these distinct elements, the Food Insecurity IDSS can score and rank different combinations within parameters set by the decision-maker.
As the IDSS is a ‘white box’ system, decision makers can interrogate inputs and adjust the underlying information to better reflect real world outcomes.
It also makes scrutiny straightforward, so that decisions can be audited.
Martine has already published a proof of concept for the IDSS approach thanks to a Turing Institute mediated collaboration with the The National Archives.
This collaboration demonstrated that the IDSS could be embedded as an archivist's software tool to help safeguard the nation’s digital memory reducing risk.
The IDSS tool, called DiaGRAM has been engineered to the government's high standards for accessibility and user requirements.
To configure the IDSS to Warwickshire’s food insecurity decisions, Martine has worked with stakeholders in the WFF to identify pertinent sources of data, models, and information, and pick out the relationships between these different elements.
Where data is indirect other sources have been translated - for instance agricultural run-off can be translated into approximate fertiliser application rate - and she has included wider concepts of financial resilience and social capital to provide a fuller model of food security.
Her persistence and commitment within the Forum has familiarised the food insecurity specialists with the underlying principles of the IDSS paradigm for modelling data, and through knowledge transfer, when personnel change, the value of the model continues to be recognised within the Warwickshire Food Strategy programme .
Martine and the network of food policy experts are now looking for further resources to develop the bespoke IDSS for Warwickshire, and potentially add value to other authorities through the local government analyst network LARIA .
Developing Martine’s analytical engine into an operational platform in close collaboration with the experts in Warwickshire requires a Post-Doctoral Researcher to run final tests of the model and run back-casting to see whether it predicts correctly.
Once fully coded, the model must be software engineered, so it is a sustainable, robust and accessible tool for policy officers to use in assessing the impact of different policy choices.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/services/conferences/spaces/theslate:
Enquire today Virtual tour
The Slate is a flexible, fully open, flat and fluid event venue for exclusive occupancy.
Brand and personalise the building your way, enjoy an individual food offer and benefit from 358 hotel-styled bedrooms nearby.
location at the University of Warwick campus in Coventry
building occupancy for your event
guest capacity
only minutes away providing en suite, hotel-styled comfort
Download The Slate's maximum capacity flyer Link opens in a new window
Enquire today
Phone +44 (0)24 7652 3222 Email hello-conferences at warwick dot ac dot uk
Experience an exhibition centre and meeting space like no other.
Virtually step into an open flexible space and see what's possible for your next event.
Virtual tour
Photo gallery
With exclusive venue hire, you'll have access to 650sqm of large, flat and open flexible space.
You can create the experience you want, giving your delegates the exact environment in which to thrive and reach their potential.
Conferences, dinners and exhibitions - the only restriction is your imagination.
Scarman and Radcliffe , our adjoining conference venues, are only a few short steps away from The Slate.
They offer breakout spaces, dining facilities and comfortable bedrooms for the complete event package.
Food in The Slate or at one of our adjoining conference venues.
Get the right food options tailored for your budget and requirements.
And with 358 4* hotel-styled bedrooms close by, you'll find plenty of space for a comfortable night.
The Slate is BREEAM 'Excellent' rated for sustainable design, construction and operation.
And that's just a part of our commitment to having less impact on our environment.
Focus on sustainability
A large open space for a product launch showcase.
Divide into two areas for a seated conference with separate drinks reception.
Build stands to create an exhibition centre with an enclosed dining space.
Create a stage for an awards ceremony with a served three course dinner.
The environment benefits learning by its flexibility, state of the art technology, and green space that is all around." - Frontline
Warwick Conferences +44 (0)24 7652 3222 hello-conferences at warwick dot ac dot uk
Linked In Facebook Instagram You Tube
About us | Podcast | Blog | News | Join our team | Sustainability | Accessibility | Awards & Accreditations | Testimonials | Terms & conditions | Allergen Statement
Other services Warwick Event Production
Warwick Conferences is a trading style of The University of Warwick, an exempt charity.
Administrative offices: University House, Kirby Corner Road, Coventry, West Midlands, CV4 8UW

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/wie:
Find out who we are, what we offer, our mission and our partners.
Discover inspiring events run year-round by our Resonate Team and find out how you might get involved.
From funding calls to training opportunities, find out how you can get involved in engagement.
Get in touch: wie@warwick.ac.uk +44 (0)24 7657 4589 University of Warwick, Coventry CV47AL, UK
Staff and Students: sign up to the WIE Network
Subscribe to hear about upcoming public events
Find out more about the Institute

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/services/careers/employers/internships:
Use our simple, jargon-free, step-by-step process to explore seeking short-term resource, tapping into a diverse talent pool of fresh ideas and enthusiasm, exploring future potential or raising your profile with current Warwick students.
Who are our students, what do they have to offer and when are they available?
Hear about their own work experiences.
Access free advice, support and advertising when planning and delivering work experience opportunities for Warwick students.
Hear from other employers such as Heart of England Mencap , about their own experiences of hosting interns and their partnership with Warwick.
Internships, Placements & Work Experience team Tel: 024 7615 1882 PlacementLearning@warwick.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/services/careers/employers:
We provide a range of both face to face and digital services that will enable you to meet and get to know our students and create a talent pipeline for your organisation.
Find out more about how we can connect you with our students.
Information for International employers seeking to engage and connect with students here at Warwick
Advertise your opportunities to our students via our online advertising portal MyAdvantage
Email: employerconnect at warwick dot ac dot uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/services/ris/impactinnovation/knowledge-transfer-partnerships/about:
A Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) is a collaborative project involving a business, an Associate (a graduate / post graduate) and a University.
They focus on growing business capabilities and are an invaluable means of transmitting knowledge and expertise in a variety of different companies.
They facilitate the transfer of knowledge and technology and the spread of technical and business skills.
For academics, they offer an opportunity to develop long-term relationships with industrial partners and enrich business-relevant research.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/wmg:
Global Community
Industry Collaboration
Research Impact
Teaching Excellence
We know that the brightest talent will shape the future, so we provide the experts, the experience, and the facilities to support you in developing the skills and knowledge you need to make a difference.
Explore our undergraduate and postgraduate study options and make the most of your student experience both academically and socially.
Our fundamental and applied research is led by world class academics and outstanding engineers, underpinned by state-of-the-art facilities to help bridge the gap between academia and industry.
Our research delivers solutions across all Technology Readiness Levels to address operational, technical, and societal challenges.
We are both an academic department of the University of Warwick, and one of the UK's High Value Manufacturing Catapult (HVMC) centres.
WMG is a leading international role model for successful collaboration between academia and the public and private sectors, accelerating and de-risking innovation for industry, driving cutting edge R&D to develop the brightest ideas and talent to shape our future.
WMG is an academic department at the University of Warwick and is the leading international role model for successful collaboration between academia and the public and private sectors, driving innovation in science, technology and engineering, to develop the brightest ideas and talent that will shape our future.
WMG at the University of Warwick's collaborative, industry-driven approach was noted in a recent Ofsted report, where the University was praised for its commitment to delivering high-quality and transformative degree apprenticeship programmes.
"As a trainer, mentor and researcher in female empowerment, innovation and entrepreneurship fields.
I support women, youth and start-ups in Jordan to start and build their own businesses.
I’ve begun running a business incubator helping start-up firms grow, and connecting them with investors and expertise."
Find out why studying MSc Innovation and Entrepreneurship shaped Noor's career and transformed her aspirations into reality.
The Flame of Friendship torch which has been relayed across 62 primary, secondary and special educational needs schools in Coventry, has crossed the finishing line at The University of Warwick campus on Monday 8th July.
Meet two of the T Level placement students, Millie Read and Bailey Murphy, as they discuss working on the project where they gained hands-on experience in a real-world setting.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/med/study/cpd/cpd:
This new and improved course, launching in September 2025, ensures a thorough understanding of practical diabetes knowledge and skills that are necessary to deliver effective and efficient services when managing the care of people with diabetes.
IMHOL aims to promote an understanding about the fundamental principles of perinatal and infant mental health so that practitioners working in this area can improve outcomes for infants and their families.
The PIIOS has been developed to meet the need for a short, easily accessible screening tool to assess parental attunement for professionals such as health visitors, midwives, nursery nurses, social workers and psychologists.
At Warwick Medical School we offer Continuous Professional Development programmes in a wide range of specialist areas for healthcare professionals and other professionals working in a health and social care context .
Many of our courses are interprofessional and multidisciplinary, however there are some specialised courses that require prior specific experience or qualifications.
Where this applies it is included in the course description.
Work-based Learning: Advanced Practice
Clinical Examination & Diagnostic Skills for Healthcare Professionals

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/services/ris/impactinnovation/impact/warwick-scientific-services:
Access a wide array of material analysis equipment and expertise.
We have a wide range of electron microscopes suitable for hard materials and biological samples.
Our experts can provide elemental analysis from a range of complementary techniques.
Access bespoke polymer synthesis and characterisation services.
We offer a wide range of biological measurement and analysis services.
Warwick Scientific Services enables external users from industry and academia to access the University of Warwick’s world-class research facilities and expertise.
Sign up for our newsletter and receive updates from Warwick Scientific Services.
Find out about upcoming events, new equipment and latest news and features.
Find out more about our services, including measurement, analysis, imaging and training.
Browse our equipment catalogue to discover the facilities available to external users.
Read case studies of our work with industry.
Warwick Scientific Services, Millburn House, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK Tel: +447385 145064 Email: c.gerard@warwick.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/services/conferences:
Find your space
What's in this video?
This video shows various spaces available within Warwick Conferences.
It starts with an external shot of the Slate conference venue with the lake in front of it, followed by short snapshots of the private dining room set up for dinner in the Scarman, drone footage of large external green spaces, an external shot of the Oculus building, Butterworth Hall in the Warwick Arts Centre, the Faculty of the Arts building, an interior shot of Radcliffe lounge, a chef preparing and plating food, an executive boardroom, the interior staircase of the Faculty of the Arts building, the kitchen creative space, a modern double bedroom, finishing with the large event set up in the Slate.
The best meeting and conference venue choice in the UK for all types of events, conferences, meetings and event services.
Conferences, meetings and events
Food and dining
Book accommodation
Measure the carbon footprint of your events
Discover our Carbon Calculator
Planning a meeting or event this winter?
Why not add a festive celebration to round off the day.
Explore festive packages
This video opens with an aerial shot of the Warwick Conferences campus, highlighting its central UK location.
It then cuts to interior footage showcasing four distinct venues, each with different styles and layouts, accommodating groups from as small as 2 to as large as 1,200 people.
Scenes show a variety of meeting and event spaces, including large auditoriums, boardrooms and flexible open-plan areas.
The video also features creative breakout zones with informal seating and bright, contemporary design.
A chef are shown preparing and plating dishes in a professional kitchen.
Accommodation is shown, with footage of modern ensuite bedrooms being cleaned and tidied by a member of the housekeeping staff.
There are clips of the sports and wellness facilities.
A conference centre in Coventry, right in the heart of the UK.
Our standards and attention to detail are always delivered to the best possible quality.
Every day, we go above and beyond for our customers.
Staff are constantly on the lookout for any improvements to make to give you the best experience.
Collaborating with you, we'll go into great detail about your ultimate objective.
Our entire team will work to develop clever ideas to help you achieve your aims.
Make connections that enhance innovation and increase your competitive advantage.
Our unique position within the University of Warwick can provide a huge range of talent, innovation and engagement opportunities.
Since we're not-for-profit, booking with us means you'll be helping to fund teaching, learning and world-leading research.
| | |

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/services/sport:
Please be aware that there will be some noise and disruption over the next few weeks.
Our climbing team are working to try and keep disruption to a minimum, so we appreciate your patience and understanding.
Book a tour
Book a tour of the Sports and Wellness Hub
Get moving with memberships and casual fitness options.
Sweat, climb, splash and plenty more ways to move.
Download the UoW Sport app, book activities and spaces and get rewarded for physical activity.
Enjoy exclusive discounts across global brands.
Don’t have your phone?
Book an activity online today
Want to know more about our app?
Discover our app and rewards platform
Keep healthy, have fun and meet new people.
Team Warwick is the combined club community on the University of Warwick campus.
Discover Team Warwick
Exclusive student memberships
A space designed to inspire and motivate everyone to move.
Explore the Hub
Get expert guidance, workout motivation and improve your training results.
Enquire about a Personal Training session at the Sports & Wellness Hub.
warwicksport at warwick dot ac dot uk
Sports and Wellness Hub (excluding Climbing Centre) Monday - Friday 6.00am - 10.00pm Saturday 7.00am - 8.00pm Sunday 7.00am - 10.00pm
Sports and Wellness Hub, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7EU
Blog
Our goal
Book an activity, buy or adjust your membership, and manage your account all in one place.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/about/strategy/innovation-campus:
The Innovation Campus, on the outskirts of Stratford-upon-Avon, is one of our strategic growth projects and supports the University’s Excellence with Purpose Strategy 2030 .
Currently, the campus is home to applied research groups from the School of Life Sciences and WMG , as well as international companies Corteva Agriscience, Lotus Engineering, Drive System Design, Rimac Energy and Verne plus a number of innovative SMEs, including Fluxsys, Aztec Solar Energy and EBI Software.
We have ambitious plans to further develop our academic research presence in crop science and agri-tech; future mobility and advanced manufacturing; and digital technologies.
Attracting the brightest minds from academia and business, to collaborate on some of the world’s greatest challenges.
The development of the campus aligns with the local and regional economic plans, as well as the UK’s Innovation Strategy.
It will enable us to continue to lead, influence and support positive change as well as contributing to the economic, social, and cultural growth of our region.
We have a unique opportunity to develop a world-leading innovation campus.
We have recently changed the campus name to ‘University of Warwick Innovation Campus, Stratford-upon-Avon’.
Dr Debbie Girdlestone, Head of Strategic Business Development
The proposal for the campus focuses on creating a sense of place and community through the development of innovation hubs across an enhanced landscaped environment.
This new approach will provide more opportunities for the exchange of ideas and knowledge between the University and its industry partners.
Our plan is to expand and strengthen the existing academic activity, as well as attracting additional industry-leading companies, from the region as well as globally, to support innovation, skills and jobs.
This will be a sustainable development, aligning with our goal to be a Net Zero institution by 2030.
A Supplementary Planning Document (SPD) for an area of 47 hectares was adopted by Stratford-on-Avon District Council in 2024, and provides the framework to guide the appropriate development and improvement of the campus built and natural environment.
An Outline Planning Application has now been submitted and a decision is expected in 2025.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/services/innovations:
Supporting the development, translation connection of Warwick ideas to the world.
Register your interest
WE help develop WORLD-LEADING IDEAS
We provide expertise and resources to help Warwick academics to develop skills and world-leading disruptive ideas.
we translate Warwick research
We support Warwick academics to translate their research, protecting IP & making research commercially viable.
we connect warwick ideas to the world
We identify end users for innovations and deliver real world impact through commercialisation.
Warwick academics & researchers
Explore how we support Warwick academics and researchers deliver impact through commercialisation.
Partner opportunities
Explore the diverse range of opportunities to make connections, partner and work with us
Part of the Warwick Innovation District.
Connecting University of Warwick academics & researchers with businesses, investors and external partners.
Discover Warwick Innovation District

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/services/innovations/spinout-companies/spin-out-companies-a-z:
We have created over 100 spinout companies, more than any other Midlands University.
As at 31st July 2024, the University held investments in 32 active spin-outs, disclosed in the 2023/24 Financial Statements.
A selection of these, are detailed below.
*The University no longer has an investment in Interface Polymers.
Could you be a mentor, CEO or board member?
Get in touch to connect with our spin-outs.
UK GOVERNMENT SPINOUT REVIEW: STATEMENT OF BEST PRACTICE ADOPTION
09 September 2024
Warwick Innovations welcomed the UK Government Spinout Review and the opportunity to revise the University’s institutional policies and practice around spinout company development.
The university is committed to update policy and practice (subject to UEB and FGPC approval) to better align with recommendations from the Spinout Review.
Key policy changes under consideration at Warwick are to:
Other key changes in spinout company development and support being implemented at Warwick are to:
Lightcast is developing a novel, droplet-based platform that provides a deeper understanding of cellular function.
At Sonemat our goal is to deliver innovative ultrasonic NDT solutions to today’s Non-Destructive Testing (NDT) issues.
Warwick Acoustics creates ground-breaking electrostatic audio products designed with a single-minded mission; to deliver truly remarkable listening experiences.
Bespoke epitaxial growth services for Group IV semiconductors - Si, Ge, SiC, SiGe, GeSn
Harnessing electricity for rapid microbial detection & novel investigatory yools.
Continuous chemical reactors from lab to production
3D Mass Spectrometry - total correlation mass spectrometry (TOC-MS) showing the complete picture for every analyte.
ValiSeek is ValiRx's Joint Venture Company, formed with Tangent Reprofiling Limited to rapidly progress VAL401 through development.
VAL401 is in development for Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.
One destination for your healthcare needs
Voting software that eliminates fraud.
E2E verifiable voting is ideal for contested elections, AGM, shareholder voting, leadership elections and awards.
Clinvivo Ltd.
specialise in data capture in clinical trials of complex interventions and health research.
OVO Biomanufacturing are the world leading experts in providing technical solutions to solve the effects of defective interfering particles for viral vaccine manufacturers.
NanoSyrinx is a discovery stage synthetic biology company creating a next-generation platform technology for the targeted intracellular delivery of biological molecules.
Improving patient care through innovation in transdermal drug delivery.
Erebagen is a synthetic biology company that discovers truly novel bioactive products from microbes by activating previously silent gene clusters.
Optimising cellular pathology with cutting-edge artificial intelligence
Developing the next generation of sperm conditioning tools that enable IVF practitioners to more effectively separate out the best sperm cells.
Biomarker testing technology developed to provide comprehensive biomarker results within days of diagnosis, giving physicians the opportunity to offer their patients the best possible treatment options.
Pioneering the commercialisation of a new class of 3D printable resorbable biomaterials for diverse medical applications.
We are about to revolutionise the polyolefin industry..
With radical new solutions to long-standing compatibility problems, we are opening up a new world of opportunities in polymer blending, joining and finishing.
Artificial Intelligence & Data Analytics with Machine learning
NeuroSolutions is a contract research organisation established in 2001 as a service provider of cutting edge electrophysiological and behavioural research in the field of neuroscience.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/getinvolved/teamwork:
TeamWork is a proven, online international experience programme, connecting organisations with multi-disciplinary teams of students from Warwick and other top universities around the world.
This programme helps students to develop their international experience, intercultural and communication skills and project management techniques, whilst organisations benefit from a diverse student perspective on your project or business challenge.
Applications for the spring and summer 2026 programmes will open in October.
Students need your guidance, knowledge, opinions, and discussions to broaden their horizons and practice their skills to help prepare them for their career after university.
This is a unique opportunity for you and your organisation to give back, whilst benefitting from having a team of students apply their perspectives, global outlook and academic abilities to your specific project or challenge.
TeamWork is also an ideal branding opportunity for your organisation.
Plus, you have an opportunity to spot prospective graduate talent for recruitment.
We are particularly keen to work with organisations whose main focus is within the following sectors:
Your project should ideally incorporate one of the following themes:
For more information, please contact Laura Jackson laura.jackson.1@warwick.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/services/studentopportunity:
We’re here to help you develop your skills and confidence, connect with employers, gain international experience and create the career that’s right for you.
Quick link: myAdvantage online portal
Find the career that's right for you.
Get careers support , attend employer events and workshops , browse opportunities online and access online resources .
Develop and demonstrate your employability skills with the Warwick Award , Undergraduate Research Support Scheme (URSS) and Thrive .
Access part-time work, internships, placements and work experience with support from WorkReady and the Work Experience Bursary.
Support your local community, develop new skills, make friends and improve your wellbeing by joining Warwick Volunteers .
Build your confidence and independence by studying, working or volunteering overseas on a year abroad or through short-term opportunities .
Develop your skills and gain international work experience on a real-world project with a team of students from universities across the world.
Feel empowered to work effectively with people from different cultures through a range of workshops and online activities.
Discover another culture, build your resilience and support pupils' learning by volunteering in one of our partner schools in Africa.
We're here to help you, both online, and in person at the Student Opportunity Hub, Senate House.
Your online portal to browse roles and opportunities and book events such as Careers Fairs plus appointments , workshops and more.
New to myAdvantage?
Access the guide .
Read advice on how to gain experience, market yourself, succeed with applications, pursue a career in specific sectors and much more.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/enterprise:
For events and opportunities to support your journey.
Join here .
Unleash your talent, enterprise and unrealised potential.
Start your journey
Increase your skills and knowledge and make it happen.
Go further
Progress your entrepreneurial skills and launch your own venture.
Get ready to launch
Find out about entrepreneurial and start-up events taking place
Connect with us on Startium
Get the information and help you need to enter the world of enterprise and entrepreneurship.
Connect with us and we can help point you in the right direction
Book a 1:1 with us
Connecting University of Warwick students with businesses, investors and external partners.
Sign up to hear about upcoming opportunities and news of enterprise activities.
Join now

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/services/humanresources/internal/apprenticeships:
Want to know more about apprenticeships or levy-funded apprenticeship training?
Maybe you're looking to fill an approved or budgeted vacancy by recruiting an apprentice, or perhaps you're interested in an apprenticeship to help you or members of your team to develop new skills.
These pages provide information for anyone who wants to know more about apprenticeships and the new apprenticeship levy , whatever your interest.
Apprenticeships can be for anyone, whether a new recruit or an existing member of staff.
They are available for a growing number of job roles including academic, management, professional, support services and trades, and at all levels from entry through to graduate and postgraduate.
Some examples of apprenticeships relevant to the University include: Level 3 Building Services Engineering Craftsperson; Level 4 Data Analyst; Level 5 HR Consultant/Partner; Level 6 Chartered Manager and Level 7 Academic Professional.
Apprenticeship training can be funded for new recruits and existing members of staff through the University's apprenticeship levy.
Please contact StaffApprenticeships@warwick.ac.uk or view the FAQs page for more information.
Click on the boxes below to get you started.
Further information will be added as it becomes available.
Looking for information on the University's Degree Apprenticeship programme to see how your department might get involved?
Visit the Degree Apprenticeships pages or contact the team at apprenticeships@warwick.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/services/innovations/midlandsicure:
Innovate ICUR e
A pre-accelerator programme for researchers designed to help explore the commercial application and potential of UK research.
ICURe Explore : open for applications now, close 07/10/24
Find out more and apply here Link opens in a new window
ICURe Engage: applications open 30/09/24, close 01/11/24
What is it?
Within the ICURe programme, there is a range of funding and commercialisation training with industry experts.
The University of Warwick is the delivery partner for two key programmes; ICURe Engage and ICURe Explore.
ICURe Engage
4-week, part-time programme tailored for research students and technicians.
This programme aims to identify potential beneficiaries of research, introduce participants to tools for commercialisation, and foster consideration of entrepreneurship as a pathway for achieving societal impact and a viable career choice.
ICURe Explore
12 weeks full-time programme with up to £35,000 funding available to help research teams get out of the lab and explore the commercial potential of their research or technology.
Applicants will receive expert training on a 5 day in-person and virtual bootcamp followed by 12 weeks of market discovery and support to test key market assumptions.
RECENT Participants
To find out what Dr Frances Pitt and Dr Jacob Moorse thought of their recent ICURe experiences, check out the videos below

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/60th:
The University was one of a group of new universities which were founded on the greenfield sites in the period of 1959-1963 to cater for the anticipated expansion of student numbers in British higher education.
The establishment of the University of Warwick was given approval by the government in 1961 and received its Royal Charter of Incorporation in 1965.
The University initially admitted a small intake of graduate students in 1964 and took its first 450 undergraduates in October 1965.
From a few hundred in 1965 to almost 300,000 strong, our diverse alumni community includes Nobel Prize winners, recipients of the Turing Award, Richard W.
Hamming Medal, and Emmy Awards, world leaders, government officials, Olympians, Paralympians, and household names.
Pink Floyd, Cream, and The Killers have all played at the Students’ Union.
In December 2000, Bill Clinton made his final UK speech as US President in Butterworth Hall.
For the duration of the visit, the Arts Centre was temporarily deemed to be United States territory.
In November 1967, the University’s first computer, an Elliott 4130 Computing System, was installed in the Engineering Department.
Stay updated with all the 60th activity by updating your details
Help us gather the history of Warwick through your eyes.
Make an impact on the future of Warwick through supporting research and students.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/60th/your-memories:
Whether it was seeing campus for the first time, sitting your last exam or getting up on stage for graduation, we would love to hear your memories of Warwick.
These will be collected to preserve these special moments for the future and might be used throughout our 60th celebrations.
You can submit as many as 10 files.
The University social media team are particularly looking for any photos or video content of campus or famous visitors you may have seen during your time here.
This may include web, social media, alumni newsletters and student recruitment materials.
If you have any concerns about where we'll share your story, please email alumni@warwick.ac.uk .
Please note, text may be edited.
The story and details you have provided will be stored on our system in accordance with the Privacy Statement below.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/60th/reunion:
and celebrate 60 years of Warwick
During your time here, you may have got to know some of the A-Z of Warwick (from the Airport Lounge to the Zeeman Building).
But things move fast around here (and we don’t just mean the ducks and geese!), and this year we’re celebrating our 60th anniversary.
Your memories, connections, friendships, education, and so much more last a lifetime – your stories shape our history.
So, whether you were among our first students in 1965, or you graduated this year, we’re ready to welcome you home.
Your £30 ticket price includes:
'Walk through Warwick' – archive and memories exhibition
A chance to reconnect with your School, Department, or Faculty
Visit the Students' Union and reminisce with your former societies
Explore the Library
Drive a lap of Silverstone in the E-Sports Centre
Campus tour (led by one of our current students)
Once you’ve registered for the day, you’ll receive details on how to book your place at the three-course dinner, which includes two drinks.
Tickets are an additional £50 per person and places are limited, so early booking is recommended.
If you’ve already registered, you should have received the booking link.
If not, and you’d like to join us for dinner, please get in touch at events.dae@warwick.ac.uk .
Accommodation is available at either Scarman or Radcliffe our onsite hotels , subject to availability.
Get a special alumni discount using the promo code ARDBB25 , available on stays for Friday 21 and Saturday 22 November only.
Rates:
Single occupancy £65.00 per room per night, including VAT and breakfast.
Double/twin occupancy £80.00 per room per night, including VAT and breakfast.
A lot of the activities will be focused around our alumni, but you’re welcome to bring a guest.
Please ensure you purchase a ticket for your guest and that they register their attendance on the day.
How lovely!
Please make sure you both register, and let us know on the registration form if you’re joining us together.
We understand that sometimes happens.
You are entitled to a full refund of the registration fee if you inform us of your cancellation at least 30 days prior to the reunion, or within 14 days of booking registration.
Please contact us at Turn on JavaScript to view obfuscated email addresses to cancel your registration.
If you’ve booked travel or accommodation to attend the reunion, the University is not liable for any related costs or cancellation charges.
For further information, please see the terms and conditions of registration .
A limited number of tickets is available, so book as soon as possible to avoid disappointment.
We will endeavour to publicise when tickets are getting low, and highlight when they’re sold out.
Yes, please email us to be added to the waiting list.
If spaces become available, we'll work through the list in order, contacting people by email, and providing a deadline to confirm acceptance of the space offered.
If you require a visa to attend the event, please visit the gov.uk website for relevant information.
If you're having an issue registering for the event, please email us via Turn on JavaScript to view obfuscated email addresses .
If you provide us with your phone number, we can also ring you back.
If you’re still in touch with them, why not drop them a line to find out if they’ve registered?
When registering, you can indicate if you're happy to share your name and degree information.
We'll then make the list available of those who have given consent for those details to be shared.
Of course!
Student Ambassadors will be available on the day to give you a guided tour – ask one of our staff to point you in the direction of our tour start points.
As we are in term time, students will be happily ensconced in their rooms.
You're welcome to take a walk around the buildings, but we ask you to respect the privacy of the current residents by not going inside.
Campus has grown and evolved much over the years, so please be mindful that some accommodation blocks may no longer exist.
When you register , please let us know if you have any accessibility requirements and if there is anything else that we can do to make your time with us more comfortable.
A quiet space will be available on the day for those who would like to make use of it.
Male, female, and gender-neutral toilets are available in various buildings across campus, as well as accessible toilets.
Please refer to the campus map available on the day or ask the nearest member of the Reunion Day Team.
By bus Our campus is connected to Coventry, Leamington and Kenilworth with regular bus services.
The main routes are buses 11, 12X, 14, U1 and U2.
For further information, including a on-demand bus option, visit the University of Warwick bus information page Link opens in a new window .
By train Coventry or Tile Hill are the nearest mainline stations.
From Coventry station, you can take the 12 bus, or from Tile Hill station the 14 bus - or you can take a taxi from either station.
To plan your train journey, visit National Rail Link opens in a new window or Trainline Link opens in a new window .
By plane
Warwick is easily accessed from all major airports in the UK.
There are two regional airports and the campus can also be reached by public transport from all the major London airports.
For further information, visit the University of Warwick plane information page.
By bike Bike racks are available adjacent to the Faculty of Arts building and Warwick Arts Centre.
By car If you're planning to travel by car, please ensure you pre-book your parking in advance .
You can find the full details on the website here .
When travelling, please follow the signs for the University of Warwick Central Campus (CV4 7AL) or the Science Park (CV4 7EZ).
Parking will be available in Car Parks 3 and 4 (Central Campus) or Car Park 5 (Science Park).
We have attached a map for your guidance.
Once you have parked up, it would be an approximate 5 minute walk to the venue.
Please head to either one of the following car parks: Car Park 3, Car Park 4, Car Park 5.
These are all just a short walk from the central Piazza where the day will begin.
Car parking costs £2 for the day, p lease ensure you pre-book your parking in advance .
Please complete this form: Reunion day 2025 accessible parking and we can make sure there is a space for you.
Blue Badge holders are eligible for free parking, however you must register your vehicle and badge in advance.
When travelling, please follow the signs for the University of Warwick Central Campus (CV4 7AL).
Accessible parking is available at the rear of Senate House and on Health Centre Road.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/benefits/warwickgrad:
Warwickgrad is the place to have an exclusive meeting of minds with your fellow alumni, wherever life takes you.
Whether you have a passion for inspiring and guiding the next generation, would like to explore your own development, or want to play a more active role in Warwick’s future, this is where you can do all that and more.
"Since graduating, it's been incredibly inspiring and useful to talk to a fellow Warwick graduate who's achieved success in my chosen profession.”
Lucy Blackman, mentee (BA English Literature, 2013)
An online gateway for you to give and receive sector insights .
Both current students and alumni can sign up to request a mentor.
Or, if you are an experienced alumnus, you can offer to be a mentor.
Our Warwickgrad live mentor map will allow you to find out where in the world our mentors are based.
A place for you to contact and connect with likeminded members of the Warwick community.
These small but mighty groups (formed around industries/sectors, specialisms, geography, and demography) will help you to connect with one another, ask and answer questions, and discuss relevant topics.
A resource hub packed full of podcasts, blogs, advice, webinars, and videos straight from the Warwick alumni community, your alumni engagement team, and the wider University, the Digital Library is there to support you as you move through your career.
By offering your unique insight, sharing your experience, and building confidence with students, you can support them through their university journey while benefiting from developing your skills and knowledge.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/benefits/update-your-details:
Your relationship with Warwick does not end when you graduate.
As part of the Warwick family, a global community of more than 293,000 alumni, we want to help you maintain a lifelong connection with us and each other, sharing experiences and expertise and playing your part in shaping the future of Warwick.
We will use the details you have provided to keep in touch with you by email, post and phone for engagement and fundraising purposes.
You can unsubscribe from our communications by setting your contact preferences above or by emailing us at dataservices@warwick.ac.uk .
To access extra alumni services such as e-mentoring, online journals, careers advice and the use of campus services, please visit www.warwickgrad.net .
Please read our full alumni, donor and stakeholder privacy notice here .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/benefits/journals:
To benefit Warwick Alumni, we subscribe to a wide range of online journals and publications.
Business Source is used by millions for research, teaching, and learning.
The Economist, The Financial Times, and Adweek are all available via the ProQuest platform.
To gain access to the journals please follow the steps below:
Sign up to Warwickgrad.net and register for a @warwickgrad.net email address
Log on to our system with your new email and password at the top right hand corner of this page.
Access our exclusive alumni pages and find the journal you want.
Please note, alumni may only use these online resources for personal learning use, and should understand that accessing them for corporate use may result in legal action

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/benefits/careers-support:
ECareersGrad and Graduates First are both very helpful for job seekers wanting to improve their interview skills and, or practice a range of assessment centre practice tests, undertake personality profiles.
Warwick alumna Elham Fardad’s (MBA 2003) Migrant Leaders programme looks out for mentors from diverse backgrounds, predominantly from the corporate world to support students.
Discover advice, opportunities and guidance on learning in a world post-Warwick on our dedicated graduate careers pages.
Warwick has partnered with eCareersGrad to provide access to these free modular, video-based, interactive eLearning courses.
Access ECareersGrad
Warwick are partnered with Graduates First.
Login and practice video interviews including competency-based, strengths-based, and industry-specific interviews.
warwickgrad.net can help alumni and current Warwick students give and receive careers advice in a mentorship-style arrangement.
This relationship could be anything from a few emails to meeting face to face or even offering work experience.
Explore all aspects of employability for Warwick alumni in the Warwick Careers blog.
Anne Wilson’s recent blog post on How to Succeed at Interviews summaries the many useful resources and support programmes on offer to Warwick students and graduates.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/benefits/joinonline:
Please ensure that you upload a head and shoulder style photograph (include your full name in the file name) in the format of PNG, JPG or JPEG.
The photo measurements must be 2 x 2 inches.
Please read the terms and conditions of membership: Library Sports Centre Students' Union .
Please note that alumni swipecards are provided at institutional discretion and we reserve the right to suspend or remove access at any time in instances where terms and conditions are not met, or conduct does not align with our Warwick values .
We aim to fulfill all requests within 28 days.
Unfortunately delivery can take longer depending on local postal services.
Please allow two weeks for delivery.
Unfortunately this can take longer depending on local postal services.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/benefits/renewal:
We will aim to process your Warwick alumni swipe card renewal within 28 days .
Please ensure that you complete the following steps:
For renewals:
If your alumni membership card starts with the number 5 or number 4 (for example, 5XXXXX) please continue with the current form.
Your swipe card will be updated and continue to be active.
Please note: you do not need to request a new physical card unless your card has been lost or the photo is outdated.
If you do require a new card, you can request one using this form.
If you have an old card which does not start with the number 5 or number 4, please complete the online form here .
We will use your details to renew your swipecard application and to keep in touch with you by email, post and phone for engagement and fundraising purposes.
Please read our full Alumni, Donors and Stakeholders Privacy Notice .
You can unsubscribe from our communications or contact us to update your details at any time by emailing dataservices@warwick.ac.uk .
Alternatively update your details at www.warwickgrad.net
After submitting this form we will reactivate your existing alumni card.
Please note, the valid date shown on your card is a valid from date.
You do not need a replacement physical card unless your card is lost or the photo is outdated.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/getinvolved:
Your experience and passion have the power to inspire the next generation of students, spark change, and leave a lasting impact.
Wherever you are in the world, you can get involved today – often without even leaving your home or office.
Even a few minutes of your time can make a real difference.
With a range of quick volunteering opportunities, you can find meaningful ways to get involved with Warwick that take less than an hour.
However, if you have more time to spare, and would like to support the Warwick community, our longer-term volunteering opportunities offer a chance to get involved over an extended period of time and make a lasting difference.
Graduated in the past five years?
Share how Warwick and your course has influenced your career so far, as well as your memories of life on campus.
Warwick graduates take many varied paths.
If you graduated three or more years ago, consider sharing your journey, as well as the lessons you can pass on.
Employers can promote vacancies to Warwick students and graduates free of charge through our online careers portal myAdvantage Link opens in a new window
Students and alumni looking for passionate mentors are waiting to connect with you.
To find out more, visit our alumni community platform Warwickgrad.
Would your organisation like 240 free hours of thinking time from bright, enthusiastic students?
Warwick’s virtual international programme, TeamWork, can help.
If you graduated in the last 10 years and loved your time at Warwick, why not register your interest in talking to prospective students.
We want to celebrate our musical legacy by creating a virtual choir of University of Warwick singers.
We are inviting you to be part of this exciting performance!
Make a difference to a student or graduate’s career.
Alumni Mentor Ozair is glad he did.
Join on Warwickgrad Link opens in a new window , our alumni community platform.
Would you like to take part in University of Warwick astrophysics research?
Kilonova Seekers is a citizen science project searching for volunteers.
Your relationship with Warwick doesn’t stop after graduation.
We want to help you maintain a lifelong connection with us.
Stay connected, wherever your journey takes you and hear about our latest events.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/getinvolved/graduation:
Ours is a community like no other, and we couldn’t be prouder.
It’s diverse, vibrant, incredible, and full of people who make an impact on the world around us.
You can stay connected to Warwick through networking, events, and opportunities.
Find out how to take advantage of the full range of benefits and offers that are exclusive to you.
As part of the Warwick family, we want to help you maintain a lifelong connection with us and each other, sharing experiences, and expertise and playing your part in shaping the future of Warwick.
Signing up to Warwickgrad allows you to stay in touch with your fellow graduates, connect to a global professional network, and access a wide range of benefits.
Connect globally through our events .
As we celebrate our 60th anniversary, we're hosting a range of exciting international events, webinars, and reunions.
Your alumni community is made up of inspiring, diverse, and incredible voices.
Check out some inspiring stories on our news pages and share your own.
Visit our diversity webpages for specific careers support and opportunities for graduates from underrepresented backgrounds.
If you are thinking about improving your skills and employability through undertaking postgraduate study, we want to help you by making the option of postgraduate study more affordable to our alumni and graduating students.
From incredible scholarships to world-class research, your alumni and supporters' community help propel dreams into reality.
In 2023/24:
(with over 100 graduating this summer)
And with your support, we can achieve so much more.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/getinvolved/linkedin:
At Heady, a digital product consultancy, I work closely with clients across various industries to build digital products.
What I love the most is the diversity of products I get to work on.
So far, I've had the opportunity to work with clients in health, fashion, and consumer electronics.
Each project allows me to learn something new, whether it's about a new industry or emerging technologies.
Anna Donovan (MA International Cultural Policy and Management, 2016)
There are more than 305,000 alumni around the world.
Some of them will be working in the same field as you.
In order to bring you together, the University has created a series of professional networks on LinkedIn, which will help alumni and students interested in or working in similar fields to find each other and to connect.
UK
British Council runs a Thai-UK alumni network .
WBS run Global Alumni Networks in Europe, North America, China, India, Singapore and the UAE, all of which host a number of professional and social events each year.
Find out more here .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-news/features:
Warwick is a community like no other - made from many individuals who have an incredible impact on the world.
The pride in our global alumni community knows no bounds and our feature articles showcase just how inspiring you are.
More than 20 years as a travel writer have taken Nick Ray (BA History and Politics, 1994) to some of the most spectacular places in the world.
Now a location scout in Cambodia for blockbuster movies, he’s still in touch with friends from his student days.
A distinguished writer for both adults and children, Anne Fine (BA History, 1968; Hon DLitt, 2005) has written countless books and received numerous awards and accolades for her work.
Anne was part of the very first cohort of students to graduate from Warwick.
One hour in the company of human rights lawyer and activist Natasha Latiff (LLB Law, 2009) and she’ll take you to some of the scariest places in the world.
Places where the rights of women, low-paid workers, and marginalised communities are rarely heard, let alone fought for.
Keep up to date with us by ensuring your details are updated.
Wherever life takes you, you are never far from a Warwick connection.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-news/careers:
The path to your chosen career can take a variety of turns.
Read the inspiring careers stories, milestones, and achievements from your global alumni community.
Stay connected, wherever your journey takes you.
Incredible stories from our alumni community from around the world

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-news/connections:
Warwick connections can start on campus and develop over the years.
Or they can begin after graduation in the most unexpected of ways.
The Warwick network is as vast, interesting, dynamic and familiar as these stories show.
In Warwick's 60th year, we're delighted to bring you Rootes Link opens in a new window - your commemorative alumni and supporters' magazine celebrating our first six decades.
Diane and Jake met during the first week at Warwick through the fencing club, and they reconnected six years later in Cambridge.
Then they decided to buy a house together and were married in July 2002.
Both far from home in Pakistan, they found friendship, love, and a second home in the heart of Warwick campus.
Shira studied in the Master of Arts in International Performance Research program and is now publishing her poetry collection.
Lizzie Hart (BA Theatre and Performance Studies, 2024) has won the Comedy Production Award at The Pitch Film Fund 2025 Awards.
Akansha Sumaria and Pujan Sumaria Shah are among many couples who found their lifelong partners during their studies here.
Their friendship sparked on the first day of university, brought together by neighbouring rooms and an instant connection.
By decade
Classnotes from our 1965-1974 graduates
Classnotes from our 1975-1984 graduates
Classnotes from our 1985-1994 graduates
Classnotes from our 1995-2004 graduates
Classnotes from our 2005-2014 graduates
Classnotes from our 2015-2025 graduates
Incredible stories from our alumni community from around the world.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-news/quickfire-stories:
Graduated within the last five years?
Tell us how Warwick has influenced your career journey to date, share your memories of life on campus, and shine a light on the tutors, professors and fellow students who made a real impact.
Pranjali's time at Warwick gave her the confidence to take chances, step out of her comfort zone, and the mindset to view failure as part of the learning process.
Olukayode's Doctoral degree at Warwick Business School equipped him with knowledge in strategic alliances and local capacity development in the Nigerian oil and gas sector.
Olugbenga was attracted by WMG’s strong reputation for academic excellence and its forward-thinking approach to business and innovation.
He is now an Executive Director and oversees the strategic direction for supply chain solutions.
Doina is proudly grateful for her experience at Warwick, where she learned about development and legal reforms from academic papers.
Now she works with reforms in the justice sector.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-news/all-news:
Packed full of interviews, features and stories with our incredible alumni and detailing the global impact they have on the world, these pages introduce you to our community like no other.
Choose the filters below help you narrow the search for the stories you want to read.
Tomas is the Lead Analyst Europe and Latin America at Ambrey Analytics - a maritime risk management company.
Whether you're passionate about the arts, or simply curious about their role in building a more inclusive future, our recent webinar is not to be missed!
Hear from two Warwick academics working at the intersection of arts and education, and two of our brilliant alumni community whose professional journeys influence cultural policy and practice.
Vafa is the Vice Rector for Strategy and Advancement at ADA University in Azerbaijan.
David is retired but actively volunteering for Carolinas Association for Passenger Trains, which advocates for better passenger rail services in both North Carolina and South Carolina.
Gabriel Afrane-Twum is the Fast streamer (Delivery Manager) in Cabinet Office.
Egbert is a self-employed Lean Expert and he enjoys helping people and organizations find ways to continuously improve their business.
Askar Aituov is a Developer Relations Coordinator at EPAM Systems on behalf of Google for MENA & Türkiye team.
Sam Augereau is the Executive Director Strategic Management Master at HEC Paris Business School.
Naiya is the Marketing Manager at Lumi SKN.
Nav is the Director of People and Clients at WSP UK.
Fozia is the Head of School at Montgomery Primary Academy.
Evan, now a Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon in Ontario, credits Warwick Medical School for shaping his global perspective and enabling his return to Canada for postgraduate training.
Laura is a Marketing Coordinator at Sonoco's Consumer Products European Marketing Department.
Lloyd is the Chief Executive Officer at Tamaki Health.
Jure is a Associate at CMS Cameron McKenna Nabarro Olswang LLP.
Saquib is a Senior Lecturer in the Department of Law at North South University.
Toyosi is the Vice-President and Country Compliance Officer at Butterfield Bank (Guernsey) Limited & Butterfield Trust (Guernsey) Limited.
Niyati is an International Experts Group (IEG) Project Executive at Avalere Health.
Lanqing is the Deputy Director of the Comprehensive Research Office at the World Industrial Research Institute , under the China Centre for Information Industry Development (CCID).
As an Operational Resilience Analyst at Ardonagh Specialty, Anoushka draws on skills gained at Warwick to tackle real-world challenges and drive collaborative problem-solving.
Muhammad Gul is the Customer Operations Manager at Royal Mail in Oxford.
Chidi is the founder of Mellent, he leads the strategic direction of the company, focusing on leveraging AI to deliver personalised financial wellness.
Only 14% of care leavers under 19 will go on to university.
The odds may have been against Keeley, but, through determination and talent, along with the support of alumni like you, she’s taking her first steps into higher education at Warwick.
Thanks to your incredible support, more than £150,000 has been raised to support students at Warwick this academic year.
You may have spoken to one of our callers and heard about the difference alumni support makes to student lives.
Ryan is an ADAS Systems Engineer at Jaguar Land Rover.
As Warwick celebrates its 60th anniversary, you're invited to look back at the vital role you have all played in shaping our journey.
Over the past six decades, your generosity - our alumni, donors, supporters, and volunteers - has fuelled scholarships, research, and campus transformation, ensuring Warwick has quickly grown into one of the leading universities in the world.
Manas is a Project Planner JRL Group - Midgard Ltd.
Inspired by her parents’ dedication as teachers, Yuki Chan, a second-year PhD student, made the bold decision to leave the comfort of her home in Hong Kong and embark on an academic journey through a global lens.
Lora began at London & Partners before moving into journalism, rising to Senior Journalist at the BBC and now continuing her investigative work at ITV News.
Congratulations to our Warwick alumni who have been recognised in the 10th Forbes 30 under 30 List.
The list recognises innovators and changemakers in a variety of fields.
Hanna is a Journalist at the BBC's Today programme, working with the most well-known voices in British broadcasting and producing content for around 6 million weekly listeners.
Jae set up his own translation business in 2018 and works with agency clients across various sectors.
Joseph is a patent translator for the World Intellectual Property Organization, translating patent texts from German into English.
Claudia completed a PGCE in Modern Foreign Languages and is now into her fourth year of secondary school teaching in Surrey.
Esther works for a pharmaceutical company that specialises in women’s healthcare - taking pride in a career that helps  deliver life-changing medicines that empower women to thrive at every stage of their lives.
Phoebe describes the myriad ways you can be involved in marketing and how she fell on her feet with freelancing after being made redundant.
Shaun always knew he would end up in finance.
Now he leads a dynamic organisation that merges commercial acumen with a passion for doing good.
Lily advises companies, and investment banks working with companies, who wish to list their shares on one of the exchanges operated by London Stock Exchange.
Michelle is a Student User Experience Officer at the University of Warwick.
Joshua has multiple occupations, including lawyer, director and board advisor.
Arshia chose Warwick because of its prestigious law school , and her favourite place on campus is the Piazza.
Warwick community’s diversity and openness made Abhi feel welcom ed while also helping h im grow.
Mandy is a legal counsel for both the Asia-Pacific and Middle East regions at her firm.
Warwick’s diverse and challenging academic environment helped Nabiha develop the adaptability and resilience needed to excel in the hospitality sector.
Mehdi is an English language teacher, and his passion is to change lives through education.
Phoebe’s favourite memor ies at Warwick include her year abroad at Monash University and her time with Warwick Devils.
Aarti tackles complex legal, policy, and regulatory challenges as part of her traineeship, which is primarily focused on ESG.
Akansha works as a Director of two companies she set up with her husband (also an alumnus) in Tanzania.
Rachel discusses her path into hospitality and her advice that learning of any kind is always seen as a positive.
The interdisciplinary nature of Suzanne’s helped her to excel in diabetes care and systematic review research.
Yuan is currently doing a PhD in management at the Business School, Centre of Decision Research at the University of Leeds.
Neha's goal is to help small and large businesses in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa work smarter, safer, and more sustainably.
After graduating with his Master’s last year, Rob now works as a Sustainability Reporting Analyst at Dentsu, managing global emissions data and supporting sustainability reporting.
Mardiros loves the puzzle-like nature of his work as an analyst where he tries to detect money laundering or any other financial fraud.
Nia works as a Trainee Forensic Psychologist, she delivers Offender Behaviour Programs and psychological therapy to prisoners.
With over seven years of experience in the startup innovation ecosystem, Mallika was drawn to work at the national policy think tank of India.
Biswajit is the founder and CEO of Engramia, a start up focused on transforming education in India.
Tom is a Credit Risk Analyst at Jefferies.
He analyses counterparts and assesses their creditworthiness.
Rohan is a PhD student in Astrophysics at the University of Oxford, currently applying for postdoctoral positions.
Experienced in industrial research and development, Jane later became interested in astronomy and is working on her fourth book.
Rushikesh is a Production Scientist at Kings College London, working to establish the new facility supporting AAV research.
Warwick 's rigorous and flexible math courses enabled Siddhant to build strong fundamentals while pursuing applied mathematics.
Katie is an Environmental Safety Scientist at Unilever, where she focuses on the biodegradability and persistence of chemicals.
Isaura's degree at Warwick helped her to learn more about crop production, agriculture, and plant science.
Ibrahim works with pharmaceutical companies on their medical affairs projects and events.
With a background in biomedical science from Warwick, she pursued a PhD in bone biology and later a postdoc in Belgium.
Petros supports budgeting and cost allocation in Belgium and will soon transition to Business Unit Finance for Central Europe.
David's time at Warwick taught him to approach problems from different perspectives, even in retirement.
Thomas leveraged research roles and society leadership to build strong analytical and communication skills.
Their time at Warwick was transformative, teaching them independence and leadership .
Morgan handles serious and complex crimes, including fraud, theft, and violent offenses.
In celebration of International Women's Day, we are shining an additional light on the fantastic achievements of our global alumnae.
From established leaders to rising stars, these women are shaping the world around us and the Warwick of today.
In an exclusive interview, WMG Scholar, Amina Zahid, (MSc Programme & Project Management, 2021), reflects on her time at Warwick and offers her advice and expertise to current and future students.
Did you know that many in your alumni community found their soulmates here?
Jatin Goel and Harnoor Gauba Goel are just one of these couples.
They both travelled from India to study at Warwick in 2011 and tied the knot in 2022.
Your support is empowering our students.
Through your kind-hearted donations, you’re enabling students from all backgrounds to access work experience that will help them define their personal career path.
As Founder of NUMA, Skytree, and Atlantis Space City, Maximus is on a mission to build a permanent presence in Low Earth Orbit over the next fifteen years.
The generosity of your alumni and supporter community is driving lasting change – empowering students and advancing vital research.
You’re helping us break down barriers to higher education, enrich students’ experience, and fund innovative research with global impact.
Thank you.
Congratulations to our Warwick alumni and staff who have been recognised in the 2025 Kings New Year Honours.
From a decade in strategy consulting to the challenges of entrepreneurship, Bertrand has built his running business from the ground up.
Returning to Warwick for her PhD was an easy decision for Ellie, even after a year working on the Côte d'Azur.
Donal helps bring light to rural communities in Africa through helping set up payment plans for solar panels.
Encapsulating more than thirty years of academic life, Daguang's monograph was greatly influenced by his time at Warwick.
George works as a Data Analyst at British Airways where he must digest complex mathematics and be able to communicate it effectively for stakeholders.
Manav shares how his Life Sciences degree helped him.
Ellie discusses why she loved her time studying Chemistry at Warwick and how it's helped her in her role as Admissions Assistant at the University of Kent.
C ar eers a re fle xible , t hey e volve over time .
Tom Maid ment started as a n Undergraduate Engineer ; h e n ow work s i n f ood sustai nability with hopes to s ave one billion tonnes of CO2 by the time he turns 30.
Alongside a career mapping and analysing data, Juhie is also a climate advocate and mentor who's represented environmental and sustainability policy in the UK at the Y7.
Anna's original career path was in the Arts sector, but it was a tech start-up that sent her off on a new challenge, working on a diversity of products.
Tom Davies' (BSc Biological Sciences, 2012) new book, Self-Obsession , is set for release in May 2025.
Ricardo's PhD in History focused on the impact of colonization on food, drink, and health in Mesoamerica.
Since graduating, Meliha has gone on to further study at Warwick and taken on a role as Co-Creation Officer, working to make assessments more inclusive for students.
Devika reflects on her time at Warwick and the change of pace it offered coming from a busy Indian city.
Pratik Gadia is the Founder and CEO of The Yarn Bazaar, a startup company that appeared on the TV show Shark Tank India .
Ozair Hudli's passion for engineering began in childhood, inspired by his family’s background in the manufacturing industry.
WMG alumnus Ozair Hudli (MSc Engineering Business Management, 2023), joined the Warwick Alumni Mentoring Programme on Warwickgrad to help other graduates and students like Mahesh Ram Krishna Raj, a current MSc Engineering Business Management student, develop his career.
Hear their perspectives on what it’s like to be a mentor and mentee in the programme.
Chevening Scholar Werachai Prayoonpruk returned to Bangkok after graduating and now works for Global Fusion Centre as a Country Manager.
Surya Narayan Saha (MSc Management for Business Excellence, 2012) wrote Reform: Harnessing AI's Power in Modern Businesses .
Jayaraja (BA QTS (Phys Ed), 1985) is leading a team of volunteers in renovating the historic Alfoxton Park House.
Yu Tang is a VP and Economist in a Global 500 bank, managing £2.5 billion in assets.
Edward chose Warwick for its opportunities that included a transformative year abroad at Monash University in Australia.
The Feuer International Scholarships in Artificial Intelligence are prestigious and highly competitive PhD scholarships.
Funded by successful Warwick alumnus Jonathan Feuer (BSc MORSE, 1983) they were established to create a group of extremely talented, academically brilliant, world-leading young researchers with potentially world-changing ideas in the field of Artificial Intelligence.
Deadline to apply is the 31 October.
As we approach our 60th anniversary, we’re evolving Warwick’s brand to better represent who we are today and what we aspire to be as we look to our future.
Anushka Rakesh's (MSc Marketing & Strategy, 2024) favourite aspect of the job is engaging with colleagues from around the world at the JLR headquarters.
Beyond managing policy and guidance for the National Heritage List for England, Caroline Kendall (BA History of Art, 2010) finds inspiration in the organization's collective passion for heritage and the opportunity to continually learn from colleagues with specialized knowledge.
As a Forward Planning Engineer at JLR, Shantnu Mahta (MSc Engineering Business Management, 2022) benchmarks these advancements to improve safety, productivity, and revenue.
Palak Singh's (MSc Marketing and Strategy, 2021) passion for strategic product promotion, sparked by internships in Malaysia, led her to pursue a master's at Warwick
Leading a travel tech startup, Albin Eriksson Lippe (BSc Economics, 2019) blends a passion for adventure with cutting-edge innovation, crafting the next generation of group trip planning.
From launching a company rooted in AI to revolutionising how we travel, his journey is shaped by his Warwick experiences.
Taniya Hussain (LLB Law, 2023) manages a broad spectrum of cases in commercial property, finding fulfilment in her role's dynamic challenges and client interactions.
She was initially attracted to her current position by the opportunity for professional growth in a supportive and flexible work environment.
Taniya encourages Warwick graduates to stay confident, engage effectively with clients, and remain resilient in the face of challenges, knowing that persistence pays off in the legal sector.
Samarjit Khanna (MSc Economics and International Financial Economics, 2010) advises global asset owners on managing assets for a low carbon economy as an Environmental Economist for Schroders.
Abilash Jai baskaren (MSc Business with Marketing, 2024) is a marketing automation professional focused on creating and implementing technical components for customer marketing initiatives.
He enjoys working with cutting-edge technology and a collaborative team.
Dr Afiniki Akanet, a Christian medical doctor and entrepreneur, celebrates her 40th year in her latest book Power and Praise, offering insights from scripture, medical experience, and her life journey to demonstrate how spiritual well-being can enhance mental health for people of all faiths.
Warwick's Computer Science course helped her to create a strong foundation for Java and web development, which she bas been able to extend further at her workplace.
Alia's experience in Warwick’s International Foundation Program (IFP) provided a strong academic foundation and fostered lasting friendships, which supported her throughout her university journey.
Elsie pursued a degree in Biomedical Science, with her favourite aspects being the hands-on lab work and research projects, especially the animal anatomy and histology labs.
The IFP course laid a strong academic foundation, equipping her with the essential skills needed for university-level studies and helping her thrive in a variety of science-based modules.
Ella studied Philosophy, Politics, and Economics (PPE) for her undergraduate degree, appreciating the diverse skill set it offered, particularly in honing her analytical abilities and critical thinking through philosophy.
Her IFP in Economics provided a solid foundation for her studies.
The challenges in Mansour's PhD journey helped him to find solutions to complicated problems by dividing them into small pieces, and tackling them in small steps until he reaches the desired goal.
Hengrui chose to study this course because he has always been fascinated by the power and potential of computer science, especially in artificial intelligence.
The idea of using AI, in particular the NLP technique, to solve real-world problems, motivated him to enrol in this program.
Studying Computer Science at Warwick prepared Teodora for a graduate scheme in the financial industry, where she discovered her passion for product management through diverse roles and hands-on projects.
Warwick students and alumni were making unforgettable memories this summer, compet ing on the world stage at the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris.
Warwick has been a transformative place where Minali found lifelong friends and was inspired by a culture of diversity, hard work, and determination that shaped who she is today.
Theo Saville graduated from Warwick with a MEng Manufacturing & Mechanical Engineering with Business Management, in 2015.
Alongside his studies, he joined WMG in 2014 as a researcher in Metal Additive Manufacturing, applying 3D printing for counterterrorism and policing applications.
At a similar time, Theo founded CloudNC , and is Co-Founder and CEO of the advanced software company which uses AI to fully autonomise manufacturing processes, primarily in precision manufacturing.
A postgraduate social work student turned academic has authored a book, Inside the World of Older Spouse Carers, to explore and challenge assumptions about older spouse carers, which will be published by Palgrave Macmillan in July 2024.
Shreena and her husband met in Warwick ten years ago and have now celebrated their third wedding anniversary.
Entering a new decade is always a special moment, but for alumna Barbara Hutchinson (Cert Diabetes Care Distance delivery courses, 2005) it was made even more incredible thanks her London Olympic experience.
Following an engineering science degree in the 1970’s, Keith Warrender has worked across the world with the BBC.
He tells us about his time working on the Olympics and why the draw of The Games pulled him out of retirement!
Meet Tanisha Bhatara (BA, English Literature, 2022; MSc, Management, 2024), a distinguished alumna.
Her journey at Warwick, shaped by her A-level experiences, and several leaps of faith, led her from English studies to Business.
Guided by mentors, she explored new fields and is now with Ernst & Young Global Limited UK and Ireland (EY UKI) Assurance Graduate Programme to become a qualified accountant.
Discover how Tanisha embraced Warwick’s opportunities.
When a chance response to a newspaper advert led to a friendship with the family of Great Britain’s most successful heptathlete, alumnus Barbara Meade nee Lea (Certificate in Education, 1960) got to enjoy one of the most memorable days in GB’s Olympic history.
I chose to study at Warwick as I wanted to study at one of the top universities in my subject, and the flexibility of the course at Warwick was a huge factor.
I wanted to take part in a year abroad, and study other subjects alongside my degree, and Warwick allowed and encouraged that.
A number of Warwick alumni have been recognised for their outstanding contributions in the recent King’s Birthday Honours.
Twelve individuals have each been celebrated and honoured for their tireless work and commitment, as well as the incredible impact they have on the world around them.
Maths was always going to be my subject; it was my best subject at school and the subject I most enjoyed.
I wasn’t particularly career-minded, just loved doing maths for the sake of maths!
Population dynamics was a module I did in my third year and was the first time I had been exposed to maths with real world applications.
I really enjoyed seeing how techniques I had been using in a real situation.
I enjoyed this module enough that I would go on to do a PhD in this topic!
Manjot Chana (BEng in Applied Engineering (Product Creation), 2019) is a Technical Director at Stinger , a global business that specialises in aftermarket automotive products.
The opportunity to fulfil his degree apprenticeship stemmed from his role at Jaguar Land Rover.
Explore how his experience at Warwick, driven by a deep passion for engineering, has shaped his career and personal growth.
Antonio Abella, a graduate of WMG, University of Warwick ( MSc in Engineering Business Management , 2017), is the Director of Operations and Innovation at Ventos Metódicos .
The company specialises in waste management and produces environmentally friendly products transforming decommissioned wind turbines into high-end custom furniture.
Learn about Antonia’s time at Warwick and how it has shaped his successful career.
Maths was by far my favourite subject, so studying it at university was a natural choice.
I wanted a university which had a fast pace, a broad range of choices, and offered the flexibility to either stay in academia or transition into industry.
Warwick excels at all of these, so was my top choice.
Christine works as a gallery tour guide, librarian, and researcher at Compton Verney Art Gallery, where their research on a 16th-century altarpiece is currently exhibited.
Motivated by the discovery and sharing of new knowledge, Christine also gives talks on various historical subjects and volunteers at local museums and archives, drawing inspiration from their enriching experience as a mature student at Warwick.
I developed good communication skills during Warwick in Africa when I taught Maths (and Italian and ballet!) to classes of up to 50 children in Ghana.
Likewise, talking about my independent projects in oral assessments in front of lecturers and course mates developed my communication skills and my ability to throw myself into something I found daunting.
Clive's curiosity and drive to learn continue to motivate him, a trait fostered during his time at Warwick, which taught him critical thinking and presentation skills.
Mathematics was the only subject I enjoyed in school and found that calculus and probability really interested me because of how we could understand and explain real world phenomena.
This motivated me to delve deeper into what maths has to offer, along with how it's applied!
In the past 12 months Warwick alumni have been generous with their time and knowledge.
We look back at some of the ways alumni have been actively getting involved and making an impact over the last year.
During both my MSc and PhD at Warwick, I had several opportunities to communicate research to a range of audiences - some academics, some domain experts from industrial partners, some other students.
This is something I am glad I started practicing early, as when I then moved into industry, I was already equipped to talk about science in a range of different ways depending on who the audience was, and what was most relevant to them.
Whilst the second-year essay and final year project were good opportunities to hone my communication skills, I found working on weekly assignments with other students equally helpful.
Knowing a solution isn't the same as being able to explain it or teach someone!
A trinity of Warwick Business School graduates have made it to a global list of change makers who are still under the age of 30.
Max Klymenko, Carlo Fedeli and Jasmine Yeo have all been honoured in the Forbes 30 under 30 Europe List for 2024 .
Published annually by the US business magazine, Forbes , the list features young entrepreneurs and creatives who, in one way or another, are transforming the face of business and society.
Warwick, chosen by Whitleigh for its prestigious status, led her to her current role in children's services, where she focuses on complex cases encompassing exploitation, drug use, and mental health, fueled by her aspiration to enhance her mental health knowledge.
Archit's decision to attend Warwick stemmed from its esteemed reputation and vibrant campus community, influenced by interactions with Warwick Ambassadors during his International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme in Mumbai.
Now, as a Software License Compliance Consultant at Deloitte UK, his drive comes from a larger vision of making a positive impact and running his own business, shaped by his time at Warwick and supported by family and friends.
With its vibrant academic atmosphere and campus-based lifestyle, Warwick fostered a strong faculty connection and immersive student experience.
Now pursuing a DPhil in Area Studies at Oxford, Kefan’s journey, influenced by Warwick's supportive community, extends from undergraduate studies to impactful research on social topics across the world, reflecting a commitment to social change and gratitude for formative experiences.
Rumbie's decision to choose Warwick stemmed from her desire to advance her career and academic pursuits after six years in education.
As a senior law lecturer now, she finds fulfilment in contributing to the progress of those she encounters.
Rumbie attributes much of her growth and teaching approach to the mentorship she received at Warwick, cherishing the vibrant community and lasting friendships formed during her time there.
Graduating from Warwick in 2021 with a degree in Philosophy, Jake began his career teaching English in Thailand before returning to the UK for a role in business consulting.
After a brief stint in project management, his drive for adventure led him to Shenzhen, China, where he now teaches English and explores entrepreneurial ventures in exporting and recruitment.
Warwick’s reputation has been key in opening doors throughout his career.
David Curwen (BA History 1985) was inspired during his time at Warwick to pursue a career in Law .
H e is now devoted to helping people who struggle with legal problems to help mak e a positive impact o n their li ves .
From halls of residence to sports clubs and course crossovers to blind dates, so many of you have found love on Warwick campus.
When we posted on Facebook asking for your love stories you didn’t disappoint, and we’re delighted to share them.
Anita Chagar (BA English Literature, 2015), Samita Sall (Ba History, 2018) and Kerry Flora (BA French with Spanish, 2022) are all cousins and Warwick alumnae.
We caught up with them to talk to them about their time on campus, their favourite memories from their time here and what they’re doing now.
The Warwick Summer School (WSS) is a three-week experience for university students and professionals from around the world to discover (or rediscover!) the magic of Warwick, through a full academic and exciting social and cultural programme.
With participants joining from more than 62 different nationalities, one of the main highlights for attendees is having the opportunity to learn and share insights with people from across the globe, as well as creating lifelong friendships with like-minded people.
Growing up in Coventry it was always a dream of Azzedine Dabo (MSc Analytical Science, 2013; PhD Chemistry, 2019) to study at Warwick.
Now working as the scientific lead of GlaxoSmithKline’s (GSK) Method Innovation Team, Azzedine shares the importance of giving young people exposure to university life through outreach programmes like the one he has created at GSK.
From medicine to mentorship, Dr Gabriela Barzyk (MBChB, 2022), discusses her career as a junior doctor and her passion for creating equal educational opportunities for all.
Two Warwick alumni have scooped the win at th e StudyUK Awards that cel ebrates UK higher education and achievements of alumni across the world.
"I'm running the London Marathon in memory of my brother (Matt), who took his own life earlier this year.
He was only 29 years old.
Matt had battled with his mental health for the majority of his adult life."
Benjamin Nuga (BA French with Chinese, 2022), has already diversified his skill set by working as a production assistant, scriptwriter, and musician and he’s also been a contestant on Countdown.
Having only graduated in 2022, his achievements are centered around his willingness to step outside his comfort zone.
Anittah Owomugisha (MSc Engineering Business Management, 2023) a Chevening scholar now working as an Electrical Design Engineer at SSE plc, shares her journey, shaped by the supportive Warwick community.
It was the Warwick connections, from faculty to peers, that played a pivotal role in propelling the start of her career.
Meet alumna, Lu Sun (MSc Statistics, 2008), who's successfully juggling a career in AI with her newfound passion for gin.
We caught up with Lu to learn more about her unique career journey from an early start in cognitive AI to launching her own gin brand inspired by her family’s roots.
Now working at the cutting edge of science and technology, Emma Arandjelovic (BSc Computer Science, 2002) looks back at her time at Warwick and how it was key to succeeding in a male-dominated industry.
Theatre company, Speakbeast, is made up of Warwick alumni and students who are interested in creating original theatre that focuses on queerness, transness, and what it means to be human in a mechanised world.
They’ve been shortlisted for the Untapped 2024 award and will be taking their debut show, The Freemartin, to Edinburgh Fringe Festival 2024.
Theatre and Performance Studies students were able to hear from alumni Zoe Templeman-Young (BA Theatre and Performance Studies, 2013) and CJ Webley (BA Theatre and Performance Studies, 2015) at a careers event in January.
Friendship, warmth, fun, and connections were the foundations that encouraged Puri Ragini (BA History and Politics, 2020) to head to Warwick and build a successful career in the social sector.
Teacher Edward Dubavin (BA English Language and Linguistics, 2020) looks back at his time at Warwick and how it fuelled his passion for research that still continues.
From studying abroad in Copenhagen to focusing on the role the NHS has in tackling inactivity, Tom Underwood (BA Language, Culture and Communication, 2019) tells us about his time at Warwick and why he wants to improve the world for people.
Self-described people person, Sabrina Luca (BA Language, Culture and Communications, 2020) was exposed to the mechanisms of intercultural communication and interpersonal relations at Warwick, which now has a massive impact on the work she does in Communications for the Tech Industry.
Could your organisation benefit from some fresh perspectives and additional skills?
Could you offer a Life Sciences Masters student a placement year?
This January, we’ve enjoyed celebrating the achievements of thousands of graduates and graduands on campus.
It’s been a pleasure to welcome and celebrate both new and returning members of the alumni community.
Take a look at our graduation speakers
Adrian Richards (BA Politics and International Studies, 2018) always knew Warwick was where he was meant to study, and it's taken him on a career path that's as global and diverse as his time on campus.
Huge congratulations to a host of Warwick alumni who have received awards as part of the 2024 Kings New Year’s Honours .
The list marks the achievements and service of extraordinary people across the UK.
"Currently I work as a Senior Technical Lead for HCL attached to Deutsche Bank (DB).
It’s an exciting job as my workstream deals with authentication and end user computing for DB.
Since Cloud is the way of the future, I find this extremely relevant to the tech world we are living in.
Everything is now being stored in the cloud or having back up in the cloud.
I have also released my second volume of short stories titled Son of The Soil and Other Stories, which can be purchased from Amazon ."
For Michael Ojetunde (BA French and Economics, 2022) , opting to study a language was always part of a grander plan.
A chance meeting at Coventry Station led Sheena Harvey to a successful 40-year career in journalism.
Those early years on the University’s newsletter created incredible memories for Sheena (BA Comparative American Studies, 1977), and paved the way for decades of writing and editing on magazines found in homes all over the UK.
A wrap-up of the year for the Department of History from Professor Tim Lockley MBE
28 November marked a jubilant day for Professor David Greenwood, CEO of the High-Value Manufacturing Catapult and Director for Industrial Engagement at WMG .
In a special ceremony in London, he was formally admitted to the Royal Academy of Engineering .
The event was a celebration of his outstanding contributions to the field of engineering .
A fter he signed the Roll Book to officially join the Fellowship, he was graciously welcomed by Her Royal Highness, The Princess Royal—a Royal Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
Disha Naik (MEng Mechanical Engineering (with Intercalated Year), 2020), is revving up the world of motorsports.
Her head start came from Warwick Racing , a student-run motorsport project team, delivered by WMG as a group project in collaboration with the School of Engineering .
Here she pursued her passion for motorsports and helped break down diversity barriers.
Earlier this year, alumna and activist Jo Todd (BA English and European Literature, 1990) received a CBE in recognition of 30+ years’ service to the victims of domestic abuse.
From volunteering at a refuge in the outskirts of London, to more than 20 years as CEO of Respect - the pioneering charity tackling the root of the problem - Jo has dedicated her life to making a positive difference.
And she’s not finished yet.
If you enjoy Ukrainian cuisine, you may own a copy of Olia Hercules’ (BA Italian and International Studies, 2006) recipe books.
But, you may be surprised to hear that Olia’s journey started not in the kitchen, but in the corridors of Warwick.
The Chemistry with Scientific Writing course is a great opportunity that provides a flexible platform to hone both your chemistry and scientific communication skills.
I loved the supportive environment provided by Warwick and everyone was very friendly and welcoming.
I would 100% recommend it!
What particularly appeals to me is the opportunity to gain first-hand experience within the BBC, immersing myself in the workings of broadcast media.
With nearly a decade in the British Army including tours of Bosnia, Kosovo and Afghanistan before coming to Warwick, Lee Kemp (BA Film with Television Studies, 2007) had an unusual path to his degree.
But it was a simple truth that made his decision.
After a long career in public relations, Dianne Page (Dipl History of Art, 2007; MA History of Art, 2009) took the plunge to pursue her passion for the arts via Warwick.
Now with three novels under her belt and a fourth in the works, Dianne reflects on the milestones that got her here.
Growing up in n orthwest London, Kaya Patel ( BA Film and Literature Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window , 2020 ) considered universities around the UK .
But she chose to move to the Midlands for her undergrad uate experience because she trusted her intuition .
What happens when you have no choice but to flee your home and leave all you know behind?
Can you ever utilise your experiences and turn them into opportunities for others?
When Attal Shams’ journey of conflict, displacement, and resilience became the focus of his dissertation, he didn’t think anyone would be interested.
But now, those experiences have become the driving force to him making a real difference to others.
Recent graduate Carolina Sagardoy Saavedra (BA History of Art , 2019) always knew she had a passion for fine art.
She turned that passion into a reality – graduating from Warwick and moving to New York to study a Masters’ degree in Art Business at the world-renowned Sotheby’s Institute of Art.
Today, she uses the knowledge she gained at Warwick to help art be bought and sold across the world.
In a world of uncertainty, where climate change looms large, the role of scientists becomes crucial.
Whether the climate is changing or not, it is the responsibility of scientists to determine the truth.
As individuals, we also have a role to play in shaping our future and making a positive impact on our lives and the lives of others.
The ASI course at Warwick provides an excellent learning experience, where classroom lectures are seamlessly interconnected with hands-on experience with modern instrumentation techniques.
The cohort-based learning style, guest lectures, and research seminars throughout the year really fuel curiosity and innovative thinking.
"I work as the Department General Manager of the Special Assets Business at Beijing International Trust Company."
The level of support and encouragement from both the academic and administrative staff alongside your cohort's is an invaluable part of this MSc AS&I course, which stretches the mind and any preconceived limitations
"My history book is published!
Fighting Vichy From Horseback: British mounted cavalry in action, Syria 1941.
For those interested in military history - and in particular highly niche military history, look no further than this story of 7,800 horses and their riders in World War II."
"My book, Memorable Loss, is being released on 11 July 2023.
I began it whilst writing in Prof Andrew Williams' non-fiction class, and developed it in the Memory Studies unit with Prof Alison Ribeiro de Menezes.
Following encouragement from Alison, I was fortunate enough to be mentored by Prof Maureen Freely for a year, whilst I concentrated on crafting my book."
What makes a good communicator?
We may think we know, but how many of us really excel when communicating?
A successful career in sales and marketing led Tim Pollard (MBA, 2003) to a career-defining curiosity where he sought to understand and capture the underlying “science” behind communication.
"I have been awarded the Bram Stoker Lifetime Achievement Award for my outstanding contribution to horror fiction.
The Bram Stoker Lifetime Achievement Award is the most prestigious recognition in the horror genre.
It is presented to individuals who have made significant and sustained contributions to the horror genre throughout their careers.
Previous recipients include Stephen King, Christopher Lee, Peter Straub, Koji Suzuki, Robert McCammon, Ray Bradbury, and Anne Rice."
Making a difference is what drives Kate Frost (BSc Management Sciences, 1997).
She left her financial career to pioneer a charity that turns pennies into pounds to make a big impact.
For more than half a century, Warwick has forged a deep relationship with the city.
The Faculty of Arts has taught generations of our students during their Venice terms.
Since 2007, we have had a physical base in the Palazzo Pesaro Papafava.
From May 2023, our undergraduates, postgraduates and staff will have a new base - a wonderful late 17th century building in Palazzo Giustinian Lolin, right on the Grand Canal of Venice.
As we get ready to open the building, we would love to share some alumni memories of studying in Venice over the years.
There is so much exciting research being done by the academics in the Physics departments that there was lots of groups to choose from when it came to picking a research topic.
We caught up with Dr Kimberley Thomas (BA History 2010, MA History 2011, PhD Caribbean Studies, 2020) to talk about her time at Warwick, ahead of her return to deliver a Caribbean seminar series.
Features writer and editor for The Boar , Vice President of Warwick HisSoc and Deputy Editor of Warwick Politics Society’s Perspectives, alumna Celia Bergin (BA History and Politics , 2022) certainly made the most of her time at Warwick.
Graduating with a first-class degree, she jumped straight into the world of journalism.
Now working as a reporter for Bloomberg News, Celia reflects on how these experiences helped her get there.
Journalist, author, higher education professional, proof-reader, and editor Annette Rubery (PhD English and Comparative Literary Studies, 1999) has spent the 30-plus years since graduating honing her editorial and marketing skillset.
Balraj Dhingra (BA Philosophy, Politics and Economics, 2019) had knew sport would play a huge part of his time at Warwick.
From meeting lifelong friends to lifting the 2019 Varsity Cup and becoming SU Sports Officer, his experiences helped him score his current role leading sport at UCL.
For Vera Okojie (BA Philosophy, 2020) choosing to come to study at Warwick was a decision made all the easier by our impressive alumni community.
When Jo Walker (BA Theatre and Performance Studies, 2020) first met Vikram Grover (BA English and Theatre Studies, 2021) it was their mutual love of the theatre and performance that built a firm friendship.
Working to establish BAME Creatives, a society dedicated to diversifying theatre at Warwick, they found themselves falling in love.
Four years later they’ re still together and working in an industry that came to life through their time at Warwick.
From never running a long-distance race in his life to becoming New York’s fastest runner in his age group, David Hill (BSc Mathematics, 1978) garnered a brand-new hobby that he didn't expect to excel at.
All thanks to a catch up meeting and drink with a fellow Warwick alum and friend, Piers.
"I look back on my time at university with fondness.
As a blind person, I had extra challenges, but I found Warwick to be a friendly and supportive environment.
There was a group of volunteers who read course material onto tape for me so it was accessible to me, and extra power points and bookshelves were put in my room, the former for the electronic equipment with synthetic speech I used to write essays on, and the latter for some braille books, which are a lot bigger and bulkier than print books.
I'm grateful to the university for organising those things."
"I am delighted to announce that my debut book 'Drop the Fake Smile: the Recovering People Pleaser's Guide to Self-Love, Boundaries and Healthy Relationships' was published in September 2023 by Conscious Dreams Publishing."
Postgraduate, multilingual translator and communications specialist - languages alumnus Dom Johnson has been busy since leaving Warwick in 2019.
After almost three years working in Geneva as a translator for Swiss Federal Railways and Swiss Post, Dom ( BA Modern Languages, 2018; MA Translation and Cultures , 2019) swapped proofreading for politics, moving back to the UK after securing a role as a Communications Officer for the Green Party of England and Wales.
First-class Classics graduate and Senior Policy Advisor, Dillon Patel (BA Ancient History and Classical Archaeology, 2017) shares how Warwick shaped his thinking, the power of soft skills, and how the past isn’t so dissimilar from the present day.
Strategic innovation and sustainability specialist, Ganesh Malani (MSc Innovation and Entrepreneurship, 2019) epitomises the wave of young, dynamic Warwick alumni focusing on strategic and sustainable innovation in Mumbai, India.
Discover how his entrepreneurial journey started at a young age and how his passion for innovation is having a positive impact on a diverse range of communities across India.
Philanthropist, published author, and engineer, Dr Nick Donofrio (Hon Doctor of Science, 2002), spent 44 years at IBM including as Executive Vice President of Innovation and Technology, leading numerous transformational strategies and initiatives across the company.
A trip to Ghana through Warwick in Africa prompted alumna, Soumya Dabriwal (BSc Economics, 2016), to make a difference and set up Project Baala to trans form menstrual health and hygiene practises for women and girls in rural areas in India
First class graduate Fay Inverarity (BA German Studies, 2021; MA Translation and Cultures, 2022) is translating her academic passions into a budding career after securing a place on Barclays’ Retail Banking Graduate Scheme.
After being featured on Powerful Media’s Future Leaders 2022/3 list, which recognises 150 of Britain’s most outstanding Black university students, recent graduate Giulio Aguigwo (BA Philosophy, Politics and Economics, 2022) reflects on his Warwick experience.
We’re proud to count Tilly, the Springer Spaniel, as an honorary member of the Warwick alumni community, as she and her owner, Alison Pigdon offer a helping paw to students through their wellbeing visits with charity, Pets as Therapy.
You’ve worked your way up the corporate ladder since graduating, you have a secure job that takes you all over the world, then out of the blue a colleague asks you if you want to start a business together.
He doesn’t have an idea, but he had a dream he wanted you as a business partner.
Would you take the risk?
Alumnus Jinesh Vohra did.
Ruth Ntumba (BA History, 2021) has spent her first 18 months since graduating helping drive engagement and culture at one of the world’s leading media corporations, Warner Brothers Discovery.
Ruth shares why you should go at your own pace and trust your gut instinct when searching for your next role.
Superstar screenwriter.
Matcha maniac.
Intern turned international TV writer.
Cat lover.
Origin originator.
Warwick alumna.
These are just some of the phrases that describe English graduate and one of the world’s youngest showrunners, Mika Watkins.
What do a golden retriever called Bowie, women’s rights in history and a start-up supporting later living have in common?
They all set arts alumna and marketing expert Harriet Stanger’s (BA History, 2016) heart on fire.
A veteran of the City of London, Chris Wheeler (MA Modern History, 2021) spent more than 40 years in banking, working, and travelling across the globe.
But he swapped investment banking for US antebellum history and Irish diaspora and fulfilled his childhood dream when he began furthering his education journey, first studying History at the University of Oxford before completing an MA in Modern History at Warwick.
Chris embarked on his PhD at the University of Edinburgh in September 2022.
BA English and Theatre Studies alumna Vinitaraj Aulak may have only graduated in 2021, but she wasted no time chasing her dreams and securing a radio presenter role on BBC Asian Network.
Here she shares how her undergraduate degree taught her to break the mould and follow her passions.
A big thank you to our returning alumni graduation speakers, and a huge congratulations and welcome also to our winter 2023 honorary degree and special award recipients and newest members of our alumni community.
To find out more about our honorary graduates here .
Congratulations to the King’s New Year’s Honours recipients from our Warwick community.
Thinking studying languages would progress his scientific career, Tim Heenan (BA European Studies, 2015; MA French Studies, 2020) undertook two degrees at Warwick.
He didn’t know those lessons would pay dividends for years to come.
At 71, Tim’s putting his research skills to good use and supporting his local community – and he’s not planning on slowing down.
#TeamWarwick kicks off in February and we want to hear from you!
Were you part of a sports club or team whilst at Warwick?
Did you compete or simply join in for fun?
Did your sporting interests at Warwick influence or impact your career?
If so, tell us the story, share the memory and send us a photo – so we can help celebrate the impact of sport at Warwick and on our lives.
Ping (pong) us an email now
Named as one of Powerful Media's 2022/23 Future Leaders and a semi-finalist in targetjobs Black Heritage Undergraduate of the Year Awards, Nosa Charles-Novia ( BA Film and Literature , 2022) is currently an MA in Writing student and film-critic intern.
Here she tells us about her degree and why that little voice in your head is your most powerful weapon.
Richard Swann (MBA, 2004) explains how there are many attributes and ways of working that contribute to a successful and fulfilling career and how your career path needn’t be determined by your degree or first job.
Anish Agarwal (MEng Manufacturing and Mechanical Engineering, 2011) is an entrepreneur in the automotive and manufacturing space with a passion for technology and engineering innovation.
Anish discusses how his experiences of studying and working around the world have shaped his own career, including his time with the family business Sterling Tools and involvement in several exciting automotive startups including Sheeva.AI.
"I miss the fun we had when we were students at Warwick- turning up to lectures dripping wet after water fights in the summer.
I remember Rag Week- students being followed by other students dressed as giant gnomes!"
An education at Warwick doesn't just set you up for a particular career path, some alumni find their passions outside of the lecture theatre.
Immi Kelly (BA Education Studies, 2020) discovered her love of baking while looking for a distraction during lockdown when she was studying for her exams.
Her skill and passion for baking soon led her to set up Immi Bakes, which she runs full time and is currently in the process of baking 22,000 cookies for Telford's Polar Express.
For Classics alumna Katharine Broderick (BA Classical Civilisation, 2021, MA by Research Classics and Ancient History, 2022), 2022 started and ended on a high.
From having successfully produced Bacchae for the Warwick Ancient Drama Festival earlier in January to submitting the final assignment for her Master's degree, Katharine reflects on her time at Warwick and the relevance of Ancient Greek plays in modern society.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/events:
Whether you were part of the first cohort in 1965 or graduated within the last year, Warwick is ready to welcome you back to campus.
The Connecting the Social Sciences Webinar Series brings leading figures from different fields to the Faculty of Social Sciences to speak on topics of relevance and show application in practice.
This second webinar showcases Warwick alum and COLAT CEO Mark Emmerson, with City Academy, Hackney Principal Anna Sarchet as they speak about embedding and implementing a SEND-first approach in school and across the Trust.
Please register HERE
Any questions, please get in touch with us via ssc@warwick.ac.uk
Hosted by Warwick Medical School: Professor Mark Britnell Global Business School for Health at University College London & Rotman School of Management, University of Toronto
This lecture will focus on the global shortage of healthcare workers and how it relates to the NHS Plan, especially digital technologies and AI.
The lecture will also be streamed on Microsoft teams.
For more information and to register click here .
For the first time in our 60-year history, we’re inviting all alumni back to campus for a special reunion on Saturday 22 November.
Find out more and register now here .
With expert panels and topical discussions, our webinars dive into Warwick's expertise and how it's shaping the world around us.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/joinus:
Warwick is spending £1.2 billion to get ready for the breakthroughs and discoveries that will advance human welfare in the second half of the 21 st Century.
We’re building a community like no other with our alumni and friends and we want you to be part of our plans.
Development and Alumni Engagement is growing: between 2023 and 2026 we will recruit 65 new team members.
We've recently been recognised in the 2024 Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE) Circle of Excellence Awards winning a Best in Europe Award in the ‘Leadership/Talent Management’ category as a result of our innovative approach to recruitment and retention.
In addition to the Higher Education and charity sectors, we’re keen on people with lateral experiences, so if you’ve held roles in hospitality, sales, estate agencies or similar, we may be your next career move.
We work with the biggest philanthropists in the world (Principal Gifts), establish lifelong relationships (Alumni Engagement), and ensure donors have the best experiences possible (Donor Relations), to name only a few of our teams.
At Warwick, all of our teams are growing, and we’d be delighted to hear from you (even if you just fancy a chat).
We think meeting our kind and friendly team is one of the best reasons you should join us, so on these pages you’ll find some of their stories and get a sense of our culture.
We can’t wait to hear from you!
View all our current opportunities and register for job alerts.
Hear from some of the team and why we think you will love working with us.
Warwick is a fantastic place to work with plenty of perks.
Get to know a little more about the people you will be working with.
We've an outstanding track record of engaging Warwick's global alumni community.
Find out more about Warwick and hear from team members on what makes Warwick special to them.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/joinus/work:
Born in the 60s with a mindset of boldness, imagination and collaboration, the University of Warwick is a world-leading research-intensive university with the highest academic and research standards.
You’ll be joining a diverse, innovative and globally connected community committed to igniting real world progress.
Here at Warwick, we offer you opportunities to follow your ambitions as long as you bring the energy and determination to succeed.
What will you get in return?
·Free eye care vouchers
·Preferred rates for a dental plans
·Enrolment onto the Employee Assistance Programme, a complete support network that offers expert advice and guidance 24/7
You’ll find our beautiful campus in the heart of the UK, just three miles from Coventry city centre, and not far from Kenilworth, Warwick and Leamington Spa.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/joinus/vacancies:
For informal enquiries, please contact Rebecca Buckingham (Head of Campaign Planning and Performance) rebecca.buckingham@warwick.ac.uk
The role is responsible for philanthropic proposition development on behalf of the Development and Alumni Engagement at Warwick.
The role is also responsible for equipping colleagues in the Development and Alumni Engagement team, key external volunteers, and relevant internal University departments with the appropriate materials, knowledge and training needed to effectively convey a culture of philanthropy, as well as the University’s philanthropic priorities and budget, to both internal and external audiences.
The role will monitor the external environment for emerging trends that may have potential application for the University of Warwick’s philanthropic priorities or supporter engagement, along with maintaining a view of the wider Higher Education sector to guide and build best practice around project development, proposal writing and communications.
This role will require political self-awareness and the capacity for problem-solving through lateral thinking.
The successful candidate will play an active role in enabling the University of Warwick secure significant philanthropic gifts by developing high-value, large-scale project propositions, to enable the Development and Alumni Engagement team (DAE) to secure long-term transformational donations and diversify the pool of individuals and organisations giving to Warwick.
This includes enabling fair and consistent assessment of fundraising priorities from across the Institution, managing and contributing to the production of compelling cases for support, and bespoke fundraising proposals, that accurately represent philanthropic priorities and donor led projects, including their costings.
The role will be carried out in collaboration with the Senior Fundraising Writer, Senior Donor Relations Manager and the Philanthropic Finance Manager.
The post holder will be expected to work on multiple projects simultaneously.
Where required, support the initiation of project planning for any associated fundraising campaign working with experts across the team.
For further information regarding the skills required for this role please see the personal specification section of the attached job description.
CLOSING DATE: Thursday 28th August 2025 at 23:55 (BST)
INTERVIEW DATE: Friday 12th September 2025

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/joinus/daeteam:
Climate change, pandemic research, conflict resolution, designing sustainable materials and environments – identifying solutions for these problems is the challenge for the second half of the 21st century.
Warwick’s researchers are world leaders in all of these areas, and philanthropy and alumni support are vital to empowering them to solve global challenges.
Join us and you’ll be helping young people from less represented backgrounds thrive at university, engaging our alumni community to support current students and generating support for truly brilliant research.
We’re looking for stand-out individuals to help us drive our ambitious fundraising plans as well as helping us build long lasting relationships with our excellent alumni and supporter community.
I hope these pages give you a real feel for the energy within our Development and Alumni Engagement team.
If you’re looking for a role where you will directly make a difference to people’s lives, we look forward to meeting you.
Matt Ferguson, Director of Development and Alumni Engagement
We’re very excited as we enter the early planning stages of a new major philanthropic campaign, which will significantly scale the ambition for the University’s fundraising and engagement activity.
As a team, we have a major role to play in helping break down barriers to education and advancing research addressing some of our planet’s biggest challenges.
The University of Warwick is investing in our team and over the next three years, our team will be doubling in size.
There will be positions in all areas of Philanthropy, Alumni Engagement and Development Services at all levels.
Ed tells why after 18 years working as a sales executive for a UK car company, he joined the team, and how his career has progressed in the last 12 months.
Sara talks about why she thinks Warwick is a kind employer.
Rachel is responsible for creating, managing and ensuring the smooth running of a range of alumni events across the UK and the world.
We’ve always believed in the power of bringing together different kinds of people, with different life experiences, different backgrounds and different ways of thinking.
We want to build a diverse, inclusive and dynamic team.
We’re seeking talented applicants who bring a range of skills and come from a variety of different backgrounds.
We welcome experienced professionals and support and train those who want to transition from other careers.
We welcome and embrace diversity and offer work flexibility.
Alicia is studying part-time for a degree alongside her full-time job with the team.
She talks about her experience of career development.
Matt talks about his vision for the campaign project.
He talks about his role within the university and how family friendly Warwick is as an employer.
Rosalyn relocated from the US to join our team in the UK.
She talks about her experience and where she chose to live.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/joinus/team:
On this page, you can find out a little more about some of our team members including their roles, what their working day involves and what they most enjoy about working at Warwick.
About me: Throughout my life, I’ve enjoyed the positivity that comes from meeting new people and finding out what motivates them.
Having worked in the motor industry most of life I decided to take a leap into a different sector.
In joining the University, I wanted to be part of a culture committed to making a difference and use all the skills I have developed in my previous role in a new and positive way.
Outside of work, I’m kept busy being a taxi driver to my two children and I love of all sports, particularly Golf, NFL (Chicago Bears) and Football (Aston Villa).
My role: I encourage global support of our many projects from Warwick alumni and friends of the university.
My role is to find a match between their interests and a specific programme.
My working day involves: Exploring the culture, history, and objectives of Warwick, helping to develop the huge number of projects and programmes that the University has to offer, encouraging and establishing where philanthropic support is required.
This involves collaborating with colleagues, academics, students, and university staff on topics which differ from day to day and sharing this information with potential donors.
The project I’ve most enjoyed working on: I’m particularly motivated by projects that really make a difference to people’s lives and continue to give young people opportunities to succeed in education where otherwise there would have been barriers.
Fun fact: I can solve a Rubik’s Cube in under 2 minutes!
Not quite a world record but I’m proud of it!
About me: I love all things content and engagement and enjoy telling stories that truly engage an audience.
My role: I manage our programme of alumni engagement, encompassing all the many ways in which former students can stay connected to Warwick for life.
My working day involves: Anything from planning how our many amazing alumni can help to support students, to finding out about our incredible research to make sure we can spread the word.
The project I’ve most enjoyed working on: I’d like all of our alumni community around the world to stay engaged with the University, wherever they go and whatever they do.
And for our students to start thinking of themselves as ‘future alumni’ from the moment they receive their offer from Warwick.
What I most enjoy about working at Warwick: The appetite to really drive change for global good.
Fun fact: The collective noun for a group of orangutans is a buffoonery.
About me: Hi, I’m Vicky!
I love to travel and explore new places, as well as going to see live music and comedy and getting out and about with my cockapoo, Ginny!
I joined Warwick in 2022, after previously working in the charity sector.
It was a learning curve coming to such a huge organisation but everyone I’ve met is so friendly and willing to help.
My Role: In my role, I work with alumni from several the University’s SEM departments to keep them engaged and connected to the University and to help them achieve the aims they have in terms of giving their time to support future students or the Uni’s projects.
My working Day involves: It’s hard to pin down what a single day in the role looks like but it’s a combination of the following and more - speaking to alumni to learn more about their journey and what they enjoy or are interested in, supporting alumni events, meeting with department contacts to strengthen working relationships, thinking creatively to enhance our offer to alumni, sourcing speakers for events.
The project I’ve enjoyed working on: I really enjoy working on graduations whenever they come round.
The vibe on campus is so joyful and it’s a treat to bring alumni back to campus during this time and to have them share their wisdom at the ceremonies.
What I enjoy about my working day: It’s such a varied role (as you can see above!) and a pleasure to get to know our alumni who have gone on to do some truly amazing things since their time at Warwick.
I also enjoy when the ‘match making’ between alumni and opportunities comes to fruition, it’s incredibly rewarding!
Fun Fact: Otters hold hands when sleeping to avoid drifting away from one another – it also helps them with flotation and energy conservation!
About me: I’m friendly and hardworking, I always do my best to achieve a positive outcome and support the team to achieve ambitious goals.
My role: I lead the Alumni, Events, Prospect Research, Data Management, Finance and Gift Admin teams.
We’re also responsible for Development Operations and ensuring departmental compliance with the Fundraising Regulator, Information Security and Financial Regulations.
I work closely with institutional stakeholders to ensure we are joined up with our academic and professional services colleagues.
My working day involves: Lots of meetings and paperwork, with time for thinking if I’m lucky!
Reviewing priority projects – CRM, alumni events, policy development – giving direction and support to the team to ensure progress and helping to unpick challenges.
Negotiating with funders and stakeholders where needed.
Hearing about our amazing academics, alumni and donors and developing strategies to bring them together.
What I most enjoy about working at Warwick: Working with brilliant people across academic and professional departments, being exposed to a wide variety of projects, being part of an expanding Development and Alumni Engagement function, helping to create a culture of philanthropy.
The project I’ve most enjoyed working on: Developing and implementing the strategy for Development and Alumni Engagement with Matt Ferguson, Director of Development and Natalie Lloyd, Deputy Director of Development (Philanthropy).
Fun fact: I’m a fan of musicals and have been known to break into song mid-meeting if there’s a line that sets me off!

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/joinus/whatwedo:
The University of Warwick is globally recognised for our research, teaching and innovation.
As one of the UK's top ten universities and one of the top 100 in the world, Warwick is a place of possibility.
Our 2030 mission develops on our founding values: excellence with purpose in all that we do.
We believe that through education and research, we can change our world.
Philanthropy and the support of alumni who share our passion enables us to advance and to thrive.
Making a difference: We are Ambitious to Make a Difference
Collaboration: We Collaborate to Achieve Together
Solution focussed: We are Accountable for Creating Solutions
Passion for learning: We Learn from our Best Performances
Warwick is the youngest university in the Russell Group, but we’re right up there with institutions established up to 900 years ago.
And we’re the only UK university never to have fallen from the top ten since achieving our place there.
If you have a passion for making a difference, there’s a place for you here.
Our donor community creates lasting value in society and the economy through supporting students, research, and facilities at Warwick.
Children’s health, astronomy, sustainability, and fair access to education are just some of the areas where philanthropy is making an impact.
Our global ambition is to attract the world’s best thinkers and locate them in the most effective facilities.
We’re planning an ambitious new fundraising campaign that will support this.
If you can inspire and engage others with this vision, please get in touch for a chat.
Natalie Lloyd, Deputy Director of Philanthropy
From only a few hundred people in 1965, our alumni community is now 275,000 strong, diverse, vibrant, and global.
Working with this community presents a unique opportunity to help our graduates play an active and positive role in shaping Warwick’s future.
Collaborating with colleagues across professional services and academic departments, the Alumni Engagement Team focuses on building lifelong relationships that inspire friendship and financial support, strengthen our reputation, and advance our strategic vision.
Andrea Crowley, Deputy Director of Development, Alumni and Supporter Engagement
Find out who you will be working with if you join our team.
As part of the Development and Alumni Engagement Team, you’ll work directly with researchers tackling challenges that affect our world, and worlds beyond this planet.
Thanks to philanthropic support, more research fellows like Dr Lauren Doyle are joining Warwick to study Astrophysics and Astronomy.
Lauren’s research is focused on stars, but she is also involved in outreach work around science, technology, engineering, and maths (STEM).
She says: “As a young girl, I really looked up to people who studied space and astronomy and that fuelled my desire to pursue this type of career.
Giving to Warwick’s research is unlocking the potential for a new generation to discover their passions.
With the speed astronomy has progressed at over the past few years, it’s exciting to think what the next generation of astronomers will discover!”
Find out more about research at Warwick and meet more of our academics at https://warwick.ac.uk/research Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window
Dr Nick Donofrio (Hon Doctor of Science, 2002), spent 44 years at IBM including as Executive Vice President of Innovation and Technology, leading numerous transformational strategies and initiatives across the company.
Now retired, Nick’s focus is on tackling inequality in access to STEM subjects.
His philanthropy created the Pre-School Futures programme at Warwick to encourage more young children to pursue STEM subjects and careers later in life.
“Everyone has their own passion and wants to help society in their own way,” he says.
“Mine is ensuring young people have a fair chance to experience and pursue their dreams in STEM.”
(BSc Management Sciences, 2003)
(BSc Engineering Science, 1969)

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/joinus/lovewarwick:
Find out why from some of the members of our team below.
"My favourite place on campus is new and sparkly - the Interdisciplinary Biomedical Research Building .
Inside incredible research takes place that will advance human health and fight diseases."
Jo Clark , Senior Donor Relations Manager
"I love hearing what Warwick's researchers have been up to.
The Science on the Hill programme is a great series of evening lectures.
Each term some of Warwick's experts give short, informative talks around a different theme."
Susie Carr, Senior Development Manager
"I love the incredible Sports and Wellness Hub .
It is an impressive facility offering a variety of fitness and wellness classes.
Yoga is my favourite and you get to connect with other staff members across the University."
Fiona Hemmings , Events and Alumni Engagement Assistant.
"There's always something going on at Warwick and somewhere new to discover.
Nice walks, sculptures and cafes.
If you're lucky you might even spot Rolf the cat (local celebrity)."
Rose Griffiths , Communications Executive (Alumni and Supporter Engagement)
"The thing I most enjoy about campus is heading over to the Piazza on Food Market Days .
It's a good reason to get away from the office and a chance to experience the Uni buzz."
Dale Chatwin, Information Systems Administrator
"One of my favourite places is the tennis centre .
It is a great facility with 4 indoor and 4 outdoor courts.
You can simply book a court and have a game or sign up for lessons and classes."
Sally Taylor , Information Systems Officer
Eleanor our Senior Philanthropy Manager tells us about her favourite experience on campus.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/contacts:
As you move throughout your career and professional relationships, we're on hand to keep you connected to a global community of more than 280,000 alumni.
The purpose of our team is to keep the conversation flowing between alumni and the University, regardless of what you studied, what your current occupation is and where you live now.
We work closely with departments across Warwick to connect with fellow alumni, current students and your former department.
We are always looking for alumni stories to inspire our current and prospective students who are planning their career paths.
Get in touch with us here .
You may be able to find answers to your query in our frequently asked questions .
We have information about alumni cards, transcripts and replacement certificates.
Your relationship with Warwick is for life.
Stay updated with the latest University news and events by signing up to Warwickgrad or filling in our update form .
To notify us of a complaint, please fill in our complaints form .
Please read our Data Protection statement , if you have any additional queries get in touch with us above.
Please email us via alumni@warwick.ac.uk , use this form or call the team on +4424 7657 4036.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/contacts/faqs:
What benefits do alumni receive?
What is my alumni number?
How can I obtain my alumni card?
How can I renew my alumni card?
Which buildings can I access with my alumni card?
How can I update my contact details?
How do I get a copy of my degree certificate?
How do I get a copy of my transcript?
How do I obtain Proof of Study?
How can I contact someone I have lost touch with?
Can I keep my student email after graduation?
How can I access mentoring?
I can't remember my User ID/password for warwickgrad.net?
Our benefits and services information can be found here
Your alumni number is your old student ID starting with “A” in front.
If you are unsure of your alumni number please email alumni@warwick.ac.uk with your full name and date of birth.
To apply for an alumni card please complete our online form .
To renew your alumni card please complete our renewal form .
The Alumni card allows you to access the Library, Learning Grids on campus and the Sports and Wellness Hub (when you join a Sports membership scheme).
You can update your details at warwickgrad.net , filling out our online form or by emailing dataservices@warwick.ac.uk
Please use this form to request a replacement copy of your award certificate, where your original certificate is lost or stolen.
The University may produce a single replacement copy of your award certificate, with the original certificate cancelled upon issuing a replacement, so please be sure you need to do this.
Replacement certificates are issued with the name that you were known as at the time of your studies.
If your request is linked to a change of name associated with a change of gender/gender identity, please first read our Guide to Being Trans at Warwick.
We now offer electronic certificates for students that graduated from the 1st of January 2009.
For students that graduates between 2009 and April 2021, you will need to meet all of the eligibility requirements to be able to generate your digital certificate/s.
If you obtain an award from May 2021 onwards but do not already have a Gradintelligence account, we will create one for you and you will receive an email inviting you to activate the account once your digital certificate is ready to view.
Please do not register your own account but rather wait for the university to do this on your behalf.
If you did not receive, or have lost, your digital certificate/automated account registration email, please Contact Us to let us know.
If you studied an undergraduate course, and graduated after July 2012, the Higher Education Achievement Report (HEAR) has replaced the previous hard-copy academic transcript.
You can access a digital copy of your transcript by logging into GradIntel .
If you studied a postgraduate course, you can request a copy of your transcript from Student Records by completing their online form .
For proof of study letters you please contact studentreception@warwick.ac.uk .
In your email you will need to include your full name, date of birth and your Warwick Student ID if you know it.
Unfortunately we cannot give out personal information such as postal or email addresses and phone numbers.
However, we do offer a forwarding service through which we can forward your email or letter.
Please contact alumni at warwick dot ac dot uk
Your Warwick student email address will remain valid for one year after your course end date.
Please contact IT Services at helpdesk@warwick.ac.uk for further information.
For any other questions related to graduation, please contact graduation@warwick.ac.uk .
The Warwick Alumni Mentoring Programme is open to all alumni and allows you to become a mentee or a mentor, mutually benefitting from networking and support.
You can register at www.warwickgrad.net where you can create your own profile.
For more information, visit: https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/benefits/warwickgrad/
The WBS Global Mentoring Programme is open to WBS alumni only and enables you to engage as either a mentee or a mentor, creating valuable connections through shared experiences, guidance, and professional networking.
Whether you're interested in giving back by volunteering as a mentor, or looking to enhance your personal or professional development as a mentee, you can register here to get started or email: alumnimentoring@wbs.ac.uk Link opens in a new window
Your user ID is your Alumni ID, this can be found at the end of any email from us and is your student number prefixed with an A, e.g.
A1234567.
You can reset your password by following the instructions at Warwickgrad FAQs .
For further help please email alumni@warwick.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/i-am-warwick:
Discover the brilliant journeys they've been on since graduating and get inspired.
Interesting and successful Warwick Alumni: a human rights lawyer, an entrepreneur, a local politician and social activist, an investment banker, a philanthropic fundraiser, and a successful analyst, share advice for our great new Warwick graduates.
Meet two iconic members of the University of Warwick’s pioneering cohort of 1965 – 1968 graduates, and hear about the visionary evolution of a University steeped in transformative thinking and radical innovation.
English and Theatre Studies alumnus, Michael Punter is a writer of published plays and television series for the BBC, Channel 4, and various theatres.
These include The Dark Wave, Come to me, and The Glad House.
He is also the Director of Theatre Education for CAPA, The Global Education Network in London where he designs, lectures and administers a range of arts courses for US students.
Warwick alumnus, Charles Adeogun Phillips is a human rights lawyer and a former genocide and war crimes prosecutor.
Here he talks about his experiences of studying at Warwick and his work at the UN International Criminal Tribunal.
English and German Literature alumna, Siobhan Benita resigned her position as a senior civil servant in 2012 to run as an independent candidate in the Mayor of London election.
English and Theatre Studies alumnus, Lawrence Till has gone on to direct hundreds of plays, been an Artistic Director of two major regional theatres and produced and directed dramas seen all over the world.
These include Shameless, Mr Selfridge and the Frankenstein Chronicles.
Our alumni drive change in society.
Hear from a leading human rights lawyer, the chief executive of the Lloyds Bank Foundation and a councillor from Coventry City Council discussing their leadership in a global, national and regional setting.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/alumni/privacynotice01:
Use the links below to quickly navigate to the information you are looking for:
We ask that you read this privacy notice carefully as it contains important information on who we are, how and why we collect, store, use and share personal data, your rights in relation to your personal data and on how to contact us and supervisory authorities in the event that you have a query or complaint.
The University of Warwick (“UoW”) is committed to protecting the privacy and security of personal data.
The purpose of this notice is to promote transparency in the use of personal data, and to outline how UoW collects and uses alumni, donor and stakeholder data, in accordance with the UK General Data Protection Regulation 2016 (“UK GDPR”) and the Data Protection Act 2018 (“DPA 2018”).
Furthermore, The Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003 (the “PECR”) also applies as we market by email and phone.
The UoW collects, uses and is responsible for certain personal data about you.
This is known as “processing”.
When we do so we are regulated under the UK GDPR and DPA 2018 which applies across the UK and we are responsible as ‘data controller’ of that personal data for the purposes of those laws.
The purpose of this notice is to explain how the UoW will collect and use (process) your personal data, what rights you have in relation to that data and to provide transparency about the data collected about you.
The UoW is the data controller under the UK GDPR and the DPA 2018 and we will process your personal data in accordance with the UK GDPR and DPA 2018 at all times.
You, as a ‘data subject’, therefore have specific rights to the data that we hold, collect and process.
Throughout this notice, “University”, “we”, “our”, and “us” refer to the UoW; “you” and “your” refer to the alumni, donors and stakeholders of UoW.
If you would like this notice in another format (for example: audio, large print, braille), please contact us (see ‘ How to contact us ’ below).
Development and Alumni Engagement is part of the UoW and supports the universities objectives through engaging with alumni, students, supporters and stakeholders of the University.
We do this by offering a range of academic, social and networking events and by providing access to University library resources, publications and careers advice for graduates.
We also fundraise to support the University’s students, teaching, research and capital projects.
Fundraising is a key part of Development and Alumni Engagement’s work, and we are committed to working in a transparent, ethical, responsible and honest way.
To reflect this commitment, we are a member of the Fundraising Regulator and committed to the Regulator’s Code of Practice.
We value our relationship with you and we use your personal data to ensure we communicate with you in the most appropriate way, to improve our services and to ensure we work efficiently and effectively.
In order to do this, we have a database that contains personal data collected by the University during the course of our relationship with our students, alumni, donors and stakeholders.
As part of our work we process and store personal data on our students, staff, alumni, donors and potential supporters and friends of the University.
We take our data protection responsibilities seriously and ensure that the personal data that we obtain is held, used, transferred and processed in accordance with the applicable data protection laws.
“Personal data” is any information that relates to you.
It can also include expressions of opinions about an individual.
The UoW lawfully processes your personal data under the following circumstances:
We may only process special category [that reveals ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade 03 membership, and the processing of genetic data, biometric data for the purpose of uniquely identifying a natural person, data concerning health or data concerning a natural person’s sex life or sexual orientation] personal data in the following circumstances where, in addition to one of the above a lawful bases for processing, there exists one of the following grounds:
Under the UK GDPR the University considers that the legal basis for processing your personal data, for the purposes of alumni engagement and/or fundraising, is legitimate interests.
The UoW’s core mission is to advance education, knowledge and learning through teaching and research.
Now more than ever, with changes in the way higher education is funded, our students (past, present and future) and our communities, have an expectation that we will work in partnership with them to enable them succeed academically, but also to champion social, cultural and economic growth and secure our future sustainability.
We do this through a variety of teaching, student, research, community and capital projects, which our alumni engagement and fundraising activities are designed to support.
As such, we have a legitimate interest in engaging with our alumni, donors and potential supporters to enable us achieve these goals.
The processing of your data is therefore necessary in order to allow us achieve these goals.
However, we always ensure that we balance these objectives against your rights and freedoms as an individual, by reviewing our activities regularly for compliance with our ethical and legal obligations.
If you do not agree with us processing your data in this way, then you can request that the UoW removes your information and does not process your data for alumni engagement and fundraising related activities.
If this is the case, please consider the below sections on your rights and how to contact us .
We will provide to the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) and/or an organisation acting on its behalf your personal data, including contact details, for the purposes of carrying out surveys on the activities and perspectives of graduates.
Further information can be found in the H ESA privacy notice which explains that the lawful basis of processing your personal data for this purpose is that it is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest.
For alumni, donors and supporters, there are a number of purposes for which we process your data, including careers, mentoring, networking, knowledge refresh and fundraising.
In order for you to receive alumni and fundraising emails and telephone calls to TPS registered numbers, we need your informed consent.
You have the right to withdraw your consent any time.
The personal data we store and process, the majority of which is given to us by our alumni and supporters, may include:
Any other personal information you provide to us during communication with us may be stored in the form of notes for reference purposes.
This may include special category personal data, but only where you provide this to us directly or is already publicly available.
Initially, data about students is transferred into our database from the student record system, in accordance with permission obtained during the Course Registration process and in accordance with Scholarship Funding agreements.
After graduation, many of our alumni choose to manage and update their own details, which you can do online at www.warwickgrad.net .
As such, the vast majority of the information we hold is obtained directly from you; and if you interact with any other departments, divisions, schools or faculties within the University we may receive data from these areas.
We always aim to keep your details up to date, and we will conduct projects to check the contact details we have for you are correct, and, where appropriate, update them.
We also seek new contact details for alumni with whom we are not in contact, to ensure the University can remain in touch with as many of its alumni as possible.
As a result, some of the data may also have been obtained from publicly available sources – for example, we may find a new address for you by using the Royal Mail’s National Change of Address file (NCOA).
We may also use information from publicly available sources to carry out research to assess your inclination and capacity to support the University financially or by volunteering your time.
We may carry out wealth screening, a process which uses trusted third party partners to automate some of this work.
We may use information gathered from the sources listed under ' exactly how we use your data and what data we hold '.
By doing this, we can focus our conversations we have with you about fundraising and volunteering in the most effective way, and ensure that we provide you with an experience as an alumnus, donor or potential donor which is appropriate for you.
Unless you have requested otherwise, your data is accessible to the University, its academic and administrative departments, and processed for a full range of alumni engagement and fundraising purposes.
This is however, subject to restrictions as stated under how we protect your data .
Generally we will communicate with you about the following alumni engagement and fundraising and activities, by post, email, telephone and social media:
The data will also be used to enable communications on behalf of alumni associations, groups and networks, sports and other clubs associated with the University, including the Friends of the University of Warwick in Singapore Trust, the Friends of the University of Warwick in South Africa, and the Friends of Warwick Inc (USA).
You can unsubscribe from our emails at any time or contact us to update your details by emailing dataservices at warwick dot ac dot uk , visiting www.warwickgrad.net or using our online form .
Every term we run a telephone campaign to keep in touch with our alumni and friends, update you on Warwick and raise funds for students and University projects.
The telephone campaigns are done in-house and we do not use external agencies.
Our callers are current UoW students who are paid for their work, which provides them with valuable work experience whilst raising money for the University.
You will always be asked if you are happy to receive a call and to let us know you are up to date details.
If we have to transfer any of your personal data outside the UK we will let you know if the receiving country or organisation is deemed to have adequate data protection provision.
Where a country or organisation does not have adequate protections we will put safeguards in place.
Details of these safeguards can be provided to you upon request to Legal and Compliance Services.
The UoW considers its relationship with alumni, donors and other stakeholders to be life-long, giving you access to certain University services and a vast support network.
We will always try to ensure that the data we hold for you are up to date, reasonable and not excessive.
This means that we will maintain a stakeholder record for you until such time as you notify us that you no longer wish us to keep in touch.
In this instance Development and Alumni Engagement will delete the majority of your personal data it holds, but will maintain basic personal data to ensure we do not inadvertently create a new record in the future.
The table below briefly summarises your rights.
We also recommend the ICO website guidance on your rights for more detail.
If you wish to exercise any of the above rights, please see ‘ how to contact us ’, below.
A key principle of the UK GDPR is that the UoW processes your personal data securely by means of ‘appropriate technical and organisational measures’ – this is the ‘security principle’.
To ensure full compliance the UoW carries out detailed risk analysis, has instituted a number of organisational policies, in addition to physical and technical measures.
Your data is held on a database hosted on a secure server within the University network.
This database is protected by multi-level authentication and access is restricted to individuals who need to see the data to carry out their duties at the University.
The rights of these individuals is also restricted so that only the data that is necessary and required to complete their role is accessible.
All access is reviewed on a regular basis.
Where appropriate, we also take measures such as pseudonymisation to ensure data cannot be used to identify you and/or encryption to ensure that the data cannot be accessed without the right security accesses and codes.
We also have measures to enable data to be restored and accessed in a timely manner in the event of a physical or technical incident.
We also ensures that we have appropriate processes in place to test the effectiveness of our security measures.
None of the processes conducted by Development and Alumni Engagement use fully automated decisions.
Only people make the decisions within Development and Alumni Engagement.
One of the principles in UK GDPR is that personal data should be kept for no longer than is necessary for the purposes for which the personal data are processed (except in certain specific and limited instances).
When it comes to alumni, donors and supporters of the University, we see our relationship with you as a lifelong one, which includes keeping in touch with us and those that you attended with and engaging in a mutually beneficial relationship.
Therefore, information that is kept can be held indefinitely.
Information that we hold on gifts and donations will be retained because of our legal obligations under the HMRC and Charity Commission.
We hope that our Data Protection Officer (DPO) can resolve any query, concern or complaint you raise about our use of your personal data on the contact details below:
The DPO can be contacted via e-mail at infocompliance@warwick.ac.uk
Or write to:
The Data Protection Officer
Legal and Compliance Services University of Warwick University House Kirby Corner Road CV4 8UW
The UK GDPR and DPA 2018 also gives you the right to lodge a complaint with the Information Commissioner who may be contacted at https://ico.org.uk/make-a-complaint/ or telephone: [ 0303 123 1113 ].
If you wish to contact us to unsubscribe from our emails or update your details email dataservices at warwick dot ac dot uk , telephone: +44 (0)24 7657 4036, visit www.warwickgrad.net or use our online form .
Development and Alumni Engagement University of Warwick University House Kirby Corner Road CV4 8UW
This privacy notice was published on 17 May 2018 and last updated on 03 February 2023 .
We may change this privacy notice from time to time in order to reflect changes in the data that we process and how such data is processed.
Where there has been a significant update to the notice we will ensure that members of the alumni, donors and stakeholders are notified of the change via our website and other communications channels.
As mentioned under the basis for processing your data section there are six lawful ways to process your data.
A detailed overview of the information that we collect on you and the purpose for collecting that information is detailed on our webpage of third party suppliers .
We will NEVER sell your data or pass it on to third parties for marketing purposes.
We will only transfer data to third parties who are acting as our agents with a data sharing agreement in place.
Data held by Development and Alumni Engagement is also subject to the University's Website Terms and Conditions and the central University Data Protection Policy .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/news/team:
Members of the press can call +44 (0)7392 125 605 for both 9 - 5 and out of hours enquiries.
The team can be emailed on Turn on JavaScript to view obfuscated email addresses
Katherine Beauchamp
dom.barker@warwick.ac.uk Link opens in a new window
ann.baylis@warwick.ac.uk Link opens in a new window
stevie.connoll@warwick.ac.uk Link opens in a new window
matt.higgs@warwick.ac.uk Link opens in a new window

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/news/faqs:
The Warwick Press Team is here to assist with media enquiries and help University staff share their stories.
Whether you're a journalist looking for expert commentary or a staff member with a story to tell, we’ve got you covered.
On the below FAQs please select the '>>' widget next to the section title to unhide the text so it becomes visible to the screen reader.
Yes, we can provide briefing notes, key messages, and interview guidance.
We don’t provide external event marketing, but if your event has significant media potential, we can discuss possible press opportunities.
We work closely with the University’s internal communications and social media teams so can advise if those channels will work for event promotion.
We assess each request based on its newsworthiness, timing, and media interest.
If suitable, we can help draft and distribute a release.
See our ‘ How to write a press release Link opens in a new window ’ page to get started.
For social media support, contact socialmedia at warwick dot ac dot uk .
Email press at warwick dot ac dot uk or visit our News homepage for specific contacts.
We work with academics and staff to share Warwick’s research, expertise, and key announcements with the media.
Contact the Press Team immediately – we can advise on the best approach.
Yes, we can help with messaging, preparation, and connecting with relevant media.
For internal communications, contact internalcomms at warwick dot ac dot uk .
A strong story will have public interest, significant impact, timely relevance, or compelling findings.
Stories that tie into wider news trends or address current societal issues are more likely to gain media coverage.
You can respond, should you want to, but we recommend letting us know so we can offer support if needed.
All press releases and expert comments are published on our News page and distributed to relevant media.
Academics and staff looking to share research or insights with the media, or seeking press support.
Yes, we can help arrange interviews with our experts.
Contact us with details of your request, including the topic and deadline.
Yes, we can advise on pitching ideas and tailor them for different media outlets.
Email press at warwick dot ac dot uk or visit the News homepage for specific contacts.
The earlier, the better!
As soon as you know of research that could have media interest, let us know so we can work with you to find the best way forward.
For branding and design queries, contact brand at warwick dot ac dot uk .
Yes, we offer media training and interview preparation – contact us for details.
We can connect journalists with relevant Warwick academics.
Email us with your request, and we’ll do our best to match you with an expert.
For student communication, contact studentcomms at warwick dot ac dot uk .
Can you summarise your research in one sentence?
This helps us quickly identify whether the story is suitable for media and gets straight to the heart of your research.
Next, answer the following questions to help shape the research section of your press release: Who?
What?
Where?
When?
Why?
Please keep your answers simple and jargon-free – the aim is to make your research understandable to a wide audience, including those without a technical background.
We also recommend including two quotes from people involved in the project.
If you have any accompanying images or videos, please share those with us too.
Visit the Knowledge Hub for more information on writing press releases
Media visits must be arranged in advance.
Contact us to discuss your request.
Yes, we will always share a draft for approval before distribution.
Yes, we can provide context, statements, and background information on University research and initiatives.
On the University’s News pages and shared with relevant journalists and media outlets.
Get in touch with details of your project, and we will assess how best to support your request.
We occasionally offer embargoed press releases.
Contact us to discuss specific requests.
For urgent media requests, please email press at warwick dot ac dot uk with ‘ Urgent ’ in the subject line.
If you can’t find the information you need, please get in touch.
We are your primary contact for media enquiries, whatever the story.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/news/pressreleases/the_diamonds_that_could_find_cancer:
University of Warwick researchers have built a new diamond- based magnetic field sensor that could be used to better find tumours through tracing magnetic fluid injected in the body.
A cancer diagnosis is most problematic when cells from the tumour have metastasised (spread) to other organs.
This most often occurs through the lymph nodes and the lymphatic draining system.
Tests to find whether cancer cells are lodged in the lymph nodes are the gold standard for detecting metastasis and directing the course of treatment.
Published in Physical Review Applied , Warwick researchers report they have built a new non-toxic and non-radioactive device that uses the unique properties of diamonds to diagnose metastasized breast cancer.
This device is ultra-sensitive, handheld and works at long ranges, providing an upgraded solution to a regular challenge that cancer surgeons must cope with.
First author Alex Newman, PhD student in the Physics Department at the University of Warwick commented: “There is a real demand for versatile non-toxic means of finding cancer.
For this new diamond-based sensor, we managed to get the size of the sensor head down to just 10 mm, which means it is the first diamond sensor to be able to detect magnetic tracer fluid while being small enough for endoscopic use and keyhole surgery.
“It is also very sensitive, capable of detecting one hundredth of the typical full clinical dose of magnetic tracer fluid.”
The diamond sensor works by detecting magnetic tracer fluid (iron oxide nanoparticles) that is introduced into the patient during or before breast cancer surgery.
The tracer fluid is injected into the tumour and then travels to the lymph nodes alongside metastasized cancer cells.
A magnetic field sensor based on a diamond can then locate the tracer fluid and pinpoint the lymph nodes to be surgically removed to stop the cancer spread.
Its compact design is achieved by using a tiny diamond (0.5 mm3) and a small permanent magnet that is attached to the probe head.
This eliminates the need for bulky electronics allowing for a handheld versatile tool.
Senior author and group leader, Professor Gavin Morley, Department of Physics, University of Warwick said: “Diamonds can sense magnetic fields thanks to colour centres in the diamond, called nitrogen vacancy centres.
They allow the diamond to detect very small changes in magnetic field and give the diamonds a lovely pink colour.
“We hope to use these magnetic field sensors not just for medical applications, but for spacecraft and fusion power too.”
Tracing cancer is not new, but the traditional methods used in hospitals use radioactive tracers or simple blue dyes.
Radioactive tracers are not available in all hospitals due to the extra precautions required when handling radioactive materials.
Blue dye causes an allergic reaction in one person out of a hundred, which is an unwanted complication when the patient is under a general anaesthetic.
Detecting a magnetic tracer with a small sensitive sensor like the diamond-based one could be a game changer.
This technology has been built with clinician support.
Stuart Robertson, Consultant Breast Cancer Surgeon at University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire (UHCW) NHS Trust added: "I now regularly utilise magnetic localisation in my breast cancer work, for impalpable breast lesions and detecting lymph nodes, as it offers advantages over more traditional techniques.
It’s great to collaborate with the University of Warwick, exploring ways to optimise magnetic technology further."
The use of magnetic tracer fluids is becoming more widespread thanks to a company called Endomag.
However, this new diamond sensor could provide a smaller, more sensitive sensor, particularly as further quantum technology techniques are implemented.
The applications to other cancers such as lung, liver, colorectal and oesophageal could provide even more benefits to patients.
Notes to Editors:
The paper - “ Endoscopic diamond magnetometer for cancer surgery ” is published in Physical Review Applied.
DOI: 10.1103/znt3-988w
Image Credits:
About The University of Warwick:

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/news/pressreleases/magnets_propel_scientists_towards_more_efficient_oxygen_production_in_space:
University of Warwick, ZARM at Bremen and Georgia Tech have hit upon a breakthrough in space life support systems thanks to the magnetic properties of water.
Since sending the first human into space in the 1960s, the solution to one key challenge has remained elusive: the efficient and reliable production of oxygen in space.
On the International Space Station this problem is addressed by heavy and energy-intensive systems that are not ideal for long-duration space missions.
In today’s Nature Chemistry publication , a team of researchers from the University of Warwick, the Center of Applied Space Technology and Microgravity (ZARM) at the University of Bremen, and the Georgia Institute of Technology, describe a remarkably simple and elegant solution to make future oxygen production lighter, simpler and more sustainable —using magnetism.
Professor Katerina Brinkert, Honorary Professor, University of Warwick & Professor of Human Space Exploration Technologies & Director of ZARM said: “We were able to prove that we do not need centrifuges or any mechanical moving parts for separating the produced hydrogen and oxygen from the liquid electrolyte.
We do not even need additional power.
Instead, it is a completely passive, low-maintenance system.”
The common way to produce oxygen in space is by water electrolysis, a process that splits water into hydrogen and oxygen using electrodes immersed in an electrolyte.
In the weightlessness of orbit, however, gas bubbles do not float upwards.
Instead, they tend to stick to the electrodes and remain suspended in the liquid, requiring a complex, bulky and power-hungry fluid management system that is impractical for long-duration missions because in space, every kilogram of equipment and every watt of power matters.
The international team of scientists from the University of Warwick, Georgia Institute of Technology and ZARM were able to demonstrate that a simple magnetic fields solution can support the separation of gas bubbles from electrodes in a microgravity environment, created at the Bremen Drop Tower, without bulky equipment.
Álvaro Romero-Calvo, Assistant Professor, Georgia Institute of Technology said: “Our team was able to prove that magnetic forces can feasibly control electrochemical bubbly flows in microgravity, departing from the state-of-the-art in low-gravity fluid mechanics and enabling future human spaceflight architectures.”
Using off-the-shelf permanent magnets, the research team developed a passive phase separation system that pushes the bubbles away from the electrodes and collects them at designated spots.
To achieve this breakthrough, the team developed two complementary approaches to allow the collection of oxygen bubbles from the electrode.
The first takes advantage of how water naturally responds to magnets in microgravity, guiding gas bubbles toward collection points.
The second method uses magnetohydrodynamic forces, which arise from the interaction between magnetic fields and electric currents generated by electrolysis.
This creates a spinning motion in the liquid that separates gas bubbles from water through convective effects – achieving phase separation like mechanical centrifuges used on the ISS, but using magnetic forces instead of mechanical rotation.
The findings published today are the result of four years of joint research.
Álvaro Romero-Calvo from Georgia Tech produced the original idea and performed the calculations and numerical simulations as early as 2022.
He then continued to develop a system for splitting water into oxygen and hydrogen using magnetic effects.
To prove and quantify the theory in electro- and photoelectrochemical setups, Katharina Brinkert’s team at Warwick (until 2024) and then ZARM, developed experiments and devices to be evaluated in microgravity.
Shaumica Saravanabavan, PhD researcher, University of Warwick said: “During my trips to ZARM, we confirmed the magnetic buoyancy effect for phase separation in (photo-)electrolysis cells in multiple Drop Tower experiments, using electrode materials we in part fabricated at Warwick.
I’m proud to have contributed to advancing sustainable energy technologies beyond Earth applications.”
The experiments confirmed that magnetic forces can improve gas bubble detachment and movement and enhance the efficiency of the electrochemical cells by up to 240 percent.
Ömer Akay, Research Associate at ZARM, University of Bremen said: “Our developed cells allow the production of hydrogen and oxygen from water electrolysis in microgravity at nearly terrestrial efficiencies.”
This breakthrough solves a long-standing spaceflight engineering problem and opens the door to developing simpler, more robust, and more sustainable life support systems for human space exploration.
The next step for the team is to further validate the system through suborbital rocket flights.
The paper ‘ Magnetically induced convection enhances water electrolysis in microgravity ' has published in Nature Chemistry, DOI: 10.1038/s41557-025-01890-0
The project is funded by the German Aerospace Center (DLR), the European Space Agency (ESA) and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA).
Image Credits
Experiment showing the magnets pulling the oxygen bubbles to the sides allowing for more control and efficiency.
Credit: Ö.
Akay et al.
Nature Chemistry 2025 / Georgia Institute of Technology
University of Warwick Press Office – press@warwick.ac.uk / +44 (0)7392 125 605
ZARM Press Office – communications@zarm.uni-bremen.de
Georgia Tech Press Office - media@gatech.edu

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/news/pressreleases/excellence_that_endures:
As students across the country receive their A-level results this week, the University of Warwick has retained its sixth-placed ranking in the Daily Mail University Guide 2026 .
The Guide highlighted Warwick’s excellence in “graduate salaries” (ranked 6 th ), supporting students to achieve “high-skilled jobs” (ranked 7 th ), and “research quality” (ranked 12 th ) as standout features.
In the subject rankings, Economics (ranked 2 nd out of 81), Physics and Astronomy (ranked 2 nd out of 42), and Marketing (ranked 4 th out of 89) were all recognised as outstanding – a testament to the teaching and research environment at Warwick.
Professor Stuart Croft, Vice-Chancellor and President, University of Warwick, said:
“To be recognised as one of the country’s leading universities again this year is a testament to the hard work of our dynamic Warwick community.
It reflects the dedication, talent, and ambition of our staff and students who make Warwick a world-class centre for research and teaching.
“We are committed to providing the very best educational experience for our students that equips them with the skills and experience to succeed in their lives after Warwick and make a positive contribution to society.
“As we celebrate our 60th anniversary, Warwick will continue leading the way in research, teaching, and innovation – shaping the future on a global stage.”
The Daily Mail University Guide 2026 also recognised the University’s emphasis on social inclusion, innovation, and sustainability.
The rankings praised that Warwick’s outreach programmes “reach 300 secondary schools and sixth-form colleges across the Midlands”, that “the value of the Warwick bursary has risen sharply this year”, and that “several campus infrastructure projects will be completed in time for the September 2026 student intake” that include “improved energy efficiency and aesthetics”.
Describing Warwick’s performance, the Daily Mail University Guide 2026 said:
“Sixty years after its establishment, Warwick claims to have achieved more than other universities have accomplished in two centuries.
It is hard to disagree, with its consistent top-ten domestic ranking and graduates who are in demand - the sixth most sought-after by top graduate recruiters according to the respected High Fliers report.”
The detailed rankings are available here .
The print edition of the guide will be featured in the Mail on Sunday on 7 September 2025.
Dom Barker, Media & Communications Officer
Dom.Barker@warwick.ac.uk / 07824 540727
About the Daily Mail University Rankings 2026
The full digital rankings are available online: https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/university-guide/article-14955655/All-Universities.html
15 August 2025

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/news/expertcomment/professor_rebecca_earle_and_dr_serin_quinn_on_the_histories_of_the_potato_and_the_tomato1:
An international research team has uncovered that natural interbreeding in the wild between tomato plants and potato-like species from South America about 9 million years ago gave rise to the modern-day potato.
Food historians from the University of Warwick have responded with reflections on the history of these two plants.
"Recent research published in Cell explores the origins of 'tuberization', the ability of plants to form tubers.
This development was important.
Tubers such as potatoes or cassava came to provide an important food source for people in many parts of the world, as they are nutritious and can be grown in a variety of conditions.
"In addition, tubers have an interesting political history.
The US political scientist James C.
Scott described tubers as anarchists, because they helped communities resist control by more powerful political entities such as states.
Scott pointed out that grains such as wheat are very easy to tax, because they grow above ground and so everyone can easily see when they are ready for harvest, and once they are harvested and dried they are easy to store.
This all makes them easy to tax.
"Tubers, on the other hand, grow underground, and often don't need to be harvested at any particular time.
Once dug up, they are bulky and difficult to store.
They're really not a great thing to tax - states in ancient times were not interested in having warehouses of potatoes.
So, Scott argued, communities that subsisted on tubers were not very attractive from a fiscal perspective, and states (and their tax collectors) tended to leave them alone to get on with things.
He referred to tubers as 'state evading'.
"So tubers are important as a food source, and also have a surprising political dimension as well."
Professor Rebecca Earle FBA, FRSA, FRHS
Professor of Food History  | University of Warwick
"This new research published in Cell reveals an eye-opening new dimension to historical studies of both the potato and the tomato.
"Despite the importance of the tomato to cultures across the globe, surprisingly little is known about its evolutionary history due to limited surviving genetic samples.
The close relationship between the two plants, as members of the Solanaceae family, has been known since the 17th century.
In fact, English botanists in the 18th century even briefly created a separate genus including only the tomato and potato, calling them Lycopersicon esculentum and Lycopersicon tuberosum respectively, due to the similarity in their berries.
The resemblance between the two plants was so strong that since the 19th century horticulturalists have experimented with grafting tomato plants onto potatoes to create what is today called the ‘pomato’, a single plant producing two important crops.
"Little did anyone realise that nature had beaten them to it with this genetic experiment some 9 million years ago."
Dr Serin Quinn
University of Warwick | Department of History

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/news/expertcomment/dr_harjinder_singh_lallie_on_password_protections_against_cyber_attacks1:
Commenting on the password hack at KNP, Dr Harjinder Singh Lallie, Reader in Cyber Security, University of Warwick, said:
“The recent closure of Northamptonshire-based logistics firm KNP, following a ransomware attack that reportedly began with a guessed employee password, serves as a stark illustration of the risks facing organisations that lack basic cyber security controls.
The loss of such a long-standing business and 700 associated jobs is a sobering reminder of what’s at stake.
“While no system can be completely immune to attack, fundamental measures such as multi-factor authentication (MFA), strong password policies, and regular cyber hygiene practices can provide a significant layer of protection—often at minimal cost.
“Small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular, face growing challenges in this space.
Competing priorities and limited resources can sometimes lead to gaps in cyber preparedness.
However, basic digital safeguards should now be considered as essential as physical locks on doors.
They not only protect critical data but also support business continuity and stakeholder trust.
“The incident involving KNP should prompt organisations of all sizes to revisit their cyber risk strategies.
A proactive, preventative approach can make a real difference in reducing exposure to these increasingly common threats.”

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/news/expertcomment/kirsty_warner_on:
Reflecting on the news that Labour is lowering the voting age to 16 across the UK before the next general election, Kirsty Warner, Assistant Professor in Politics at the University of Warwick, said:
“Lowering the voting age to 16 could profoundly alter the UK’s political landscape by increasing the influence of socially liberal, globally minded voters focused on the cost of living, climate, housing, and opportunity.
With that comes pressure on political parties to move beyond stunts and rethink what they offer and how they communicate.
“Surveys show that 52% of 16–18-year-olds are dissatisfied with how UK democracy works.
The alteration to the voting age will give a voice to the generation most affected by decisions like Brexit.
“This provides an opportunity for young people to shape a future they’ll actually have to live in.
A prime example is the UK-EU Youth Mobility Scheme.
The proposal already has broad public support, and the potential of a youth vote would push parties to act: turning cautious proposals into commitments that respond to rising expectations.”

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/news/expertcomment/professor_nicola_pratt:
Professor Nicola Pratt, University of Warwick, said:
“July marks six years since a British woman alleged she was gang-raped while on holiday in Cyprus—a claim that led to her being jailed for ‘public mischief’ after a trial that sparked international outrage.
Though her conviction was later overturned, the conditions enabling such mistreatment persist.
“Party destinations promote heavy drinking and risk-taking, while normalising sexually predatory behaviour.
Economic dependence on tourism means authorities often silence rape allegations to protect profits.
“Destinations like Ayia Napa are still marketed as carefree zones of sun, sea, and excess.
New research shows these ‘tourism bubbles’ are shaped by commercial interests that enable and conceal sexual violence.
“As we enter peak holiday season, the illusion of ‘fun’ continues to override the safety and dignity of those most at risk of unwanted sexual encounters.
It’s time for the tourism industry and governments to confront these structural harms.”
The article by Professor Nicola Pratt (University of Warwick) and Dr Columba Achilleos-Sarll (University of Birmingham), Sun, sea and sexual violence: the political economy of party tourism , can be viewed online at https://academic.oup.com/ia/article/101/4/1403/8157069 .
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1093/ia/iiaf074

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/news/expertcomment/dr_raquel_nunes_on_the_health_and_wellbeing_impacts_of_yet_another_heatwave1:
Raquel Nunes, Assistant Professor, University of Warwick said:
"The forecast of a third UK heatwave within a month highlights a dangerous new reality we need to adapt to.
These repeated heat events have cumulative health impacts that are often underestimated, exacerbating existing cardiovascular and respiratory conditions, straining health and social care services, and increasing mortality, especially among vulnerable groups.
"The health impacts of consecutive heatwaves are not discrete, they are compounding.
Repeated exposure without sufficient recovery time increases the vulnerability of populations, particularly older adults, children, and those with pre-existing health conditions.
This is specially concerning in the UK, where the built environment, health infrastructure, and social norms remain largely maladapted to extreme heat.
"Southern European countries offer valuable lessons from early warning systems, public education and awareness campaigns, and adaptive urban measures such as social cooling centers, climate shelters, the mapping of drinking water fountain locations, communication and advertisement (i.e.
print, broadcast, outdoor, digital, mobile); proactive health and social care services for the vulnerable; heat-health advisory telephone lines; heat-adapted housing codes; and heatwave naming schemes.
"The UK needs to transition from reactive responses to proactive and anticipatory resilience building.
This includes embedding adaptation across health service and social care preparedness, housing, urban systems, and public communication strategies to protect lives and reduce inequalities."

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/news/expertcomment/new_industrial_strategy:
Warwick Manufacturing Group (WMG) recognised as focus for battery innovation to improve UK economic resilience.
Experts at the University of Warwick welcome the government’s new Industrial Strategy, announced today.
Greg Clark, Executive Chair of Warwick Innovation District*, said:
"The industrial strategy will be welcomed by our partners in manufacturing.
In having the confidence to choose particular sectors in which to invest over the long-term, the strategy sets out a roadmap that will secure the future of industries vital to the UK economy.
We look forward to playing our part, here at the University of Warwick, in supporting its successful implementation."
The strategy focuses on eight key sectors, many of which are established areas of research, innovation and technical development at Warwick Manufacturing Group (WMG).
The strategy references WMG’s role, along with fellow High Value Manufacturing Catapult centre CPI, in battery innovation, building on decades of investment in its Energy Innovation Centre.
Professor David Greenwood, CEO of the High Value Manufacturing Catapult at WMG and Director for Industrial Engagement, said:
"I am delighted that our expertise in driving battery innovation has been recognised by this commitment for long-term investment.
"WMG plays a critical role in the UK’s battery eco-system .
Alongside the investment focus at WMG, we welcome the new Battery Innovation programme, which builds on the Faraday Battery Challenge, to develop manufacturing capability in the UK and enable growth up and down the supply chain.
"WMG was established to support advanced manufacturing here in the West Midlands and our reach and industrial partnerships have grown over the last 45 years .
Our deep expertise in the automotive industry, steel, clean energy, automation, aerospace, agri-tech and scaling SME capability through technology adoption, all have a vital role to play in realising the government’s ambition.
"The ten-year commitment to automotive and aerospace sectors will be particularly helpful and encourage companies to conduct their product development and their manufacturing here in the UK, given that these industries have decade-long product cycles.
The action on energy costs will also have a significant impact: energy costs in the UK have been a major impediment to inward investment in manufacturing – given WMG’s focus on the manufacturing sector, we are delighted to see that Government has listened and acted on this.
"We also welcome the Industrial Strategy’s focus on the skills needed for manufacturing growth – especially short courses for industrial up-skilling, as they are critical to the success of British businesses; we look forward to working with Skills England and industry to upskill, reskill and educate our incredible manufacturing workforce."
ENDS.
Note to editors
*Greg Clark is also a member of the Government’s Industrial Strategy Advisory Council.
For further comment or to speak with the experts quoted, please contact the University press office on 07392 125605 or email press@warwick.ac.uk
WMG, University of Warwick
WMG is a world leading research and education group, transforming organisations and driving innovation through a unique combination of collaborative research and development, and pioneering education programmes.
As an international role model for successful partnerships between academia and the private and public sectors, WMG develops advancements nationally and globally, in applied science, technology and engineering, to deliver real impact to economic growth, society and the environment.
WMG’s education programmes focus on lifelong learning of the brightest talent, from the WMG Academies for Young Engineers, degree apprenticeships, undergraduate and postgraduate, through to professional programmes.
An academic department of the University of Warwick, and a centre for the HVM Catapult, WMG was founded by the late Professor Lord Kumar Bhattacharyya in 1980 to help reinvigorate UK manufacturing and improve competitiveness through innovation and skills development.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/apply/onceapplied:
After you apply, you’ll receive an acknowledgement email from the Postgraduate Admissions Service.
You’ll be invited to set up your account on our Applicant Portal within around 24 hours of applying , so look out for our email.
This will allow you to track your application status.
We consider every application carefully but aim to get back to you with a decision as soon as possible.
Up to 2 working days after you receive your application acknowledgement email and Warwick ID from the Postgraduate Admissions service, you’ll receive an email asking you to register your ITS account Link opens in a new window , which you can then use to access the Applicant Portal.
*
*Applicants who are applying for PGCE and MBChB courses are not able to access the Applicant Portal.
We consider every application carefully at Warwick.
In busy periods there might be a slight delay, but we will always get back to you as soon as possible.
We will pass your application to the department running your course.
They will consider the whole application, assess your results and qualifications to date, personal statement and references.
They might ask you to provide extra information to help them to make a decision.
Our admissions team will then carry out any extra checks, and contact you with one of these responses:
The University of Warwick treats the possibility of admissions fraud very seriously and our admissions team have expertise and experience in fraud detection.
All academic documents submitted by an applicant electronically are checked to ensure they are legitimate before an offer is confirmed.
Once students arrive at Warwick, we select a sample of those electronically submitted documents and examine the original.
The identity and legitimacy of all referees is also checked.
Unfortunately, every year we detect applicants who have submitted fake or altered academic documents, fake references, or other false or misleading information.
The University takes robust action against applicants in such cases.
If we find that fake documents or false information has been submitted, we will withdraw the application and any other applications made by the same person.
If fraud is discovered after the individual has matriculated at the University, we are able to terminate their studies under Regulation 6.
We will immediately withdraw any future application from an individual who has previously been found to have submitted false or misleading documentation or information.
When investigating potential fraud, we may contact your previous awarding institution to verify your documentation.
We’ll email you within two working days of your application to help you access the Applicant Portal.
You can use the portal to track your application and update your details.
While you’re waiting to hear back, why not take some time to explore what Warwick has to offer?
Learn more about postgraduate life at Warwick Link opens in a new window or browse our upcoming postgraduate events Link opens in a new window .
We’ll also keep you informed by email about relevant events, scholarships, and other opportunities.
Our Student Visa Advice Service provides information, guidance and support with all aspects of UK immigration, visas and compliance.
Warwick has dedicated postgraduate study spaces, a sports and wellness hub, and an array of cafés, shops, and restaurants.
Our campus is safe, energising, and inspiring, with everything you need right on hand.
Find out about more about tuition fees, course costs, living expenses and funding opportunities for study at the University of Warwick.
There are a number of funding options that may be available, depending on your residency status and personal circumstances, including some loans and scholarships that will pay up to 100% of your fees.
We provide a welcoming environment for all students.
Our Student Wellbeing and other specialist teams offer a range of services to help you develop the personal resources and skills you need to navigate the challenges and opportunities of student life.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/apply/faqs:
You can find out how to apply online .
If this is your first application, you will need to select the link for new users which will take you to the registration page to create an account.
Once set up, you can log in and begin completing a new application.
You must apply through the Universities Central Admissions Service (UCAS) and submit your application between the 1st September and the 16th October.
Applications by any other route, or submitted after the deadline, will not be accepted and the University does not accept deferred entry or transfers from other programmes.
Find out more about applying for Graduate Entry Medicine at Warwick Link opens in a new window .
Your Personal Statement, or Statement of purpose, is a vital part of your postgraduate application at the University of Warwick.
Check out our personal statement guide to help you submit a strong personal statement.
For 2024 entry onwards (applying from October 2023) the application fee for postgraduate taught courses is £75.
Master of Research (MRes) courses are classed as taught courses due to the taught elements of the course.
There is no application fee for postgraduate research applications or Postgraduate Awards (PGAs).
The University requires evidence that your English language capability is of a level that will enable you to succeed on your chosen course of postgraduate study.
We therefore have English language entry requirements based on minimum standards.
There are a number of tests that students can take to meet the English requirements of the course .
Please provide your most recent English language test.
See our guide to references Link opens in a new window for further information about reference requirements.
See our Postgraduate courses available for applications Link opens in a new window .
Unfortunately the Admissions Service is not able to offer advice on the suitability of courses or whether or not you are likely to receive an offer prior to submitting an application.
The Warwick website and department pages in particular contain specific information about courses.
You should start your search at the course listings at the link above.
Once you have received an unconditional offer and you are within 3-4 months of the start of your course you will receive an email to confirm the personal details that the University holds about you.
Once you confirm your details are correct, you will be directed through to the CAS request form.
Please complete the form as fully as possible as the University will use this form to assess your eligibility for student route sponsorship.
Typically, where no further information is required, these are usually processed within 10 working days of receipt of the request form.
Further information can be found on the Warwick Immigration Service pages Link opens in a new window .
See our postgraduate student funding advice for further information about fees and funding.
Frequently asked questions relating to Enrolment can be found on the Warwick Enrolment website Link opens in a new window .
If an applicant has received an offer for their main postgraduate course, it may be possible to issue a joint/combined CAS that covers both Pre-sessional English and main course.
The Postgraduate Admissions Service will contact applicants by email before the University starts to issue CAS to those students starting the Pre-sessional English course.
Visit the Pre-sessional English CAS eligibility page to see if you are likely to receive a joint or single CAS.
Some postgraduate courses can be taken by part-time study Link opens in a new window but you should contact the academic department concerned to see if this is possible for the course you wish to study.
A small number of courses are available via Distance Learning, including MBA, MA Education, MA Educational Innovation and MA Islamic Education.
Unless the course is specifically designed for part-time study, taught courses will normally include some compulsory day time teaching.
If you are an international student you may be able to study part-time depending on your visa restrictions.
The University of Warwick does not sponsor students for part-time study who want to study on a student route visa.
The fee can be paid online by card at the end of the application submission process, or up to twenty working days after you have submitted your application.
Please log back into your registration account and click on the ‘Pay application fee’ link next to your submitted application.
Scans of your academic documents can be uploaded with your application.
English language certificates and non-academic supporting documents should be uploaded through the Applicant Portal Link opens in a new window .
Successful applicants who receive an offer of a place will be given access to the Postgraduate Offer Holder page which will include details on how to meet academic conditions.
You may apply for as many courses as you wish, however you will need to complete a new application form for each course and an application assessment fee is payable for each taught application.
If you are applying for a Postgraduate Taught course in WMG you will only be considered for ONE WMG course but may apply for additional courses in another department.
Pre-sessional English is a set of academic English language and study skills programmes.
These courses prepare you linguistically and culturally for your future degree studies and give you a chance to settle into life in and around the University.
Pre-sessional English courses are for students whose first language is not English and who have a conditional offer to study for a degree at the University of Warwick or another UK university that requires or recommends attendance.
They are also suitable for students who need to develop academic English and study skills, and who wish to become familiar with British university culture and life before beginning their studies.
Find out more about Pre-sessional English courses at Warwick Link opens in a new window .
If you will require a visa to study a Pre-sessional course at Warwick, you must have a Secure English Language Test (SELT).
Currently, the UKVI IELTS test is the only English language test (SELT) recognised by the UK Visas and Immigration Service.
The University Enrolment Team will contact you by email with enrolment instructions approximately 4 – 6 weeks before your course starts.
You can find further information on available methods of payment on our Admissions page .
Your application will be held for twenty working days to allow for the fee payment to be made, after which it will automatically become void and you will need to submit a new one.
If you are a postgraduate student from another UK university or from an international higher education institution you can apply to study as a visiting student for a period up to 12 months.
As a visiting student you will not be registered for a formal University qualification but you can, with agreement of the relevant academic staff, follow individual taught courses or undertake a period of supervised research.
Once you’ve applied, you will be given access to the Applicant Portal Link opens in a new window .
Look out for an email to register your IT Services (ITS) account or visit ITS account setup Link opens in a new window .
This can take up to 2 working days from when you receive the acknowledgement email and Warwick ID number from the Postgraduate Admissions Service.
Applicants who are applying for PGCE and MBChB courses are not able to access the Applicant Portal.
Please use your Applicant Portal Link opens in a new window to upload documents.
You should be able to upload as many documents as required.
If you are experiencing difficulty with the document upload facility please submit an enquiry through the Postgraduate Admissions Service.
Read our frequently asked questions about enrolment first to see if there is a solution to your issue with the enrolment process.
If you are not able to resolve your issue from the FAQS, you can contact the enrolment team Link opens in a new window .
All accepted tests must have been taken within two years and one month of the start date of your course at Warwick.
If your visa application is refused, you should contact Warwick Immigration Service.
Warwick Immigration Service Link opens in a new window will assess your eligibility for a new CAS.
In some cases this may not be possible.
Some departments allow applicants to defer their offer (not application) to a later date or by one academic year.
Please complete the Postgraduate Enquiry Form Link opens in a new window to request to defer your offer.
Some of the documents submitted as part of your application may no longer be valid for the following academic year.
The Admissions Service will consider this when deferring your application and may ask you to meet some conditions again, for example if your English language certificate is no longer valid.
Departments usually only allow applicants to defer once.
We are unable to accept direct bank transfers as a method of payment for the application assessment fee.
A CAS number can only be used once and must be from the University you intend to study at.
If your visa application is refused, you should contact Warwick Immigration Service Link opens in a new window and attach all pages from the visa refusal notice to request a new CAS.
In a small number of cases, your department can contact Admissions to request an English language waiver in support of your application.
This will normally be based on established proficiency in the English language and will require you to provide evidence.
Please contact your department for advice.
In most cases applicants are required to provide one of the accepted English language tests to meet the English language conditions.
The Postgraduate Admissions Service will contact you by email to acknowledge receipt of any documents that you have submitted.
If you are a conditional offer holder, they will confirm whether or not your documents meet the conditions.
At peak times in July and August there may be a slight delay in confirming receipt of your documents.
We appreciate that waiting for a decision can be frustrating and worrying but please be assured our Admissions Team is working very hard to process applications and to respond to enquiries, as quickly as possible.
If you are intending to start a postgraduate research degree, it may be possible to change your start date.
This will need to be agreed with your academic department and supervisor.
If you are an international student requiring a visa, you should request any changes to dates before requesting a CAS.
Taught courses usually have a fixed start date in September/October each academic year.
If you are holding an offer and are not able to attend at the start of the course, you should contact your academic department to request to defer your application.
Assessment fee waivers are only considered in exceptional circumstances.
You can request a waiver if you are from a war-torn country or are applying for a full scholarship or loan.
If you're applying for a scholarship, you must state which one.
You can request the fee waiver at the end of the application, before submitting it.
Requests will be automatically rejected for the following reasons:
Once you have submitted your application, and paid the application assessment fee (if required) you will be sent an acknowledgement email which will include information on how to access the Applicant Portal Link opens in a new window .
Please use the portal to upload as many documents as required.
If you have completed a Bachelor degree level (or higher) course in the UK within the last 2 years from the start of your new course, this may be sufficient to meet the language conditions of your offer.
If you have renewed your passport you do not need a new CAS.
Please email a scan of the new passport to pg dot visa at warwick dot ac dot uk and we will add a sponsor note confirming this change.
The UKVI allow amendments to the information on your CAS as long as your visa application is not in the advanced stages and has “USED” status.
Applicants using email servers/providers 126.com, 163.com, Sina.cn and QQ.com may have difficulty receiving email messages from the Admissions Service.
Students should use their university email account or Yahoo, Gmail, Hotmail or similar commercial email providers when making an application.
If you have successfully paid the application assessment fee online, you will be sent an automated payment receipt email containing a payment transaction reference number.
Unfortunately we cannot change the email address which is used for your login to the Applicant Portal Link opens in a new window .
However all correspondence will be sent to the contact email addresses you provided in your application.
If you haven’t yet submitted your application, you can change the email addresses in your application yourself before you submit it.
Once you have submitted your application you can log into the Applicant Portal Link opens in a new window to update your email addresses.
If you are using a QQ.com, 126.com, 163.com or sina.cn email address as your contact address, we would recommend changing this to a different provider as you may not receive all communications from us.
Please remember to check your Applicant Portal regularly for messages from the Admissions Service.
If there is a mistake on your CAS please contact pg dot visa at warwick dot ac dot uk as soon as possible.
We can then assess whether or not you require a new CAS.
In most cases we can add a sponsor note to your CAS correcting the mistake.
The University accepts scans of original documents to support your application, so you're not likely to be asked to provide attested copies.
If you are asked for attested documents, these are 'official' copies of your original documents that have been verified by your university, the British Council, a solicitor, lawyer, or official notary.
Each page should include an official stamp, confirmation that the original has been seen, and the contact details of the attesting officer.
If you're in the UK, the Post Office offers this service for a small fee.
Attested documents are 'official' copies of your original documents that have been verified by either your university, British Council, solicitor, lawyer or official notary.
Each page of the copy of the document should include an official stamp, confirmation that the original has been seen and contact details of the attesting officer.
If you are in the UK, the Post Office offer this service for a small fee.
The University accepts scans of original documents to support your application so you are not likely to be asked to provide attested copies.
You must meet all conditions of your offer by the date stated in your offer.
If you are an international student requiring a visa to study in the UK, you must meet all conditions in enough time to complete the CAS request process and visa application process to enable you to travel to the UK to start your course.
It is recommended that all conditions are met 4 weeks prior to the start date of the course.
The University welcomes applications from disabled people and those with specific learning difficulties, and considers them on the same academic grounds as all other candidates.
Many such students have successfully pursued postgraduate study at Warwick.
To ensure we can provide appropriate advice and guidance on the services and facilities available, it’s helpful to let us know in advance if you have a disability or specific learning difficulty.
Further information and contact details are available on the Wellbeing and Student Support website Link opens in a new window .
Warwick Accommodation service manage the booking of accommodation for students at the University.
There is information on the Warwick Accommodation website Link opens in a new window which discusses the different options available to postgraduate students, the application process and when to expect a decision.
There is no requirement to post documents to the University as we accept scanned uploads of your original certificates and transcripts.
If you have posted documents and require these to be returned, please contact the Admissions Service and we can advise when this is likely to happen.
If you have clicked the ‘Cancel’ button when your application is open, you will have received a warning stating that all of your data will be lost.
If you click the ‘OK’ button, your application will be deleted and cannot be retrieved.
If you have made a tuition fee payment you do not require a new CAS.
The Student Finance team can update this information on your CAS once the payment has reached the University of Warwick accounts.
Please email studentfinance at warwick dot ac dot uk for further information.
A refund can be issued for excess payments if you send all of your application assessment fee payment transaction reference numbers to appquery at warwick dot ac dot uk .
The Postgraduate Admissions Service can accept scanned copies of English language certificates uploaded through the document upload facility.
Original (or attested copies of) degree certificates and transcripts should be used to meet academic conditions.
Referees should submit references through the reference portal.
There is a different application system for the MBA, which is administered by Warwick Business School .
If you require further information about the MBA, please email warwickmba at wbs dot ac dot uk .
If you have been awarded a scholarship and this does not appear on your CAS, please email studentfinance@warwick.ac.uk Link opens in a new window as soon as possible.
It may be that your department has not informed admissions or student finance regarding your award.
We are able to add University of Warwick scholarships and awards to your CAS, however external scholarships should be evidenced with official documentation and will not be included on your CAS.
If you would like to view reading lists for current or previous cohorts of students, most departments have reading lists available through Warwick Library on the T alis Aspire platform Link opens in a new window .
You can search for reading lists by module title, code or convenor.
Please see the modules tab of this page or the Module Catalogue Link opens in a new window .
Please note that some reading lists may have restricted access or be unavailable at certain times of year due to not yet being published.
If you cannot access the reading list for a particular module, please check again later or contact the module’s host department.
Unfortunately we are not able to accept academic qualifications by email.
Please upload scans of your documents through the Applicant Portal Link opens in a new window .
If you are submitting an application for research, please ensure that you have located a suitable supervisor for your intended area of study Link opens in a new window , before you submit your application.
Please note that the Postgraduate Admissions Service is not permitted to locate a suitable research supervisor on your behalf.
You can log back into the Applicant Portal Link opens in a new window at any time.
You will be able to see all of your applications and the status of each one.
If you haven’t yet submitted the application, click on the link to open it to review and continue completing it.
If you have submitted your application, you will no longer be able to open or change it.
We will keep you updated by email about your application.
We require scanned original certificates or transcripts that confirm your academic qualifications.
We can verify English language scores online.
There is no need to post English language certificates to the University as you can upload a scan of your certificate through the Applicant Portal Link opens in a new window .
A supporting statement (also known as a statement of purpose/purpose of study) is required by the Course Selector in order to consider your application.
A CV is also useful to the Course Selector, although not mandatory.
Research applicants should submit a research proposal outlining their intended area of research.
The Applicant Portal Link opens in a new window has a ‘forgotten your password’ link which will email you a new password.
Please enter the password manually, as copying and pasting it can sometimes generate an error.
If you do not receive the requested new password, this is because it is automatically sent to the email address you used to register an account and this will have contained an error.
If this is the case, please register a new account with a different email address.
The Student Reception Link opens in a new window is not currently able to receive documents to support your application.
If you are entering your personal statement in the space provided on the Employment section of the application form, there is a character limit of 4500 (including spaces).
If your personal statement is longer than this, please upload it via the clipboard icon on the same page, which has a file size limit of 2Mb.
See our guide to writing your personal statement .
If you haven’t yet submitted your application, you can log back into your application and amend the details.
Once you have submitted your application and paid the application assessment fee (if applicable), you will need to contact the Postgraduate Admissions Team which is dealing with your application.
Their contact details will be in your application acknowledgment email.
If you have submitted your application, but not paid the application assessment fee (if applicable), you can submit a new application, as your first application will automatically expire after twenty working days of non-payment of the fee.
Please ignore the automated application assessment fee payment reminder emails you receive (do not pay the fee) and your submitted application will become void twenty working days after submitting it.
Please submit a new application (you don’t have to wait until your submitted application becomes void).
If you log back into your registration account, any new application you create will automatically contain most of the data you entered on your first form, so you won’t have to enter all of the information again.
When you pay the application assessment fee, please ensure that you select the correct application.
As these applications do not incur an application assessment fee, your application will have been fully processed onto our system.
Please refer to your application acknowledgement email and contact the Postgraduate Admissions Team which is dealing with your application.
This information will be in your application acknowledgement email, which is sent within approximately 24 hours of submitting an application.
If you haven’t yet submitted your application, you can change the course you wish to apply for yourself.
You can do this by logging into the Applicant Portal Link opens in a new window , clicking on your application to open it and then edit the course information section.
If you have already submitted your application and paid the application assessment fee (if applicable), please contact the Postgraduate Admissions Team which is dealing with your application in the first instance.
The team’s contact details are contained in your application acknowledgment email.
We will then be able to advise you how we can go about changing the course on your application.
In some instances, we may need to withdraw your application and require you to complete a new one.
The offer emails we send have The University of Warwick letter head at the top so that they can be printed out.
Please note that hardcopies of offers are not required for Visa applications.
The deadline for submitting documents and meeting conditions will be stated at the top of your offer letter if you are successfully made an offer for the course which you have applied to.
We advise all applicants meet all conditions as soon as they are able to.
For international applicants requiring a visa to study in the UK, we advise that conditions are met no later than 4 weeks before the start of the course to allow enough time to receive a CAS and submit a visa application, and prepare to study at Warwick.
See our guidance regarding grade equivalencies Link opens in a new window .
Admissions decisions are made based on complete applications and take into consideration a number of factors including qualifications currently being studied or already obtained, personal statement, references and level of English language.
We therefore recommend that applicants submit an application and full supporting documents.
If you want to study a Postgraduate Taught course (MSc/MA/MRes), the start date is in the September or October of the academic year, which is the only intake.
Most Postgraduate Research courses have start dates that are agreed with your department and supervisor and are normally commence on the 1st of the month.
Whilst most full-time taught courses start at the beginning of October each year, many part-time taught courses and research degrees have flexible start dates.
Please check the course webpages Link opens in a new window and/or contact your chosen department for more information.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/funding/fees:
Tuition fees are payable for each year of your course at the start of the academic year, or at the start of your course, if later.
Academic fees cover the cost of tuition, examinations and registration and some student amenities.
The University carries out an initial fee status assessment based on information provided in the application and according to the guidance published by UKCISA.
Students are classified as either Home or Overseas Fee status and this can determine the tuition fee and eligibility of certain scholarships and financial support.
If you receive an offer, your fee status will be stated with the tuition fee information.
If you believe your fee status has been incorrectly classified you can complete a fee status assessment questionnaire (follow the instructions in your offer) and provide the required documentation for this to be reassessed.
The UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) provides guidance to UK universities on fees status criteria, you can find the latest guidance on the impact of Brexit on fees and student support on the UKCISA website .
As well as tuition fees and living expenses, some courses may require you to cover the cost of field trips or costs associated with travel abroad.
For departmental specific costs, please see the Modules tab on the course web page for the list of core and optional core modules with hyperlinks to our Module Catalogue Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window (please visit the Department’s website if the Module Catalogue hyperlinks are not provided).
Associated costs can be found on the Study tab for each module listed in the Module Catalogue (please note most of the module content applies to 2024/25 year of study).
Information about module department specific costs should be considered in conjunction with the more general costs below:
As well as tuition fees and course costs, students should budget for:
For more information see living costs
Student Finance Office Brexit guidance

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/funding/livingcosts:
Beyond the academic fees that you pay for your programme of study, the other main cost for postgraduate students will be your living expenses.
These include key aspects such as your accommodation fees if you choose to live on campus or rent for those living off campus, food, books and other general expenditure such as clothes or leisure.
A large part of your living costs will be your accommodation.
Postgraduate students either live on campus in our university accommodation or off campus.
More information on the cost of accommodation can be found on the Warwick accommodation website.
As well as tuition fees, you will need to budget for things such as:
Students undertaking Postgraduate Research Programmes should consider budgeting additional costs to cover research-related field trips, visits to off-campus libraries, and attendance at conferences.
For visa purposes, you will need to show the UKVI that you have enough money in your bank account to support yourself during your time in the UK.
The exact figure that you will need to show varies depending upon a number of factors.
For details of how much money you are required to show to evidence your maintenance for your visa application, please see financial evidence required for a Student Visa application .
You may also consider planning additional funds for costs such as travel to your home country and international telephone calls.
Our international study website also offers advice and information for international students.
Those with children who are undertaking postgraduate studies should know that help and financial support may be available, both from the Government and the University.
For more information, see childcare provision .
Student Funding Support Link opens in a new window

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/whywarwick/academiclife:
We invite you to operate outside of your comfort zone, working alongside academics who are experts in their fields.
With an international campus of students from nearly 150 different countries, your way of thinking and perspectives will be transformed and challenged.
8th
In the UK The Guardian University Guide 2025
Gold
Across the board
69th
In the World QS World University Rankings 2025
QS World University Rankings
We are constantly reviewing and refreshing our teaching methods.
These may involve discussion, learning from visiting lecturers, or even role-play of real-world scenarios.
Some courses also include a group or individual project, enabling you to apply your understanding to a specific question or challenge, and follow an area of academic interest.
Increasingly, many of our courses are breaking down the divides between subjects.
Instead, they use multiple perspectives to address the key issues facing our society such as modern healthcare, big data, and cyber security.
No matter what subject you are studying, there are opportunities to take your learning further, such as modules from outside your department or interdisciplinary modules.
As a Postgraduate at Warwick, you’ll get access to our postgraduate dedicated spaces.
Work in our Postgraduate Hub or the Wolfson Research Exchange , where you can network with fellow students, attend regular events and workshops, and study collaboratively or independently.
And for all of our students, we’re always investing in new facilities.
Study in our new Faculty of Arts building, a hub of inspiration and multidisciplinary collaboration and teaching, our Oculus building with lecture theatres and collaborative learning spaces, or our University Library , with access to over one million printed works.
89.3 out of 100
Our reputation with employers
Exchange different insights and perspectives within a community comprising nearly 150 nationalities
92% of our research is world-leading or internationally excellent in the 2021 Research Excellence Framework
We also strive to prepare you for exciting future opportunities.
Our links with business and industry, and skills development as part of your course, help you gain the advantage in the workplace.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/whywarwick/campuslife:
Dedicated postgraduate study spaces, a sports and wellness hub, and an array of cafés, shops, and restaurants.
Our campus offers a wide range of places to study and reflect, whether you prefer quiet independent work, space to collaborate, or somewhere with a background buzz while you study.
We also have beautiful outdoor green spaces if you prefer to study close to nature.
Our Postgrad Hub Link opens in a new window and Wolfson Research Exchange Link opens in a new window are dedicated spaces for postgraduates where you can access support, network with fellow students, work collaboratively, and attend regular events and workshops.
Whether you crave the thrill of performing for an audience or love the escapism of watching a play, show or film, Warwick is the perfect place to enjoy the arts.
We’re lucky to have Warwick Arts Centre , one of the largest multi-functional performing arts venues in the UK, on our campus.
Housing a concert hall, theatres, music centre, cinema, and art gallery , the venue regularly attracts some of the best national and international shows and acts, from dance to comedy.
Making friends and trying new experiences are a huge part of what makes Postgraduate life at Warwick special.
With plenty of places to socialise in around campus, from cafés to pubs and bars, and over 300 Warwick SU societies and clubs catering for a broad range of interests including music, sport, and food, there’s plenty for you to get involved in during your time at Warwick.
Find what moves you with a range of sports, fitness, and wellbeing activities.
Our Sports and Wellness Hub provides incredible facilities, including a gym, swimming pool, climbing centre, fitness studios, and much more.
The Piazza provides the perfect setting for events including cultural celebrations, displays and performances.
It’s also home to our Big Screen, so you can enjoy outdoor films, theatrical performances, and major sporting events throughout the year.
At our Students’ Union and across campus, we have cafés, bars, and restaurants , offering delicious food to eat in and take out – from coffee and cake to pub food and freshly made baguettes.
There are also regular Wednesday food markets during term time, where you can tuck into street-food, including Thai dishes, vegan options, burgers, samosas, and pizza.
You’ll find a grocery store, post office, pharmacy, travel agent, launderettes, NHS Health Centre, and Amazon lockers on central campus.
There are also several shops and supermarkets in the nearby shopping centre, Cannon Park.
Our Chaplaincy is home to chaplains from the Christian, Jewish, and Muslim faiths.
It holds services for all Christian denominations, a Shabbat meal every Friday, and an Islamic prayer hall, halal kitchen, and ablution facilities.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/whywarwick/careers:
Use the dropdown to filter by subject area:
Please select a subject area to see careers support for that discipline.
Graduates from these courses are working in:
Our department has a dedicated professionally qualified Careers Consultant to support you.
They offer impartial advice and guidance, together with workshops and events throughout the year.
Previous examples of workshops and events include:
Find out more about careers support at Warwick .
Our degrees equip you with the skills and experiences needed to excel in your career.
With access to exceptional career services, industry connections, and global opportunities, we’ll inspire and help you to aim high and achieve your goals.
Our guidance ensures you graduate as a well-rounded professional ready for lifelong success.
The median salary for University of Warwick 2021/22 postgraduates whose main employment was full-time work in the UK was £38,000 (based on 971 respondents - 17% of the total postgraduate population)*.
Previous graduates from the Department of Chemistry have gone on to work for employers such as*:
They have pursued occupations such as the following*:
*Derived from the Graduate Outcomes survey, 2021/22, carried out approximately 15 months after completion of studies.
Conducted annually, Graduate Outcomes Link opens in a new window collects information on the activities and perspectives of graduates.
Contains HESA data: Copyright Jisc 2024.
Jisc cannot accept responsibility for any inferences or conclusions derived by third parties from its data.
Helping you find the right career
Your career path is unique to you.
Our university careers team offer personalised support to help you develop your skills, plan your career path, and get experience at any point during your time at Warwick, and after graduation.
Our department has a dedicated, professionally-qualified Senior Careers Consultant offering impartial advice and guidance together with workshops and events throughout the year.
Additionally, our Polymers in the Real World module brings in employers to deliver talks on their industries, and to discuss employment and training opportunities with students.
Discover more about postgraduate careers support at Warwick.
MASc in AI and Society students will graduate with a unique mix of an analytical and critical approach to AI, a technical grounding that enables them to interrogate and develop AI, and experience in approaching policy and governance implications of AI.
With almost all organisations being transformed by AI in different ways, graduates from this MASc will be able to follow diverse career pathways.
Whichever path they follow, graduates will be able to bring in a distinct, interdisciplinary outlook that builds on their comprehensive training.
Students will be able to elect optional modules to develop in ways that fit their career objectives.
Some exemplary profiles can be:
The MASc will offer a range of initiatives to develop experiences and skills to help student employability, prepare them for future careers and enable them to apply their learning on real-world problems:
AI-Design Camp: A 1-week intensive AI-Design Camp will take place over the summer term where we invite NGOs, policy-focused organisations, and community groups to provide a brief for students to collectively work on in small groups.
This will involve mini masterclasses in creative methods for technology/society engagement such as policy mapping, participatory research, situation analysis, data walks, design workshops.
As part of the AI-design camp, experts from the collaborating organisations (some of which will also be offering placements) will do talks and showcases to offer students an opportunity to gain an understanding of how careers in AI are developing in different sectors.
Short placements: As a credit-bearing optional module, students will be able to undertake a 4 to 6 week-long placement working with a non-academic partner on a placement project.
The topics will be provided by the non-academic partners in dialogue with the academic course team.
Students on the placement module will then be matched with the placement provider partners.
Final project with optional placement: Students will have the choice between writing a research-based dissertation or doing a practice-based final project.
In the latter case, the issue/problem that the students work with will be developed as a result of a dialogue between an external non-academic partner, the student and their academic supervisors, which may be supported by an optional placement.
Career development programme: CIM offers an active career development programme with talks from recent graduates, potential employers and career services professionals offering general careers advice.
Previous graduates from the Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies have gone on to work for employers such as*:
Our department has a dedicated professionally qualified Senior Careers Consultant offering impartial advice and guidance together with workshops and events throughout the year.
Discover more about postgraduate careers support at Warwick Link opens in a new window .
Typical career paths chosen by our graduates include jobs in*:
Our department also has a dedicated professionally qualified Senior Careers Consultant.
They offer impartial advice and guidance together with workshops and events throughout the year.
Graduates from the Department of Computer Science in the past have entered careers in these industries and companies:
Our department has a dedicated professionally qualified Senior Careers Consultant to support you.
Career paths can be technical, managerial, and strategic in the public, private, or charity sector; enabling social services, commerce, healthcare, transportation, environmental protection and more generally, a secure digital society.
Early career roles could include:
Later career roles could include:
With access to exceptional career services, industry connections, our alumni mentoring scheme and global opportunities, we’ll inspire and help you to aim high and achieve your goals.
The most recent MSc graduates from the Department of Economics (2023/24 cohort of students) have gone on to work for employers such as:
They have pursued occupations such as the following:
Derived from the annual data collection by the Department of Economics with the latest conducted in September 2024.
Each year, several graduates of MSc programmes from the Department of Economics pursue a PhD.
The most recent destinations for studying a PhD for our students have been: the LSE, Warwick and various universities in China and India.
Our Department has a dedicated professionally qualified Senior Careers Consultant.
Previous graduates from the Department of Education Studies have gone on to work for employers such as*:
Graduates of this course would be well equipped to work in leadership positions relating to early years and children’s education, in addition to informal and non-formal educational institutions and organisations, including but not limited to NGOs, charities, local government educational provision.
The dedicated, professionally qualified Senior Careers Consultant we work with offers impartial advice and guidance together with workshops and events throughout the year.
Warwick students are especially equipped to work in multi-disciplinary organisations in functional teams which create solutions incorporating (for example) mechanical and electrical components, or on largescale civil projects where interdisciplinary thinking is required to understand (for example) the impact of the London Olympics on public transport.
Graduates from these courses have gone on to work for employers including:
In addition to working as engineers and engineering professionals, other graduates have pursued roles such as:
Find out more about careers support at Warwick.
Previous graduates from the Department of English and Comparative Literary Studies have pursued occupations such as the following*:
Previous graduates from the Department of Film and Television Studies have gone on to work for employers such as*:
Studying an MASc in Global Sustainable Development will open careers in the public, private and third sectors in a range of areas and functions such as the following*:
We have a dedicated Employability and Placement Manager in our department who can offer you careers guidance and provide information about suitable capstone workplace project placements.
Additionally, they will be able to provide you with ongoing support throughout the placement process, including advice on applications, interviews, as well as links to employers.
Our course has been designed to ensure you develop the skills, attributes and knowledge that are sought by employers.
A postgraduate degree in History provides you with the skills and knowledge to embark on a range of career paths.
History Master's graduates have pursued careers in academia, the civil service, NGOs, education, law and in a range of research roles across the private sector*.
Our department has a dedicated professionally qualified Senior Careers Consultant Link opens in a new window offering impartial advice and guidance together with workshops and events throughout the year.
Graduates from these courses have gone on to work in a wide range of sectors, including careers in:
They have pursued careers such as:
Studying law provides a platform to a wide range of career opportunities within the legal profession and beyond.
Our law graduates train for the Bar and work for leading law firms like:
They also go on to work for other major employers such as:
Previous graduates from the School of Life Sciences have gone on to work for employers such as*:
Graduates from this course will be well-equipped to take community engagement forward in a local, national, or global context.
Your expertise in community engagement will allow you to access a wide variety of fields, including (but not limited to) Research, Community Development, Project Management, Data Intelligence, Policy Advisory, Humanitarian Aid, and Academia.
Our department’s Employability and Placement Manager has links with employers from the private, public, and third sectors, including Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), think tanks, social enterprises, and sustainability consultancies.
These links will be useful for both the capstone project in Term Three and employment opportunities during and beyond the course.
The median salary for University of Warwick 21/22 postgraduates from Warwick Mathematics Institute whose main employment was full-time work in the UK was £53,500.
Postgraduate graduates from the Warwick Mathematics Institute have gone on to work for employers such as:
Derived from the Graduate Outcomes survey
Derived from the Graduate Outcomes survey, 2021/22, carried out approximately 15 months after completion of studies.
Median salary figure based on 8 Warwick Mathematics Institute graduates that participated in the 2021/22 Graduate Outcomes survey and provided salary details (18% of the eligible Warwick Mathematics Institute postgraduate population).
Conducted annually Graduate Outcomes collects information on the activities and perspectives of graduates.
All modules have embedded employability skills as the Centre for Cultural and Media Policy Studies has decades of experience and connections with media, cultural and creative industries.
The course offers industry-ready strand of learning, teaching and assessment through the core Industry modules.
Placements will be negotiated with the following media, cultural and creative industries through the networks the Centre has cultivated.
Each placement, client brief or industry study will be developed over years two and three on a case-by-case and bespoke basis, depending on your interests and ambitions.
For example, you may wish to explore:
This new undergraduate degree is designed to open a wide range of career opportunities in the media and creative industries.
Postgraduates from the Centre for Cultural and Media Policy Studies have gone onto work in the following:
Outside of media industries, graduate opportunities can be found in design, marketing, user experience, the services sector and manufacturing industries.
Previous graduates from the School of Modern Languages and Cultures have pursued occupations such as the following*:
Find out more Link opens in a new window about the skills you will learn from this degree and what our Translation and Cultures alumni have done since their time at Warwick.
We are a founding member of the Association of Programmes in Translation and Interpreting Studies of the UK and Ireland Link opens in a new window .
We are also a corporate member of the Institute of Translation and Interpreting Link opens in a new window in the UK and the Globalization and Localization Association (GALA) Link opens in a new window , so you will have access to professional advice and support, including events, workshops, journals and career bulletins.
We are official language partners of the Chartered Institute of Linguists Link opens in a new window and a university partner of the Association of Translation Companies Link opens in a new window .
Completing an MA provides a strong foundation for those intending to study for a PhD.
In addition to those pursuing further study, graduates from these courses have gone on to work for a range of national and international employers.
Previous graduates from the Department of Philosophy have gone on to work for employers such as*:
Our graduates have pursued roles such as: further education teaching professionals; IT business analysts, architects and systems designers; library clerks and assistants and secondary education teaching professionals.
Graduates from this course have gone on to work for employers including:
They have pursued roles such as:
Our department has a dedicated Senior Careers Consultant.
Discover more about careers support at Warwick .
Previous graduates from the Department of Politics and International Studies have gone on to work for employers such as*:
Discover more about postgraduate careers support at Warwick.&nbsp;
Our department has a dedicated professionally qualified Senior Careers Consultant who works within Student Careers and Skills to help you as an individual.
Additionally your Senior Careers Consultant offers impartial advice and guidance together with workshops and events, tailored to our department, throughout the year.
Previous graduates from the Department of Sociology have gone on to work for employers such as*:
Previous graduates from the Department of Statistics have gone on to work for employers worldwide such as*:
Candidates with high distinction marks have gone on to pursue PhD degrees at prestigious universities such as Cambridge, Oxford, Imperial, LSE, etc.
or in the US*.
Upon completing one of our courses, you will be recommended for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) and will gain up to 90 credits at Master’s level.
This allows you to fast-track to stage two of CTE’s Master’s degree, quickly progressing your professional development.
Career progression may be through taking responsibility for co-ordinating an area of the curriculum or leading a Key Stage, with next steps being a senior management role.
Previous graduates from the Department of Theatre and Performance Studies have gone on to work for employers such as*:
Many of our graduates have also had success in pursuing funded PhD research.
We have our own dedicated careers team at Warwick Business School called WBS CareersPlus .
You will have access to one-to-one career guidance appointments, CV checks and tailored mock interviews.
The WBS CareersPlus team will support you and help you to understand yourself and your strengths.
They can help you to identify possible career paths, and to set and achieve your career ambitions.
This helps to boost your employability and helps you prepare for your career.
You can take advantage of personalised careers coaching and advice.
Our one-to-one careers appointments can help you if you have a question about writing applications, wish to explore your career options, or need to prepare for interviews and assessment centres.
Discover our graduate destinations brochure here.
Learn more about graduate destinations in our MSc Employment Report.
Graduates from WMG have gone on to work for a variety of employers including:
The median salary for University of Warwick 21/22 postgraduates from Warwick Medical School whose main employment was full-time work in the UK was £48,000.
Postgraduate graduates from the Warwick Medical School have gone on to work for employers such as:
Derived from the Graduate Outcomes survey Derived from the Graduate Outcomes survey, 2021/22, carried out approximately 15 months after completion of studies.
Median salary figure based on 99 Warwick Medical School graduates that participated in the 2021/22 Graduate Outcomes survey and provided salary details (33% of the total eligible Warwick Medical School postgraduate population).
Whether you’re aiming for a successful career after Warwick or looking to take your existing career to new heights, we’re here to help you fulfil your ambitions.
We provide students with careers support that enables them to stand out and encourages innovative ways of gaining skills and experience.
That’s why our graduates are among the most sought-after by leading employers.
On this page:
“My skills have improved in many different avenues - especially in those that I can rarely reciprocate in my degree...
It is not often that you work with others, let alone with those in universities across the entire world, and so building up new experiences such as these, and being confident in it, is invaluable for career development...”
Warwick Widening Participation student, second year Undergraduate in the Arts Faculty, reflecting on their experiences with the TeamWork International Experience Programme 2024.
For Warwick postgraduate taught graduates whose main employment was full-time work in the UK (Graduate Outcomes survey 2021/22)* Link opens in a new window
For Employer Reputation ( QS Graduate Employability Rankings 2025 )
By the largest numbers of top UK graduate employers (The Graduate Market in 2024, High Fliers Research Ltd.) Link opens in a new window
Your career path is unique to you, so our Student Opportunity: Careers team offers personalised support to help you develop your skills, plan your career path and gain experience.
You can access a wide range of support services from Student Opportunity at any point during your time at Warwick as well as after graduation.
"Over Summer ‘23, I was part of a TeamWork 2023 EUTOPIA project with Air-France KLM.
As Procurement Interns – Disruptive Innovations, CSR & Circular Economy – we created 11 feasibility studies to reduce the environmental impact of specific fleet carpets, curtains and seat covers."
In 2023, Vivek Venkatram, a student from the University of Warwick was selected to take part in the TeamWork International Experience Programme with 155 other EUTOPIA students.
Read his story.
Here is what we advise you to do before, during, and after your studies in order to get the most out of your Warwick experience:
Make sure you are prepared to get the most out of your time at Warwick, even before you arrive.
Here’s what you should do three months before arriving:
Consider your future goals and what you aim to achieve during your time at Warwick.
Also, take the time to reflect on your strengths and areas for development.
Take time to prepare your CV in the UK style to increase your chances of securing opportunities.
Read more about these four mistakes to avoid in your CV Link opens in a new window .
Check out our guides to applications & interviews, including cover letters and CVs .
Researching the UK job market before you arrive can help you understand the landscape and identify opportunities aligned with your career aspirations.
Find out about job sectors here .
Update your LinkedIn profile: optimise your profile to showcase your skills, experience, and aspirations to potential employers and connections.
Some part-time jobs are open for applications before the start of the academic year.
Read more about part-time work during your studies (including visa restrictions)
In order to volunteer with many of our Warwick Volunteer projects, especially volunteering with children, international students need to obtain a Certificate of Good Conduct from the country(ies) in which you have lived for a duration of 6 months or more in the past five years and a DBS Check (UK Criminal Records).
Find out about Certificate of Good Conduct requirements Link opens in a new window
The table below shows the key months for a typical graduate scheme job application:
December - April
Psychometric tests, video interviews, and assessment centres are completed
Remember, there are other Graduate Schemes that do not follow this timeline or recruit on a rolling basis.
Graduate schemes make up less than 20% of all graduate roles, are highly competitive, and ofter recruit a year in advance of the job start date.
There are many more graduate jobs you can apply in the last three months of your course, often with an immediate start.
If you decide to apply before arriving in the UK, check out further advice in During your studies section.
Our student Immigration team provide visa advice and guidance for working during and after your studies in the UK Link opens in a new window .
Explore your visa pathway tailored to your career choices after your studies.
The UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) Link opens in a new window website also provides excellent information and advice on visas, immigration, fees and money, working, preparation, studying and living in the UK, as well as support available for EU, EEA and Swiss students.
During your studies, prioritise the following steps:
Enrol yourself in the Warwick Award programme Link opens in a new window and check out our other opportunities to build, develop and showcase your employability skills.
Understand your work rights, including National Minimum Wage Link opens in a new window .
Read our essential information on income tax, national insurance and getting a national insurance number, visa requirements and getting a share code.
Part-time jobs are a good way to get UK experience and earn while you study.
But think carefully about your working hours: always prioritise your course work and ensure you do not exceed the working limit of 20 hours a week in term time if you have a student visa Link opens in a new window .
Volunteering opportunities Link opens in a new window are another great way to develop your employability skills - whilst making a difference to our local communities.
Use our WorkReady toolkit Link opens in a new window to find and make the most of work experience.
Find out more about how to apply for internships and work experience opportunities to gain practical knowledge in your field.
Attend careers workshops and sessions covering CV writing, cover letters, interview techniques, utilising AI, networking, and more to refine your professional skills.
Make the most of your time at Warwick by exploring student opportunities Link opens in a new window and extracurricular activities Link opens in a new window to enrich your university experience.
Understand the importance of networking and adapt effective strategies to build connections with peers, professionals and alumni Link opens in a new window .
Use our guide to your career options , whatever stage you are at in your career planning
Explore our guide to finding work
Don't forget to check out our guide to applications and interviews
Search for jobs and plan your career with the Student Circus platform Link opens in a new window
Don't limit yourself to ' Graduate schemes Link opens in a new window ' - they make up less than 20% of all graduate roles, can be highly competitive to get onto and often recruit very early in the academic year.
In the final stage of your course, prioritise the following steps:
Complete the Warwick Award Link opens in a new window to enhance and showcase your employability skills.
Use our guide to discover your career options , whatever stage you are at in your career planning
Student Circus: job search and career planning platform for international students to find sponsored roles Link opens in a new window
Don't limit yourself to graduate schemes Link opens in a new window - they make up less than 20% of all graduate roles, are highly competitive, and often recruit very early in the academic year.
Check out our resources to prepare thoroughly for job applications and interviews .
Make the most of rejections as a learning experience .
Seek a one-to-one consultation with a Senior Career Consultant for personalised analysis and look for workshops on coping strategies for job rejection and impostor syndrome.
These resources will equip you to bounce back resiliently, fostering growth and confidence in your career journey.
Embrace setbacks as opportunities for learning and development, paving the way for future success.
Reach out and connect with Warwick alumni Link opens in a new window to expand your professional network and gain valuable insights and advice.
Apply for the graduate or skilled worker visa Link opens in a new window if you're planning to stay in the UK post-graduation.
Keep yourself updated with the latest immigration rules
Immigration and Compliance news for students
Sign up to the alumni network Link opens in a new window to stay connected and share experiences.
Navigate your next steps with these essential resources and guidance, including changes to access buildings and IT account after your course.
Preparing for life after studies Link opens in a new window
Finally, give back to the Warwick community by sharing your career journey, experience and knowledge with fellow students, contributing to their success and growth.
Our Student Opportunities team can assist you with both academic and non-academic career support for Postgraduate Research students.
Whether you are undecided on your career direction, considering a career closely allied to your subject discipline or in an unrelated field.
We have a wide range of services for you, including one-to-one careers guidance and our Careers Beyond Academia and PhD Networking events.
To find out more about how you can access careers support, you can contact the careers team by emailing careers@warwick.ac.uk , or speak to the careers team on campus in the Student Opportunity Hub, Ground Floor, Senate House.
Median Salary Disclaimer *Derived from the Graduate Outcomes survey of 2021/22 graduates, carried out approximately 15 months after completion of studies.
Figures are based on 971 Warwick graduates that participated in the survey and provided salary details (17% of the total Warwick postgraduate population).
Conducted annually and based on the responses of graduates 15 months after their graduation, Graduate Outcomes collects information related to graduate destinations, including further study and employment.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/whywarwick/support:
Welcome to Warwick provides information, events and tips about arriving at Warwick.
The events programme lets you choose to attend as many or as few events as you want to.
These will include introductory sessions to find out more about the academic opportunities available at Warwick, skills sessions, and help with getting to know the local area.
There are also plenty of social events planned, giving you the opportunity to meet other postgraduates from across the University.
Find out more about our Welcome Week , and the advice and support available.
We know how important it is for you to feel safe and supported while you’re here at Warwick.
We’re committed to ensuring you have easy access to many sources of advice and help throughout your time with us.
We encourage you to engage with these services, as and when you need them.
Whatever the future holds, we’re well-prepared and will always put your well-being first.
Our Doctoral College offers advice on applications, academic progression and awards.
If you’re looking for funding, the team also has the latest details on available scholarships.
The Team offers an access point to all Wellbeing Support Services .
Following a short consultation, we will refer you to the most appropriate people for support.
In addition, the team offers advice and support appointments on a wide range of issues.
These issues may be:
Get an authentic view of life as a Warwick postgraduate, with many of our blogs available as podcasts.
https://warwick.ac.uk/services/dc/
doctoralcollege@warwick.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0)24 7657 5533
In addition to the main social media accounts , many departments host their own postgraduate-led social media communities.
See a list of academic departments .
University of Warwick on Facebook
University of Warwick Library on Facebook
@warwickuni
@WarwickPGHub
@WarwickResearchEx

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/whywarwick/accommodation:
That’s why we have a wide variety of options to ensure you feel at home.
There's also no application fee or deposit to pay, and all your bills are included which provides you with a hassle-free experience.
Our campus accommodation includes some separate postgraduate areas as well as a limited number of options suitable for couples and students planning to live at Warwick with their family.
All campus accommodation is furnished and maintained to a high standard.
Postgraduate accommodation bookings usually open in Spring and are offered on a first-come first-served basis to students with a 'UF' offer of study.
Explore the Warwick Accommodation website to discover the options and benefits of living on campus
Moving to a foreign country for higher education can be a daunting experience.
However, signing up for an on-campus accommodation, specifically the Westwood Halls of Residence was such a good call since it made this transition remarkably smooth.
The proximity of the central campus, just a 15-minute walk away, and the library being a mere 10 minutes away, has simplified my daily routine.
With all the essential facilities within reach, I have been able to save valuable time and focus more on my studies and personal growth.
Kwamina Ekremet, MSc Process Business Management
Alternatively, you can rent a property off campus in the local area through a private landlord or letting agency.
You can use Warwick Studentpad to look for local properties (you'll need a 'UF' offer of study to begin searching) however it is also advisable to get in touch with the Students’ Union Advice Team Link opens in a new window for helpful guidance regarding renting, where to look, budgeting and what to look out for before signing an accommodation contract to ensure you are staying safe and avoiding accommodation scams Link opens in a new window .
Our campus has excellent transport links.
Buses run back and forth to the University as early as 6am and as a late as 3am during term time, and local bus companies offer students reduced rate passes, making travel cheap and convenient.
Visit Warwick Accommodation for 360° photography of our halls of residence and more information on:

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/whywarwick/localarea:
University is a great time to explore new cities and meet new people.
So, while there’s plenty to experience on campus, there’s much more to see and do in the local area.
Based in the West Midlands and extending across into Warwickshire, our University is at the heart of the UK.
We’re close to two major city centres, Coventry and Birmingham, and our excellent transport links place us just over an hour away from London by train and close to a major international airport.
Although our campus is situated in Coventry, parts of it reaches into the Warwickshire countryside, so you get the best of both city and green spaces to explore.
Named 5 th best student city in the UK (QS Best Student Cities 2023), City of Culture 2021.
Coventry is a buzzing student city, so you won’t be short of things to do.
Many students choose to live in Coventry during their second year and beyond.
Leamington is one of the UK’s happiest places to live (Rightmove’s Happy at Home Index 2023 ).
Based nearby in Warwickshire, Leamington Spa is another popular location for our students to live beyond their first year.
With buses running back and forth to the University as late as 3am during term time, and local bus companies offering reduced-rate passes, you’ll always be within an easy commute of campus.
Only a short train ride away from Coventry Station, Birmingham is another bold student city, home to some of the region’s major shopping centres, including Bullring & Grand Central, and an international airport.
At Christmas, you’ll find the largest German Christmas Market in the UK here.
Just a short bus ride from campus, Kenilworth is a historical town with a castle and gardens to visit, nature reserve, and independent pubs and restaurants.
There’s even a direct cycle path to Kenilworth from our campus.
Surprisingly, our University and Warwick town are two very separate things.
You’ll find Warwick a 25-minute drive away from central campus.
Here you can explore the popular Warwick castle, gorgeous river and boat centre, and plenty of eateries.
A bit further from campus, but worth the visit is Stratford-upon-Avon.
Known as the birthplace of Shakespeare, you can watch productions from the RSC (Royal Shakespeare Theatre), soak up the town’s history, go on canal and river tours, visit the Butterfly Farm, and explore local markets.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/course-list:
Our Social Sciences PGCE can cover the following subjects: Psychology Sociology This course will recommend you on completion for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) to work with 14-19 year-olds .
96% of our graduates rated us outstanding and good for quality of support by personal tutor through tutorials and opportunity for email communication.2019-2020 Our PGCE courses had an overall completion rate of 93%.
2019-2020 We're nationally known for the quality of our training, and our work's based on a partnership with over 500 local schools in Coventry, Warwickshire and the West Midlands.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-accounting-financial-management:
Course code
P-NN00
Start date
27 September 2026
Qualification
MSc
Location
Meet us
Download our prospectus Link opens in a new window
Applications open Autumn 2025
Discover more Link opens in a new window
Master the art of analysing and resolving real-world challenges in accounting and financial management while developing the critical skills to propel your career forward.
Whether you’re looking to accelerate your current career path or pivot into the world of accounting and finance, this course will equip you with the tools and knowledge to excel in today’s dynamic business landscape.
You’ll broaden your knowledge on the application of accounting and finance, and be able to present, explain and interpret theoretical concepts.
You will then critically evaluate these theories on the basis of evidence, deducing conclusions applicable to situations you may encounter in the workplace.
Our exclusive year-long Careers & Employability module dedicates valuable curriculum time to hone the critical skills that employers demand.
You’ll dive deep into the dynamic world of accounting and financial management, exploring a myriad of exciting career paths.
Take your learning beyond the classroom with our standout feature: a self-sourced three-month placement or internship that puts you at the heart of industry action.
This innovative, immersive approach ensures you're not just studying, but continuously building your professional edge throughout the entire course.
Our dedicated Careers team provides personalised support throughout your journey, ensuring you're well-prepared to seize exciting career opportunities upon graduation.
With this course, you're not just earning a degree – you're crafting a launchpad for an exceptional career.
Learn more via the WBS website Link opens in a new window .
Download our Master's brochure.
You can find out more about our English language requirements Link opens in a new window .
This course requires the following:
We welcome applications from students with other internationally recognised qualifications.
For more information, please visit the international entry requirements page Link opens in a new window .
We typically ask for one academic reference for taught courses.
You will be asked to include an email address for your referee(s) when submitting your application and we will contact them for you.
View our guide to academic references.
There are no additional entry requirements for this course.
You will choose one of the following modules:
Optional modules can vary from year to year.
Example optional modules may include:
Read the module descriptions for this course on the Warwick Business School website.
Please note these modules are subject to change.
To complete your degree, you will have the option to choose between the Dissertation or self-sourced Internship:
Dissertation route
This dissertation route offers the opportunity to synthesise, apply and extend your knowledge gained during the course, with a 6,000 word final dissertation.
Internship route
This course offers the opportunity to self-source a summer internship, to increase your employability by applying your theoretical learnings to a real-world industry setting.
The Internship module is an alternative to a traditional Research Paper to complete your course.
Please note that availability and delivery modes may vary.
Students on this MSc will typically receive between 27 and 30 contact hours per module, via a mixture of virtual and in-person support.
Assessment on the course will be comprised of a mix of exams, individual and group work, and tests.
Your personalised timetable will be complete when you are registered for all modules, core and optional, and you have been allocated to your lectures, seminars and other small group classes.
Your core modules will be registered for you, and you will be able to choose your optional modules when you join us.
There may be events taking place in the evenings.
Classes may run up to 7pm, and other events, such as careers presentations may take place later or on weekends.
Occasionally, classes and exams may be held on weekends.
We will notify you in advance if this is the case.
This is a full-time course, so there are no holidays as such.
However, the two weeks covering Christmas and New Year are guaranteed to be free from lectures.
There may also be weeks free over the Easter period (check with your programme team).
Resit exams may take place outside of standard teaching periods.
If you would like to view reading lists for current or previous cohorts of students, most departments have reading lists available through Warwick Library on the Talis Aspire platform .
Please see the modules tab of this page or the module catalogue .
At WBS, we offer some of the top business programmes in the UK and globally.
We welcome students, faculty, staff and corporate partners who embody our Change Maker values, and have a passionate drive to make a positive difference in the world of business and beyond.
Being a Change Maker isn't about where you're from, it's about where you want to go and how you're going to get there.
This is reflected in the aims of our business school: we want to bring people together from across the globe, from different backgrounds, who are restless to change the world and want to use business as a power for good.
Does this sound like you?
Find out more about us on our website.
The vision of WBS is to be Europe’s leading University-based Business School, developing transformational ideas and people that shape how we do business.
We recognise that rankings are one way to profile our progress towards fulfilling this vision, and are proud to participate in the major global business education rankings.
MSc Finance
MSc Management
MSc Marketing & Strategy
MSc Business Analytics & Artificial Intelligence
Tuition fees Tuition fees are payable for each year of your course at the start of the academic year, or at the start of your course, if later.
Find your taught course fees Fee Status Guidance We carry out an initial fee status assessment based on the information you provide in your application.
Students will be classified as Home or Overseas fee status.
Your fee status determines tuition fees, and what financial support and scholarships may be available.
If you receive an offer, your fee status will be clearly stated alongside the tuition fee information.
Do you need your fee classification to be reviewed?
If you believe that your fee status has been classified incorrectly, you can complete a fee status assessment questionnaire.
Please follow the instructions in your offer information and provide the documents needed to reassess your status.
Find out more about how universities assess fee status Additional course costs As well as tuition fees and living expenses, some courses may require you to cover the cost of field trips or costs associated with travel abroad.
For departmental specific costs, please see the Modules tab on the course web page for the list of core and optional core modules with hyperlinks to our Module Catalogue (please visit the Department’s website if the Module Catalogue hyperlinks are not provided).
Associated costs can be found on the Study tab for each module listed in the Module Catalogue (please note most of the module content applies to 2025/26 year of study).
Information about module department specific costs should be considered in conjunction with the more general costs below: Core text books Printer credits Dissertation binding Robe hire for your degree ceremony
Find your taught course fees
We carry out an initial fee status assessment based on the information you provide in your application.
Find out more about how universities assess fee status
Find out more about the various funding opportunities that are available in our department.
Our how to apply checklist helps you prepare for your application.
Learn more about the Applicant Portal.
The application process for courses that start in September and October 2026 opens in Autumn 2025.
Applications close on 2 August 2026 for students who require a visa to study in the UK, to allow time to receive a CAS and complete the visa application process.
Applicant Portal After you've applied Admissions statement Join a live chat
Our events offer includes:
Throughout the year we attend exhibitions and fairs online and in-person around the UK.
These events give you the chance to explore our range of postgraduate courses, and find out what it’s like studying at Warwick.
You’ll also be able to speak directly with our student recruitment team, who will be able to help answer your questions.
A Warwick talk and tour lasts around two hours and consists of an overview presentation from one of our Recruitment Officers covering the key features, facilities and activities that make Warwick a leading institution.
The talk is followed by a campus tour which is the perfect way to view campus, with a current student guiding you around the key areas on campus.
Nurture your skills to develop your career and become part of the change you want to see with our Careers Support.
Discover why Warwick is one of the best universities in the UK and renowned globally.
in the Guardian University Guide 2026, The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025, The Complete University Guide 2026.
by the UK's top 100 graduate employers (The Graduate Market in 2024, High Fliers Research Ltd)
out of 1,500 institutions across over 100 countries and regions (QS World University Rankings 2026)
Coventry is ranked as the 6th Best Student City in the UK, and 43rd in the world (QS Best Student Cities 2025)
Gold, the highest possible rating across all three categories (student experience, student outcomes, and overall) (Teaching Excellence Framework 2023)
was assessed as 'world-leading' or 'internationally excellent' (Research Excellence Framework 2021)
We may have revised the information on this page since publication.
See the edits we have made and content history .
This information is applicable for 2026 entry.
Given the interval between the publication of courses and enrolment, some of the information may change.
It is important to check our website before you apply.
Please read our terms and conditions to find out more.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-accounting-sustainability:
P-NL00
Engage with the transformative power of accounting and professional expertise.
Give yourself the edge in a rapidly developing job market as the world of business works to confront the grand challenges of sustainable development.
Whether the intrinsically linked subject areas of accounting and sustainability are familiar or new to you, this course offers you the platform to progress your expertise.
With governments and accounting bodies defining sustainability accounting standards, expertise in this area is increasingly expected by employers in financial services and related industries, but not limited to them.
New roles such as chief sustainability officer are evolving across the business world and in the public sector.
The ability to account for social and environmental change figures prominently in cost-benefit analyses, the procurement of services and contracting-out, and long-term investment in infrastructures.
As organisations are seeking resilience in turbulent times, they need to combine business acumen with sustainability, and decision-makers require the best available information on both counts.
This course has been carefully constructed to equip you with the skills, knowledge and practical experience to step straight into the professional sphere, and start making a positive impact.
To complete your degree, you will have the option to choose between the Dissertation or self-sourced Internship, or Business in Practice:
Business in Practice route
If you would like to develop further applied skills and specialist knowledge to suit your career aspirations, you can complete your studies with our applied Business in Practice module.
You will develop deep functional and industry expertise with practical insights from our faculty and industry experts.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/phd-lifelong-learning:
P-X352
January, April and September
MPhil/PhD
This PhD provides an opportunity to undertake in-depth research within the broad field of adult education and lifelong learning.
Adult education and lifelong learning encompass a wide range of learning situations from informal through to formal education and the workplace.
We provide a pleasant PhD study room and dedicated personal tutor support in addition to the supervisory team.
A combined staff and student seminar programme provides a collegiate forum for sharing and discussing current topics and ideas.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in a relevant subject or a good Master’s degree (or equivalent) in a relevant subject.
Supported by a good research proposal (2500 words).
Research themes for this PhD can include:
The above is not an exclusive list of research areas and you are free to propose additional topics or themes: Research proposal guidance .
We provide this named PhD route covering a range of professional and academic areas linked to lifelong learning.
This results in a PhD with the named route 'Adult Education and Lifelong Learning' on the University transcript.
If you prefer to follow a PhD without a named route, there are also strong links between this PhD and our Open Professional Studies Route PhD (P-X3S1).
So this option can be pursued.
You can discuss the choice of route with the Director of Graduate Studies.
"The essence of my Ph.D.
at Warwick was centred on how coaching clients experienced using creativity in their coaching sessions and the effects of this.
As a professional international coach this was important, this can give people a way of accessing meaning through non-verbal communication, particularly when using a second language and for all, a way of voicing the unspeakable; that which is difficult to say.
Our company provides training, coaching, training of coaches and facilitation globally.
To date, we have worked in 74 countries over the last 25 years, for the UN, NGOs and in post conflict zones.
To discover that creativity entwines the conscious and unconscious gives opportunities for people we work with to become more authentic as they move forward.
My research adds gravitas to the important work that we do."
CLL PhD graduate, Dr Nat Clegg
Please hover above the names listed below for a quick overview then click to view the full profile.
Applicants are encouraged to contact their potential supervisor.
The most important aspect is the nature of your project and its potential for supervision in our department.
You are asked to view your intended supervisor's profile and read their work.
Please think about what might make your proposed PhD attractive to your supervisor, and customise the proposal accordingly.
We receive a large number of proposals every year and only have capacity for proposals that are carefully tailored to our specific areas of expertise.
The University's Find a Supervisor Guidance
When putting together your research proposal please:
Find your research course fees Fee Status Guidance We carry out an initial fee status assessment based on the information you provide in your application.
Find out more about how universities assess fee status Additional course costs As well as tuition fees and living expenses, some courses may require you to cover the cost of research trips in the UK and overseas.
In addition, you should consider the more general costs below: Access to research material that is not available via university resources Printing and binding a personal copy of your dissertation Robe hire for your degree ceremony
Find your research course fees
As well as tuition fees and living expenses, some courses may require you to cover the cost of research trips in the UK and overseas.
In addition, you should consider the more general costs below:
For more than 30 years, the Centre for Lifelong Learning has been a centre of expertise in the education of lifelong learners in different contexts.
It has a focus on enabling adult learners to achieve their personal and professional goals by accessing a Warwick education, irrespective of background.
Our departmental research strategy focuses on four interconnected themes: concepts of lifelong learning; people-focused professions; wellbeing and identity; participation and collaboration.
More information is available on our website.
Find out more about us by visiting our website.
For research courses that start in September and October 2026, the application deadline for students who require a visa to study in the UK is 2 August 2026.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/pgcert-pgdip-msc-clinical-practice:
P-B94A (MSc);
P-B94AD (PGDip);
P-B94AC (PGCert)
5 October 2026
MSc/PGDip/PGCert
Consistent with national guidance, this course will enable non-medical clinicians to undertake full systems examinations, develop the skills and knowledge to clinically and critically interpret results to diagnose patients and prescribe medications.
Taught by senior practising clinicians, this course will give you the knowledge you need to further develop your confidence and skill set and prepare to work autonomously at a senior clinical decision-making level.
Our flexible course structure allows you to study over a three-year period, starting with the PG Certificate, then progressing to the PG Diploma and finally completing the full MSc.
This structured professional development course will enable non-medical clinicians to:
Applicants should:
Those without the academic qualifications will have a telephone interview with the course director for a special case request to be made.
We welcome applications from students with other internationally recognised qualifications although students will need to be practicing in the UK.
For more information, please visit the international entry requirements page .
For the MSc:
This is an interactive programme.
You will learn through lectures and seminars, practical group work and guided reading.
This programme is delivered by a blended learning approach, which will include a combination of face to face and online learning You will benefit from guided discussions and have the opportunity to practice the skills you have learnt during the sessions.
Class sizes will vary, however on average they comprise of 20-25 students.
Assessment for each module can be seen by looking at the relevant module page but typically consists of written essays of 3,000-4,000 words, a portfolio and/or an Objective Structured Long Examination Record (OSLER).
The Professional Project is assessed by 4,000-word project report and a poster presentation.
Your personalised timetable will be complete when you are registered for all modules, listing your allocated lectures, seminars, and other small group classes.
Your compulsory modules will be registered for you when you join us.
Established in 2000, Warwick Medical School (WMS) forms part of the Faculty of Science, Engineering and Medicine at the University of Warwick.
Alongside a range of educational opportunities, WMS has a reputation for research excellence, investigating solutions to significant global health challenges.
Find out more about us on our website Link opens in a new window
This course is part of Warwick Medical School which follows a non-standard fee structure.
Full fee details are listed via the 'find your course fees' button.
Find your course fees Fee Status Guidance We carry out an initial fee status assessment based on the information you provide in your application.
Find your course fees

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/pgcert-pgdip-msc-critical-care-practice:
P-B94B (MSc);
P-B94BD (PGDip)
MSc/PGDip
FICM accreditation We are proud to announce that the MSc Advanced Critical Care Practice (ACCP) programme at the University of Warwick has been awarded full accreditation by the Faculty of Intensive Care Medicine (FICM) as of June 2025.
This course is designed for healthcare professionals caring for critically ill patients and those working within acute, emergency or critical care environments such as ambulance services, intensive care units and emergency departments.
The course promotes a multidisciplinary approach to patient care, and aims to help you develop the skills to undertake autonomous practice.
Core modules focus on clinical examination and diagnostic skills, and independent and supplementary prescribing.
The structure of the course will enable the non-medical clinicians to:
Before completing the course, you will undertake the Induction and Professional Development module, introducing you to all the underpinning regulations, guidance, and support available to you during your postgraduate study.
The course will delivered via a blended learning approach using face to face and online learning.
You will benefit from guided discussions and have the opportunity to practise the skills you have learnt during the sessions.
Assessment for each module can be seen by looking at the relevant module page but typically consists of written essays of 4,000 words each, a clinical portfolio and/or an Objective Structured Long Examination Record (OSLER).
The Professional Project is assessed by a 4,000-word project report and a poster presentation.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/llm-advanced-legal-studies:
P-M3PJ
28 September 2026
LLM
We offer you the chance to create a personal programme of study by drawing from all the postgraduate modules offered across our LLM programmes in International Development Law and Human Rights, International Economic Law, International Commercial Law, and International Corporate Governance and Financial Regulation.
You can also choose a number of options from a list of modules from other departments, subject to availability and approval.
You will also develop a dissertation on a topic to be agreed and prepared with guidance from an assigned supervisor.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in law or a related subject with a law component.
To read more about the modules for this course, please visit the Law School website Link opens in a new window .
You will take a selection of modules totalling 120 CATS followed by a 10,000-word dissertation worth 60 CATS.
All assessed modules are worth 20 CATS and run for one term.
Modules will be taken during terms one and two leaving you term three and the summer to complete your dissertation.
You will also be required to attend a research and writing skills module for two terms.
If you choose to study part time, this will be split over two years of study.
You will be taught by academics who are recognised subject experts with UK and international experience.
As well as teaching, most are involved in producing world leading research, often providing expert advice to outside bodies.
How the programme will be taught will depend on the modules you opt to take, but you can expect a mixture of lectures, seminars and group work.
This will depend on the popularity of the modules you select but class sizes can range from between 10 and 40 students per module.
You will typically have up to 12 hours of contact time per week on the full-time programme, depending on your LLM programme and modules selected, but will be expected to do additional research and reading outside of the classroom.
Part-time students study a smaller number of modules each year but will attend classes alongside our full-time students in the usual weekday timetable.
Please see our website for further details Link opens in a new window .
The programme incorporates a wide and varying range of assessment methods, which may include essays, examinations, portfolios, presentations and the dissertation.
We regard feedback as a vital part of the assessment process.
We seek to help you reach your full potential by identifying the strengths and weaknesses of your work and the actions needed to develop your understanding.
You will be given feedback after your assessments each term.
If you would like to view reading lists for current or previous cohorts of students, most departments have reading lists available through Warwick Library on the Talis Aspire platform Link opens in a new window .
Please see the modules tab of this page or the module catalogue Link opens in a new window .
Your personalised timetable will be complete when you are registered for all modules, compulsory and optional, and you have been allocated to your lectures, seminars and other small group classes.
Your compulsory modules will be registered for you and you will be able to choose your optional modules when you join us.
Previous graduates from the School of Law have gone on to work for employers such as*:
The School of Law has a dedicated careers consultant (part of the Student Opportunity careers team) to support your personal career journey during your time at Warwick.
She offers impartial advice and guidance (one to one support) and delivers workshops and events tailored to the needs of Law students.
This is in addition to specialist speakers who may be invited to contribute to your LLM programme.
Events previously organised by the wider Student Opportunity team include:
From the first intake of students back in 1968, Warwick Law School has developed a reputation for innovative, quality research and consistently highly rated teaching.
Study with us is exciting, challenging and rewarding.
Pioneers of the 'Law in Context' approach to legal education, and welcoming students and staff from around the world, we offer a friendly, international and enriching environment in which to study law in its many contexts.
Get to know us better by exploring our departmental website.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-advanced-mechanical-engineering:
P-H341
Our MSc in Advanced Mechanical Engineering equips students with the expertise and adaptability to tackle new and unusual challenges across a wide range of disciplines, within engineering and beyond.
Core modules provide advanced knowledge of fundamental mechanical engineering principles while also developing the skills needed to manage engineering projects involving multiple stakeholders.
Optional modules offer the flexibility to explore complementary topics aligned with your interests.
You will also undertake an individual research project – an extensive experimental, theoretical, or computational study on a topic of your choice, guided by an academic supervisor.
Previous project titles include: CFD for electric car battery cooling system design; Developing and testing an improved solar thermal collector (for hot water); Modelling and simulation of biological control systems; Recycling of materials from spent lithium ion batteries; Biomechanical detection of breast cancer by palpation; Polymer gear contact simulations for EV gearbox applications.
Within the School of Engineering, our teaching is driven by cutting-edge research in areas such as automotive systems, biomedical engineering, electrical and thermal energy systems, materials and modelling, precision engineering and measurement, as well as solid and fluid mechanics.
Graduates from this programme have secured roles at leading companies such as Arup, Rolls-Royce, and Siemens, while others have pursued further research through PhD programmes at Warwick and other institutions.
A minimum 2:1 undergraduate UK Honours degree or equivalent international qualification, in an engineering, physical sciences or mathematical subject.
Please note that applicants will need post A2 Level (or equivalent) knowledge in Mathematics, covering topics such as linear algebra, calculus and analysis, and including differential equations.
This could be gained through a mathematics module taken as part of an undergraduate course.
It is expected that candidates have a good understanding of these topics at the start of their MSc studies.
You can see how your current degree score or GPA equates to the British system in our Study pages in the equivalent scores table .
We are willing to consider applications from students with lower qualifications on a case-by-case basis, particularly when the applicant can evidence relevant employment, practical experience or strong performance in undergraduate modules related to their proposed postgraduate course of study.
To ensure you have the essential foundations for the course, and depending on your overall academic profile, we may require you to take a mathematical skills test.
There are no additional requirements for this course.
This course may also include additional costs.
Taught modules provide fundamental advanced knowledge in topics key to mechanical engineering.
These cover dynamics of 3D mechanical systems, CFD, renewable energy and heat transfer and will develop your analytical and applied skills in designing, analysing and interpreting models using fundamental, empirical and computational theory.
Core modules in Research Methods & Professional Skills and a Group Design task will provide skills and experience to specify, manage, execute and report on engineering projects involving multiple stakeholders.
You will then deploy these skills to deliver your individual research project, carrying out research into your chosen field, mentored by an academic with years of experience in the topic.
The degree comprises eight taught modules and a project.
The individual research project is an in-depth experimental, theoretical or computational investigation of a topic chosen by you in conjunction with your academic supervisor.
Class sizes for lectures, practical laboratory sessions and seminars vary depending on the number of students taking the module.
The MSc degree (totalling 180 credits) comprises:
The typical workload for a 15-credit module is as follows:
The research project is valued at 60 credits and students should plan to execute around 600 hours of work towards the completion of the project dissertation.
You will experience a variety of assessment methods, and can expect to mostly sit examinations and complete coursework assignments.
Previous graduates from the School of Engineering have gone on to work for employers such as*:
Use your maths and science skills to creatively solve real-life problems.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/eng/undergraduate/accreditation:
If you aspire to achieve Chartered-Engineer (CEng) status, a degree from Warwick is a great starting point.
The majority of our degrees are accredited by licensed professional engineering institutions, such as the IET, IMechE and JBM and provide the academic component (in part or fully) needed for Chartered Engineer status.
Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET)
Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE)
Joint Board of Moderators (JBM)
Institute of Measurement and Control (InstMC)
The following degrees are accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer:
The following degrees are accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as an Incorporated Engineer and partly meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer:
The following degrees are accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) on behalf of the Engineering Council as meeting the requirements for Further Learning for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Candidates must hold a CEng accredited BEng/BSc (Hons) undergraduate first degree to fully meet the CEng registration educational requirements:
The following degrees are accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) as fully meeting the exemplifying academic benchmark requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
The following degrees are accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) as meeting, in part, the exemplifying academic benchmark requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer and students will need to complete an approved format of further learning pursuant to the requirements of UK-SPEC.
The accredited BEng (Hons) will also automatically meet in full, the exemplifying academic benchmark requirements for registration as an Incorporated Engineer (IEng):
The following degrees are accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) as meeting, in part, the exemplifying academic benchmark requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Accredited MSc graduates who also have a BEng (Hons) accredited for CEng will be able to show that they have satisfied the educational base for CEng registration:
The following degrees are accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM), comprising the Institution of Civil Engineers, Institution of Structural Engineers, Chartered Institution of Highways & Transportation, the Institute of Highway Engineers and the Permanent Way Institution on behalf of the Engineering Council, as fully satisfying the educational base for a Chartered Engineer (CEng):
The following degrees are accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM), comprising the Institution of Civil Engineers, Institution of Structural Engineers, Chartered Institution of Highways & Transportation, the Institute of Highway Engineers and the Permanent Way Institution on behalf of the Engineering Council, as fully satisfying the educational base for an Incorporated Engineer (IEng) and partially satisfying the educational base for a Chartered Engineer (CEng):
The programmes listed below have been accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM) comprising of the Institution of Civil Engineers, the Institution of Structural Engineers, the Chartered Institution of Highways & Transportation, the Institute of Highway Engineers and the Permanent Way Institution on behalf of the Engineering Council as meeting the academic requirements for Further Learning for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
To hold accredited qualifications for CEng registration, candidates must also hold a Bachelor (Hons) degree that has been accredited as partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineering (CEng).:
The following degrees are accredited by the Institute of Measurement and Control (InstMC).
Accreditation is a mark of assurance that the degree meets the standards set by the Engineering Council in the UK Standard for Professional Engineering Competence (UK-SPEC).
An accredited degree will provide you with some or all the underpinning knowledge, understanding and skills for eventual registration as an Incorporated (IEng) or Chartered Engineer (CEng).
Some employers recruit preferentially from accredited degrees, and an accredited degree is likely to be recognised by other countries that are signatories to international accords:

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/masc-pgdip-ai-and-society:
TBC
MASc/PGDip
We are planning to make some changes to our AI and Society (MASc) for 2026 entry.
As any changes are confirmed, they will be included in the module list on this webpage.
CIM’s new MASc in AI and Society is an innovative, interdisciplinary course designed to enable students to respond creatively and critically to the rapidly evolving challenges of a world transformed by technological developments and processes.
This MASc course offers an analytical and critical approach to AI, as well as a technical and practical grounding that enables students to interrogate and develop AI-based technologies.
Our modules will include a focus on “doing AI”, e.g.
through coding, building, testing AI as well as through engagement with governance and public policymaking in relation to AI and technological innovation in society.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent).
As an interdisciplinary course, we welcome applications from diverse academic backgrounds.
The course provides training in the foundations of deep learning - the use of multi-layered artificial neural network architectures in machine learning - enabling students to critically analyse and interrogate AI through working hands-on with AI models and systems.
This is combined with an introduction to social science and humanities research on the impacts of AI on contemporary society and culture, as well as the relevance of contemporary AI developments for these research fields themselves.
Students will be trained in the use of interdisciplinary methods like data mapping to analyse the interaction between AI science & innovation and society and culture.
Finally, the course will introduce students to the state-of-the-art in public policymaking and engagement in relation to AI tech innovation and its social impact.
The training is enriched by a wide range of options that the students can choose from to tailor a trajectory that will suit their profiles and career plans.
You will choose one module from:
Optional modules vary from year to year, and students choose combinations worth 60 CATs (credits).
The links below are to the 20-CAT (credit) versions, but many are available at 15 and 30 CATs.
Modules in this course make use of a range of teaching and learning techniques, including, for example:
For this course, a typical workshop contains around 20-30 students, and a typical seminar around 16 students.
There are around 8-10 hours contact hours per week for this course, depending on type and number of optional modules chosen.
A combination of essays, reports, design projects, technical report writing, practice assessments, group work and presentations and an individual research project (either as 10,000 word dissertation or as a 5000 word project with practice-led output).
Your compulsory modules will be registered for you, and you will be able to choose your optional modules shortly before joining us.
The Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies (CIM) was established at Warwick in 2012 to foster innovative and experimental forms of knowledge production through a sustained focus on methodology.
Method is central to the formation and transformation of disciplinary knowledges, and the challenge of working across and in between disciplines is both exciting and pressing.
Our research team is drawn from across the Arts, Humanities, Social Sciences and Sciences, with expertise in a variety of substantive domains.
Within Warwick, CIM is an advocate of interdisciplinary research and study.
Beyond Warwick and beyond the academy, CIM explores new forms of public engagement, both with potential research users and with the experts, experimenters and institutions in business, civil society and government that are at the forefront of applied methodological innovation.
To support exceptional overseas scholars, CIM are offering a number of bursaries to candidates applying to study our MA in Digital Media and Culture, MSc in Big Data and Digital Futures, the MASc in Data Visualisation and the MASC in AI and Society.
Candidates must have submitted an application by the deadline below and be classed as a resident of the countries named for tuition fee purposes.
All awards will be a contribution towards tuition fees and be made on a competitive basis.
Applicants from all African countries: £20,538 (70% of the full-time 2026-27 Overseas fee) Applicants from South and Southeast Asia (India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal, Sri Lanka; Thailand, Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia, Vietnam, Cambodia, Myanmar): £14,671 (50% of the full-time 2026-27 Overseas fee) Applicants from all South American countries: £14,671 (50% of the full-time 2026-27 Overseas fee) The deadline for applicants from these regions is: 23:59 (BST) 31 May 2026
Each award will be an £8,000 contribution towards tuition fees and be made on a competitive basis.
Full- and part-time candidates are eligible to apply.
The deadline for applications is: 23:59 (BST) 31 July 2026.
Learn more about our MSc courses and funding options on our website Link opens in a new window .
Applications open in Autumn 2025 for courses that start in September and October 2026.
Applications will close on 2 August 2026 for students who require a visa to study in the UK, to allow time to receive a CAS and complete the visa application process.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-analytical-polymer-science:
P-F1PX
This course is accredited by the Royal Society of Chemistry Link opens in a new window .
The fundamentals of polymer synthesis and properties will be introduced, but then special focus is placed on modern instrumentation and analytical methods used for polymer and materials characterisation.
You will receive advanced knowledge from experts within academia and collaborating companies.
Gaining hands-on experience in a variety of relevant techniques will enable you to work in any modern laboratory because the skills you acquire will be readily transferable between disciplines.
You will also undertake a cutting-edge project with a world-leading research group.
When you graduate, you will be well-positioned to take up employment in research and development roles within a number of sectors, or to progress to PhD study.
You can find out more about the Department of Chemistry by joining our webinars Link opens in a new window .
Professor Dr Remzi Becer Link opens in a new window is the head of the MSc in Analytical and Polymer Science.
Please contact chem-pgt at warwick dot ac dot uk with any specific Department of Chemistry questions, where our staff are available to discuss any queries.
2:2 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in a related subject.
And one of the following:
And three of the following:
Based on the full-time, one year duration, the first 25 weeks are lecture-based, providing you with a diverse range of skills in analytical and polymer science to complete a successful 20-week research project.
Class sizes consists of 5 to 40 students, dependent on modules: some of which are shared across programmes.
You should expect to attend around 10-25 hours of lectures and workshops per week and spend approximately six hours on supervised practical (mainly laboratory) work.
For each one-hour lecture, you should expect to put in additional time for private study.
Examined component (%): Taught modules are generally 50-75%.
Assessed by coursework component (%): Taught modules are generally 25-50%; research projects are assessed by a variety of assessment methods.
Do you share our enthusiasm for chemistry and its applications, from medicine to renewable energy?
We are one of the UK’s top chemistry providers, highly-ranked for both teaching and research.
Our courses will offer you an excellent all-round experience that allows you to explore and follow your curiosity.
The skills you will develop will equip you to pursue a future career in a number of industries with a number of employers.
Find out more about our research students’ careers and destinations on our website .
We offer non-accredited and Royal Society of Chemistry accredited course routes, depending on your career aspirations.
Find out more about the various funding opportunities that are available on our department website Link opens in a new window

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-analytical-sciences-instrumentation:
P-F1PY (full-time) P-F1PZ (part-time)
Delivered by internationally-leading experts from the Departments of Chemistry, Physics, Statistics, Engineering and Life Sciences as well as from our industrial partners, this Royal Society of Chemistry accredited degree course enables you to gain hands-on, practical experience with a range of equipment relevant to wider analytical sciences.
The Analytical Sciences and Instrumentation MSc offers a unique opportunity for future analytical scientists, seeking careers in academia, the public sector, and industry.
Analytical science is at the forefront of many advances, whether it is healthcare, new materials, transport, sustainable energy, the environment, food, cultural heritage, forensics, and more.
This degree will enable you to work in any modern laboratory and give you an excellent opportunity to start your career in the field of analytical sciences.
You will have the opportunity to undertake a cutting-edge project with a world-leading research group.
When you graduate, you will be positioned to take up employment in research/development roles within a number of sectors, or to progress to PhD study.
Dr Mark Barrow is the head of the MSc in Analytical Sciences and Instrumentation.
You will study four of the following:
The first 25 weeks are lecture-based, providing you with a diverse toolbox in analytical science to complete a successful 20-week research project.
Class sizes can range between 5 to 40 students, dependent on modules: some of which are shared across programmes.
Examined component (%): Taught modules are generally 50%.
Assessed by coursework component (%): Taught modules are generally 50%; research projects are assessed by a variety of assessment methods.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-ancient-literature-thought:
P-Q830
MA
This MA will foster your ability to read a wide range of Greek and/or Latin texts within their historical, cultural and political contexts, and to develop nuanced understanding of  methodologies and critical approaches in Classics as a field of study.
The core module provides an intensive introduction to literary theory tailored specifically to classicists.
The range of optional modules reflects Warwick's strong interdisciplinary links between its departments of Classics and Ancient History, English and Comparative Literary Studies, and Philosophy, and the Centre for Renaissance Studies.
You will undertake rigorous training in the close reading of texts and of Greco-Roman culture, while having flexibility to pursue your related interests both within the field of Classics and beyond through optional modules.
You will also build subject specific, transferable skills in independent research, analysis, and communication.
Applicants will need to have achieved or be expecting to achieve a firm 2:1 undergraduate degree in Classics or a similar course of academic study with substantial course components in the area of Classics to be considered for entry.
You will also choose one of the following modules:
Taught modules are taught through 10 two-hour seminars held weekly or fortnightly in terms one and/or two.
The seminars centre on student-led presentations and discussion.
Seminars for the core modules focus on the detailed reading, discussion and interpretation of main texts or sections of ancient Greek/Roman literature, alongside an anthology of further related texts, commentaries and reference works.
You will be able to significantly enhance the knowledge and skills acquired at undergraduate level, exchanging and developing ideas and reading strategies in a supportive and stimulating environment.
The classes of the taught modules comprise 2-10 students and up to 15-20 for Language classes.
This size allows teaching to be tailored according to the students’ interests.
Teaching methods used for language modules vary depending on the level, but run across all three terms.
Overall, you can expect to have on average six contact hours per week.
Most modules (apart from language modules) are assessed by a 5,000-word essay on a topic of your choice, decided upon in negotiation with a member of academic staff.
The dissertation will be a 15,000 – 20,000 word essay, built on the research carried out during the programme.
Take your fascination with the ancient world further.
Our Classics and Ancient History department is tailor-made for a community of curiosity.
Work closely with award-winning academics while carving your own path through the varied disciplines we study - from literature and history, to philosophy and art.
Share your observations, opinions and developing interests.
Develop critical and creative thinking that will prove valuable for your future – wherever in the world this might take you.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-ancient-visual-material-culture:
P-V301
Our Ancient Visual and Material Culture MA course provides a thorough preparation in research techniques if you are considering further research in the fields of art, numismatics or epigraphy, or are working on a historical topic that involves the consideration of material evidence.
It will also provide a detailed understanding of ancient visual and material culture to prepare you if you are aiming to enter a career in museums and curatorial work, or in education.
The Ancient Visual and Material Culture course includes the option to take one module taught either by the British School, Athens or by the British School at Rome.
These modules focus on a different skill set for handling Ancient Greek or Roman material culture from year to year.
Please note admission is subject to the discretion of the British Schools and cannot be guaranteed by Warwick.
The degree is designed to introduce you to major issues in the study of ancient material culture, and to key methodologies and approaches.
It will help to develop your intellectual skills in the following areas:
It will also help to develop the following key transferable skills:
Applicants will need to have achieved or be expecting to achieve a good 2:1 undergraduate degree in Classics/Ancient History/Archaeology or a relevant subject to be considered for entry.
You may also choose to study an ancient or modern language:
You will take 90 CATS of optional modules.
Subject to demand, the options above usually run each year.
It is also possible to take an approved module from other Departments across the Faculty.
There are 10, two-hour seminars held weekly or fortnightly in terms one and/or two and assessed by a 5,000 word essay on a topic of your choice, decided upon negotiation with a member of academic staff.
Seminars will comprise student-led presentations and discussion centred around pre-allocated reading and questions; others will take place in museums.
The BSA and BSR courses are taught via site and museum visits and lectures, with students carrying out independent research in the BSA or BSR libraries.
The classes of the taught modules comprise 5-10 students and up to 15-20 for Language classes.
For this course, the contact hours are six hours per week.
This includes face-to-face guidance to direct you to identify your research topic and do your research.
Most modules (apart from language modules) will be assessed by a 5,000-word essay on a topic of your choice, decided upon by negotiation with a member of academic staff.
The dissertation will be a piece of work 15,000-20,000 words and built on the research carried out whilst on the programme.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-applied-artificial-intelligence:
P-H60X
Our MSc in Applied Artificial Intelligence is an advanced programme which combines essential concepts in AI and ML with practical learning through labs, workshops and industry specific applications.
The course will equip you with the techniques and skills necessary to excel in AI-driven industries; you will gain a solid foundation in the principles, theories, and practices of Artificial Intelligence, including machine learning, deep learning, data mining, natural language processing, computer vision, reinforcement learning, automation, and robotics.
Through the use of case studies and industry projects, you will also gain significant hands-on experience with AI tools and technologies, ensuring you’re equipped to design, evaluate, and implement AI and ML solutions for real-world problems.
The program emphasises practical applications, ethical considerations, and the societal impact of AI technologies.
This course provides:
Interested in this course?
Learn more via the WMG website
Register your interest or download our Master’s brochure
Connect directly with the WMG Recruitment Team for more information
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in a STEM subject.
Suitable subjects include but are not limited to: IT, Mathematics, Chemistry, Physics, Engineering, Statistics, Data Science, Biology/Life Sciences.
Candidates with a background in Computer Science or related areas who are interested in an applied approach to AI are also encouraged to apply.
We typically ask for an academic reference if you have studied in higher education within the last two years or a professional reference if you graduated more than two years ago.
Please refer to the WMG department pages for more detailed information on references.
Candidates with professional experience should include their CV with their application.
Find out more about this course on the WMG departmental website Link opens in a new window .
This course has two components – a taught component accounting for two-thirds of your time and effort, and a research component accounting for one-third.
For the taught component, we blend lectures with seminars, syndicate exercises, simulations, and case studies.
The majority of modules are taught in small classes to facilitate and encourage interaction.
We occasionally practice larger-scale lectures, which are then supported by small class seminars and group activities.
Our module leaders have extensive academic and industry experience; guest speakers currently working at the forefront of their fields also contribute regularly to the content and delivery of the course, bringing real-world insight into your learning experience.
In addition to your taught modules, you will undertake a major project as part of your Master's degree.
This is nominally 600 hours (60 CATS points) of learning, mainly taking place during the Spring and Summer terms.
You will be expected to engage regularly with your Project Supervisor and to provide progress updates and drafts of your work to an agreed schedule.
Overall, this course can accommodate up to 120 students, divided into smaller teaching classes for an enhanced learning experience.
Module delivery patterns vary, but most will be delivered in a short learning block of up to 4 weeks, allowing your focus to be on one module at a time.
Each module nominally accounts for 150 hours, which includes scheduled classroom time and online sessions as well as your independent study and assessments.
The 30-credit module: ‘Fundamentals of Artificial Intelligence Research, Development, and Management’ spans 7 weeks and is delivered at key points across the academic year.
The course uses a variety of assessment methods across modules.
These may include reports (both topic-based and reflective), individual and group presentations, skills-based assessments in data analysis, programming, implementation of AI and machine learning algorithms to solve challenges, poster presentations, and critical reflections.
Assessments have been designed not only to assess your achievement in meeting the course learning outcomes in an academically sound manner but also contribute to preparing you with the requisite competencies required for employment.
Core modules will be allocated to students at the end of the first week of term - you will then be able to view your individual module schedule for the rest of the year via WMG's module selection system.
Modules will include scheduled classroom time and online sessions as well as your independent study and assessments, and will usually be delivered within a 4 week timeframe.
As a Master's student you are expected to manage your own time appropriately.
On average, you are expected to commit 38-40 hours of study each week, in order to successfully achieve your Master’s degree.
This is a full-time postgraduate course.
Undergraduate term dates do not apply.
Whilst there are no holidays as such, there will be no teaching scheduled when the University is officially closed for staff, during the two weeks over Christmas and New Year.
As a graduate of MSc Applied Artificial Intelligence, you will typically progress into a career with a focus on data analysis, machine learning, AI development, robotics, automation, natural language processing, or ethical AI.
You will be well-prepared to work across a breadth of different industries from manufacturing through to healthcare, education, and finance, and within a range of organisations from large multinational corporations to innovative start-ups.
Potential roles include:
As one of the largest departments at Warwick, WMG (Warwick Manufacturing Group) , is a multidisciplinary department delivering a unique combination of world-class education with real business and industry application.
Our industry relevant management and technical education, and highly impactful applied research, have positioned WMG as a leading international role model for successful partnership between academia and industry.
Having forged strong links with local, national, and global companies through 45 years of collaborative research and development, we really understand the global market you’ll be operating in and have designed our programmes to match.
Our expansive expertise includes artificial intelligence, automation systems, cyber security, data science, engineering management, design, supply chains, healthcare systems, sustainability, energy applications, materials, manufacturing, and visualisation to name but a few.
Find out more about our full-time Master's courses Link opens in a new window , find out more about our part-time programmes Link opens in a new window , and learn more about the WMG department.
There are a number of different ways to visit the University of Warwick throughout the year.
We host bespoke PG visits, where you can talk directly with your chosen department and explore our campus through a personalised tour.
WMG also organises events and information sessions for prospective students including 1-1 bookable appointments, departmental open days, and independent visits so you can connect directly with the department Link opens in a new window and speak with staff and students from WMG.
For more about university wide open days and tours, visit our Postgraduate Visits page.
Academic fees cover the cost of registration, tuition, examinations and assessment and some student amenities.
Information about module department specific costs should be considered in conjunction with the more general costs below: Core text books Printer credits * Dissertation binding * Robe hire for your degree ceremony * - Dissertations and Assignments are only submitted digitally.
However students may wish to print and bind their dissertation for their own purposes.
Students on some courses will have a final poster presentation as part of their project and the printing of posters may be at the students’ expense.
* - Dissertations and Assignments are only submitted digitally.
Please see the WMG department funding page for details specific to the WMG Masters' programme.
WMG MSc Funding Opportunities
WMG award over £1 million in scholarships and bursaries each year to students commencing study across our portfolio of full-time MSc programmes.
More information about our MSc Scholarships .
How to apply for a full-time postgraduate taught course in WMG
Applications for September 2026 entry open in Autumn 2025.
Please note, places are often limited, so we recommend that you submit your application as early as possible.
Please check our department webpages Link opens in a new window for more specific information.
For more detailed advice on the courses offered in WMG, to book a 1-1 appointment or visit with the WMG team, or for any course specific queries, you can connect directly with the recruitment team in WMG .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mphil-phd-applied-linguistics:
P-X3ZN
Working under the expert guidance of a supervisor, PhD students design and pursue an individual research project shaped by their own personal, academic, or professional needs and interests.
They participate in seminars and other activities in a diverse and vibrant research community, and disseminate their work through conference presentations and publications to both academic and non-academic audiences.
PhD researchers are individually mentored by academic supervisors from the beginning of their journey.
They also participate in weekly research seminars in Year One to develop their skills and understanding in relation to research issues and approaches, methods of data collection and analysis, and research ethics.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in ELT/TESOL, English, Education, Linguistics, Languages or a relevant discipline and a Master’s degree in ELT/TESOL, Applied Linguistics or a relevant discipline.
We are committed to interdisciplinary research that can make a real difference to society and people’s lives by informing policy, changing practice, and challenging perceptions.
Current research strengths in the department are:
Full details of our research interests are listed on the Applied Linguistics web pages .
You can also read our general University research proposal guidance.
If you are applying for the degree of MPhil/PhD, you need to submit a research proposal with the form.
The proposal should indicate your intended research area and outline a plan for the work to be undertaken.
You should justify the planned research by reference both to the literature and your interests or intentions.
You should indicate possible research methods and also include a bibliography.
The proposal should normally be at least 1500 words long.
If you have completed an MA degree, you may be asked to submit a copy of your dissertation or some course work completed during the programme.
If you are interested in studying for a PhD within the Department of Applied Linguistics, in the first instance please contact our Postgraduate Research Studies Admission Tutor, Professor Professor Neil Murray, N dot L dot Murray at warwick dot ac dot uk .
Please send them the following documents so we can then follow things up and, if appropriate, consult with a potential supervisor:
To avoid confusion and additional delay, please do not contact staff members directly.
If you have explored our Applied Linguistics Staff Directory and have identified a potential individual whose research interests and publications relate closely to your research topic, please share their name(s) with the Postgraduate Research Studies Admission Tutor when you contact him.
Apply your learning from day one.
With a history dating back to 1983, Applied Linguistics at Warwick has diversified over the years from a main focus on English language teaching and teacher education to include expertise in areas such as: intercultural communication, professional communication, the sociolinguistics of language use, the teaching and learning of languages other than English.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/phd-applied-screen-studies:
P-P30A
The project must be led by clear research questions, with the practice element working as a means to investigate, challenge or respond to those questions.
The practice element can take a variety of forms and proportions (with a minimum of 30% and a maximum of 50%), but in all cases represents the exploration of critical, theoretical or historical issues in Film and Television/Screen Studies, through a practice-based output.
The various forms of this applied screen practice include, but are not limited to:
The balance between written and practical elements in this PhD will depend on the form that the applied practice takes.
Those making a documentary, for example, might produce a 40,000 word written piece that would represent 50% of their PhD.
Those pursuing a more traditional research-driven written doctoral project would produce a 55,000 word thesis and an 'applied research' portfolio, which translates the research into a set of screen-based impact and public engagement activities.
This element would then represent 30% of the PhD.
At the mid-year review in year one, the student will present a case for the percentage split of their particular project between the written thesis and practice work.
This is also the point at which the format of the practice element will be decided.
Doctoral Study in Applied Screen Studies proceeds through regular meetings between the student and their PhD supervisor or supervisory team, with the additional resource of a designated mentor.
Together, you will design and develop your topic and the structure of, and timetable for, your practice-based thesis.
You will refine your research, writing and practice through a process of drafts and close commentary, constructive critique and discussion.
You will also be required to take Research Methods classes in order to deepen your knowledge of existing debates and methodologies in the field.
The department also offers teaching opportunities for PhD students from their second-year of study onwards, subject to availability and a formal application process in any given year.
A good Master’s degree (or equivalent) in a relevant discipline.
Experience and/or training in the field or form related to the practice element of the proposed research is welcome.
Anyone interested in applying to our MPhil/PhD programme is advised to first visit the department PhD webpage Link opens in a new window for further information and contact our PhD Admissions Tutor, Prof Michele Aaron, at m.aaron@warwick.ac.uk Link opens in a new window , to ascertain if their intended project can be supervised in this department.
The Department of Film and Television Studies is the home of The Centre for Television Histories Link opens in a new window .
There are often opportunities for graduate students to be involved in associated activities.
Find your supervisor using the link below and discuss with them the area you'd like to research.
We currently have 17 full-time members of staff Link opens in a new window with many research strengths who could be your supervisors.
You can also see our general University guidance about finding a supervisor.
To ascertain if a project can be supervised by one of our staff members in Film and Television Studies, we kindly ask prospective applicants to send the following:
International applicants (including EU students) are eligible for the Warwick Chancellor's International Scholarship Link opens in a new window .
Applicants who hold a People’s Republic of China may also apply for the Warwick China Scholarship Council Link opens in a new window award.
See the world through the lens of film.
The moving image is the most significant art form of the twentieth century.
By studying it, you will develop a unique way of understanding the world you live in.
You will be exposed to a diverse film and television culture at the forefront of change as our means of viewing evolve.
Whether it's a pure passion for the moving image, its stars, genres and history, or academic curiosity that excites you, follow a curriculum that’s as ambitious and innovative as Film and Television Studies are.
From day one, you will be taught by the country’s leading scholars through state-of-the-art lectures, seminars and individual tutorial supervisions.
Think, live and breathe the moving image through discussion, reading, writing, blogging, video-essays and screenwriting.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-applied-theatre:
P-W440
The MA in Applied Theatre: Arts, Action, Change is a taught postgraduate degree that addresses contemporary practice in applied theatre and socially engaged performance.
It invites you to explore, make and interrogate performance practices that are broadly concerned with contributing to social change in a variety of settings (e.g.
criminal justice, theatre for development, homelessness, learning disability, schools, the elderly and healthcare).
With a strong focus on professional practice and development, the degree addresses the ways in which performance modes can contribute to different applied, community and institutional settings nationally and internationally.
It investigates the claims made about performance and its potential to be transformative and rehabilitative and tests these claims through close consideration of contemporary practices in the field.
It also addresses the political and ethical implications that come into play and the importance of constantly questioning what is at stake when working in specific contexts.
It explores what it means to be an artist working for change and aims to develop skills of project design, facilitation and evaluation.
Fill in the enquiry form Link opens in a new window
This degree will help you to:
The MA in Applied Theatre: Arts, Action, Change will provide opportunities to work with and learn from a number of professional companies and practitioners working in the fields of applied theatre, socially engaged performance and arts-based action projects through workshops, guest lectures, weekend intensives, project work and industry placements.
Our Associate Companies include:
You will have, or be expecting to obtain, at least a 2:1 undergraduate degree from a UK university or an equivalent qualification from an overseas university.
Your degree will normally be in an arts, humanities, media or social science-related subject.
Alternative subject routes for entry are possible if you can demonstrate that you have suitable experience and aptitude in order to meet the range of demands of the course.
The University of Warwick operates an Equal Opportunities Policy and values Diversity; it welcomes applications from people of all backgrounds.
Final Project
The programme culminates in an extended independent project that you will design, manage and deliver with support and guidance from a supervisor.
It offers an opportunity to draw together knowledge and skills developed on the MA on a project that reflects specific interests, artistic practice and career trajectories.
As part of the Final Project, you can choose to undertake a 15,000-word dissertation or a practical outcome that may take the form of a performance, digital project or community-based output.
You may also choose modules from other units within the School of Creative Arts, Performance and Visual Cultures, or from across the University.
Please visit the Theatre and Performance Studies website Link opens in a new window to read more about the optional modules offered on this MA.
Teaching methods will vary and include lecture-seminars, workshops, case studies and student-led presentations/workshops.
The course will provide opportunities for students to learn through study with professional practitioners and organisations in the applied theatre and socially-engaged fields to ensure that the course focuses on the practical competencies required to be an employee within an organisation or as a freelance practitioner.
It may also be possible to further specialise and deepen your practice by taking modules from MAs in other related disciplines.
You will also benefit from having two intensive weekend teaching blocks (subject to module choices) that will facilitate a more immersive teaching/learning experience with professional practitioners.
You will complete essential preparation ( e.g.
reading, desk research, studio-based practice) for each session, and we encourage you to read more widely around the topics explored.
The course also offers the scope to further develop and refine your practice through a flexible final project that can be taken as a written (15,000 words) or practical route (practice-based project and 4500-word documentation).
In both cases support will include regular meetings with project supervisors, presentations of project proposals (to enable peer and tutor feedback) and work in progress demonstrations (to monitor progress and enable peer and tutor feedback).
You will normally attend two 3-hour sessions each week during the Autumn and Spring Terms.
In the Autumn Term, you will participate in weekend intensive.
Depending on your choice of options, you will also participate in a weekend in the Spring Term.
If you are a part-time student you will attend one 3-hour seminar a week during the Autumn and Spring Terms of Year One and Year Two.
You will also attend one weekend intensive in the first year of study and, depending on your choice of modules, a further weekend intensive in your second year.
Assessment processes, methods and outcomes are designed to enhance your personal and professional development.
You will encounter ‘real world’/employer-focused assessments that may include the creation of creative projects, the delivery of a workshop, the presentation of a creative brief, the submission of a funding application and evaluative reports.
You will be assessed individually and, in some instances, as part of a group.
Mandatory costs will include materials and printing for project assessment work at approximately £50 in total for the course.
There may also be costs associated with travel to/from shows residencies (if these are offsite), and other engagements with professional practice up to £40.
Purchase of a laptop computer, at approximately £400, is recommended.
Explore the world through the lens of Theatre and Performance Studies with one of the top departments in the UK.
Offering academic rigour, practical skills and connections with the industry, this degree has career prospects both within the arts sector and far beyond.
You’ll be taught by world-leading academics and cutting-edge theatre practitioners.
anna six
anna six’s research explores the intersections between arts and health.
In particular, her work intervenes in cultural politics and clinical practices in relation to madness, mental health, and psychiatry.
Her recent monograph Madness, Art, and Society: Beyond Illness examined artistic practice and uncovered the clinical lessons of creative work.
six’s current project is investigating the politics of tenderness and questioning the meaning, nature, and practice of ‘care’.
Her artistic practice with her theatre company, Idiot Child, is likewise engaged with questions around health and wellbeing.
The company explore difficult feelings and experiences through performance and their current project, Never Gonna Give You Up , explores loneliness.
Saul Hewish
Saul Hewish is one of the country's leading practitioners in the use of drama and theatre with offenders.
He was a founder member and former director of Geese Theatre (UK) (est.
1987) and since 1996 has worked in a freelance capacity developing drama-based responses to crime within youth offending teams, social services departments, and special educational settings.
In 1999 he co-founded Rideout (Creative Arts for Rehabilitation), with Chris Johnston.
Over the last twenty years this company has built a strong reputation for innovative and experimental arts-based projects within the criminal justice system in the UK and across Europe.
This includes theatre and digital video projects in prisons as well as the production of cross artform projects that span the divide between prison and the wider public.
He is a co-author of Challenging Experience: An Experiential Approach to the Treatment of Serious Offenders and was a recipient of a 2005 Butler Trust Certificate Award, a national award which recognises exceptional work by staff in HM Prison Service.
Nadine Holdsworth
Nadine Holdsworth’s research spans questions of representation, participation, citizenship, political change and cultural value.
She has worked on the creative activism of a number of leading mid-century practitioners including Joan Littlewood and John McGrath and published English Theatre and Social Abjection in 2020, which explores how theatre and performance can be used to illuminate pressing social issues and marginalised groups in society.
These concerns are central to her current body of research and socially-engaged projects addressing arts, creativity and homelessness (you can read about this work here: https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/arts/scapvc/artscreativityhomelessness/ ).
Nadine is also a Trustee of Underground Lights, a Coventry-based community theatre company for people who have experienced homelessness, mental health issues and social isolation.
Yvette Hutchison
Yvette Hutchison is a South African academic whose work focuses on Anglophone African theatre, dance and intercultural performance.
She has taught on and worked in various theatre for development and community theatre projects in Africa and the UK.
In 2015 she co-founded the African Women Playwrights Network through an AHRC-funded project to virtually connect African women-identified creative practitioners with one another, programmers, funders, educators and audiences.
Her current collaborative project is with South African, Dr Lliane Loots, artistic director of the FLATFOOT Dance Company and JOMBA!
Festival.
Their project Encountering disability through contemporary dance in Africa is tracing how disability/ integrated dance is being used to negotiate citizenship in various African countries including SA, Kenya, Uganda, Mozambique and Nigeria.
Bobby Smith
Bobby Smith’s research and practice examines the ways in which theatre and performance offer artistic and creative approaches to activism, education and social action.
He was previously a freelance practitioner with experience in settings including schools, youth centres, within the criminal justice system and internationally.
He also managed and coordinated applied theatre projects – for example, a drugs education and sexual health project in West London schools.
Bobby has worked as a consultant for several charities, writing resources and training staff, particularly in the area of Theatre for Development.
Bobby’s most recent work includes building a network of theatre practitioners exploring violence in Rwanda, Kenya and Northern Ireland and projects which consider the climate crisis with young people internationally.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-arts-enterprise-development:
P-W4PQ
This MA programme will give you the opportunity to explore how  the arts and culture can be used to address  local, national, and global development challenges.
It examines the impact of arts and culture in various contexts across the Global North and Global South, with particular attention paid to initiatives with local communities, the development of cultural districts, innovations in urban environments  and cutting-edge approaches to creative enterprise.
The course is taught in close dialogue with prevailing Development discourses, specifically the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals.
You will investigate the strategy models and creative potential in using arts and culture within development contexts, and explore how they can be used to further social and environmental justice as well as contribute to economic growth.
You will develop your vocational skills and build your capacity to contribute to development projects around the world.
The MA consists of four core modules:
Plus:
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in a related subject
There are no additional entry requirements for this course, however we may ask you to write a short essay, attend an interview, or respond to a set of questions to satisfy the course selection panel of your suitability for the course.
All students will take one optional module.
Read more about the MA in Arts, Enterprise and Development on the Centre's website.
You will learn in an international environment through interaction with academic experts and industry practitioners.
The core modules are taught through a combination of lectures, seminars, fieldtrips, and student-led presentations and discussions.
These sessions are complemented by self-directed learning and access to resources and activities in a virtual learning environment.
The course is designed to facilitate participation and critical reflection and in some modules you will have the opportunity to apply your learning in a professional context.
We traditionally limit class size to 20-35 students on each of the three taught Master's courses.
Typical contact hours range between 6 to 10 hours each week for core teaching - this excludes additional tutorials, workshops, and research seminars.
For all MA courses, the cost of field trips or off-campus assignments are estimated to cost between £100-£200, although this will depend on which option module has been chosen or the nature of a project or placement undertaken for an applied management module.
Your personalised timetable will be complete when you are registered for all modules, compulsory and optional, and you have been allocated to your lecture, seminar and other study groups.
Your compulsory modules will be registered for you, and you will be able to choose your optional module when you join us.
Graduates from the Centre for Cultural and Media Policy Studies have gone on to work in television, film, communications, data analysis, theatre, museums, art galleries, events, festivals, UN agencies, NGOs, charities, arts and educational organisations, research, PR, publishing and have even set up their own businesses.
Recent graduates from this course have worked in the following roles:
Employers for our graduates include: UNESCO, UNCTAD, BBC, UK government, cultural institutions, both locally  in Coventry and Birmingham and in London and around the world, city government, regional and national development agencies, and start-up creative enterprises.
Discover more about postgraduate careers support at Warwick .
We are internationally renowned for our excellence in the teaching and research in the policy, management, development, enterprise and industry of culture, media communication and creativity.
Our approach is based on a critical engagement with both the practical realities of working in the cultural sector and the ideological and conceptual questions which lie behind them.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-behavioural-data-science:
P-C803
We are planning to make some changes to our Behavioural and Data Science (MSc) for 2026 entry.
Changes to one of the core modules are currently undergoing approval through the University's rigorous academic processes.
This course offers training in the foundations of psychology, decision-making, behavioural economics and behaviour change.
It will also develop your understanding of state-of-the-art methods in data science and data analytics, focusing on statistical methods, machine learning, and data visualisation.
You will gain an understanding of large-scale patterns in data, with an eye to comprehending the underlying factors driving human behaviour.
This can be used to understand consumer behaviour, economics, politics, history, wellbeing, and many other large-scale patterns at national and international levels.
Previous experience in behavioural science is not necessary, but you should have programming skills in at least one programming language (e.g., R, Python, Matlab, or others).
Graduates will be able to:
Applicants are required, at a minimum, to have a degree in a relevant subject, e.g.
Psychology, Computer Science, Mathematics, Economics, etc., equivalent to a UK 2:1 or greater in order to be considered.
As we anticipate receiving a large number of applications, preference will be given to those with the strongest quantitative or social sciences backgrounds.
Evidence of experience with programming in Python or R is also preferred—at a minimum, students should have online or university instruction in programming in at least one programming language.
The MSc in Behavioural and Data Science is a quantitative degree and students should feel comfortable taking a mathematical approach to their thinking before they join the course.
The course requires students to undertake programming assignments and long-form essay assignments and so requires students to be comfortable in programming and to have very good written communication skills in English.
On the MSc, we cover the use of statistics and computational approaches to make sense of behavioural data (e.g., regression, t-tests, machine learning).
We cover R, Python, and Matlab programming languages for statistics and mathematical modelling.
We also use maths in psychological and computer science models.
Students will study seven core modules across Psychology and Computer Science, including a Behavioural and Data Science project.
These modules include:
You will also choose optional modules which will cover psychology/behavioural science-focused options, and computer/data science-focused options.
Examples of psychology/behavioural science-focused optional modules:
Examples of computer/data science-focused optional modules:
The availability of optional modules depends on several factors and cannot be guaranteed in advance.
Therefore, the list above provides a sample of previously available options for illustrative purposes only.
You will have a combination of lectures, seminars and practical classes or workshops.
Lectures introduce you to a particular topic, seminars build on that knowledge and workshops and practical classes allow you to put what you are learning into practice.
Seminars, practical classes and workshops are smaller groups than lectures giving access to tutors to help you put into practice what you are learning.
Class sizes will naturally vary, however this course typically has around 25-30 students.
Teaching occurs throughout the week, with an average of 8-12 hours of lectures and 5-7 hours of practical classes or seminars per week.
You will also have meeting with your personal tutor at intervals throughout your course.
We typically assess modules through a mix of assessment types, which include worksheets, essays, research reports, modelling and data analysis, class tests, exams, and presentations.
Your compulsory modules will be registered for you, and you will be able to choose your optional modules when you join us.
Previous graduates from the Department of Psychology have gone on to work for employers such as*:
A playground for the mind
Our research-driven department can offer you the kind of physical and intellectual environment that’ll inspire you to succeed.
We pride ourselves on being a friendly, inclusive academic community offering a stimulating, intellectual environment to students and staff.
We’re large enough to provide excellent resources and education, but also small enough to know who you are and provide one-to-one support.
There are three application deadlines for the course:
Applications will close on 30 June 2026 and no applications received after this date will be considered.
We have revised the information on this page since publication.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-behavioural-economics-science:
P-C8P7
This innovative course in the growing area of decision science and behavioural economics combines multidisciplinary expertise from the Department of Psychology, Department of Economics and Warwick Business School (WBS).
The course emphasises both theoretical foundations and real-world application of core and advanced areas of behavioural economics, and the cognitive science of judgement and decision making.
The Science Track variation of the course is designed for students with a first degree in a science-based subject, such as Psychology, Maths, Biology, etc.
or a subject with a strong quantitative element, such as Business, Finance, etc.
A variation of the course is offered by the Department of Economics and is available if you have a first degree in Economics.
By the end of the course, you should be able to:
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in a related subject.
The MSc Behavioural and Economic Science is a quantitative degree and you should feel comfortable taking a mathematical approach to your thinking.
On the MSc we cover the use of statistics to make sense of behavioural data (e.g.
regression and ANOVAs).
We introduce the R programming language for statistics and mathematical modelling (though we do not assume you have previous experience).
We use maths in economic and psychological models.
You should be familiar with some of: elementary calculus, basic geometry, a really basic knowledge of sets, functions like logarithms, exponentials, powers, probability and probability distributions.
You do not need to know all of these things, but you should not be frightened about learning about them!
Such a quantitative approach is a really great way to understand data from field studies and experiments, and big data sets and surveys.
It is also a great way to formalise and think about ideas about how people behave and the aggregate consequences of this behaviour.
You will usually study three core modules across Psychology, Economics, and WBS, as well as complete a Behavioural and Economic Science project during the summer.
The three modules usually include:
You will choose a number of optional modules to complete.
You will have a combination of lectures, seminars, and practical classes/workshops, depending on the module.
Lectures introduce you to a particular topic, seminars build on that knowledge, and practical classes/workshops allow you to put what you are learning into practice alongside tutors knowledgeable in the topic.
Teaching occurs throughout the week, with an average of 8-12 hours of lectures and 5-7 hours of workshops, practical classes and/or seminars per week.
You will also have meetings with your personal tutor at regular intervals throughout your course.
Graduates from this course have gone on to work at places including: Decision Technology, the Commonwealth Bank, the Bursara Center, the Behavioural Insights Team, and Cowry Consulting.
We also encourage you to attend a number of networking events held each year, and we hold a series of careers-focused workshops which have previously included topics such as:

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-behavioural-economics:
P-C8P8
21 September 2026
Warwick's Department of Economics, ranked 1st in the UK (The Good University Guide 202 5 ), 2nd in the UK for research excellence Link opens in a new window (based on the most recent Research Excellence Framework 2021, published in Times Higher Education rankings) and 36th in the w orld (The QS World University Subject Rankings 202 5 ), offers you a programme examining theoretical and real-world applications of decision science and behavioural economics.
This course emphasises both theoretical foundations and real-world application in core and advanced areas of behavioural economics, and the cognitive science of judgement and decision making.
It is for you if you intend to work in a business environment (e.g.
consumer-led industries and the financial sector), and if you are concerned with public policy and its implementation.
It also provides an excellent foundation if you are intending to undertake further postgraduate research.
A written project report provides an opportunity to explore your own interests across these fields of study.
The Economics variant of the course is designed for students with a first degree in Economics.
A science track variant of the course is offered by the Department of Psychology and is available if you have a first degree in science.
You will be automatically enrolled on a pre-sessional Mathematics and Statistics programme to equip you with the relevant methodological skills you need to succeed on the course.
View a full list of frequently asked questions from the Department of Economics.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) specialising mainly in economics.
This means you should have achieved a good standard in undergraduate courses in microeconomics and econometrics/economic statistics at an intermediate level.
We also expect a good standard achieved in mathematics taken at undergraduate level.
To give you an opportunity to choose the most appropriate modules based on your professional needs and your individual career aspirations we offer two pathways:
Pathway A – for those interested in building a strong foundation in core areas of economics and applying their economics knowledge and skills in a wide variety of economics careers.
Pathway B – for those planning to pursue MRes-PhD study in the future or aiming for careers that require more advanced technical skills in economics and/or econometrics.
The main difference between the two variants is about the level of technicality you are interested in, your background and your future career plans.
For example, if we consider the choice between Econometrics A and Econometrics B, if you have studied intermediate econometrics before and are considering to pursue a PhD after your MSc, we recommend choosing the B version.
If your background in econometrics is more limited, or if you are more interested in applying the tools rather than understanding technical details, the A version seems more suitable.
You will choose four optional modules to complete.
You will have a combination of lectures, small group support and feedback classes, and practical classes or workshops.
You will also learn through independent study, which will include reading journals and books, completing problem sets and assessments, revising for exams and undertaking research.
In the summer term and summer vacation your independent study time will increase as you complete your research project.
Your lecture size will naturally vary, especially for the optional modules, but also for core lectures.
On taught core modules you will typically have weekly classes with around 15-20 students.
Optional modules are usually bi-weekly but this will vary on modules taken outside of the department.
An average of 8-10 hours of lectures and 3 hours of classes per week.
The MSc Behavioural and Economic Science (Economics Track) is a quantitative degree, and students will need to be competent in several areas of mathematics.
You are required to attend a pre-sessional course, Introductory Mathematics and Statistics, which will be taught in the two weeks before the University’s main term begins.
The course is designed to ensure that your maths and statistical knowledge and skills are at the standard required for you to succeed on the rest of the MSc course and it consists of both lectures and a small learning group.
Further information can be found on our Introductory Maths and Statistics web page Link opens in a new window .
Assessment is through formal examinations and coursework, including a mixture of worksheets, essays, research reports, modelling and data analysis, class tests, exams, presentations and a research project.
Feedback is provided in a variety of ways, including:
We are committed to rigorous training of the next generation of economists in the tools and techniques of the discipline, producing cutting-edge research that has a wide and deep impact on society and the economy, and creating strong collaborations.
Our work has established Warwick Economics as one of the leading centres of economic research internationally.
We rank 2nd in the UK for research excellence, in Times Higher Education Rankings based on results of the most recent Research Excellence Framework, 2021.
We are 36th in the QS Subject Rankings for Economics and Econometrics 2025 and 1st in the UK in the Good University Guide 2025.
95% of postgraduate taught students agreed that their course was intellectually stimulating in the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2024.
There are various ways of engaging with us if you are a prospective student.
We hold regular live chats , webinars and online events for prospective students and offer holders.
Please see the live chat schedule for Economics.
We will be attending the QS Master’s Fair in London on 4 October 2025.
Visit the Economics website to find out more
The Department of Economics have put together a portal of academic resources recommended by faculty members for anyone who may be considering studying economics at postgraduate level.
Economics Academic Resources Portal
Information about module department specific costs should be considered in conjunction with the more general costs below: Core text books Printer credits Robe hire for your degree ceremony
There are a number of scholarships available for students looking to undertake study in a Taught Masters in Economics at the University of Warwick.
Below are the scholarships relevant for students looking to study within the Department of Economics.
The Department of Economics will award one Master’s scholarship (of 100% of tuition fees) to an outstanding applicant who has firmly accepted their offer by the 19 May 2025 on one of our one-year taught MSc courses.
The Department of Economics will award two Master’s scholarships (of 50% of tuition fees) to students who are nationals of, and domiciled in any country located in Africa or South America, who have firmly accepted their offer by the 19 May 2026, on one of our one-year taught MSc courses.
If you are a Graduate of the University of Warwick and are of home or overseas fee status, you will be able to access a 20% tuition fee discount on this course.
The University of Warwick offers a number of Warwick Taught Masters Scholarships, which are available to eligible Home/EU students from under-represented groups who wish to start a postgraduate taught master's course.
Applications to our Economics Master’s programmes typically open in October and may close in July.
Find out more about our application deadlines including when we will make offers.
The department operates five admissions rounds for MSc applicants as follows:

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/pgdip-msc-big-data-digital-futures:
P-L990 (MSc) ; P-L991 (PGDip)
This degree responds directly to the growing demand from employers within industry, governments and the non-profit sector as well as across research fields for a new generation of postgraduates who can critically engage with big data theoretically, methodologically and practically.
In contrast to many big data-focused degrees (such as Data Science or Data Analytics) where the emphasis is almost exclusively on data practices and computational tools, this degree underpins key practical skills with a range of theoretical approaches to data.
How is our world influenced by big data?
How are our lives represented in big data?
This course will enable you, whatever your disciplinary background, to understand and act in a society transformed by data, networks and computation and develop a range of interdisciplinary capacities.
CIM optional modules vary from year to year, and students choose a combination worth 60 CATs (credits).
The links below are to the 20-CAT (credit) versions, but most are available at 15 and 30 credits as well.
A combination of essays, reports, design projects, technical report writing, practice assessments, group work and presentations and an individual research project (10,000 word dissertation).

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-biomedical-engineering:
P-H800
More information about accreditation is available on the School of Engineering website Link opens in a new window .
Biomedical Engineering is the application of engineering principles to medicine, biology and healthcare.
Our course covers the development of methodologies and devices, applied to topics in healthcare technology and in advancing the state-of-the-art in the field.
Core modules cover the fundamentals of biomedical engineering including biomedical imaging, biomechanics, medical devices and systems modelling.
Optional modules allow you to specialise in an area of interest, for example signal processing, systems modelling or computational intelligence.
You will also undertake an individual research project – an extensive experimental, theoretical, or computational study on a topic of your choice, guided by a research active academic supervisor.
Previous project titles include: Development of a bicycle adapter for a finger amputee; Monitoring psychological stress and mental health status using biological signals; PKPD modelling to assess the effects of anti-cancer agents on tumour volume; 3D morphable face model for emotion recognition; A wearable device for monitoring blood pressure.
Warwick School of Engineering has a unique systems approach to biomedical research and teaching.
Teaching on this course is underpinned by research activities in biomechanics, biomaterials, systems biology and medicine, synthetic biology, computational intelligence in biomedical engineering, neural engineering, medical imaging, biomedical signal processing, healthcare technologies, telemedicine, medical sensors and diagnostics, and many other topics in biomedical engineering and biomedical science.
A minimum 2:1 undergraduate UK honours degree or equivalent international qualification, in an engineering, physical sciences or mathematical subject.
The individual project entails an in-depth experimental, theoretical or computational investigation on a topic chosen by the student in conjunction with a research active academic supervisor.
Graduates of our Biomedical Engineering programme typically pursue one of three main career pathways.
Many enter the biomedical industry, applying their expertise in the design, development, and implementation of medical technologies, or contributing to innovative research within biomedical engineering companies.
Others choose to work in clinical settings, such as hospitals, where they may take on roles as clinical engineers—for example, as NHS Clinical Scientists—supporting patient care through the application of medical technologies.
Alternatively, the MSc also provides an excellent foundation for further academic study, enabling students to progress to doctoral research in biomedical engineering or related fields.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-biotechnology-bioprocessing-business-management:
P-C5N2
The bioprocessing and biotechnology industries are major components of global industrialised economies with impacts in medicine, pharmaceuticals, manufacturing and the food sector.
Management of change requires a new calibre of technical specialist who will have business acumen and a scientific knowledge base.
This master’s course equips you with the necessary tools and expertise to become an entrepreneur, offering key business information and industrially relevant knowledge.
Leading centres of expertise, including staff from Life Sciences and Warwick Business School (WBS), form a multidisciplinary teaching faculty.
The course is delivered by lecturers with internationally acknowledged academic, industrial and government expertise.
You will gain:
2:2 undergraduate degree (or equivalent).
Candidates must have obtained at least a second class honours degree, or an equivalent qualification, in Life Sciences, Engineering or Business Studies (students from an engineering or business background must be a high class student and demonstrate an interest in biological science).
Our optional module lists are subject to change each year to keep the student learning experience current and up-to-date.
You'll be taught by expert scientists who undertake research in solving major global challenges in areas such as food security, disease control, bioenergy, systems biology, neurobiology and climate change.
Also, external professional experts teach on selected modules giving a vital extra dimension to your teaching experience.
Teaching is typically by facilitated sessions, including interactive lectures, short Q&A sessions and small group interactive workshops/tutorials.
Individual and team learning will be used for case study analysis and workshop activities.
Your project dissertation will be 10,000 words in length, non-laboratory based and generally undertaken at the University of Warwick under the supervision of an approved tutor.
Your project will also include a 500 word Graphical Abstract together with a Research Performance piece.
Every student has the opportunity to source their own work-based placement.
Class sizes for this course vary between 30 to 90 students.
Depending on the module contact hours vary between 15-25 per week.
Assessments take place during or shortly after completion of each module and include essays, seminar presentations, poster presentations, short answer in-module tests and assessed group work.
One third of your final mark will be derived from the project dissertation which is 10,000 words in length.
Two thirds of your final mark will be derived from assessment of the eight core and two elective modules.
All students in Life Sciences are strongly encouraged to buy a computer, at an approximate cost of £600.
Students are expected to have suitable clothing for field trips, including waterproof footwear.
The School of Life Sciences is a cohesive, enthusiastic community producing world-class, high-impact bioscience research and teaching within a friendly and collaborative environment.
Our internationally recognised academics are engaged in innovative bioscience research, working to investigate solutions to major global challenges.
With 90% of research in the School of Life Sciences rated as ‘world leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ in REF 2021, the school is a dynamic and growing place for biological sciences research.
Our range of postgraduate programmes cover key global priorities and include interdisciplinary courses with modules delivered from colleagues across the Warwick community, including the renowned Warwick Business School.
Study a postgraduate degree with us to hone your subject knowledge and enable you to gain the scientific skills and business acumen to develop your future career.
As part of our postgraduate degrees, you will be taught vital transferable skills such as research techniques and management, personal effectiveness, communication, networking, teamworking and careers management, enhancing your employability.
You will be supported during your studies by a dedicated Postgraduate support team and a personal tutor who work within the School of Life Sciences, and additional support is offered, if needed, for English language and data handling skills.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-business-analytics:
P-N1N3
Ranked 3 rd in the UK and 17 th in the world in the QS University Rankings 2025 for MSc Business Analytics, the course features a broad range of theory and applications in analytics.
The course offers you the opportunity to gain in-depth theoretical and applied knowledge of business analytics, and to provide insights on how to analyse business problems and solve them using a variety of operational research, statistics and machine learning techniques.
You will also gain a cross-disciplinary training in business models, quantitative methods and data science by covering descriptive, predictive and prescriptive analytics, and be prepared for working in complex data-driven environments through building up quantitative consultancy skills and developing programming skills.
You will also be guided in optionally obtaining certification as Associate Certified Analytics Professional.
This globally recognised certification is offered by the INFORMS (USA) and The OR Society (UK), and the required knowledge to pass the certification exam is closely aligned with the core content of this course.
You will cover a balance of descriptive, predictive, and prescriptive analytics, involving visualisation (Tableau), forecasting and data mining techniques, and optimisation.
At least a 2:1 degree at Undergraduate level or equivalent.
We consider applications from a wide range of degrees including economics, business, engineering, psychology, geography, sociology, and politics.
The course requires demonstration of strong numeracy, IT and statistical ability at undergraduate level.
Your studies will be completed by one of the following routes:
Assessment will vary between group presentations, peer assessments, individual assignments and examinations.
Alongside the core content of the course, you will choose a specialism route; Predictive and Prescriptive Analytics; Artificial Intelligence; Management Analytics, or; Marketing Analytics and Technology.
On completion, you will gain a letter of acknowledgement from the Dean of Warwick Business School to confirm your success in your chosen area.
On completion, you will gain a letter of acknowledgement from the Dean of Warwick Business School to confirm your success in the area.
Predictive and Prescriptive Analytics:
The specialism focuses more on the quantitative elements of the analytics discipline and suit students seeking a more technical role.
Artificial Intelligence:
Aligning with one of the most significant trends in the analytics space, the specialism would incorporate more computational elements and cover a wide range of AI and machine learning applications.
In particular, this specialism would align to technology and retail/e-commerce roles which are both in our top five industry destinations already, as well as the awareness and interest in AI in business and organisations.
Management Analytics:
This specialism emphasises particular management domains (such as supply chain and finance) as well as modern quantitative techniques.
Given this, we expect the specialism to meet the needs of many of the most frequent industry destinations of students such as financial / professional services and consulting.
Marketing Analytics and Technology:
The final specialism would be less quantitatively demanding than the other three, and would better prepare students for careers in retail/e-commerce or marketing (our fifth and sixth most common destinations), as well as roles in technology, in particular those related to Generative AI.
Additional optional modules:
Our wide range of optional elective modules allows you to tailor your course of study to reflect the focus you want to follow.
Please note that this is a sample range:
You will complete four core modules.
Your studies will be completed by either a Research Paper, Analytics Portfolio or the Business in Practice module.
The class size for this course is around 240 students.
Students will typically receive between 27 and 30 contact hours per module via a mixture of virtual and in-person support.
Some modules are taught over the course of a 10 week term, whilst others are delivered in an intensive block of up to 10 days.
Over three terms you will complete four core modules, alongside four modules from one of our new specialisms: Predictive and Prescriptive Analytics; Artificial Intelligence; Management Analytics, or; Marketing Analytics and Technology.
Your core modules will be registered for you, and you’ll be able to choose your optional modules when you join us.
Classes may run up to 7pm and other events, such as careers presentations may take place later or on weekends.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-business-finance:
P-N1F5
Our MSc has been designed as an industry-focused postgraduate course for graduates with good quantitative skills.
The course will help you to develop both management skills and advanced financial skills, leading to financial management roles for organisations outside of the finance industry.
There is a choice of Dissertation or Business in Practice route.
If you are considering further academic study (PhD) and you would like the opportunity to research a topic relating to business and finance, the dissertation enables you to test and apply the techniques and theories you have gained.
If you would like to develop further applied skills and specialist knowledge to suit your career aspirations, you can complete your studies with one additional elective module and our applied Business in Practice module.
Learn more via the WBS website Link opens in a new window
A 2:1 degree at Undergraduate level (or equivalent).
You should possess good quantitative skills demonstrated in your undergraduate degree.
We accept a range of language tests.
Please refer to our website for more details.
The MSc Business & Finance course consists of eight core modules, which you will study across three terms.
The core modules provide key management and business expertise, all designed to contribute to a career in business and finance.
The class size for this course is around 90 students.
Assessment is a mix of exams, project and group work, and tests.
To complete your degree, you will have the option to choose between the Dissertation or Business in Practice route:
If you would prefer to take a more traditional postgraduate route and wish to specialise in a Finance related research topic for your future career (either in industry or for further academic study), the 6,000 word dissertation will enable you to test and apply the techniques and theories you have gained.
You will be supervised and supported throughout and will usually submit your dissertation in early September.
In total you will study eight compulsory modules and one optional module, and complete a dissertation and a Research Methodology module.
You will develop deep functional and industry expertise with practical insights from our faculty and our CareersPlus and Employer Relations team.
In total, you will study eight core modules, two optional modules and also complete the Business in Practice capstone module.
Your core modules will be registered for you and you will be able to choose your optional modules when you join us.
We have our own dedicated careers team at Warwick Business School, called WBS CareersPlus .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mres-phd-business-management:
P-N1QY
MRes/PhD*
Please note applications for this course are now closed for 2025 entry.
WBS is for the people with a never-ending thirst for new knowledge and experience.
You’ll have the passion to make new discoveries, the drive to test new theories and the willingness to go above and beyond.
Our fully-funded MRes/PhD in Business and Management, launched in October 2022, will give you the opportunity to make your mark on the business landscape, by having the freedom to research a host of disciplines that shape the business world.
Our MRes/PhD Business and Management programme combines highly relevant and structured training with close mentorship from a team of supervisors to embed you in our culture of curiosity and help you in developing and deepening your chosen area of research.
We value our doctoral researchers and aim to attract students from across the globe who are independent thinkers, restless to learn more and challenge themselves.
We particularly welcome applicants whose ambition is a career in academia.
By studying our MRes/PhD Business and Management programme you will have the opportunity to make your mark on the business landscape, by having the freedom to research a host of disciplines that shape the business world.
As part of the MRes/PhD programme, you will study thirteen modules over your first two years.
This comprises three core modules, four methods modules, and six elective modules.
At the end of your second year of study, you will be awarded an MRes Business and Management and be permitted to proceed to PhD study.
The overall course structure is 2+3 years (MRes/PhD).
Our excellent library and superb teaching and learning facilities provide the perfect place for you to commit to your studies, and enable you to expand and deepen your knowledge in your chosen area of research.
If you would like to view reading lists for current or previous cohorts of students, most departments have reading lists available through Warwick Library on the Talis Aspire platform.
Please see the modules tab of this page or the module catalogue.
Competition to join our Doctoral programme is very strong; you will need to demonstrate you have the intellectual capabilities, stamina, drive and commitment to complete a ground-breaking piece of work through independent study.
Academic requirements for the MRes/PhD Business and Management programme include:
If English is not your first language, you must meet a minimum overall standard in a recognised test of English.
You must show a good balance across all sections of the test and it must have been taken within two years of starting the course.
We will require your certificates as evidence.
We typically ask for two academic references for taught courses.
Our vision is to develop cutting-edge research that leads debate and deepens our understanding on the practice of business and management.
Research is undertaken in partnership with policy and practice, to ensure both relevance and practical application.
Our desire to respond and contribute to varied societal issues, provides a vibrant and creative environment for research to flourish.
Our research strengths include:
Throughout the PhD element of your programme you will be advised by one or two supervisors with appropriate research expertise and interests.
Your supervisors will be nominated when you reach the end of the MRes element of your programme.
Please do not contact potential supervisors when completing your application, as we do not recruit PhD students in this way.
Initial applications to the Business School PhD programmes do not require submission of a research proposal.
Tuition fees Our MRes/PhD Business and Management programme is fully funded.
All students accepted onto the programme will have their full fees paid and will receive an annual stipend of approximately £23,000 per annum throughout their course, subject to satisfactory progress.
Students do not need to apply separately for this funding.
It will be included as part of the offer onto the programme.
Additional course costs As well as tuition fees and living expenses, some courses may require you to cover the cost of research trips in the UK and overseas.
Our MRes/PhD Business and Management programme is fully funded.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-business-consulting:
P-N1F2
Alongside the key fundamentals of business, you will learn how to diagnose organisational problems and propose solutions in order to create value for clients as a Change Maker.
Your consulting knowledge will be underpinned by relevant academic theory and application to business cases.
The course design will give you the opportunity to develop the strong interpersonal skills required to develop rewarding relationships with both colleagues and clients for success in the consultancy and advisory environment.
If you are considering further academic study (PhD) and you would like the opportunity to research a topic relating to consulting, the 6,000 word dissertation will enable you to test and apply the techniques and theories you have gained.
Over three terms, you’ll study eight compulsory modules, and select one optional module.
If you choose the Dissertation route you will undertake the Research Methodology module in term two, and if you select the Business in Practice route you will also select one additional optional module in term two.
Assessment of these modules will vary, and you may be assessed by group presentation, individual assignment, or examination.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-business-marketing:
P-N1F3
This MSc offers you the opportunity to study key business areas, whilst specialising in the field of marketing.
Modules taught by our expert lecturers will give you a grounding in the foundational areas of business, as well as offering you the chance to gain specific insight through marketing modules of your choosing.
If you are considering further academic study (PhD) and you would like the opportunity to research a topic relating to marketing, the dissertation enables you to test and apply the techniques and theories you have gained.
If you would like to develop further applied skills and specialist knowledge to suit your career aspirations, you can complete your studies with one additional optional module and our applied Business in Practice module.
Learn more via the WBS website.
This course will suit a wide variety of candidates looking to break into business, or continue to develop their knowledge in business, and we welcome applicants from all academic fields.
In total you will study eight core modules, one optional module and also complete the compulsory Business in Practice or Dissertation capstone module.
The Research Methodology module will help prepare you for the dissertation.
In total, you will study eight core modules and one optional, and complete the Research Methodology module and a dissertation.
In total you will study eight core modules, two optional modules and also complete the compulsory Business in Practice capstone module.
The typical class size for this course is around 120 students.
We have our own dedicated careers, leadership and development team at Warwick Business School, CareersPlus Link opens in a new window .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-business-operations-management:
P-N1QG
MSc Business with Operations Management has been designed as a practice-focused course for those early in their career.
Build upon the core disciplines of business to learn how to design, run, and manage effective operations across service, manufacturing, public, and private sectors.
Operations management can make or break an organisation, which is why you will cover a range of crucial elements, from project management to supply chain management, ensuring you gain a forward-thinking and career-driven learning experience that will help you to make a significant difference in the world of business.
There is a choice of Dissertation, or Business in Practice route.
If you are considering further academic study (PhD) and you would like the opportunity to research a topic relating to operations management, the dissertation enables you to test and apply the techniques and theories you have gained.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent)
Compulsory for students choosing the Dissertation route.
Over three terms you will complete eight core modules, and two modules of your choice (if you choose the Dissertation route, your term two optional module must be Research Methodology).
Your Dissertation or Business in Practice module brings all of your learning together.
The typical class size for this course is around 80 students.
We have our own dedicated careers team at Warwick Business School, called WBS CareersPlus Link opens in a new window .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses-2025/ma-career-development:
P-L561
P-L56A (two-year part-time)
April and September
This MA provides a thorough grounding in the skills and knowledge required to support the career development of others in a range of contexts.
We will enable you to make a distinctive contribution to the field of career development and coaching studies through taught modules and independent research.
The MA is approved by the Career Development Institute (CDI) Link opens in a new window as meeting the qualification requirement for the UK Register of Career Development Professionals.
The full-time MA is available to UK (home) students and to international students requiring a Student visa.
The part-time MA might be more suitable for students with additional commitments (e.g.
work or family).
Part-time study can be completed in two ways.
The part-time MA is NOT suitable for international students requiring a Student visa.
More information about enrolment, choosing the right course, and fees and funding - please see our Frequently Asked Questions page.
2:2 in any discipline.
Or
Level 7 Postgraduate Award from the Centre for Lifelong Learning
Significant professional experience/current employment in a relevant field of work + level 4-6 cognate qualification in a related field + related academic/employer reference.
This course is designed for applicants from a wide range of backgrounds, including individuals who are currently involved in career development and coaching support, and individuals who wish to work in these areas.
If you have alternative qualifications and relevant experience, you are welcome to discuss these with the course team.
You must be able to produce written work of a good standard.
Find out if you are exempt from this entry requirement .
To access a 6 or 10 week pre-sessional English language training course at Warwick University you must meet specific entry requirements beyond those normally expected for a Band B condition in order to attend, including equivalent to an IELTs level 7.0 in listening and speaking.
You would be expected to complete the course with no less than a 7.0 in listening and speaking and a 6.0 in reading and writing.
For more information please visit the international entry requirements page .
The University of Warwick is not currently sponsoring students on part-time courses , including part-time courses that are akin to distance learning, with a Student visa.
Therefore, we will not be able to produce a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) for a part-time course.
Please note all dates are provisional and will be confirmed later in the timetabling process once you are enrolled on the course.
Please see Modules and Key Dates .
Module code
Route B, CE942
*The modules mentioned above may be subject to change.
Please read our terms and conditions for more detailed information.
Part-time students: The core and optional modules are taught through a blend of workshops and virtual learning.
Each module typically consists of in-person workshops combined with independent learning using on-line study materials, links to key readings, and online webinars.
Full-time students: Full-time students attend weekly classes for core modules and either weekly classes or workshops for optional modules.
Independent learning using on-line study materials and links to key reading are also part of each module.
Dissertation:
For the dissertation, you will be allocated a dissertation supervisor to support your work.
Group workshops and supervision are provided to assist you with undertaking an initial literature review, constructing research questions, and designing a methodology.
There is considerable experience available within the course team and most topics connected with career development and coaching can be pursued.
Vary between 10-40 students dependent on the module.
For full-time students, you will have weekly sessions in each term.
In term one, you will complete two core modules.
You will attend weekly classes for each of these.
Each class lasts for two hours.
The delivery of modules in terms two and three will vary.
Independent study and preparation are also required.
Your timetable will clarify the precise details once you are enrolled on your modules.
For part-time students, each module typically consists of 2 days of intensive, attendance-based workshops combined with independent learning using on-line study materials, links to key readings, online webinars and tutorial support.
Modules are assessed through a combination of assignments (5,000 word projects) and case studies.
Dissertation A (60 credits) consists of a 15,000 word dissertation (100%).
Dissertation B (100 credits) consists of a more in-depth 25,000 word dissertation (100%).
Typically, the dissertation is focused on a topic of your choice and includes an initial literature review, research questions, methodology and findings and discussion.
Our graduates occupy a range of relevant career development roles in the private and public sectors in the UK and internationally.
Former students have gone on to publish and disseminate their work in a range of academic and professional contexts.
PhD opportunities are available at Warwick within the Centre for Lifelong Learning Link opens in a new window and the Warwick Institute for Employment Research Link opens in a new window .
Tuition fees Tuition fees are normally payable for each year of your course at the start of the academic year, or at the start of your course, if later.
However, this course is part of the Centre for Lifelong Learning department which follows a non-standard fee structure.
Full fee details are listed via the 'Find your course fees' button below.
Tuition fees are normally payable for each year of your course at the start of the academic year, or at the start of your course, if later.
This course has full-time study and part-time study options.
Part-time options have two entries a year.
Applications are open, which will close on 15 September 2025 (overseas applications close on 2 August 2025 ).
Apply for full-time October 2025
Apply for two-year part-time October 2025
Apply for four-year part-time October 2025
Before you apply, please read our Application Selection Guidance Link opens in a new window to see if this MA programme is right for you.
Read our notes on how to apply
If you have any queries, please contact our team at CLLadmissions@warwick.ac.uk .
Applications also closed on 02 August 2025 for students who require a visa to study in the UK.
How to apply for a postgraduate taught course
Find out how we process your application.
Track your application and update your details.
See Warwick’s postgraduate admissions policy.
Ask questions and engage with Warwick.
Before you apply, see if you could come onto an online event to meet course teaching staff and like-minded applicants.
Ask any questions you have about studying this course, and get personalised guidance to see if this is the right option for you.
See 2024 entry »
out of 1,500 institutions across 104 locations (QS World University Rankings 2025)
Coventry is ranked as the 5th Best Student City in the UK, and 40th in the world (Best Student Cities, QS World University Guide 2023)
This information is applicable for 2025 entry.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses-2025/pgcert-career-development:
P-L568
PGCert
The PG Certificate consists of three modules: two core 20 credit modules and one 20 credit optional module.
Everyone will start with the core module in Career Development Theories.
The remaining modules can be taken in any order depending on availability.
The course involves engaging in workshops, independent study and virtual learning.
There is significant individual support available through the course team.
Assignments are project-based and are completed following each workshop.
Multiple Start Dates The course starts in April or October.
Flexible Approach This part-time PG certificate can be completed over a period of between 10 and 24 months.
A flexible approach is adopted to enable attendance if you are based overseas and/or with full-time work or other responsibilities.
Each 20 credit module is taught via a blend of workshop-based and distance learning.
The workshops take place at the University of Warwick, usually on a Friday and Saturday.
You will start with the Career Development Theories module and 1 or 2 further modules per year depending on how quickly you wish to move through the course.
Watch the following video from course director, Wendy Pearson.
This video was filmed in 2023.
2:2 in any discipline
If you have alternative qualifications and relevant experience, you are welcome to discuss these with the Course Leader ( Dr Tania Lyden ).
For 2023/24 entry, please see Modules and key dates .
Careers in Organisations
Career Related Learning
Employability and Labour Markets
Teaching for this course is a blend of workshops and virtual learning.
Each module typically consists of in-person workshops combined with some independent learning using on-line study materials, links to key readings, online webinars and tutorial support.
This course has two entries a year.
The October 2025 applications are open, which will close on 15 September 2025 .
Apply for October 2025 course

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses-2025/pgdip-career-development:
P-L567
PGDip
The Postgraduate Diploma provides a thorough training for today’s career development professional.
It is approved by the Career Development Institute (CDI) Link opens in a new window as meeting the qualification requirement for the UK Register of Career Development Professionals Link opens in a new window .
The course consists of six 20-credit modules.
Flexible Approach This part-time PG diploma can be completed over a period of between 14 and 36 months.
The workshops take place at the University of Warwick, usually over two days (See Modules and Key Dates ).
You will start with the Career Development Theories module and attend between two and six workshops per year depending on how quickly you wish to move through the course.
Or Level 7 Postgraduate Award from the Centre for Lifelong Learning Or Significant professional experience/current employment in a relevant field of work + level 4-6 cognate qualification in a related field + related academic/employer reference.
The University of Warwick is not currently sponsoring students on part-time courses, including part-time courses that are akin to distance learning, with a Student visa.
Please visit our visa pages and read the guidance provided to see if your visa permits study at The University of Warwick.
For 2023/24 entry, please see 2023 CDCS Modules and key dates .
Career-related Learning
Career, Vocation and Calling
Research in Professional Practice
Many students progress from the PG Diploma CDCS to the MA CDCS .
This course has a blend of workshops and virtual learning.
Class size is usually between 10-40 students dependent on the module.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses-2025/pga-career-development-theories-ceighe:
P-L562
Postgraduate Award (PGA)
The Career Development Theories PGA on the Career Education, Information and Guidance in HE programme is designed for applicants from a wide range of backgrounds.
This Postgraduate Award aims to develop systematic knowledge and comprehensive understanding of classic and contemporary career development theories from a range of discipline areas.
It is made up of just one 20 credit module which is described further below and has more accessible entry requirements .
Once you have received the Award, you can apply for a longer course within the CEIGHE or Career Development and Coaching Studies suite ( if you fulfil required conditions) and apply for the transfer of your credit.
You are advised to discuss this with the course team.
There are two intakes each year in April and October for this course.
Applicants are strongly encouraged to apply three months before each intake.
The CEIGHE programme is run in conjunction with AGCAS .
Hear from Laura Ingham, one of our recent graduates, who explains how the course is structured and how she finds the course
These courses are designed for applicants who are working in a higher education careers environment and able to produce written work of a good standard.
The University's standard entrance requirement is an undergraduate degree graded at 2:2 in any discipline.
If you have alternative qualifications and relevant experience, you are welcome to discuss these with the course leader Dr Tania Lyden .
Equivalent professional qualifications can also be considered.
Please contact us for more detailed information on content and availability.
Please see CEIGHE key dates .
30 hours of blended learning consisting of in-person workshops with further materials provided via a virtual learning environment, supported by core reading available electronically, and a post-workshop webinar.
There is no need to purchase or borrow your core reading materials.
Vary between 15-30 students dependent on the module.
Each module typically consists of intensive in-person workshops combined with independent learning using on-line study materials, links to key readings, and online webinars.
The assignment consists of a work-based project.
Your personalised timetable will be accessible when you register for the module and you will be allocated to any relevant Warwick small group classes.
There is significant support available through your personal tutor, teaching team, the extended course team and student support team in the Centre for Lifelong Learning and the AGCAS Learning Team.
Our graduates occupy or go on to secure a range of relevant career development roles in the HE sector and beyond and many rise within their sector as they progress through and achieve the CEIGHE/CDCS qualification.
Many students progress to the PG Certificate, Diploma or MA CEIGHE or CDCS.
Former MA students have gone on to publish and disseminate their work in a range of academic and professional contexts and secured prizes for this.
PhD opportunities are available at Warwick within the Centre for Lifelong Learning and the Warwick Institute for Employment Research .
Find out more about how universities assess fee status.
For departmental specific costs, please see the Modules tab on this web page for the list of core and optional core modules with hyperlinks to our Module Catalogue Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window (please visit the Department’s website if the Module Catalogue hyperlinks are not provided).
Associated costs can be found on the Study tab for each module listed in the Module Catalogue (please note most of the module content applies to the current year of study and not the year you are applying to, meaning costs could differ in your year of study).

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses-2025/pga-career-development-theories:
Once you have received the Award, you can apply for a longer course within the Career Development and Coaching Studies suite and apply for the transfer of your credit.
The University's standard entrance requirement is an undergraduate degree graded at 2:2 in any discipline*.
*If you have alternative qualifications and relevant experience, you are welcome to discuss these with the course team.
For 2023/24 entry, please see Modules and Key dates .
Graduates from these courses have gone on to work for a range of employers in the career development sector and beyond.
The October 2025 applications are now open, which will close on 15 September 2025 .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses-2025/ma-career-education:
P-L550
Various in-person locations & Online
This MA covers all aspects of higher education career and employability work.
It is delivered in conjunction with the Association of Graduate Careers Advisory Services (AGCAS) Link opens in a new window and taught in partnership with them.
It is also approved by the Career Development Institute (CDI) Link opens in a new window as meeting the qualification requirement for the UK Register of Career Development Professionals Link opens in a new window .
There are two pathways available within the MA in Career Education, Information and Guidance in Higher Education: Route A and Route B.
It is not necessary to finalise your preferred route at the time of application as this can be confirmed later.
Both pathways enable direct entry to the MA.
Route A
Route A includes the 3 x core 20 credit modules (including the Research in Professional Practice module), a choice of 3 x 20 credit optional modules from the table below and a 60 credit module completed via a 15,000 word Dissertation (A).
All participants start with the core modules: Career Development Theories and the next available Challenges of Careers Work in Higher Education module.
These modules run twice a year (See Modules and Key Dates page) and further details are available in the AGCAS events calendar ).
Route B
Route B includes the 3 x core 20 credit modules detailed below (including the Research in Professional Practice module), a choice of 1 x 20 credit optional module, and a 100 credit core module completed via a 25,000 word Dissertation (B).
This route is particularly suitable if you have a relevant prior qualification and experience.
Hear from Laura Ingham, one of our recent graduates, about how she finds the course.
This video was filmed in June 2023.
Programme run in conjunction with AGCAS.
You must be working in a higher education career and employability development context.
The course lasts up to 4.5 years and you are able to complete earlier if your circumstances allow.
If you have alternative qualifications and relevant experience, you are welcome to discuss these with the course leader Dr Tania Lyden Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window .
Some modules are linked to an additional AGCAS course--they are shown below.
The AGCAS/Warwick Qualification page provides general information, whereas you can find more detailed module information including dates, costs, aims, learning outcomes and assessments on the AGCAS Training and Conferences pages.
Please note that:
Employability and Career Education: Strategy and Inclusive Design
Group Work
Guidance Skills (Advanced)
Marketing, Communications and Engagement
Employer/Entrepreneur Engagement and Labour Markets
Management of Higher Education Career and Employability Services
Recruitment Practices and Talent Management: Bridging the Gap
Work-related Learning in Higher Education
Career Coaching (Information, Advice and Guidance)
20
There are two intakes each year at the start of April and October.
Each module is taught via a blend of contact time and distance learning with the precise blend varying according to each module.
You will be taught by experienced AGCAS Trainers for at least one module.
The workshops are highly interactive and led by either Warwick teaching staff or experienced career development professionals.
The distance-learning materials are delivered via a virtual learning environment.
Everyone on the MA, PG Diploma and PG Certificate starts with the core modules, firstly in Career Development Theories and then Challenges of Careers Work in Higher Education.
These modules run twice a year.
You will be able to plot your route through the course in line with your AGCAS professional pathway.
Vary between 5-40 students dependent on the module.
Each module typically consists of independent learning using on-line study materials, links to key readings, online webinars, and tutorial support.
Most modules also include workshops of which a small number may be run in-person.
The precise blend varies according to each module and is explained in the relevant module section.
There is no need to purchase core reading materials.
The course is generally assessed through work-based projects depending on the module choices each student makes.
You will attend a Research in Professional Practice workshop (see Modules & Key Dates ) and be allocated a dissertation supervisor.
The workshop and supervision are provided to assist participants with undertaking an initial literature review, constructing research questions and designing a methodology.
Your personalised timetable will be accessible when you register for each module and you will be allocated to any relevant Warwick small group classes.
We will facilitate your registration for the core modules and you will be able to choose your optional modules when you join us .
Our graduates occupy a range of relevant career development roles in Higher Education and many rise within the sector as they progress through and achieve the CEIGHE qualification.
Former students have gone on to publish and disseminate their work in a range of academic and professional contexts and secured prizes for this.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses-2025/pgcert-career-education:
P-L577
The course is delivered in conjunction with the Association of Graduate Careers Advisory Services (AGCAS) and taught in partnership with them.
The course is designed for anyone who is either new to the work, or wishes to develop further in a relevant role they have had for some time and for those who wish to enrol on a shorter course than the PG Diploma or MA.
The PG Certificate consists of three modules: two core 20 credit modules and one 20 credit optional modules.
A 2:2 degree in any discipline.
Applicants must be working in a higher education career and employability development context and be able to produce written work to a good standard.
The course lasts up to 2.5 years and you are able to complete earlier if your circumstances allow.
The course involves engaging in significant amounts of both independent study and group teaching.
Its flexible nature means that you can plot an individual track through the course in line with your AGCAS professional pathway and use the virtual and physical learning environments to make contact with others.
You will start with the core modules, firstly Career Development Theories and then Challenges of Careers Work in Higher Education module.
Each module typically consists of independent learning using on-line study materials, links to key readings, online webinars, and personal tutorial support.
Most modules also include workshops, some of which are taught by AGCAS trainers and others by Warwick academic staff, most of these are online, but some are in-person.
Modules are assessed through work-based projects.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses-2025/pgdip-career-education:
P-L576
The Postgraduate Diploma provides thorough training for today’s higher education career and employability professional.
It is delivered in conjunction with the Association of Graduate Careers Advisory Services (AGCAS) and taught in partnership with them.
The course consists of six 20 credit modules: two core and four optional.
You will start with the core modules, firstly, Career Development Theories and then Challenges of Careers Work in Higher Education.
You must be working in a higher education career and employability development context and able to produce written work of a good standard.
The course lasts up to 3.5 years and you are able to complete earlier if your circumstances allow.
Modules are shown below including whether they are linked to an additional AGCAS course.
Former students now occupy a range of roles in higher education careers work including management, education and career coaching.
Many students progress from the PG Diploma CEIGHE to the MA CEIGHE.
If you wish to continue to the MA, you may wish to choose the optional module Research in Professional Practice on the Diploma to avoid taking an extra module on the MA.
Research in Professional Practice (core for MA)
The course involves both independent study, tutorials and group teaching.
Most modules also include workshops, some of which are taught by AGCAS trainers and others by Warwick academic staff, most of these are online, but some modules may give the option of in-person learning and CE951 and CE956 are both in person.
CE935 has two compulsory face to face day.
Low demand may result in moving to online teaching.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-caribbean-studies:
P-Q4P1
MA by Research
At the start of the academic year, you will be welcomed by our Centre.
You will work with your supervisor to create a calendar plan for the year that is bespoke for you and your studies.
Through independent research and regular meetings with your supervisor(s) you will develop your research project.
The final goal of the MA by Research is the production of your thesis.
You will write 40,000 words (excluding footnotes, bibliography and appendices) on a topic of your choice.
You will develop your research project through a combination of independent research and regular meetings with your supervisor(s).
The supervisory relationship is at the heart of your research.
Your supervisor(s) are experts in their field who will guide you throughout your degree and will agree upon a programme of reading, research and writing with you.
You can ask any academic from our Centre to be your supervisor.
See our staff web pages for more details and to see whose research interests align with yours.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in a relevant subject.
Current areas of research expertise are:
Students will be supervised by faculty members with expertise in these areas.
The Yesu Persaud Centre for Caribbean Studies is comprised of a number of academics from different University departments, and students undertaking Caribbean dissertations are supervised by these academics.
Explore our Academic Staff page for more information about our staff and their research interests.
You can also see our general University guidance about finding a supervisor .
Please contact The Yesu Persaud Centre for Caribbean Studies for specific research proposal requirements Link opens in a new window .
The Centre for Caribbean Studies was established in October 1984 with assistance from the Leverhulme Trust and the Nuffield Foundation.
It was the first such Centre in the UK to recognise the significance of the Caribbean region and its historically interdependent linkages with the UK and the world.
Its principal aim is to stimulate teaching and research on the Caribbean.
It also encourages the study of the Caribbean in an Atlantic context, emphasising African, North and South American, Asian and European influences from a comparative, cross-cultural and interdisciplinary perspective.
Additionally, it serves as a national forum for individuals and organisations with an interest in and concern for the diaspora as well as those countries bordering the Caribbean.
Learn more about us on our website.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mphil-phd-caribbean-studies:
P-Q4P0
At the start of the academic year, you will be welcomed by our department.
Through independent research and regular meetings with your supervisor you will develop your research project.
Each year, your work will also be read and assessed by other academic staff in your field.
The final goal of the research degree is the production of your thesis.
You will write 80,000 words (excluding footnotes, bibliography and appendices) on a topic of your choice; and be examined by an internal and external examiner in a viva.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses-2025/pga-challenges-in-he:
P-L557
In-person in various locations, or Online
The Challenges of Careers Work in Higher Education Postgraduate Award enables you to develop an overview of the wider context in which higher education careers work takes place.
The module is designed to develop reflective practice in CEIGHE focusing on: the student experience; the evolution and current development of higher education; the management of CEIGHE work; roles, organisations and policies; new technology, professional ethics, theoretical perspectives and values.
There are two intakes each year in April and October for this part-time course (see Modules and Key Dates ).
This course is designed for applicants from career and employability roles in HE.
Applicants must be able to produce written work of a good standard.
*If you have alternative qualifications and relevant experience, you are welcome to discuss these with the course leader Dr Tania Lyden .
Blended learning: online interactive workshops (some which may offer an the option of face-to-face) delivered by AGCAS Trainers, supported by Warwick online study materials.
Vary between 15-30 students.
The module typically consists of intensive workshops combined with  independent learning using on-line study materials, links to key readings, online webinars, and tutorial support.
Assessed through a work-based project.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-chemistry-by-research:
P-F1P2
MSc by Research
An MSc by Research provides an opportunity for you to spend one year full-time (two years part-time) conducting scientific research in an area in which you wish to specialise.
You need to find an academic willing to supervise you and propose together a research topic.
You write up a thesis at the end of your studies.
To contact the department directly with any questions please email chem-postgraduate at warwick dot ac dot uk .
We typically ask for two academic references for research courses.
Established ground-breakers and highly talented early-career researchers unite to deliver internationally excellent and world-class research across the chemical sciences with 100% of our research judged world-leading or internationally excellent by REF 2021.
Through close collaboration with the wider STEM community, our fundamental chemistry challenges the frontiers of knowledge for tomorrow whilst impactful research tackles the issues of today.
Ambitious entrepreneurism and effective routes to real-world applications ensure benefits to academia, industry, and society.
With ongoing investment into state-of-the art research and education facilities and infrastructure, we sit firmly at the forefront of science globally, both now and in the future as we grow to meet the rising demands for flexible, world-class innovation.
Our current research groupings include:
You can find out more information about each grouping on our website.
You can also read our general University research proposal guidance Link opens in a new window to help guide you in articulating your research question.
You can use the link below and discuss with prospective supervisors the area you would like to research.
Explore our Chemistry Staff Directory Link opens in a new window where you will be able to filter by:
A list of current funded opportunities is also available on our website
If you are applying for a research degree, please let us know on the form what area of research you are interested in and/or which research groups you would like to join.
It is not necessary to submit a research proposal at this stage.
You can work on that together with your chosen supervisor.
Please make sure you state your research area and any academics you would like to work with in the first paragraph of the additional information/reason for study section.
We shall distribute your application, once received, to the members of staff you have listed.
If you do not name any academics then we will not be able to process your application any further.
Please feel free to contact any of the academic staff listed on our directory pages Link opens in a new window to discuss potential project areas.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/phd-chemistry:
P-F1P0
PhD
A PhD in Chemistry will give you an opportunity to devote up to four years conducting full-time research, addressing real-world problems in an area of your choice.
Find a supervisor in the tab below and let us know what areas you would like to research.
In some cases, the project may be carried out in collaboration with an external sponsor, for example industry.
Warwick offers comprehensive training in transferable skills, access to taught modules, and a supportive research environment.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in Chemistry or a related subject.
You can also read our general University research proposal guidance Link opens in a new window Link opens in a new window to help guide you in articulating your research question.
Explore our Chemistry Staff Directory where you will be able to filter by:
A list of current funded opportunities is also available on our website.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-chemistry-scientific-writing:
P-F1PB
This MSc will help you to build your subject knowledge of Chemistry while also enhancing your ability to communicate science, with a focus on writing for scientific publications or communication in the media.
You will gain a Master’s-level education in technical chemistry modules and develop key research skills by completing a project in one of our world-class research groups, using state-of-the-art synthesis and equipment.
By the end of the course, you will possess advanced chemical knowledge alongside the ability to effectively communicate often complex scientific concepts to others, preparing you for a career in research, scientific writing, science education or science communication.
You can find out more about the Department of Chemistry by joining our webinar Link opens in a new window .
Professor Martin Wills is the head of the MSc in Chemistry with Scientific Writing.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in a science subject.
You will also complete a 22 week research project chosen from the following
Optional modules are taken from those offered by the Department of Chemistry and can vary from year to year.
Attendance is subject to approval by the module leader and timetabling requirements.
The first 23 weeks are lecture-based, providing you with a diverse range of skills in analytical sciences to complete a successful 22-week research project.
Class sizes range from 5 to 40 students, dependent on modules: some of which are shared across programmes.
Depending on your module choices, you can expect to attend around 10-25 hours of lectures and workshops per week, some modules might also include additional supervised practical sessions (e.g.
laboratory work).
The split of assessment, between examined and assessed, varies for each scientific module; the scientific writing modules are 100% assessed; the research project is 100% assessed.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-childhood-in-society:
P-X30F
This course explores childhood from an interdisciplinary and international perspective.
During this course, you will gain a familiarity with interdisciplinary perspectives and frameworks from fields such as education, psychology, sociology, philosophy and social policy in the study of children and childhood.
You will engage with the debates, analysis and critique of current international and national research.
You will also explore the policy and practice implications of such research.
Whether you are a practitioner wanting to develop professionally or looking for the next level of academic study, this course will help you to critically explore key childhood related themes, including child development, children’s rights and the global child.
You will also develop an understanding of key issues in relation to children, and become familiar with the diversity of children’s experiences over time and space.
Studying the MA Childhood in Society will enable you to advance both academically and professionally, whatever your stage of development.
You will be working with others who are passionate about the importance of childhood and childhood studies.
Being part of a vibrant education studies department offers a wide range of optional modules so you can personalise your studies to meet your professional or academic goals.
You will share ideas with students and staff from across the department.
Interactive teaching sessions will provide you with a varied learning experience and help you to develop useful collaborative and employment skills.
At the end of the course, you will complete an independent research study.
This allows you to further develop and explore an area of personal or professional interest related to childhood.
By the end of the course you will be well positioned and equipped to continue with further academic study or to work in leadership positions relating to childhood and children’s education.
This includes informal and non-formal educational institutions and organisations such as NGOs, charities, local government educational provision, to name a few.
This programme has a number of other optional modules to choose from.
At least one optional module should have a childhood focus.
Find the most up-to-date optional module list on the Education Studies website.
For full-time students, all of our modules are delivered in-person at our well-equipped university campus.
Please note that if you wish to study on a part time basis you should be aware that most modules are taught during the normal working day and there is no out of hours provision.
If this is a consideration for you please contact us prior to applying so that we can advise you further.
Part-time students are able to complete some of their modules as asynchronous distance-learning modules.
Most modules include weekly teaching sessions, giving you the opportunity to join with your colleagues to discuss and debate the topics being explored.
These sessions are delivered in a range of formats that suit the module (these may include lectures, seminars, group work and practical workshops, for example).
In addition, you will be given various pre- and post- session tasks and readings to support your learning.
Assessment types vary depending on modules selected but may include different types of assignments, of varying lengths, as well as oral presentations.
You will also complete a dissertation based on an individual research project, with support from a research supervisor.
You will attend one or two 3-hour lectures and/or seminars each week during the Autumn and Spring Terms of modules plus research methods training lectures and seminars throughout all three terms.
You may wish to undertake some research with children or young people that may require a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check or a Certificate of Good Conduct for students from outside of the UK.
A Certificate of Good Conduct can vary in price.
Please contact your academic department for information about department specific costs, which should be considered in conjunction with the more general costs below, such as:
Find out more about our additional course costs.
Previous graduates from the Department of Education Studies have pursued occupations such as the following*:
Education Studies is an interdisciplinary department committed to high quality, rigorous interdisciplinary research, scholarship and teaching in the broad and diverse field of Education.
What does it mean to study and research Education?
Education provides us with an essential foundation for a fulfilling life in a thriving and equitable society – it underpins how we act and see the world and is the engine of social and cultural change and reproduction.
Education gives the basis for innovation in thought, culture and technology; it nurtures a sense of citizenship and social participation; it underpins our political and economic robustness; and is the foundation of the knowledge and skills that society shares.
Education is fundamentally about human development, knowledge and social justice.
Education is something that everyone experiences: it is life-long and society wide; it is local as well as global; it takes place in the home, in prisons, in refugee centres, in places of worship, in the workplace, on the sports field, in the theatre, in the pub as well as in the classroom.
Education is inherently interdisciplinary – it is an applied field of study which draws on a range of disciplines including: sociology, psychology, history and philosophy.
It is necessarily pluralist and eclectic, drawing upon a range of theoretical, conceptual and methodological perspectives.
Therefore, in studying and researching Education we work to understand the fundamental questions about why we educate, how we educate, who we educate and what purpose education serves.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-classics-ancient-history-by-research:
P-Q8P1
Two routes are available:
Completion of a 40,000 word dissertation.
2 x 5,000 word essays; 25,000 word dissertation + language training.
For both routes training in research methods as well as in ancient Greek or Latin are provided.
You will have regular monthly meetings with your assigned supervisor.
Seminars will introduce you to research methods in addition to skills training and career-oriented talks and workshops.
You will also be able to attend our ‘Work in Progress’ research seminars, which take place regularly during term time and offer the opportunity to learn about the work of others.
Training in ancient Greek and/or Latin is also provided as required.
Applicants will need to have achieved or be expecting to achieve a high upper Second Class degree in Classics/Ancient history/Archaeology or a relevant subject to be considered for entry.
Standard offers for successful applicants will typically be conditional on achieving a 2:1 degree with overall average of at least 65% with 68% or over for any dissertation submitted.
The Department offers expertise in a wide range of research areas, including:
Full details of our research interests are listed on the Classics and Ancient History web pages Link opens in a new window .
Explore our Classics and Ancient History Staff Directory where you will be able to search by research area.
If you are applying for a research degree (MA by Research, MPhil, PhD), you need to provide an outline of the chosen research topic.
This should be about 500 words and should outline the following:

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mphil-phd-classics-ancient-history:
P-Q8P0
You will work independently under the close guidance of an academic supervisor.
Training in research methods as well as in ancient Greek and/or Latin are provided, as required.
Additional skills training and career talks and workshops are built in our programme.
Training in research methods as well as in ancient Greek or Latin is provided, as required.
Applicants will need to have achieved a First or high upper Second Class BA degree in Classics/Ancient History/Archaeology, and to have achieved or be expecting to achieve at least a high merit mark on a Master’s degree in a relevant subject to be considered for entry.
Standard offers for successful applicants will typically be conditional on achieving a merit mark in a Master’s degree (where applicable).

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-clinical-applications-psychology:
P-C8P5
The MSc in Clinical Applications of Psychology is designed for those who plan to apply for admission to doctoral training programmes in Clinical Psychology and can help to strengthen your credentials for the competitive entry process.
The taught components of the course include modules on research methods tailored to clinical applications, evidence-based practice in adult, older adult, and child/adolescent populations, and clinical case analysis.
Teaching provision is shared between academics with research interests in the relevant topics and practising clinicians with current experience in Psychology services within the NHS.
The practical component of the course is a six-month research placement where students work as an Honorary Assistant Psychologist within a Clinical Psychology Service.
A first class or good 2:1 honours degree (usually 65% or over, or equivalent from overseas universities) in Psychology or containing Psychology as a major component.
Successful applicants should be able to demonstrate their interest in, and commitment to, a career in mental health care.
Please note, this course only considers students with a Psychology degree that provides Graduate Basis for Chartership (GBC) with the British Psychological Society (BPS), who have the right to work in the UK without restriction.
For the MSc in Clinical Applications of Psychology, a DBS check is required at a cost of approximately £55.
The taught components of the course include modules on experimental design, data collection and analysis tailored to clinical applications, evidence-based practice in adult, older adult, and child/adolescent populations, and clinical case analysis.
Teaching provision is shared between academics with research interests in the relevant topic areas and practising clinicians with current experience in Psychology services within the NHS.
Students are assigned to placements, where they will work with Clinical Psychologists on clinical audit and service evaluation, as applicable to the specific setting of the placement.
Every effort is made to match students' interests with the available placement opportunities.
The formal output of the placement is a written dissertation comprising a literature review and a report of the audit or service evaluation work carried out during the placement.
Support and guidance is provided by an academic supervisor, while on-site supervision is provided by a clinical supervisor.
The course usually takes 15 students per intake.
Teaching is delivered through lectures and seminars.
You will have an average of 8-10 hours of lectures and 2-4 hours of seminars per week in term one.
In terms two and three, students complete their seminar study and undertake a six-month research placement, three days a week, working as an Honorary Assistant Psychologist in a Clinical Psychology Service.
We typically assess modules through a mix of assessment types, which include written clinical case evaluation reports, design exercises focusing on clinical research, statistical analysis, qualitative analysis, open book examinations and a service-related literature review and project.
Your personalised timetable will be complete when you are registered for all modules.
The application deadline for this course is Friday 30 January 2026.
There is additional advice on applying for this course Link opens in a new window available on the Department of Psychology website.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/pgcert-pgdip-msc-clinical-research-iheed:
PGCert - B94K PGDip - B94J MSc - B94H
January, May and September start dates are available
PGCert/PGDip/MSc
Online
Developed and delivered in partnership with iheed, the Masters in Clinical Research will help support and educate the new generation of clinical researchers.
The course offers state-of-the-art education that can be accessed anytime, anywhere and provide participants with a leading edge understanding of Clinical Research.
The content is designed to respond to individual learner and group needs.
The Masters in Clinical Research is designed specifically for healthcare professionals and biomedical scientists wishing to pursue a career in clinical research.
As such, candidates will be healthcare practitioners or biomedical scientists fulfilling a variety of roles.
The course has been developed to meet the needs of working graduates who wish to up-skill, specialise or change career direction towards research in clinical, pharmaceutical, medical device or academic sectors.
Core Modules – Postgraduate Certificate
Core Modules – Postgraduate Diploma
Core Modules – MSc
We adopt a student-centric approach, ensuring that the needs and priorities of our students are at the heart of everything we do.
Acknowledging the busy schedules of professional students, this part-time, wholly online course offers a state-of-the-art flexible online learning environment, allowing students to balance their studies with their personal and professional commitments.
This includes a carefully considered blend of live and asynchronous learning components, enabling students to learn at their own pace and access course materials at any time, on any device.
We pride ourselves on offering personalised support to students throughout their learning journey.
Many of our learners are returning to education after a significant gap so the course includes a comprehensive induction, guidance on academic writing and study and regular feedback.
This helps students overcome barriers to learning and fosters a sense of belonging and engagement within their group.
Throughout the course, students will engage in:
The course recruits 3 cohorts per year, with approximately 40 students in each cohort.
Students are allocated to groups of approximately 20 based on their preference for tutorial times.
Students will be assessed using a range of assessment methods as specified in each of the modules that constitute the overall programme.
This may include assignments, group or individual presentations.
Assessments are designed to enable students to demonstrate achievements of the course level learning outcomes.
A personalised timetable will be provided to all students as part of the induction to the programme.
The field of clinical research is vast and dynamic, offering opportunities for specialisation and advancement based on individual interests and skills.
There are four principal areas where we would expect to see alumni:
The skills developed in achieving a Masters in Clinical Research have wide application in the diverse clinical research environment, but many are also highly transferable skills that will benefit advancement in any professional career track.
Tuition fees for this course are arranged directly with iheed.
Sponsorships, scholarships and flexible payment options are available.
Please speak with one of the iheed education advisors for more information.
Find your iheed course fees
For information about the application process, please go to the iheed course page.
How to apply for an online iheed course

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses-2025/ma-coaching:
P-L58A
University of Warwick and Distance Learning
The Coaching MA is designed and led by Ian Day, an internationally recognized executive coach, thought leader and co-author of the ground-breaking book Challenging Coaching: Going Beyond Traditional Coaching to Face the FACTS, along with other highly skilled and experienced coaches and tutors.
The course encourages independent thought, the questioning of assumptions, development of self-awareness and mastering of an authentic coaching approach suited to the context in which you operate.
The course is accredited by the Association for Coaching, and this ensures that our courses are focused on developing coaches in line with internationally recognised standards of best practice.
This Coaching MA is completed part-time over three-years, through three 20-credit core modules in year one, three 20-credit modules in year two and a dissertation on a subject of your choice in year 3.
The modules are taught via a blend of interactive workshops and distance learning virtual resource centre available 24/7 .
The workshops take place at The University of Warwick, usually over two days.
There is no place on this course for lectures, everything we do is with coaching at its heart; the workshops are designed and delivered as team coaching events to role model coaching in everything that we do.
Assignments are project-based and follow each workshop.
Watch the video below to understand more about the course from programme director Ian Day.
The video was filmed in 2021.
This course is designed for applicants from a wide range of backgrounds.
This includes individuals who are currently involved in people development and coaching support, line managers wanting to take a coaching approach to leadership, and individuals who wish to work in these areas and/or those who are interested in the study for personal interest.
Our philosophy is 'coaching for all'.
The University's standard entrance requirement is an undergraduate degree graded at 2: 2 in any discipline.
For 2023/24 entry, please see Coaching modules & key dates .
CE9B3-20 Listening, Questioning and Direct Communication (20 credits)
This module provides you with comprehensive knowledge of the foundation skills and theoretical perspectives required for coaching in a range of contexts.
Linked to professional competencies, this module is designed to develop systematic theoretical knowledge, skills in practice, and self-awareness, focusing on three fundamental coaching elements: Active listening, Powerful Questioning, and Direct Communication.
The module will also focus on how listening, questioning and direct communication are fundamental to developing the working and learning alliance, and consider the integrated nature of coaching.
CE9A8-20 Establishing Trust and Building Relationship (20 credits)
This module provides you with a comprehensive view of the skills and knowledge required to build and maintain an effective coaching relationship.
You will develop detailed theoretical and practical knowledge about integrity, confidentiality, respect, support, and challenge, while holding the coachee in “unconditional positive regard.”
CE 9B2-20 Ethics and Standards in Coaching (20 credits)
This module provides you with comprehensive knowledge of the ethics and standards required in professional coaching, as well as maintaining high levels of professional practice through supervision and continuing professional development.
Choose any three of the following modules:
CE9B1-20 Use of Self and Coaching Presence (20 credits)
This module provides you with a comprehensive knowledge of the theoretical basis for developing a deep awareness of what is happening within self and for the coachee during a coaching conversation.
You will develop a systematic knowledge and comprehensive understanding of ‘coaching presence’ and through self-awareness, develop confident and creative professional practice.
CE9A9-20 The Coaching Process (20 credits)
This module provides you with a comprehensive view of the key skills and theoretical knowledge required to manage the coaching process, facilitate progress for the coachee, and to congruently address issues that are counter to the achievement of the coachee’s (and sponsor’s) objectives.
CE955 Career Vocation and Calling (20 credits)
This module enables you to develop knowledge and understanding of classic and contemporary perspectives on career, vocation, and calling and to integrate and apply these perspectives with career development and coaching in a variety of contexts and practices.
CE9B6 Leadership and Team Coaching (20 credits)
This module will provide you with comprehensive knowledge of the skills and theoretical perspectives relating to leadership and team coaching.
The module is designed to develop systematic theoretical knowledge, skills in practice and self-awareness, focussing on coaching in organisations in which leadership coaching and team coaching will be used.
This is not sector specific, and so the material is generalisable to private, public, not for profit, large or small organisations, and aims to give you the skills and knowledge that can be applied in any organisational context.
CE956 Research in Professional Practice (20 credits)
To develop an understanding of research methods necessary to complete a small-scale research project related to professional practice including literature review, research questions, research strategy, sources, evaluative framework, reflexivity, and dissemination.
Dissertation on a subject of your choice (60 or 100 credits)
Your studies will be supported by the module leaders, experts in their topic, as well as a personal tutor who will work with you throughout the course.
The course takes a coaching approach to learning.
On completion of this course students will be able to:
The content of our coaching courses has been informed by the professional coaching bodies' competency frameworks, including the Association for Coaching (AC), the European Mentoring and Coaching Council (EMCC) International Coach Federation (ICF).
This ensures that our courses are focused on developing coaches in line with internationally recognised standards of best practice.
Hear from current Coaching students, Sarah and Rehan, talking about their experience on the course.
A maximum of 21 students.
Typically, the dissertation is focused on a topic of your choice and includes an initial literature review, research questions, methodology and findings.
The course is accredited by the Association for Coaching, so after logging the appropriate number of coaching hours, you be an accredited coach with the AC, as well as holding a MA from one of the top 10 universities in the UK.
The University of Warwick is one of the UK's leading universities.
Our postgraduate coaching courses will develop you as a credible expert coach so you will be able to build a career in coaching, in the context of your choice.
Alternatively, you will be able to apply your coaching skills within your organisation, such as HR professionals, and line managers to enhance your leadership skills and improve individual and team effectiveness, so supporting promotion potential.
As well as developing your coaching skills and knowledge, the course will help you develop a strong network formed through the shared experience, which can be of on-going support after the course has finished.
Course Director Ian Day will be there to present some live information about studying our PGA, PG Certificate, PG Diploma and MA in the fascinating practice of Coaching.
Ask Ian any questions and meet other like-minded potential applicants:

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses-2025/pgcert-coaching:
P-L58C
The Postgraduate Certificate Coaching will develop exceptional coaches through an integration of theory and practice.
Our philosophy is ’coaching for all’.
The course takes an adult learning approach, with individual experiential learning at the centre.
On completion of the programme participants should have shown evidence of being able:
The course is accredited by the Association for Coaching and t his ensures that our courses are focused on developing coaches in line with internationally recognised standards of best practice.
If you wish, after successful completion of this postgraduate certificate in coaching, you can progress to study the Postgraduate Diploma part-time, taking another academic year, and then continue and complete a part-time dissertation of your choice in the third year, to give you a full Master's in Coaching.
This includes individuals who are currently involved in career development and coaching support, individuals who wish to work in these areas, and those who are interested in studying these areas for personal interest.
Please see CDCS modules and key dates .
All modules are 20 credits and delivered via a blend of workshops and virtual learning.
CE9B3-20 Listening, Questioning and Direct Communication:
CE9A8-20 Establishing Trust and Building Relationship
You will develop detailed theoretical and practical knowledge about integrity, confidentiality, respect, support and challenge while holding the coachee in “unconditional positive regard.”
CE 9B2-20 Ethics and Standards in Coaching
The course is delivered by skilled tutors who are also experienced coaches and take a coaching approach to learning .
The course involves engaging in interactive 2-day workshops for each module, plus , independent study, and virtual learning available 24/7 .
There is significant individual support available through the course team and assignments are project-based to demonstrate both your skills and knowledge and are completed following each workshop.
Come to an Online Taster session and meet course teaching staff Ian Day to get all your questions answered and find out if the course is right for you.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses-2025/pgdip-coaching:
P-L58B
The PG Diploma is made up of six modules of twenty-credits each at Master's level 7 , 3 in Year One, and 3 in Year Two .
The course provides a comprehensive understanding of the theoretical knowledge and practical skills needed to build a deep awareness of self, and so participants are able to articulate their unique personal coaching presence in relation to a critical evaluation of theories.
You will also gain an in-depth theoretical and practical understanding of the coaching process, as well and developing a comprehensive understanding of research methods in professional practice.
The course is accredited by the Association for Coaching and this ensures that our courses are focused on developing coaches in line with internationally recognised standards of best practice.
This part-time course is delivered over two academic years and provides the essential core skills and knowledge.
The first year gives you the Postgraduate Certificate in Coaching and building on this, after successful completion of the second year, you will receive a postgraduate diploma in coaching.
This is a blended learning course, and so each module has a two-day face-to-face interactive skill-based workshop delivered at Warwick, plus distance learning virtual resource centre material available 24/7.
All modules are taught via a blend of workshops and virtual learning and are 20 credits.
Pease see CDCS modules and key dates .
CE 955 Career Vocation and Calling (20 credits)
This module enables you to develop knowledge and understanding of classic and contemporary perspectives on career, vocation and calling and to integrate and apply these perspectives with career development and coaching in a variety of contexts and practices
CE 9B6 Leadership and Team Coaching (20 credits)
This module provides you with comprehensive knowledge of the skills and theoretical perspectives relating to leadership coaching and team coaching.
Designed to develop systematic theoretical knowledge, skills in practice and self-awareness, focussing on coaching in organisations in which leadership coaching and team coaching will be used.
The module will provide an understanding of the skills and models of leadership and team coaching and the impact this has on the role and skill requirements of the coach.
This is an essential module if you wish to progress and compete the full Coaching Master’s and undertake a dissertation of your choice.
The course is delivered by skilled tutors who are also experienced coaches.
You will engage in workshops, independent study, and virtual learning.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-communications-information-engineering:
P-H641
Our MSc in Communications and Information Engineering allows students to gain expertise in the fundamentals of communication systems and networks, as well as the protocols for transmitting large amounts of data reliably and effectively.
You’ll cover developments in wireless network architectures and deployment (such as 4G/5G/6G communication systems) and have the opportunity to study advanced topics such as artificial intelligence and cyber security for communication systems in real-world settings.
Cross-discipline options from the Department of Computer Science offer key insights into approaches for dealing with the explosion in data collected in modern society.
Previous project titles include: Machine learning for end-to-end design of wireless and optical communication systems; Cyber-physical system security in smart energy systems, robotics, and healthcare applications.
Our research within the School of Engineering covers a wide range of expertise in communication systems, cyber-physical systems (smart grids, robotics, and healthcare) optical networks, internet-of-things, digital twins and applied artificial intelligence.
After graduation you’ll be well equipped for employment opportunities in modern information and communication engineering, which is currently undergoing a revolution.
Recent graduates from the course occupy positions in a variety of industries in the UK and worldwide, including core network provision, automotive communications, smart grids, logistics, software support and data communication equipment/services, as well as banking, oil and gas, and fashion.
The course is also the perfect platform for progression to a PhD.
A minimum 2:i undergraduate UK Honours degree or equivalent international qualification, in an engineering, physical sciences or mathematical subject.
You can see how your current degree score or GPA equates to the British system in our Study pages in the equivalent scores table.
The degree comprises eight taught modules and an individual research project.
Our research within the School of Engineering covers a wide range of expertise in communication systems, cyber-physical systems (smart grids, robotics, and healthcare), optical networks, internet-of-things, digital twins and applied artificial intelligence.
Graduates of this programme typically follow one of two main career pathways.
One route leads into industry, where graduates are well prepared to join leading global companies such as Nokia, Bell Labs, Qualcomm, BT, Samsung, or Jaguar Land Rover, all of which are engaged in cutting-edge work in wireless communication systems and related technologies.
Alternatively, the MSc also provides a strong foundation for further academic study, equipping students to pursue doctoral research and advance knowledge in this rapidly evolving field.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-computer-science:
P-G5PD
Important information We are planning to make some changes to our Computer Science MSc for 2026 entry.
The Computer Science MSc is for technically minded graduates with experience in computer science, mathematics or physical sciences.
Ranked 4th in the UK (REF 2021), Warwick's Computer Science department is one of the top Computer Science departments in the UK and it will train you in using the latest techniques in academia and industry while providing you with a set of skills essential in your future career.
Starting from the 2026/27 academic year, Warwick’s MSc in Computer Science will feature a redesigned and flexible programme structure, giving students the option to pursue a general Computer Science MSc or follow a specialised pathway in AI, Data Analytics, or Security.
This innovative design offers three tailored routes of specialisation to suit individual goals:
The general MSc in Computer Science offers a comprehensive foundation in Computer Science theory and applications, while the specialised pathways enable you to focus on specific areas that match your professional or academic interests.
First Class Honours degree or a high 2:1 undergraduate degree.
The degree must be in Computer Science, Mathematics, Statistics, Physics, or another relevant quantitatively focused degree.
The course has two components - a taught component and a dissertation.
The taught component will allow you to acquire expertise and industrially relevant technical skills in cutting edge areas of computer science, including agent-based systems, high performance systems, game theory and bioinformatics, as well as experience of project management, academic writing, and scientific methods.
The taught component is complemented by a dissertation project, undertaken primarily in the second half of your course, which offers the opportunity to specialise and explore areas of interest in greater depth.
Your dissertation may be entirely research focussed or directed towards the application of advanced topics.
You will be assessed through a variety of methods; exams, coursework, presentations, and a dissertation.
Exams take place in the summer term; usually in May and/or June with dissertations expected to be completed in September.
The median salary for University of Warwick 2021/22 postgraduates from the Department of Computer Science whose main employment was full-time work in the UK was £45,000.
Postgraduate graduates from the Department of Computer Science have gone on to work for employers such as:
Median salary figure based on 19 Warwick Department of Computer Science graduates that participated in the 2021/22 Graduate Outcomes survey and provided salary details (20% of the eligible Warwick Department of Computer Science postgraduate population).
Graduates from these courses have gone on to work for employers including BAE Systems Applied Intelligence; Barclays; Brainlabs; Dell EMC; Huawei Technologies Co Ltd; JPMorgan; KPMG; Play Station; and UBS.
Our graduates have pursued roles such as: business and related associate professionals; finance and investment analysts and advisers; IT business analysts, systems designers; management consultants and business analysts; programmers and software development professionals.
Computer Science at Warwick offers you a community of excellence across the breadth of the use of computational techniques in practice and research.
Join like-minded thinkers and friends who relish the challenges of shaping future technology.
You will study the theoretical foundation in established areas of the discipline.
You will then apply your learning to industrially relevant problems, developing technical and transferable skills which will position you excellently for your future career.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-computer-science-by-research:
P-G5P3
The MSc by Research program is suitable for skilled and highly-motivated students to do research at the frontiers of Computer Science in a broad range of theoretical and applied topics.
The program is meant to train students for high-profile jobs in Industry.
Students are encouraged to attend Departmental seminars given by leading experts from the research community.
The current research themes include:
Full details on our current research are available on the Computer Science website Link opens in a new window
Before you make a formal application, your proposal is emailed to a potential supervisor for their consideration.
You may not be considered for a research degree if you do not have (and we could not identify) an academic willing to supervise your research.
Explore the research interests of our academic staff.
Students are encouraged to contact the department directly before submitting a proposal.
Research degree applications are highly competitive and we receive many more applications than we can accept.
This means it is important to make your application as strong as possible.
We therefore ask that you write a research proposal with a clear vision of what you are looking to achieve and that your proposal aligns with a potential supervisor research interests.
We also advise that, before you make a formal application, you email your proposal to a potential supervisor for their consideration.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/phd-computer-science:
P-G5P 9
The PhD program is suitable for skilled and highly-motivated students to do research at the frontiers of Computer Science in a broad range of theoretical and applied topics.
The program is meant to train students for high-profile jobs in both Academia and Industry.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) and preferably an MSc in a related subject.
Full details on our current research is available on the Computer Science website.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-continental-philosophy:
P-V7P2
This programme draws on our long-established strengths in continental philosophy.
It is distinctive in offering an exceptionally broad range of module options specifically in this area of philosophy.
Modules cover 19th and 20th century continental philosophy, major figures and themes, as well as more specialised topics drawing on individual research strengths.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in Philosophy or a related subject with a significant philosophical component; a writing sample of around 2,500 words on a philosophical topic.
See our departmental guidance Link opens in a new window .
Due to the flexibility of this programme, there are no set core modules, but students will be required to take a minimum of two modules from a list of optional core modules.
An indicative list of optional modules is available here .
On this course you will follow a programme of taught modules, followed by an optional 10,000 word dissertation.
You will cover four or six modules with your exact pathway depending on your selection of modules.
We offer a wide range of optional modules reflecting the great breadth of research areas we have in our department, so you will be able to tailor your course to your interests and aspirations.
You will have a personal tutor who will be able to advise you on your academic progress as well as discuss which modules might work best for you.
In addition to timetabled teaching, you will also benefit from the lectures in the Warwick Post-Kantian Seminar, which brings to campus world-renowned speakers on different topics in Post-Kantian philosophy.
For more information, see the website of our Centre for Research in Post-Kantian European Philosophy.
Seminar class sizes for this course typically range from 8-20 people.
For taught components, there are typically two hours of teaching per module per week.
You will submit assessed essays during the academic terms.
If you’re following the dissertation route, you will also begin planning your dissertation and generally you will undertake your supervision sessions for this with your agreed supervisor during the summer term.
As long as you pass your taught components, you will then focus on completion of your MA dissertation in the summer months (July and August).
Any compulsory modules will be registered for you and you will be able to choose your optional modules when you join us.
Our research reputation is founded in consistent excellence across a range of philosophical fields, including in philosophy of mind and epistemology; Post-Kantian European philosophy; philosophy of the arts and aesthetics; moral, political, and legal philosophy; and mathematical logic and computation.
Philosophy at Warwick is recognised for our support of diverse philosophical traditions, including both analytic and continental philosophy.
We have particular strengths in:
We collaborate extensively with academics and practitioners in other subjects and have long-standing partnerships with researchers and practitioners across all faculties.
We support four active and successful research centres that co-ordinate research activities in our main areas of research strengths.
Each centre has well-established interdisciplinary links within Warwick and beyond.
At Warwick, you’ll be part of an inclusive staff and student community.
We provide a vibrant and friendly environment where our students have dedicated support to explore their passion for philosophy and develop their skills as researchers.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-creative-media-enterprises:
P-W4P4
In this programme you will be invited to develop your understanding of creative organisations, teams, value creation, and markets within the global creative economy.
We encourage you to consider a creative approach to management and a managed approach to creativity, which can then be applied to a range of scenarios and industries.
You will also develop your understanding of entrepreneurship and intellectual property and its strategic and regulatory significance within the creative and media industries.
This course will invite you to critically reflect on the theories and ideas that shape industry practice and help you to tackle the real challenges of running a creative business.
However, we may ask applicants to write a short essay, attend an interview, or respond to a set of questions.
There are five core modules, which also includes a course specific applied management module.
The bespoke applied management module for this MA is ‘Creative Business Project’.
This module gives you the opportunity to apply your learning in practice- or industry-related contexts.
Read more about the MA in Creative and Media Enterprises on the Centre's website.
The core modules are taught through a combination of lectures, workshops and student-led presentations and discussions.
Typical contact hours range between 6 to 10 hours each week for core teaching – this excludes additional tutorials, workshops, and research seminars.
Recent graduates from this course have gone on to work in a variety of managerial and creative roles in TV, advertising, digital media, video games, research, marketing, and rights management, or have set-up their own creative enterprises.
Employers include the BBC, Sky, Discovery, Warner Bros, HBO, Bankside Films, Ogilvy, Havas Worldwide, Penguin, Random House, Penguin, Google, Facebook, Bytedance, Tencent, Activision Blizzard, Universal, and Primavera Sound.
Our School has a dedicated professionally qualified Senior Careers Consultant offering impartial advice and guidance together with workshops and events throughout the year.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-critical-cultural-theory:
P-Q3PD
The MA in Critical and Cultural Theory will equip you with the analytical tools and concepts to respond to, understand, theorise, and critique the literary and cultural artefacts of the modern world.
In the dedicated core module, you will immerse yourself in fundamental theoretical questions through individual reading and collective discussion.
You can also choose from a wide range of modules that span a variety of critical perspectives and approaches to literary studies, and grapple with the ideas of some of the great critical thinkers.
You will also write a dissertation on an (approved) topic of your choice with a specialist supervisor.
65% in an undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in a related subject.
Applicants are asked to provide a writing sample to demonstrate suitability for the course.
For more information, please visit the Critical and Cultural Theory web page on the English website.
The MA in Critical and Cultural Theory comprises a Research Methods module, the core module, Critical Theory Today, three further optional modules, and a Dissertation of 16,000 words.
You can take one of your three optional modules from outside of the department, including from the Institute for Advanced Teaching and Learning.
Seminars consist of 5 to 18 students.
Contact hours comprise 4 hours of seminars a week, 2 office hours per member of staff, weekly reading groups and research seminars, and one-to-one Dissertation supervision in terms 2 and 3.
All essays are marked by two members of staff.
The standard length for essays for modules on this course is 6,000 words; the Dissertation is 16,000 words.
Marks are given out of 100.
Your personalised timetable will be complete when you are registered for all modules, compulsory and optional, and once you have been allocated to your lectures, seminars and other small group classes.
Explore your environment.
As an internationally recognised centre of learning and culture, the University of Warwick hosts opportunities for education and enrichment that go far beyond your formal course offerings.
Every week during term time there are countless public lectures, workshops, skills sessions, symposia, conferences and other events that are available for you to attend.
You’re also free to explore the award-winning Warwick Arts Centre on campus, housing the Mead Gallery, theatres, studios and cinema screens, and you can travel further afield to visit the home of Shakespeare in Stratford or immerse yourself in the cultural scenes of Coventry, Leamington Spa and Birmingham.
In the 2021 Research Excellence Framework , the Department ranked among the top 10 in the country for research environment: a great place for graduate study.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mphil-phd-cultural-policy:
P-W4P8 (Cultural Policy Studies) P-W4PB (Creative Industries) P-P300 (Media and Communication)
Our Research degree routes encapsulate specialisms in the media and creative industries and cultural policy.
The Centre does not have a prescriptive approach to research methodology and advocates a subject-led approach with appropriate methods selected and adapted according to the objectives of the research.
Research methods are likely to be diverse and individualised rather than following a collective 'best practice' model.
This is exemplified by our MPhil/PhD route in Media and Communication, which includes the option of joint supervision with colleagues from the Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies (CIM).
As a research student in CMPS you will be expected to make an original contribution to your field by critically reviewing existing knowledge and by challenging current assumptions and orthodoxies in cultural policy and the media and creative industries.
Your research should be a personal journey which engages with issues and ideas you feel are significant and which are challenging and relevant to those working in and on the media and cultural sector.
Our PhD students are supervised by experienced researchers and specialists in the fields of cultural policy, media and creative industries.
You will join a vibrant and growing community of PhD researchers, supported by regular supervision, work-in-progress and research seminars, as well as having the opportunity to organise and contribute to research events focussed on your interests.
Centre students have full access to the PhD training provided by the Centre for Arts Doctoral Research Excellence and Warwick Careers and Skills to augment your research and enhance your professional development.
2:1 undergraduate degree and Master's degree (or equivalent) in a related subject.
Full details of our research interests are listed on the Centre for Culture and Media Policy Studies Link opens in a new window website.
Find your supervisor using the links below and discuss with them the area you'd like to research.
For students interested in the PhD by Media and Communication route, see our Staff Research Directory where you will be able to search by research area.
Additional supervision areas can be found under the Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies .
Please note that a PhD is a significant commitment of time and resources, both for you and your prospective supervisor.
A face-to-face meeting is therefore an important step in ensuring a good match between candidate and supervisor, and we will therefore normally expect you to be available to come to Warwick for an interview as part of the application process.
If you are invited to submit a full informal proposal, please make sure your documentation meets the following requirements:
The research proposal should articulate your research questions and proposed methodology; it should contain a brief literature review and position your project within your chosen area of the broader cultural policy field.
Your proposal should be no longer than 1500 words.
Your cover letter should contain a statement as to why you think the Centre is the ideal place for you to conduct your research, and how your project will contribute to developing the research areas already cultivated by Centre staff.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-european-renaissance:
P-V1PF
This MA covers the period c.1300-c.1650 across Europe.
It provides a foundation in the art, history, literature, philosophy, religion and science of the period, exploring their interconnections with the social and political context.
Strongly interdisciplinary, it is taught by academics drawn from Classics, English, History, History of Art, Liberal Arts and the School of Modern Languages and Cultures.
We ask for one academic reference for taught courses.
You will be based at Warwick for most of your course, but will also have the option to study for a period of time in Venice (Italy) or Tours (France), depending on your choice of modules.
At Warwick, during term 1, full-time students will take our core module, Renaissance Culture and Society, alongside a module of your choice from a variety of options delivered by Classics, History, History of Art, English and Comparative Literature, and the School of Modern Languages and Cultures.
In term 2 you will take a further 60 CATS of optional modules of your choosing, which may include study off campus and lead into a period of study abroad.
Term 3 and the summer focus on the dissertation.
You will also be able to join the online palaeography, Latin and other skills classes delivered by the Renaissance Centre at different points during the year.
Part-time students take only the core module Renaissance Culture and Society in their first term, with a further 30 CATS of optional modules in the second, fourth, and fifth terms of the degree (i.e.
year 1, term 2; year 2, term 1; year 2, term 2).
They begin work on a dissertation topic in term 3 of their first year, and complete the dissertation in earnest during their second summer.
Class sizes tend to be small (five to twelve students), allowing plenty of opportunity for questions and discussion.
MA modules typically run as seminars of two hours each, but you will have more like 6–8 hours a week of teaching if you avail yourself of the language and skills classes offered or paid for by the Centre.
Our aim is to develop your research and writing skills to the point where you are able to present cogent, complex and original arguments based on your research of images, buildings, artefacts, documents and other primary sources.
Each individual module is assessed through essays.
Normally you will write an extended essay (5,000 words) for each of your modules, in addition to a dissertation (currently 15,000 words).
The dissertation is prepared over the late spring and summer and submitted in September.
You will be requested to submit a literature review before starting on your dissertation.
You will receive close one-to-one tuition from members of staff to guide you through your programme of research and writing.
Warwick modules are typically assessed by essay only.
Travel abroad (Venice or Tours) for optional study there and possible extra living allowances as the cost of living can be more expensive than in the UK.
Our guidance ensures you graduate as
Previous graduates from the Centre for the Study of the Renaissance have gone on to work for employers such as*:
The Centre for the Study of the Renaissance (CSR) is a world-leading research community based at the University of Warwick.
It is one of two 'category one' research centres of the University.
As an independent and interdisciplinary centre, it has very strong international connections and an active programme of MA and PhD study.
The CSR aims to support – through research, teaching, and outreach – the study of the period stretching from the fourteenth to the seventeenth century, at Warwick and beyond.
It is particularly dedicated to exploring Renaissance Studies in a multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary way and within a context of international collaboration.
It also promotes activities that intersect with the work of medievalists and early modernists.
The Centre for the Study of the Renaissance offers scholarships of up to £5000 to suitable candidates, on a competitive basis.
Contact the Centre’s administrator at renaissance at warwick dot ac dot uk for further details.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-cyber-security-engineering:
P-H1S1
Cyber security is not simply about protecting the internet.
As our world becomes ever more dependent upon digital systems, our vehicles, infrastructure, industrial controls, finances, and medical devices all exist within the cyber domain, and all need securing.
By studying Cyber Security Engineering at Warwick, you will deepen your knowledge of this multifaceted cyberspace.
You will understand the nature of this evolving cyber environment, and how to protect and enhance the human experience within it.
This MSc focuses on the technical aspects of cyber security and how these may be implemented in a multi-disciplinary way.
The practical applications of topics are emphasised, as well as developing your abstract analytical skills.
You will also gain unparalleled exposure to industry.
This course is certified by the National Cyber Security Centre (part of GCHQ) and accredited by the British Computer Society (BCS), The Chartered Institute for IT.
Warwick is an Academic Partner of CIISec Link opens in a new window and the MSc in Cyber Security Engineering is affiliated to CIISec .
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in IT, Computer Science, or a related subject.
Candidates with a UK 2:2 (or equivalent) may be accepted upon demonstration of relevant professional experience.
Core modules are required modules that all students will complete whilst on this programme.
For Cyber Security Engineering (CSE), your core modules are:
Alongside your core modules you should select an additional elective module.
Options will be made available at the beginning of the academic year and will include modules such as:
For more course information, visit the WMG department website.
This course has two components – a taught component accounting for two thirds of your time and effort, and a research component accounting for one-third.
For the taught component, we blend synchronous and asynchronous learning delivered through lectures, seminars, lab work, syndicate exercises, simulations, and case studies.
Others practice larger-scale lectures, which are then supported by small class seminar and group activities.
Our module leaders have extensive industry experience.
Guest speakers from industry also contribute regularly, bringing real-world insight into your learning experience.
In addition to your taught modules, you will undertake a major project as part of your Master's degree, which will develop your research and analytical skills and enable you to specialise.
You will engage regularly with your Project Supervisor and to provide progress updates and drafts of your work to an agreed schedule.
As a CSE student, your project will need to demonstrate technical depth and will ideally involve coding and/or pract ical experimentation.
The typical intake for this course is around 60 students, divided into two classes of 30 students for most modules.
This course uses a variety of assessment methods across modules.
These may include reports (both topic based and reflective), individual and group presentations, critical evaluation or commentary pieces, case study exercises, simulation reports, cyber incident reports, business or consultancy reports, online tests, and video presentations.
Assessments have been designed not only to assess your achievement in meeting the course learning outcomes in an academically sound manner, but also contribute to preparing you with the requisite competencies required for employment.
For the research component, you will undertake a major project.
Project submission is likely to include both a written and a presentation element, and accounts for 33% of your overall academic grade.
For Cyber Security Engineering students, your project should be technical in nature.
Your elective module will be bookable through the same system later in the term.
As a Master's student, you are expected to manage your own time appropriately.
This is a full-time postgraduate course - undergraduate term dates do not apply .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-cyber-security-management:
P-H1SH
Over the course of the year, you will develop a comprehensive understanding of the cyber threat landscape, including the various types of threats, attack vectors, and the motivations behind cyber attacks.
You will study how to systematically assess and manage risks, enabling you to identify potential vulnerabilities within an organisational setting and determine the best strategies to mitigate them.
Additionally, you will gain hands-on experience in implementing solutions using a wide range of technologies that would allow you to safeguard digital assets.
The course is designed in consultation with industry experts to support learners in developing the essential skills required to protect an organisation's digital assets from cyber threats and attacks.
The right balance between theory and practise, combined with utilising a broad range of practices and technologies will enable you to address various aspects of cyber security, from preventive measures to incident response and recovery, allowing you to build upon skills for delivering solutions within the broader context of organisational security strategies.
Your technical expertise will be enhanced with a strategic approach to cyber security that will enable you to deliver effective solutions, allowing you to lead security initiatives, manage teams, and communicate complex security concepts to non-technical stakeholders.
By the end of the course, you will be prepared to take on key roles in cyber security, contributing to the development and implementation of robust security policies and practices that protect an organisation's digital infrastructure from evolving cyber threats.
Your unique set of skills will initiate career opportunities in various areas of cybersecurity, including cybersecurity consultancy, information security, security operations, IT audits, incident response, and risk and compliance management.
This course draws extensively on current professional practices, and benefits from teaching input by cyber security professionals currently working in their areas of expertise.
It also draws extensively on our world class research experience.
During the course of studies, you will have opportunities to participate in research projects with leading researchers.
Warwick is an Academic Partner of CIISec and the MSc in Cyber Security Management is affiliated to CIISec
2 :1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in IT, Computer Science, or a related subject.
This course also caters for non-STEM graduates with a specific interest in cyber security.
Read the module descriptions for this course on WMG’s website.
This course has two components – a taught component accounting for two-thirds of your time and effort and a research component accounting for one-third.
For the taught component, we blend synchronous and asynchronous learning, delivered through lectures, seminars, lab work, syndicate exercises, simulations, and case studies.
You will engage regularly with your Project Supervisor or Coach and to provide progress updates and drafts of your work to an agreed schedule.
As a CSM student, your project needs to demonstrate managerial, consultation, or leadership depth and insight.
As a Cyber Security Management student, your project should demonstrate managerial, consultation, or leadership depth and insight.
Core modules will be allocated to students at the end of the first week of term - you will then be able to view your individual module schedule for the rest of the year via the WMG module selection system.
Occasional classes and study skills sessions may be held at weekends or in the evenings.
This is a full-time postgraduate course - undergraduate term dates do not apply.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/pgdip-masc-data-visualisation:
P-L995 (MASc);
P-L996 (PGDip)
MASc (Masters in Arts and Science); PG Diploma
The MASc in Data Visualisation is an innovative, interdisciplinary course which enables students to acquire crucial knowledge and skills in visualisation as a methodology for data-intensive research, communication and engagement.
Students will be trained in concepts, methods and techniques from data science, digital humanities and design research, whilst developing a portfolio of work that prepares them for diverse career opportunities.
The programme aims to develop the methodological, conceptual and practical skills needed to design, deploy and interpret data visualisations successfully in academic, policy and public contexts.
The course combines academic training in methodological and conceptual aspects with the development of technical, creative and practical competences in data visualisation as a way of communicating knowledge, as a form of engagement, and as a way of seeing the world.
During the programme you will develop:
What is an MASc?
The MASc is a flexible degree where students customise their learning trajectory through interdisciplinary topics and modules that might usually be isolated to either MA or MSc qualifications.
Through optional module choices, project directions and final dissertation, you can tune your degree to fit your learning and career goals.
There is no requirement for prior knowledge of coding or programming.
Optional modules vary from year to year, and students choose combinations worth 30-50 CATs based on their core module credit values.
A one-week Data-Design Camp enables students to advance their projects through interactions with leading visualisation professionals.
A typical workshop for this course contains around 20-30 students and a typical seminar around 16-18 students.
There are typically around 8-10 hours contact hours per week, depending on type and number of optional modules chosen.
A combination of essays, reports, design projects, a portfolio, technical report writing, practice assessments, group work and presentations and an individual research project (5,000 word Final Project, MASc only).
Your personalised timetable will be complete when you have been registered for all modules, compulsory and optional, and you have been allocated to your lectures, seminars and other small group classes.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/phd-data-visualisation:
P-I200
Important information We are planning to make some changes to our Data Visualisation (PhD) for 2026 entry.
Science, industry and society need people with advanced data visualization capabilities.
Studying for a PhD in visualisation at the Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies (CIM) at Warwick is an opportunity to undertake world-leading doctoral research and join a cohort of future leaders in data visualization.
The Data Visualisation PhD programme provides you with the academic and professional opportunities to develop as an independent, creative and impactful researcher who can contribute to knowledge and research at the forefront of data visualisation and data science research.
You will pursue a programme of study consisting of several doctoral level components.
These components will ordinarily be in the form of research projects undertaken with either external organisations (commercial, not-for-profit or academic) or internal academic units.
You will document and develop your research in interactive digital notebooks in line with best practice in data visualization research and submit your notebook as a digital thesis for examination.
Within this PhD, you will join the cohort of EPSRC Diversity in Data Visualization Centre for Doctoral Training, DIVERSE CDT Link opens in a new window that is co-hosted at CIM at Warwick together with City, St Georges, University of London.
As well as the interdisciplinary academics at CIM, you will interact with the whole academic team of DIVERSE CDT across the two universities during your studies.
CIM is one of the very few places where the development of interdisciplinary methodology is the focus.
Data Visualisation is a key research area for several academics at CIM and you will benefit from tailored guidance from academics and professional staff with experience and expertise in the challenges of interdisciplinary data visualisation research and interdisciplinary methods overall.
The PhD Data Visualization requires the completion of a structured programme of research comprising a minimum of two component research projects, a review of visualization research and practice, and a synthesising narrative.
Your submitted digital thesis must demonstrate in-depth knowledge and study of the field; originality of thought, either in the creation of new knowledge or in the novel application of existing knowledge; and the suitability of the research for publication in peer-reviewed venues.
Supervision will be provided by top academic researchers with significant experience in undertaking research and contributing to methodology development across a range of disciplines, topics, methods.
You will be expected to attend subject-specific and generic training across the period of your PhD all four years of the PhD programme.
This will include training in data visualization design and production, responsible research, research ethics, equality, diversity and inclusion, intellectual property, and careers development.
You will develop the four core areas identified in the Vitae Researcher Development Framework: knowledge and intellectual abilities; personal effectiveness; research governance and organisation; and engagement, influence and impact.
As CIM is a research centre, PhD students are exposed and contribute to a vibrant research environment, which includes:
Students may also participate in research projects based in CIM, and gain teaching experience.
2:1 undergraduate degree in a related subject.
CIM is a well-established research centre, and the PhD programmes are at the core of its culture.
Research is focused on the following main research areas:
Full details of our research interests are listed on the CIM web pages Link opens in a new window .
There are variations in the application process if you are applying to this programme directly or through the application process for one of the EPSRC DIVERSE CDT scholarships.
If you are applying to this programme directly (i.e., not through DIVERSE CDT), please see the Supervisors and Proposals tab.
Detailed sets of supervision topics can be found in academic's profile pages Link opens in a new window .
Try to identify a potential supervisor, and make contact with them before submitting your application.
If you require assistance identifying which member of staff is best placed to supervise your proposed research, please feel free to contact our Director of Postgraduate Research Studies n dot calvillo at warwick dot ac dot uk .
The research proposal is the most important element of your PhD application.
You need to submit a fully specified research proposal when you apply.
This is your statement about why your project is interesting, how you will carry it out, and what academic debates and social problems your work addresses.
We look for a robust research proposal of around 2,000 words, although this is only a guideline.
It has to convince us that your topic is feasible and that we have the right expertise to supervise it.
The emphasis will be on the quality of the proposal and whether or not it fits with a particular supervisor’s research interests, not on the word count.
Find out more about our research proposal requirements on our website Link opens in a new window .
If you are an EPSRC DIVERSE CDT Applicant, follow the process outlined here:
Starting in 2025/26 to 2029/30, there will be scholarships provided through DIVERSE CDT.
If you are applying to this programme for one of the scholarships offered as part of DIVERSE CDT, you need to complete the application first through DIVERSE CDT Link opens in a new window .
If you are offered one of the DIVERSE CDT scholarships and asked to apply here, follow the application format here.
When asked for a proposal, you can upload the application responses that you uploaded for the DIVERSE CDT scholarship application.
You will be also sent additional details from DIVERSE CDT management team on the application process.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/pgdip-msc-diabetes-care-iheed:
B90Z - PGDip B90Q - MSc
PGDip/MSc
International Diabetes Federation's (IDF) influential Atlas of Diabetes predicts that the number of people living with diabetes in the world will have risen from its current figure of approximately 537 million to 783 million people by 2045.
New clinical knowledge and therapeutic treatments are constantly being developed and there is increasing demand from practicing clinicians wishing to further educate themselves and their teams in this rapidly moving field.
The University of Warwick is a globally renowned centre of excellence in diabetes education.
This wholly online programme, offered in partnership with the online medical organisation iheed, provides a route for Doctors, Nurses, Pharmacists, and Allied Healthcare professionals to enhance their current skills, knowledge and confidence in the care of patients living with Diabetes.
Designed specifically to cater for busy healthcare professionals, this programme will provide learners with the ability to critique the latest evidence underpinning diabetes care and empower them to transfer that knowledge into meaningful change in their professional practice.
This programme is designed to be relevant to both a UK and international audience and focusses on the factors influencing diabetes care across Europe, Middle East and Asia.
By the end of the Programme, participants will be able to:
See the iheed website Link opens in a new window for further details
To find out more about this programme, please visit our partner, iheed:
https://www.iheed.org/find-your-programme/warwick-masters-diabetes
The course curriculum is carefully crafted in collaboration with institutional partners and subject matter experts across Europe, Middle East and Asia, emphasising the most relevant and up-to-date knowledge and skills required by healthcare professionals.
The course offers online education that can be participants with a leading-edge understanding of all aspects of diabetes care from screening and diagnosis to patient empowerment and the management of complications.
Acknowledging the busy schedules of healthcare professionals, the course offers a state-of-the-art flexible online learning environment, allowing students to balance their studies with their personal and professional commitments.
This helps students to overcome barriers to learning and fosters a sense of belonging and engagement within their group.
The course recruits 3 cohorts per year, with approximately 50 students in each cohort.
Students are allocated to groups of approximately 25 based on their preference for tutorial times.
Each of the core diploma modules has a combination of both formative and summative assessment.
This includes reflective journals and weekly critical analysis of a topical issue or short clinical case and for the summative assessment, a structured assignment and an examination comprised of multiple-choice questions.
For the MSc and the research module, assessment will comprise a research protocol, oral presentation, poster presentation and a journal article.
Completing the MSc / Pg Dip Diabetes Care programme directly enhances professional pathways.
For doctors, it broadens their understanding and equips them with the latest diagnostic and therapeutic strategies, enhancing their clinical practice and elevating their prospects in hospital or clinical settings.
Many alumni have obtained GPwER status in the UK – A GpwER (General Practitioner with Extended Roles) is a GP GP who undertakes, in addition to their core general practice, a role that is beyond the scope of GP training and the MRCGP and requires further training.
Graduates in the Middle East / South Asia manage diabetes clinics and sit on national steering committees.
Nurses benefit immensely by advancing their skill set, transitioning from bedside care to more specialised roles or even leadership positions within diabetes care teams.
A postgraduate qualification (alongside clinical experience and other pillars of advance practice) is an essential requirement to obtain Clinical Nurse Specialist or Advanced Nurse Practitioner roles.
Allied Healthcare professionals, including dietitians and pharmacists, gain a comprehensive insight into holistic diabetes management, expanding their consultancy opportunities and fostering interdisciplinary collaboration.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/pgcert-pgdip-msc-diagnostics-data-digital-health-medical-diagnostics:
P-H1CB (MSc)
P-H1CE (PGDip)
P-H1CH (PG Cert)
Technological advances, increased expectations for medicine, longer life expectancy, along with legal, ethical and economic factors have led to a vast expansion in medical imaging and diagnostics.
There is an increasing need for digital healthcare solutions to meet the changing needs and expectations of patients.
Our MSc Diagnostics, Data and Digital Health (Medical Diagnostics) will train students in the theory and practical implementation of cutting-edge diagnostic approaches and expose them to established, as well as emerging, applications using data science, artificial intelligence and machine learning.
Choosing the Medical Diagnostics pathway allows students with an interest in those specific areas to further specialise by undertaking two additional subject-specific core modules.
This course is part of the University’s flagship ‘ Science for Sustainable Futures ’ portfolio – an interdisciplinary initiative designed to address global challenges through innovative education.
With core material delivered by leading experts from the School of Engineering , Warwick Medical School , and WMG , the course offers a truly cross-disciplinary experience.
By learning across traditional subject boundaries and honing both critical thinking and practical skills, students will gain the advanced knowledge and applied insight sought after by industry leaders and employers across sectors.
After graduation students will be well equipped for further study (PhD) in areas of critical scientific and technological importance, or for employment in a broad range of industries such as diagnostics and pharmaceutical industries, life science and clinical trials companies, health-tech SMEs, as well as research organisations.
The MSc can be studied part-time over two years to suit those in employment.
PG Diploma and Certificate options are also available for those who would like to take a subset of modules.
A minimum 2:1 undergraduate UK Honours degree or equivalent international qualification, in a physical sciences, life sciences, biological sciences, medical sciences, mathematics, computer sciences, engineering or another relevant subject.
You can see how your current degree score or GPA equates to the British system in our Study pages in the Equivalent scores table.
Core modules cover AI and machine learning for diagnostics, modern approaches to diagnostics, computational intelligence in biomedical engineering, and operation management and clinical system improvement.
Choosing the Medical Diagnostics pathway allows students with an interest in those specific areas to further specialise by undertaking two additional subject-specific core modules in translational biomedical research and diagnostics, and medical device: design, maintenance and assessment.
Optional modules allow the selection of complementary topics of particular interest to the student.
A collaborative group research project, which parallels the way that diagnostics and imaging experts work in industry, will allow students to integrate their knowledge and understanding in order to solve a problem.
Students will also complete an individual research project in their chosen area of specialism.
Optional Modules
Contact Hours
The research project is valued at 60 credits and students should plan to execute around 600 hours of work towards the completion of the project dissertation
Your timetable
Graduates of this programme typically pursue careers in industry or academia/research.
Examples of roles within industry include:
Graduates may also choose to undertake a PhD or going in a role as a research scientist or healthcare educator.
Potential employers span a diverse range of sectors and include medical device and healthcare technology companies, pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms, hospitals and healthcare providers, consulting and insurance companies, regulatory agencies, healthcare research organisations, and academic institutions.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/pgcert-pgdip-msc-diagnostics-data-digital-health-medical-imgaging:
P-H1CC (MSc)
P-H1CF (PGDip)
P-H1CJ (PG Cert)
Our MSc Diagnostics, Data and Digital Health (Medical Imaging) will train students in the theory and practical implementation of cutting-edge diagnostic and imaging technologies and expose them to established, as well as emerging, applications using data science, artificial intelligence and machine learning.
Choosing the Medical Imaging pathway allows students with an interest in those specific areas to further specialise by undertaking two additional subject-specific core modules.
Choosing the Medical Imaging pathway allows students with an interest in those specific areas to further specialise by undertaking two additional subject-specific core modules in biomedical imaging, and image analysis and reconstruction.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/pgcert-pgdip-msc-diagnostics-data-digital-health:
P-H1CA (MSc)
P-H1CD (PGDip)
P-H1CG (PG Cert)
Technological advances, increased expectations for medicine, longer life expectancy along with legal, ethical and economic factors have led to a vast expansion in medical imaging and diagnostics.
Our MSc Diagnostics, Data and Digital Health will train students in the theory and practical implementation of cutting-edge diagnostic and imaging technologies and expose them to established, as well as emerging, applications using data science, artificial intelligence and machine learning.
After graduation students will be well equipped for further study (PhD) in areas of critical scientific and technological importance, or for employment in a broad range of industries such as diagnostics and pharmaceutical industries, life science and clinical trials companies, health-tech SMEs, and research organisations.
Students are required to study one of the following two modules:
Students are able to choose one of the following optional modules:

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-digital-media-culture:
P-L99A
Digital media today affect all aspects of everyday, professional and public life, and understanding its importance requires interdisciplinary knowledge.
Based at Warwick's Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies (CIM), the MA Programme in Digital Media and Culture is an advanced one-year postgraduate degree that addresses the role of digital technologies, media, and infrastructures in relation to culture, economics, politics, society and the environment.
Drawing on multiple disciplines, the degree supports critical approaches to key topics in digital culture, including:
Our teaching combines theory, research methods, and creative practice.
By selecting from a diverse offering of modules, students will have the opportunity to learn data analytics and visualisation, to engage with speculative design and media art, and to discuss concepts in fields ranging from software studies to environmental humanities.
Based at a research centre promoting cutting-edge scholarship in these areas, our degree is primarily research-driven.
MA students will be encouraged to select their own path through the degree and contribute to the culture of CIM by attending invited talks, participating in workshops, and organising interdisciplinary symposiums.
Optional modules vary from year to year, and students choose a combination worth 60 CATs (credits).
The links below are to the 20-CAT (credit) versions, but many are available at 15 and 30 credits as well.
A typical workshop for this course contains 20-30 students and a seminar around 16 students.
There are around 8-10 hours contact hours per week, depending on type and number of optional modules chosen.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mphil-phd-discourse-studies:
P-Q11A
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in ELT/TESOL, English, Education, Linguistics, Languages or a relevant discipline, and a Master’s degree in ELT/TESOL, Applied Linguistics or a relevant discipline.
Full details of our research interests are listed on the Applied Linguistics web pages .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/dba-business-administration:
P-N1A0
October 2026
DBA
University of Warwick/The Shard, London
Important information We are planning to make some changes to our Doctor of Business Administration degree for 2026 entry.
The Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) is designed to provide business leaders, executives and professionals an opportunity to pursue the next step beyond their MBA or equivalent qualification.
It is equivalent in stature to a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree, but distinct in that you will pursue applied research rather than theoretical knowledge.
The goal of the DBA is to design organisational interventions which help address real-world challenges in your business, and then to rigorously evaluate, assess and test the effectiveness of those interventions, and to communicate the findings so that both the world of practice and the world of research can benefit from your work.
In this way, DBA candidates generate new knowledge – the ultimate criterion for the award of a Doctoral degree.
Our DBA is designed to produce scholar-practitioners who can enhance their organisation’s performance through evidence-based practice.
The programme addresses three core areas:
In pursuing these goals, the DBA brings together our inspirational faculty, a unique degree programme designed to impart critical skills at the highest level, and organisational leaders and entrepreneurs with the desire and ability to make change in their organisations.
Does that sound like you?
Your research training will include a series of in-person workshops delivered by leading WBS faculty at The Shard and at our University of Warwick campus.
Workshops integrate content, theory, design and research methods, through a review of relevant literature.
Workshops will be supplemented by readings, and online tools and resources such as short video lectures.
Year 1: four 3-day workshops and supervision, including a programme induction
Year 2: three 3-day workshops and supervision
Year 3: one 3-day workshop and supervision
Year 4: one 3-day workshop and supervision
In addition to workshops, there will be a 2-day DBA Conference each year.
This conference usually takes place in January/February each year, immediately following a planned workshop, so 3 days of teaching, plus a 2-day conference).
This event will allow you the opportunity to network across DBA cohorts and will provide executive-level perspectives on how to address complex business problems by becoming a scholar-practitioner.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) plus a good MBA or other Master’s degree.
A minimum of 7 years’ senior management experience.
Please note these are minimum entry requirements and, as there are a limited number of places available on the programme, we will select the candidates with the best academic and professional credentials and whose research interests are aligned with the available expertise in WBS.
Find out more about how to apply for the Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) .
Research for the Doctor of Business Administration is based on specific challenges facing individuals within their organisations, for which they will design and create an intervention, with the guidance of an experienced supervisor from the WBS faculty.
You will be assigned a supervisor with the relevant expertise to support you in shaping your research.
Typically, they will be a research active academic Link opens in a new window who will provide expert advice and guidance on content and research methods.
In addition you will have access to a board of practitioners, individually known as WBS Professors of Practice Link opens in a new window (experienced executives who are also scholar practitioners) who can provide support and guidance on process and development of the portfolio.
Browse our specialisms.
Tuition fees Visit our Warwick Business School web pages to learn more about funding your studies.
Course Fees Fee Status Guidance We carry out an initial fee status assessment based on the information you provide in your application.
Visit our Warwick Business School web pages to learn more about funding your studies.
Course Fees
Here is our checklist on how to apply for research postgraduate degrees at the University of Warwick.
Read about how to apply to our Doctor of Business Administration.
For research courses that start in September and October 2024 the application deadline for students who require a visa to study in the UK is 2 August 2025.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-drama-theatre-education:
P-X30C
This MA programme offers students an in-depth insight into the ways drama and theatre education can enhance teaching and learning in primary, secondary and tertiary education as well as in applied and community settings.
We introduce you to a range of hybrid pedagogic strategies that are underpinned by rigour and that aspire to make learning accessible, playful, creative and engaging.
We celebrate drama and theatre as subjects in their own right whilst also recognising the substantive body of evidence-based research into the ways drama and theatre can be used as pedagogical tools across the curriculum and for community purposes.
This MA is aimed at practitioners, or aspiring practitioners, working in schools and colleges, and community and educational theatre settings.
The course of study provides a planned and structured programme, which is sufficiently flexible to respond to the needs of a wide range of pedagogic and cultural contexts.
Practical activities are at the heart of our course structure, so there will be a number of opportunities to work with your peers, collaborating, debating, and researching practical solutions.
Your interdisciplinary skill set will be developed throughout the MA, enabling you to pursue a diverse array of career pathways.
The following module is optional:
This programme has a number of other optional modules to choose from.
In particular, this provides practical experience of a wide range of drama and theatre practices.
These workshops give you hands-on experience of drama as well as methods and ideas for using drama and theatre in your workplace .
You will have core teaching contact time in each term, plus rehearsal time and regular trips to local schools and theatres and guest lectures and performances throughout the year.
Assessment types vary depending on modules selected but may be a mixture of assignments and presentations.
You will also complete a dissertation based on an individual research project, with support from a research supervisor .
Many of our alumni from this course have gone on to*:

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-drama-education-english-language-teaching:
P-X3BA
Study and research how drama education motivates students, creates confidence in speaking and uses language in purposeful contexts at the Department of Education Studies.
You will learn across two departments, gaining subject knowledge both in drama education in Education Studies and in TESOL strategies and resources from Applied Linguistics.
You will work practically and collaboratively to make connections between drama education and language learning.
This exciting MA programme offers an in-depth insight into the ways drama and theatre education can enhance teaching and learning in education, specifically in the field of English Language Teaching and Learning.
We introduce you to a range of hybrid pedagogic strategies that are underpinned by rigour and that aspire to make language learning accessible, playful, creative and engaging.
You will engage with cutting-edge theory and practice-led research related to the ways drama and theatre can be used as pedagogical tools.
This MA is aimed at individuals interested in working as practitioners in schools colleges, community and educational theatre settings and will be of interest to those working in the areas of TESOL.
Optional modules (for 10 credits) are available to choose from the Department of Applied Linguistics.
Please refer to our module catalogue , selecting 'Applied Linguistics' and 'Postgraduate Taught Level' to see examples of optional modules that have run in previous years.
Please note, module content and availability may change until the start of summer term of the preceding year.
Modules for this course are delivered by two departments.
All modules are delivered in-person at our well-equipped university campus.
Drama-focused modules provide practical experience of a wide range of drama and theatre practices.
Other modules, from both Education Studies and Applied Linguistics are delivered in a range of formats to suit (these may include lectures, seminars, group work and practical workshops, for example).
Modules taken in the Department of Applied Linguistics develop your understanding of key approaches to Second Language Acquisition (SLA) and Teaching English as a Second Language (TESOL).
In addition to taught sessions, you will be given various pre- and post- session tasks and readings to support your learning.
Assessment types vary depending on modules selected but may include different types of assignments, of varying lengths, as well as oral or performance presentations.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-e-business-management:
P-H1S4
This degree will equip you with the techniques to manage the strategic development of e-business based organisations and appropriate e-business technologies.
You will develop the skills and knowledge to evaluate, manage, and improve the operational functions of an organisation and to apply the concepts of systems integration to the design and development of products and services through market analysis.
With the exponential growth in e-Business activity worldwide, there is great demand for e-Business professionals who bring particular specialised knowledge and skills.
This MSc therefore allows you to select from one of four specialist routes through the course, providing you with a deeper understanding of one of the key areas of e-Business deployments and tailoring your modules in line with your future career path.
The four e-Business specialisms are:
Data Science and Digital Operations
Digital and data technologies have rapidly become some of the most important assets of the modern organisation, bringing both challenges and opportunities.
These two areas have a symbiotic relationship: a business’ digital platforms generate volumes of valuable data, whilst the analysis of this data enables a business to further develop, personalise and optimise these platforms.
On this specialism, you will develop skills and knowledge in areas such as Big Data, Statistics, Analytics and Machine Learning, whilst at the same time building a working knowledge of the tools and techniques used to devise and maintain effective digital platforms.
Digital Technology Management and Consultancy
Technology Management is of strategic importance to companies and governments worldwide and is essential for national competitiveness and prosperity.
This specialism focuses on emerging and evolving technologies and the approaches, tools and techniques to manage these technologies in a global, collaborative environment.
You will gain expertise in managing the development, acquisition and operation of technology within a business environment.
You’ll understand digital technology and transformation; analyse existing industries, develop business models, and hone consultancy skills.
e-Commerce and Digital Analytics
Global e-commerce is booming and many companies are rethinking their e-commerce strategy, whether that is by entering the online retail environment for the first time, or by re-evaluating their current online setup.
E-Commerce enables businesses to expand their operations by reaching customers world-wide, and this specialism will provide a comprehensive understanding of how to implement effective e-Commerce solutions from both a technical and a business perspective.
It is suitable for candidates looking to create their own e-commerce business, move into a consultancy role, or manage the e-commerce activities of a well-established business.
Digital Marketing
Digital Marketing plays an important role in the success of businesses, both large and small.
Through digital marketing channels and techniques, businesses are able to reach customers in a cost-effective way, which is both scalable and measurable.
Digital marketing enables businesses to communicate with customers at every stage or their journey, to make informed decisions about messaging, to better understand customers’ needs, and to maintain strong customer relationships.
Through this specialism you will learn to effectively utilise digital marketing channels to deliver successful campaigns and will explore the use of cutting-edge technologies and techniques for analysing customer data and achieving digital transformation throughout the organisation.
You will find the modules for each specialism under the ‘modules’ tab.
2 :1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in a range of disciplines relevant to your chosen specialism.
These may include IT, communications, business, data science or technology related subjects.
The following topics are covered in each e-Business Management specialism:
Data Science and Digital Operations specialism
Digital Technology Management and Consultancy specialism
e-Commerce and Digital Analytics specialism
Digital Marketing specialism
Read the module descriptions for this course on WMG's website.
This course has two components – a taught component accounting for two-thirds of your time and effort, and a research component each accounting for one-third.
Many modules are taught in small classes to facilitate and encourage interaction.
Others practice large-scale lectures, which are then supported by small class seminar and group activities.
Overall, this course can accommodate over 300 students, divided into smaller teaching classes for the specialisms.
The Interdisciplinary Research Methods module also consists of 150 hours of learning and is purposefully designed to meet the complex learning and professional needs of postgraduate students.
The module runs asynchronously and synchronously with the student learning journey, providing a programme of carefully designed learning activities, materials, and resources.
These may include reports (both topic based and reflective), individual and group presentations, essays, critical evaluation or commentary pieces, case study exercises, simulation reports, business or consultancy reports, online tests, and video presentations.
For the research component, you will undertake a major research project.
Project submission is likely to include both a written and a presentation element, accounting for 33% of your overall academic grade.
As an e-Business Management graduate, your specialism choice should align with your career plans and graduates go into a wide variety of different roles and organisations, from huge multinationals through to progressive start-ups.
Graduates of the Data Science and Analytics, and e-Commerce and Digital Analytics specialisms will typically progress into careers with a focus on data analysis, data science, digital operations or data visualisation with a business management focus.
Graduates from the Digital Technology Management and Consultancy route will often be looking at roles within product management and digital transformation.
Graduates often move into IT and e-business consultancy roles, into e-commerce companies or enterprises with existing or developing online business initiatives.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/diploma-msc-economics:
P-L1PA
Diploma plus MSc
Train in the core components of modern economic analysis and appropriate quantitative methods within Warwick's Department of Economics, ranked 1st in the UK (The Good University Guide 202 5 ), 2nd in the UK for research excellence Link opens in a new window (based on the most recent Research Excellence Framework 2021, published in Times Higher Education rankings) and 36th in the World (The QS World University Subject Rankings 202 5 ).
Our Diploma is aimed at students without a background in economics, and will provide training in the core components of modern economic analysis and appropriate quantitative methods.
You will acquire the ability to analyse economic problems, both empirically and theoretically, developing knowledge of economic trends, institutions and policy.
The Diploma plus MSc programme is available for those who plan to convert from a first degree subject other than Economics to a Master’s in Economics.
Following a successful completion of the Diploma to a required standard you will then be eligible to progress onto our MSc programmes in Year Two.
You must have a strong background in Mathematics and Statistics.
This means you should have achieved a good standard in quantitative modules as part of your undergraduate degree, or have at least an A grade at A level Mathematics (or equivalent).
Core modules (Diploma)
Example optional modules for the Diploma year may include:
On successful completion of the Diploma, you will proceed to your chosen Master’s course:
You will have a combination of lectures, and small group support and feedback classes.
Throughout the course, you will have many opportunities to apply the principles of economics to practical study.
This means what you are learning is highly relevant to real-world issues.
We encourage one-to-one interaction with our academics and offer great flexibility in the optional modules that allow you to specialise or diversify your studies.
Diploma (Year One)
Some of the larger modules may have 200-600 students in them.
You will then typically have weekly or fortnightly support and feedback classes with around 15-20 students.
MSc (Year Two)
Core modules range from 50-200 students and classes have typically around 15-20 students.
For Diploma students, assessment is through formal examinations and coursework.
Feedback is a vital part of the assessment process, as it helps you to reach your full potential by identifying the strengths and weaknesses of your work and the actions needed to develop your understanding and enhance your performance.
Applications to our Economics Diploma plus MSc programmes typically open in October and may close in July.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-economics-data-science:
P-L1I1
Our MSc in Economics is particularly well-suited for students in Economics who wish to specialise or gain additional skills in Data Science and Machine Learning and how such skills may be applied within Economics, Public Policy, Industry and related sectors.
The course links economic theory and empirical economics with the fast-developing field of Data Science.
You will acquire knowledge and skills in statistical (machine) learning, and use these in your study of applications in macroeconomic and microeconomic theory, econometrics and big data.
An 8,000-word dissertation provides an opportunity to explore your own interests across these fields of study.
You will be automatically enrolled on a pre-sessional Mathematics and Statistics programme to equip you with the relevant methodological skills you need to succeed.
By the end of the course, you will be experienced in working with large amounts of data to generate new findings and insights relevant to problems in economics.
You will also be proficient in standard coding languages, like R and Python, to work on those problems.
This means you should have achieved a good standard in undergraduate courses in microeconomics and macroeconomics, with a First (or equivalent) in econometrics/economic statistics, at an intermediate level.
The following basic structure applies to MSc Economics and Data Science:
You will choose two optional modules to complete.
In the summer term and summer vacation your independent study time will increase as you complete your research dissertation.
Your dissertation work will normally be individually supervised on a one-to-one basis and we have an effective personal tutor system providing individual support.
We encourage one-to-one interaction with our world-leading academics and offer great flexibility in the optional modules that allow you to specialise or diversify your studies.
The MSc Economics is a quantitative degree and students will need to be competent in several areas of mathematics.
You are required to attend a pre-sessional course, Introductory Mathematics and Statistics, which will be taught in the two weeks before the University's main term begins.
Further information can be found on our Economics webpage Link opens in a new window .
For MSc students, assessment is through formal examinations, coursework and an individually supervised research dissertation.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-international-economics:
P-L1P7
Warwick's Department of Economics, ranked 1st in the UK (The Good University Guide 2025), 2nd in the UK for research excellence Link opens in a new window (based on the most recent Research Excellence Framework 2021, published in Times Higher Education rankings) and 36th in the world (The QS World University Subject Rankings 2025), offers you a programme examining theoretical and real-world applications of decision science and behavioural economics.
Our exciting MSc in Economics and International Financial Economics is designed to link economic theory and empirical economics with the practice of international finance.
The course will provide you with a thorough grounding in advanced core areas of microeconomic and macroeconomic theory, econometrics and research methods, plus the opportunity to specialise in international financial economics, engaging in contemporary theoretical and empirical debates.
By the end of the course, you will be able to read and understand research papers and articles in academic journals, build theoretical models, and initiate empirical research and evaluate its findings.
This means you should have achieved a good standard in undergraduate courses in microeconomics, macroeconomics and econometrics/economic statistics at an intermediate level.
The MSc Economics and International Financial Economics is a quantitative degree and students will need to be competent in several areas of mathematics.
You are required to attend pre-sessional course, Introductory Mathematics and Statistics, which will be taught in the two weeks before the University’s main term begins.
The course is designed to ensure that your maths and statistical knowledge and skills are at the standard required for you to succeed on the rest of the MSc course and it consists of both lectures and small group learning.
Further information can be found at the following Economics webpage Link opens in a new window .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mres-phd-economics:
P-L1PL
14 September 2026
Our comprehensive 2+4 MRes/PhD research programme offers a unique training opportunity in advanced economics.
We aim to provide you with professional training in modern economics, including tools and techniques of analysis at the forefront of the discipline, and opportunities to apply this in extended research.
We offer a two-week Mathematics and Statistics pre-sessional programme, which starts two weeks before the official start of term.
The pre-sessional course will provide a thorough grounding in the mathematical techniques required throughout the programme and attendance is highly recommended, although not compulsory.
Warwick Economics was ranked 2nd in the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 and 99% of our research was deemed to be world leading or internationally excellent.
We have five separate seminar series running on a weekly basis (term time), with invited eminent speakers from around the world.
MRes and PhD students are welcome and encouraged to attend.
You will focus on developing a range of important skills, including:
First Class undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in a related subject and/or Distinction at Master’s level.
A GRE General Test quantitative section score would be useful but not essential.
Scores of around 800/166 are typical for previously successful applicants.
99% of the Department's research was rated world-leading (4*) or internationally excellent (3*) in the 2021 Research Excellence Framework (REF), placing the Department second in the UK.
Areas for PhD supervision
We have active research groups in:
You will be taught by leading academics in the major fields of Economics using a combination of lectures and classes.
You will also be heavily involved in developing your own research under the supervision of one of our leading academics in the form of your MRes dissertation.
Lectures and classes typically have 15-25 students in year one.
In year two class sizes vary between 3 and 15 students.
In year one you will have 9 hours of lectures per week and 4-5 hours of seminars.
In year two, teaching is mainly on a seminar basis (6 hours per week).
You are recommended to attend the pre-sessional course in Advanced Mathematics which will be taught in the two weeks before the University’s main term begins.
The course is designed to ensure that your maths knowledge and skills are at the standard required for you to succeed on the MRes/PhD course.
Assessment is a mixture of class tests, exams, presentations, and referee reports and the MRes dissertation (maximum of 20,000 words).
If you pass the MRes at a sufficiently high level of performance, you will then proceed to the PhD programme.
You will have a maximum of four years to complete the PhD, but are expected to be ready to go on the job market at the beginning of your fourth year and to be ready to submit your thesis in the following spring.
We aim to provide you with professional training in modern economics, including tools and techniques of analysis as well as knowledge, and an opportunity to apply this in extended research.
Our objective is to produce doctoral students who are able to pursue driven careers at the highest level in academia, government agencies or consultancies.
Please do not write to members of faculty regarding supervision or entry to the PhD, as we do not recruit PhD students in this way.
All of our PhD students must either complete the MRes Economics at Warwick or demonstrate they have completed a two-year MRes at another institution (with a syllabus closely matching that taught at Warwick) and achieved excellent results.
A research proposal is not necessary at the stage of application; all successful applicants enrol in the MRes degree first, but you can upload a statement of purpose if you wish.
You will also be asked to include the following in your application:
Find out more about how universities assess fee status Additional course costs As well as tuition fees and living expenses, some courses may require you to cover the cost of field trips, research trips in the UK and overseas, or costs associated with travel abroad.
For departmental specific costs, please see the Modules tab on the course web page for the list of core and optional core modules with hyperlinks to our Module Catalogue Associated costs can be found on the Study tab for each module listed in the Module Catalogue (please note most of the module content applies to 2025/26 year of study).
In addition, you should consider the more general costs below: Core text books and access to research material that is not available via university resources Printer credits Printing and binding a personal copy of your dissertation Robe hire for your degree ceremony
As well as tuition fees and living expenses, some courses may require you to cover the cost of field trips, research trips in the UK and overseas, or costs associated with travel abroad.
For departmental specific costs, please see the Modules tab on the course web page for the list of core and optional core modules with hyperlinks to our Module Catalogue
The majority of students offered a place on the programme will also be offered a Departmental Scholarship consisting of a fee waiver and a maintenance award.
You are not required to apply for a scholarship at the time of application for the MRes/PhD programme.
All students offered a place on the programme will also be offered a Departmental Scholarship consisting of a fee waiver and a maintenance award.
Most of our Economics PhD job market candidates are successful in finding academic placements at prestigious universities across the world.
The most recent cohort of students secured academic positions as Lecturers, Assistant Professors or Post-doctoral Fellows at the following Higher Education Institutions: Bocconi University in Milan, the European University Institute in Florence, University College Dublin, University of Bristol, Ashoka University in India, Stockholm University, Tilburg University and the University of Tübingen.
Some of our PhD graduates choose jobs in non-academic fields which require advanced research skills, for example, central banks, regulators, think tanks or international organisations, including:
Please do not write to members of faculty regarding supervision or entry to the PhD.
We do not recruit PhD students in this way.
If you are interested in direct entry to the PhD, please apply for the MRes/PhD in the first instance.
If you are selected for an interview, you should at this stage make clear to the admissions committee that you are seeking direct entry to the PhD.
Applications for 2025 entry will open on 1 November 202 5 and will close on 15 January 202 6 .
How to apply for a postgraduate research course

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-economics:
P-L1P6
Warwick's Department of Economics, ranked 1st  in the UK in the Good University Guide 2025, 5th in the Complete University Guide 2026 and 36th in the QS World University Subject Rankings 2025, offers you a programme examining theoretical and real-world applications of decision science and behavioural economics.
Our MSc will appeal to you if you have a strong background in the subject and wish to gain advanced and rigorous training in modern economics, as preparation for a career as a professional economist or analyst.
You will receive advanced teaching in the core areas of macroeconomic and microeconomic theory, econometrics and research methods, and you will also be able to choose from a wide portfolio of optional modules.
This means you should have achieved a good standard in undergraduate courses in microeconomics, macroeconomics and econometrics/ economics statistics at an intermediate level.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mphil-phd-education-psychology:
P-X3C8
The PhD is designed as a programme combining advanced research methods training and individual, supervised research, leading to an 80,000 word thesis.
The thesis is expected to be a substantial original contribution to knowledge and, in principle, to have the potential to be developed into peer-reviewed publication.
The PhD programme has an Advanced Research Methods training element that is compulsory, and all students complete an Upgrade examination (a written portfolio and oral examination) in order to progress from MPhil to PhD.
The research methods training takes place via online mode on Saturday mornings spread out over the first year.
Students work with their supervisors on their independent projects throughout the course.
We have research work rooms within the department that students can access.
Specific departmental guidance is available on preparing applications to the Department of Education Studies and on Preparing a Research Proposal .
A Master’s degree in Education and Psychology, or another relevant discipline if justified.
We are interested in hearing from people who are thinking of pursuing a PhD in areas of our expertise:
Learning
Cultures
Society
Full details of our research interests are listed on the Education Studies webpages .
It is advisable to locate a potential supervisor using the link below and to discuss with them the area you'd like to research.
We have over 20 full-time academic staff members with many research strengths who could be your supervisors.
Explore our Staff Research Directory where you will be able to filter by research interests.
Co-supervision with other departments may be possible.
For admission to the Department of Education Studies research degree programme, the proposal should be approximately 2,000 words (excluding the references list), and no longer than this.
Note that there may well be changes and developments to the proposal if you gain entry to the department and begin your study.
You will not be held rigidly to the proposal – however, we want to see that you are able to conceive of a doctoral research project as part of the application review process.
For more details on what we look for in a research proposal please see our webpages .
Education, like Politics, is inherently interdisciplinary – it is an applied field of study which draws on a range of disciplines including: sociology, psychology, history and philosophy.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-education:
P -X35Q; P -X35R (2 years); P -X35S (3 years)
We encourage you to link theoretical and practical understanding of issues in education, while developing knowledge, skills and understanding of the questions involved in conceptualising and designing educational research.
You will engage with and critically analyse the role of education, considering the aims and values which inform education systems and how these influence and shape both societies and individuals.
You will receive a grounding in research methods and a core module which explores current debates and issues in education, both domestically and internationally.
This course will help you to better understand the theories, practicalities and significance of educational issues, whilst also enabling you to develop an appreciation for the role that research plays in illuminating these.
By the end of the course, you will be excellently positioned to take the knowledge you have learned and the academically critical skills you will have developed into many aspects of your working life.
This programme has a number of optional modules to choose from to allow you to achieve the required credits to successfully complete the programme.
Our optional module lists are subject to change each year to keep the student learning experience current and up-to-date.
You will attend one or two 3-hour lectures and/or seminars each week during the Autumn and Spring Terms plus research methods training lectures and seminars throughout all three terms.
Assessment types vary depending on modules selected but include mixture of assignments and oral presentations.
Graduates of this course will be well equipped to work in a range of diverse careers, such as educational leadership.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mphil-phd-education:
P-X3X7
We have research student work rooms within the department with desktop computers available.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in Education, any relevant Social Sciences or Humanities discipline, or another relevant discipline if justified.
A Master’s degree in Education, any relevant Social Sciences or Humanities discipline, or another relevant discipline if justified.
Full details of our research interests are listed on the Education Studies webpages Link opens in a new window .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-educational-innovation:
P-X31L
This course arms you, as an educational professional, with the knowledge and skills to identify problems of practice in educational settings and within the education system as a whole.
To do this you will evaluate research and development within education, understanding the validity and applicability of these ideas by investigating them from a variety of perspectives.
The flexible nature of this MA means you can choose optional modules which suit your current and future needs, expanding your understanding of the scope and nature of Education as a discipline.
You will have the opportunity to engage with ideas, debates and research, developing your academic and research skills.
You will develop your knowledge and understanding of research in education through reflective and innovative means, and apply this to your own practice.
You will have the opportunity to debate with your peers on a host of important innovation in education issues, and develop a sceptical and inquisitive stance in relation to educational developments and ideas.
This programme has a number of optional modules to choose from.
All of our modules are delivered in-person at our well-equipped university campus.
Part - time students are able to complete a percentage of their modules as asynchronous distance-learning modules.
Please note that most modules are taught during the normal working day and there is no out of hours provision.
If you completed a PGCE (or other relevant qualification) within the past 5 years, you may be eligible to use a number of these credits towards this course.
We also offer a range of specialisms based on your previous study such as Childhood, Drama, Leadership and Primary Education.
Graduates of this course have gone on to be involved in such diverse careers as social work, NGO and charity work as well as teaching and educational leadership*.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-educational-leadership:
P-X31M
This course is designed to develop your knowledge and skills in leadership and management in an educational setting.
This programme offers you a unique opportunity to customise your learning to match your professional background, needs and aspirations.
Assessments are individually tailored making each topic highly relevant to your particular context and professional needs.
To maximise your learning potential, you will receive individualised attention and the flexibility to select from a wide range of modules.
The programme is research driven but with a strong focus on professional practice, making it suitable for establishing an academic career or pursuing middle and senior leadership roles in education organisations.
At the end of the course, we anticipate that you will have developed reflective and critical capabilities, providing you with a sound basis for your next career move, alongside the necessary knowledge and skills to respond to a variety of educational leadership challenges within your organisation.
For full-time students, all of our modules are delivered in person at our well-equipped university campus.
Please note that if you wish to study on a part-time basis you should be aware that most modules are taught during the normal working day and there is no out-of-hours provision.
In addition, you will be given various pre- and post-session tasks and readings to support your learning.
Assessment types vary depending on modules selected but may be a mixture of assignments and oral presentations.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-electrical-electronic-engineering:
P-H644
Electrical and electronic engineering is the study and application of electronics, telecommunications and electrical power.
Our MSc course offers students the chance to deepen both their theoretical understanding and practical expertise across key areas used in industries such as renewable energy, automotive, telecommunications and construction.
Core modules provide advanced knowledge in power electronics and devices, while a strong emphasis on project work ensures hands-on experience.
A dedicated module in research methods and professional skills equips students with a broad research skills set.
Throughout the course, students develop and apply their skills through individual and group projects, report writing and technical presentations, strengthening the project management and numerical skills sought by employers.
A wide selection of optional modules allows student to tailor their learning to match their personal interests and career goals.
Graduates of this course are well-prepared for roles across the electronics, telecommunications, automotive and electrical sectors.
A minimum 2:1 undergraduate UK Honours degree or equivalent international qualification, in electronic, electrical or telecommunications engineering, or in an engineering science programme (with electronic, electrical, telecommunications or systems pathway).
You can find out more about our English language requirements .
Optional Core Modules
Students are required to study one of the following two modules
Previously, a selection of the following options have been offered:
The degree comprises of nine modules one of which is the individual research project.
The typical workload for a 15-credit module is 150 hours which includes lectures/seminars, laboratory work, private/directed study, assessed work.
As the project is valued at 60 credits, students should plan to execute around 600 hours of work towards the completion of the project dissertation
Graduates will be well-placed to work in the electrical and electronic industry.
They may also decide to pursue doctoral studies.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-electrical-power-engineering:
P-H643
Qualified electrical engineers are desperately needed by the power industry.
There is also a severe shortage of power engineering expertise in other sectors, such as government bodies and finance organisations, where a detailed knowledge of energy supply and demand is increasingly important as societies develop and adapt to pressing environmental and economic constraints, dwindling reserves of fossil fuels and the emergence of new energy technologies.
As the mitigation of global warming becomes ever more important, the electrification of transportation and heat as well as the accelerated penetration of renewable energy into the power grid have become main objectives in Electrical Power Engineering.
The technologies studied in this MSc are the underpinning innovation forces in various industries including the electric transportation industry, aviation industry and power generation and transmission industries including renewable energy.
Previous project titles include: Wide Band Gap Semiconductor Materials: Revolution in Power Electronics; Gate Oxide Reliability of SiC Power MOSFET; Design and Test of an Isolated Gate Driver Bias Power Supply; Machine Learning for Smart Grid Operations and Security; Dual Active Bridge Converter with Wide Input and Output Voltage Ranges; Robust Control of Interior Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motors; Solid State Transformer (SST) Based MW-Level EV Fast Charging Station for the Heavy-Duty Vehicles .
Our research within the School of Engineering covers a wide range of expertise in power electronics, electric drives, control and energy storage.
Our MSc Electrical Power Engineering will give you the knowledge and skills required for a career in electrical power engineering and is an opportunity to update your knowledge with the latest developments in renewable energy and smart grids.
If you do not have the required previous learning, you are also required to take the following modules:
The research project entails an in-depth experimental, theoretical or computational investigation into a topic chosen by the student in conjunction with an academic supervisor.
Previous project titles include: Wide Band Gap Semiconductor Materials: Revolution in Power Electronics; Gate Oxide Reliability of SiC Power MOSFET; Design and Test of an Isolated Gate Driver Bias Power Supply; Machine Learning for Smart Grid Operations and Security; Dual Active Bridge Converter with Wide Input and Output Voltage Ranges; Robust Control of Interior Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motors; Solid State Transformer (SST) Based MW-Level EV Fast Charging Station for the Heavy-Duty Vehicles.
Graduates from this course typically work for:

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses-2025/pga-employability-career-education:
L504
April 2026
The Employability and Career Education: Strategy and Inclusive Design Postgraduate Award equips you to confidently and creatively shape career and employability-related education in HE.
It focuses on strategically optimising opportunities to develop employability and builds capacity for creative and inclusive design through exploring a range of educational and learning approaches, including assessment and evaluation.
It is an ideal course for those staff in HE who are working to improve student employability, whether they are involved in design, delivery or strategy.
Ideal for those working in an academic, student employability and experience, or career-related role.
There is one intake each year in April for this part-time course (see Modules and Key Dates ).
This course is designed for applicants from employability- and/or career-related roles in HE, be it focused on design, delivery or strategy.
You may be working in an academic, student employability and experience, or careers role.
Blended learning: online interactive workshops delivered by AGCAS Trainers, supported by Warwick online study materials.
Vary between 10-30 students.
The module consists of an intensive workshop combined with independent learning using on-line study materials, links to key readings, online webinars, and tutorial support.
Those completing this course occupy a range of relevant employability and career development roles within Higher Education and may rise to senior roles focused on student experience and employability.
Those going on to complete CEIGHE qualifications at Diploma or MA level often rise to more senior roles within Career and Employability or other student services or teaching and learning-related HE teams.
For departmental specific costs, please see the Modules tab on this web page for the list of core and optional core modules with hyperlinks to our Module Catalogue Link opens in a new window (please visit the Department’s website if the Module Catalogue hyperlinks are not provided).
This part-time course has one April intake each year.
Application for April 2026 entry is now open.
Ask any questions you have about studying this course, and get personalised guidance to see if this is the right option for you:

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/phd-employment-research:
P-N6P3
As a n interdisciplinary research-only department within the University of Warwick, the Institute for Employment Research (IER) provides wide-ranging opportunities for prospective doctoral candidates to engage in high quality social science doctoral-level research, which is policy-relevant and academically rigorous.
IER’s doctoral programme aims to train independent social science researchers who can develop and deploy theory effectively, assess the relative merits of different methodological approaches, choose and use appropriate empirical methods, manage their time and other research resources effectively.
Being located in a specialist research environment the PhD will provide a wider understanding of the research process (including dissemination, funding, relationships with sponsors, and different organisational models for research).
Our extensive research portfolio has meant that we have fostered and maintained links with national and international research centres; UK government departments and agencies; European Commission and other international bodies; local authorities and sectoral organisations, as well as extensive academic networks.
Supervision for IER doctoral students will be provided by academic researchers with significant experience of undertaking employment research.
We supervise students from a variety of different countries and backgrounds and welcome this diversity among our student body.
Former students have gone on to work in a variety of areas in different contexts, including academia, government, the private sector or third sector organisations.
We also offer a joint PhD in Employment Research with our partner institution Monash University in Melbourne, Australia.
Supervision for IER doctoral students will be provided by academic researchers with significant experience employment research.
During their first year of PhD study, students will normally be expected to undertake training in both quantitative and qualitative research methods.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in a relevant subject and a good Master’s degree (or equivalent) in the social sciences.
Previous studies and/or work experience should have included training in social science methodology.
An application should be supported by a good research proposal.
The Institute for Employment Research ( IER ) is an interdisciplinary institute.
It brings together a breadth of expertise from a variety of disciplines , including economics ; statistics; geography; social and public policy; sociology; education ; organisational behaviour; and industrial relations.
Methodologically, researchers at IER employ a range of quantitative and qualitative methods, including but not limited to surveys; big data; large data sets; focus groups; and interviews.
Current strengths in IER are :
More information about IER’s research areas are listed on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/ier/aboutier/ .
For information about individual research expertise and interests please visit https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/ier/study_with_us/phd/supervisors .
IER ’ doctoral students are supervised by academic researchers with significant experience of undertaking research and expertise in the topic area .
Visit Potential IER PhD Supervisors to find out more about potential supervisors and explore the subjects and techniques they would be interested in supervising .
You can read our general University research proposal guidance .
We accept applications that fall within IER’s areas of research.
Y ou should send your application including your CV (indicating your research training and/or experience), transcripts, cover letter and an outline research proposal to ierphd@warwick.ac.uk , mentioning any potential IER supervisors that you have identified.
More information on the application process can be found here: https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/ier/study_with_us/phd/interest/ .
Please note that your proposal should follow the https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/ier/study_with_us/phd/interest/research_proposal_guidelines.pdf .
Established in 1981, the Warwick Institute for Employment Research (IER) is a leading international social science research centre.
Its research is interdisciplinary and made relevant to policy makers and practitioners.
It is renowned for consistently delivering high quality research.
Research questions are tackled in projects funded by a range of public and private sector organisations .
IER researchers have diverse disciplinary backgrounds and work both within and across disciplines.
Publishing theoretical, methodological and empirical academic outputs is a core activity, but IER also places great emphasis on maximising its impact among potential users of research.
IER uses multi-method, inter disciplinary approaches to generate and tackle substantive questions.
Our strategy has been to broaden the methodological basis of IER work in order to deal more effectively with research problems that cross the boundaries of conventional academic disciplines and the methods of analysis associated with them.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-engineering-by-research:
P-H1PN
11 January 2027
1 April 2027
The MSc by Research (MScR) in Engineering at the University of Warwick offers students the opportunity to undertake a substantial piece of independent research within one of the UK’s leading unified engineering schools.
Based in Warwick’s School of Engineering, this one-year research degree allows students to immerse themselves in a vibrant and supportive postgraduate research community.
With over 150 postgraduate research students and more than 40 postdoctoral researchers, our School fosters an active environment for innovation and discovery.
As a general engineering department, we are uniquely positioned to support multi-disciplinary research across a broad range of topics.
Our researchers collaborate with academic colleagues across the University and with a wide network of external partners—including SMEs, large corporations, NHS Trusts, charitable organisations, and other universities—to address real-world engineering challenges.
The MScR culminates in the submission of a 40,000-word thesis, clearly and concisely written to show evidence of originality in knowledge and in interpretation, and shall be judged on its scholarly presentation.
The research will be supported under the guidance of an academic supervisor.
Students are required to submit a project plan, Gantt chart and a literature review early in their registration.
Regular meetings with their supervisor/s are recorded by the student on a monthly basis to show the delivery and progression of their research.
A progress review panel is established for each student to monitor progress and give advice; the first review is usually within the first two months of registration, a formal review after approx.
9 months.
This degree provides an excellent foundation for further research study (such as a PhD) or for careers in industry where research and analytical skills are valued.
2:1 undergraduate degree in a related subject or Master’s degree at Merit level (or equivalent).
Overarching research themes
Our organisational structure connects our research with our study programmes to ensure quality research-led teaching.
We have four disciplines shaping our framework, they are:
Discipline streams
Civil and Environmental
Our Civil and Environmental researchers work on a broad range of global research challenges underpinning civil engineering.
Combining modelling with practical experimentation, they tackle issues such as:
Key specialisms within the Civil and Environmental Engineering stream include Water and Environmental Engineering, Structural Engineering, and Geotechnical Engineering.
Electrical and Electronic
The Electrical and Electronic Engineering research group covers a range of Power, sustainability, and improved communications at the heart of our Electrical and Electronic stream.
Key areas of research include:
Key specialisms include Communications, Electrical Power and Sensors and Devices.
Mechanical, Materials and Process
Our Mechanical, Materials and Process Engineering discipline is our largest and most diverse stream.
The stream has research groups in the fields of:
Current research interests include: efficient production of green chemicals and low carbon fuels; investigating flow dynamics from the nanoscale to global environmental systems; atomic scale modelling of materials to improve their functional properties; experimental materials science for applications including silicon photovoltaic solar cells, terahertz imaging, optoelectronic devices based on 2D materials, sensing, and photoelectrochemical water splitting; developing methods of precision measurement for automotive, aerospace, bioengineering, healthcare applications; developing new technology for sustainable energy systems such as solar collectors, heat pumps and thermal storage.
Systems and Information
The Systems and Information research group bring together expertise in:
Much of the research undertaken is around health and security and the nature of the work means that many labs are cross-group.
Key specialisms include Biomedical and Biological Systems, Data Analytics and Systems Modelling and Control.
Explore our research areas on our Engineering web pages.
Explore our Engineering Academic Staff Directory Link opens in a new window where you will be able to filter by your disciplinary interest.
An important part of your PhD application is the research proposal.
We want to know what your research interests are so that we may direct your application to potential supervisors.
The proposal does not need to be long, but the quality should be high and no more than 2-3 pages should be sufficient.
Ideally, your proposal should address the points below - however, as long as we get a clear idea of your research interests then we can consider your application.
Ensure that your research interests match those in the School of Engineering Link opens in a new window , or contact us for clarification of research areas.
Avoid:

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mphil-phd-engineering:
P-H1Q2
PhD/MPhil
The MPhil/PhD in Engineering at the University of Warwick offers students the opportunity to undertake a substantial piece of independent research within one of the UK’s leading unified engineering schools.
Based in Warwick’s School of Engineering, the MPhil/PhD course allows students to immerse themselves in a vibrant and supportive postgraduate research community.
Students register in the first instance for the degree of MPhil unless otherwise approved by the Board of Graduate Studies.
Subject to satisfactory progress, registration may be upgraded to the degree of PhD.
If you prefer to complete the MPhil, this is a two-year registration.
Master of Philosophy (MPhil)
To satisfy the requirements of the degree of MPhil a thesis shall constitute an original contribution to knowledge.
The thesis shall be clearly and concisely written and well-argued and shall show a satisfactory knowledge of both primary and secondary sources.
In addition, it shall contain a full bibliography and, where appropriate, a description of methods and techniques used in the research.
The maximum length of the thesis is 60,000 words.
A student must attend an oral examination, which shall cover the thesis itself and the field of study in which the thesis has been written.
The examiners may also require the student to take a written and/or practical examination.
The student must complete satisfactorily the oral examination and written and/or practical examination, in order to satisfy the requirements for the degree.
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
To satisfy the requirements of the degree of PhD, a thesis must constitute a substantial original contribution to knowledge and is, in principle, worthy of peer-reviewed publication.
It shall contain a full bibliography and, where appropriate, a description of methods and techniques used in the research.
The maximum length of the thesis is 70,000 words.
A student must attend an oral examination (viva voce), which shall cover the thesis itself and the field of study in which the thesis has been written.
2:1 undergraduate degree in a related subject or Master’s degree at merit level (or equivalent).
Please note our Modelling of Heterogenous Systems PhD offers a range of research projects.
A research proposal is not required.
Instead, you should nominate one to three projects that you are interested in, in order of preference.
Learn more about our groups and projects.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mphil-phd-engineering-wmg:
P-H7A2
The PhD at WMG, University of Warwick is concentrated on a contribution to knowledge.
It requires you to discover, interpret and communicate new knowledge through original research, and to present and defend research outcomes which extend across the forefront of your chosen discipline.
You will combine doctoral-level research with real industrial relevance in a department globally renowned for academic excellence, business focus, industry collaboration and impact in the competitive marketplace.
2:1 undergraduate degree and/or a Master’s degree (or equivalent) in Engineering, Computer Science, Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics or a relevant subject.
Please see individual project adverts for any further requirements.
Research is at the heart of WMG.
With many innovative research areas we offer a range of research degree topics so you can pursue your interests and passions.
Our projects have strong links with leaders in global industry, meaning your research will be directly applicable to solve the challenges facing organisations today.
WMGs research areas:
Full details of our research interests are listed on the WMG web pages Link opens in a new window .
Find out more about our research areas Link opens in a new window and take a look at our current vacancies Link opens in a new window to see the opportunities we currently have and their supervisors.
We also welcome informal enquiries, giving you the opportunity to discuss projects with supervisors to help you decide if it’s right for you.
Use the following links to find out more about our research groups and academics to contact if you are interested in a particular research area or complete our enquiry form Link opens in a new window .
Please seek advice from a potential supervisor or WMG's Research Degrees Director, Professor Kurt Debattista ( wmgresearchdegrees at warwick dot ac dot uk ).
Research course fees Fee Status Guidance We carry out an initial fee status assessment based on the information you provide in your application.
In addition, you should consider the more general costs below: Access to research material that is not available via university resources Printing and binding a personal copy of your dissertation* Robe hire for your degree ceremony * - Dissertations and Assignments are only submitted digitally.
Students on some courses will have a final poster presentation as part of their project and the printing of posters will be at the students’ expense.
Research course fees
If you are able to self-fund your studies, then we can consider self-proposed research projects if they align with WMG research areas.
WMG funding opportunities
WMG award over £1million in scholarships and bursaries to students commencing study on our full-time MSc programmes.
Find out more about our MSc Scholarships .
Additional funding information
We have a number of research projects available which are fully or partially funded.
The majority of these are for UK/EU applicants, though occasionally we advertise positions that are also open to overseas applicants.
Please refer to specific project descriptions for details.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-engineering-business-leadership:
P-H1TK (MSc); P-H13D (PGDip)
September 2026
MSc or PGDip
The ability to operate in a complex and global environment is crucial for any Engineering Leader today.
You need to be agile and innovative, influence others across the business, be a strategic thinker whilst also inspiring and leading your team.
This course will equip you with appropriate knowledge and skills to help you understand how businesses operate and become a more effective leader.
It will encourage you to look at how to evaluate challenging business problems and optimise efficiency and competitiveness.
We liaised with industry leaders across the UK to develop an engaging curriculum aligned to what modern businesses need today.
By understanding the latest applied knowledge, tools, and techniques you will be able to lead your team to identify and deliver effective business solutions on time and on budget.
We cover a wide range of subjects on the course, including strategy, finance, people, technology, operations, and supply chain management.
Our aim is to give you a broad understanding of any technology or engineering-led business, whilst focusing on how you can maximise value.
You will learn important problem solving and decision-making skills to make effective and sustainable improvements to your business.
The applied nature of this Master’s course means you can take knowledge learnt on the programme and immediately apply it to your role via work-based assignments, instilling the theory into practice.
Your business will benefit from your increased knowledge and confidence as you will feel empowered to make improvements and lead the change in your organisation.
You will gain an academic qualification from a top 10 UK university and develop yourself professionally.
If you’re not yet ready to commit to a period of long-term study, you can also build up to your MSc in stages by stopping after two years with a Postgraduate Diploma (PGDip).
This course is designed for employees working in an engineering or technology-based organisation – from the first line managers to middle and senior managers.
It is particularly suited to employees with a technical or engineering background or who have relevant work experience, and who are looking to progress their careers in a leadership role.
It is also suitable for people who have been in their role for some time and want formal recognition for the skills and knowledge they have.
Interested in learning more about this part-time programme?
Sign up for updates and get in touch with us .
Are you interested in full-time study?
Check out our MSc in Engineering Business Management .
The course is designed for those in employment as you will need to apply your studies directly to the work environment throughout the programme.
We recommend you have at least three years of appropriate professional experience and that you possess the equivalent of a UK second-class honours degree.
The course is also open to talented people without a first degree, who have relevant work experience, have taken a less-traditional route in their career and who will have shown great potential in the business.
Please contact us to discuss.
All candidates will be required to submit a CV before making an application.
We offer a range of modules designed to enable you to focus on what is appropriate to your company, your career and aspirations.
This is achieved through a mix of core and optional modules.
You can choose any three modules from the following:
Module availability and staffing may change year on year depending on availability and other operational factors.
We make no guarantee that any modules will be offered in a particular year, or that they will necessarily be taught by the staff listed on the module pages.
You’ll study for three years on a part-time basis for the MSc.
There are five core modules, three elective modules and a company based project dissertation.
In addition to the eight assessed modules, there will be a study skills (non-assessed) event delivered at the start of the course to set the context, introduce key study skills and enable you to meet your fellow cohort and start to build your network.
We also run an online study skills event before you embark on your project dissertation.
Modules normally comprise lectures, seminars, and undertaking group tasks based on real scenarios.
We will use a range of traditional and innovative teaching methods, predominantly focused on blended learning practices.
For some modules you will have the option to attend fully online.
Our blended learning is a combination of face-to-face and online delivery and is aimed at offering a combination of flexibility and networking opportunities for work-based learners.
We will be able to give you the schedule in advance so you can plan your time out of the office.
The class size for this programme is typically around 20 students.
Modules are usually delivered in a week-long block format from Monday to Thursday 9am – 6pm and Friday 9am – 12pm.
We will use a range of assessment methods that are appropriate to the topics being taught.
Of course, you will need to undertake reading and assignments, but these assignments are usually related to your workplace and help you to apply what you have learnt.
Students often find that the assignments provide valuable evidence of continuing professional development, demonstrate to their organisations their developing knowledge, and often benefit the company by providing an analysis of an area of operations.
The Engineering Business Leadership course will give you the opportunity to get a recognised qualification to complement your experience and develop you further as a professional.
Current and former learners at WMG have come from companies such as:
Typically, most students on the part-time Engineering Business Leadership programme are sponsored by their employer, but self-funding is also an option.
Please speak to WMG's Part-time Postgraduate Team at wmgptmasters at warwick dot ac dot uk for clarification.
As well as tuition fees and living expenses, there may be general associated costs such as:
*Dissertations and Assignments are only submitted digitally.
Please see the WMG department web pages for specific application advice and information.
Visit the WMG website for information on how to apply for this course.
Applications for all candidates will close on 15 August 2026.
Once you have enquired about the course and have submitted your CV, the relevant application link will be sent to you.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-engineering-business-management:
P-H1S3
This course is designed for graduates who want to become managers or leaders of technology-based organisations.
It is particularly suited to students with a technical background, who are looking to understand and develop management expertise.
The course delivers a broad education in management and business, and will equip you with the analytical tools and techniques to improve internal and external operations, as well as an understanding of the processes and technologies used by engineering businesses.
During the course, you’ll develop skills in the research, analysis and evaluation of complex business problems, and gain a methodical understanding of the functional relations between business divisions that can optimise efficiency and competitiveness.
Engineering Management focuses on the key value adding activities of: market, product and process development; operations, logistics and supply chain management; and core and emerging technology as well as investigating how to achieve sustainability throughout the product life cycle.
Students will be exposed to the latest technology employed in industry, such as Data Analytics, IOT, Robotics, AI, Life Cycle Analysis, and there is an opportunity to learn Python in the context of Big Data and Analytics for Industry via authentic methods (case studies and small group exercises).
The course will impart students with professional and technological skills which are imperative in the global engineering industry.
This course is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) on behalf of the Engineering Council as meeting the requirements for Further Learning for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Candidates must hold a CEng accredited BEng/BSc (Hons) undergraduate first degree to comply with full CEng registration requirements.
2 :1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in IT, engineering, science or business.
For Engineering Business Management (EngBM), your core modules are:
Alongside your core modules, you will be required to select one additional elective module related to people management such as:
For the taught component, we blend synchronous and asynchronous lectures and seminars, with syndicate exercises, simulations, personal reflective practices, and case studies.
The typical intake for this course is around 100 students, with modules delivered in smaller classes of 25-30.
These may include reports (both topic based and reflective), essays, individual and group presentations, critical evaluation or commentary pieces, case study exercises, simulation reports, business or consultancy reports, online tests, and video presentations.
Project submission includes both a written element and a poster presentation, and accounts for 33% of your overall academic grade.
As an EngBM graduate, you will have a gained a comprehensive understanding of the key areas of business and engineering management, and will be ready for a leadership role within areas such as business development, engineering or manufacturing consultancy, quality assurance, project management, opertions management, product management/ownership, or engineering leadership.
Recent graduates from WMG have gone on to work for a variety of employers including:

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-engineering-design-management:
This course has been designed to bridge the gap between engineering and design.
It integrates principles from both disciplines to provide for a deep understanding of how the two areas intersect and complement each other.
Throughout the course, you will develop the skills to engage, connect and influence stakeholders at each level of business, to deliver on strategic goals.
This course provides an environment of experiential learning through the authentic practice of Engineering Design Management, structured within a programme supported by academic rigour.
It will enable you to identify opportunities for innovation, harness creative thinking, use state of the art technologies to aid the design process, and gain the project management skills to deliver new design projects.
Sustainability and product lifecycle management is core to the design process, and as a student, you will have access to a mixed-medium production design lab and expert technical staff to develop and execute technical design ability and project management.
You will have the opportunity to work within interdisciplinary teams to experience engineering design management in practice through managed role displacement with a live design project.
The programme will feature guest speakers and masterclasses from industry and influential figures from the design community.
The MSc in Engineering Design Management has been created in response to an explicit demand from the engineering industry, to address the need for professionals able to deliver value across various technical and business functions, utilising a design engineering mindset.
The programme has been developed with industrial leaders, influential design community figures and the leading engineering educational community of WMG.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) from a range of academic disciplines, particularly but not exclusively from Engineering (and other STEM subjects) or from Design (or other arts degrees).
The course is designed for candidates keen to apply their skills within the context of engineering or product design.
This course covers a comprehensive range of topics designed to equip students with the essential skills and knowledge needed to excel in the field.
For Engineering Design Management (EDM), your core modules are:
Find out more and read the module descriptions for this course on WMG's website
Overall, this course can accommodate 30-40 students, divided into smaller teaching groups for an enhanced learning experience.
These may include reports (both topic-based and reflective), individual and group presentations, design artefacts, critical evaluation or commentary pieces, case-study exercises, simulation reports, and business or consultancy reports.
As an Engineering Design Management graduate, you will have developed a key set of valuable skills enabling you to project manage and drive the whole design process from initial concept to commercialisation.
You will be prepared for roles such as Design Manager, Design Team Leader, Project Manager, Product Owner, Design Innovation Manager, Design Sustainability Specialist, within in a wide variety of industries, ranging from large multinational corporations to innovative start-ups.
Our department has a dedicated professionally qualified Senior Careers Consultant offering impartial advice and guidance together with workshops and events throughout the year.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/engd-engineering:
P-H1P4
EngD
The EngD at WMG, University of Warwick brings real-world industry insight through focusing your research on industry-based projects, whilst working with supervisors from both academic and industrial backgrounds.
Your final submission will be in the form of a portfolio, rather than a single project, allowing for a broader range of knowledge and innovation and the ability to stay ahead of the curve within the changing needs of industry.
Alongside your research, you will complete taught Master's-level modules to broaden your knowledge in best industrial practice and develop key competencies needed to succeed in industry today.
Taught modules are normally delivered in intensive one-week blocks by leading experts in the field.
They are taught through a variety of learning activities: lectures, seminar work, syndicate group activities, practical exercises and case studies to encourage teamwork and practical grounding of the material.
E-learning and forum activities are widely used to complement the learning process.
Modules are assessed by post module assignment, not exam, although for some modules there may be a test that will form part of the assessment.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-english-comparative-literary-studies-by-research:
P-Q3P4
The MA by Research course is a pure research course based in the Department of English and Comparative Literary Studies.
You'll complete a 40,000 word research thesis, closely supervised by an academic.
This programme is especially suited to applicants who want to develop their independent research skills and explore a particular writer, topic, theory, or critical debate.
It is normally for people who have taken time out after their undergraduate studies or hold a taught MA in a related field.
Our warm and vibrant research community is one of the largest in the UK, with around 110 postgraduates every year.
We offer a full calendar of seminars, symposiums and conferences, with a busy diary of speakers from around the world.
We also offer career development support during your time here.
You will study alongside ambitious, international scholars and world-leading researchers.
Our researchers and writers work at the intellectual cutting edge of their discipline.
We want you to harness your intellectual ambitions and interests, and bring your own distinct personal experiences and circumstances to bear on your work.
By the end of the course, you'll be well-positioned for further study or employment with the transferable skills you will develop.
As a research student, your closest contact will be with your supervisor, or co-supervisors, who will meet with you regularly to discuss your work.
Your supervisor(s) are experts in their field, who will guide you throughout your degree and will agree upon a programme of reading, research and writing with you.
You will also be able to seek advice from our Director of Graduate Studies, who oversees our research students; and participate in sessions organised by our PG Professionalisation Officer, who organises seminars on employment in both the academic and non-academic sectors.
With your peers, you will have the chance to participate in seminars, conferences, reading groups, and the annual student-organised postgraduate symposium.
You will be encouraged to apply for internal funding to support research trips and participation in academic events outside of the University.
65% (or equivalent) in an undergraduate degree in English literature or a related degree.
Applicants may be required to provide a writing sample to demonstrate suitability for the course.
Applicants are required to submit a writing sample, normally an essay from their undergraduate studies.
Applicants are encouraged to consult their potential supervisor and/or the Director of Graduate Studies before applying.
Our research is interdisciplinary and comparative.
We have particular strengths in American studies, eighteenth and nineteenth-century studies, environmental humanities and ecocriticism, gender studies, the literary and cultural history of the medieval and early modern period, performance studies, poetics, postcolonial studies, and world literature.
Our major research groups include the Critical Theory Network, Feminist Dissent, the Centre for Ecopoetics, Poetry at Warwick, and the Warwick Research Collective (WReC).
We also work closely with the Centre for the Study of the Renaissance; the Centre for Research into Philosophy, Literature, and the Arts; the Early Modern and Eighteenth-Century Centre; the Yesu Persaud Centre for Caribbean Studies; the Critical South Asia Group; and the Centre for the Study of Women and Gender.
We particularly welcome research applications in the following research areas Link opens in a new window .
You can ask any academic from our department to be your supervisor.
See our staff pages for more details and to see whose research interests align with yours.
Students should compose a statement of up to 500 words about their proposed area of study.
This should situate a topic within a particular chronological, conceptual or thematic area, and should make specific reference to bodies of theoretical knowledge, texts, or authors which will be studied.
You should also locate the topic within current critical work in this area, perhaps citing a few recent secondary works which have interested, inspired or provoked you.
Given the space constraints, we do not require a bibliography or full citations.
This is not the place for a personal statement about your past career or future aspirations.
We recognise, of course, that all projects change and evolve during the process of doctoral study, and that it is difficult to define a project in advance of carrying it out.
However, it is very important, when assessing applications, for us to have a clear idea of your project and your current thinking.
Candidates are encouraged to contact a potential supervisor and seek their support before submitting their application.
You can search for a prospective supervisor on our website Link opens in a new window .
In addition to a supervisor or supervisors, accepted students will be assigned a personal tutor (who offers academic and pastoral support) from amongst the academic staff of the Department.
Students may have a co-supervisor from within or outside the Department, where appropriate.
Students applying for funding to the Midlands4Cities Open Doctoral Award competition must have two supervisors, with the second supervisor being based either at Warwick or at one of the partner universities.
The Department of English and Comparative Literary Studies at the University of Warwick is a highly regarded research department, with expertise across a broad spectrum of specialisms.
We ranked in the top 10 in the UK in the most recent Research Excellence Framework.
See our major research groupings on our website Link opens in a new window .
The Department of English and Comparative Literary Studies asks all PhD applicants to submit a writing sample alongside their application.
Your writing sample would normally be a chapter from your MA dissertation or an essay from your MA coursework or a published article.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mphil-phd-english-comparative-literary-studies:
P-Q3P0
A PhD serves as a gateway for many opportunities: as preliminary training for an academic career; as an advanced degree that may contribute to a future career in other sectors, such as the creative industries and management; or simply as an exciting and rewarding pursuit in its own right.
The degree culminates in a final dissertation of approximately 80,000 words that makes an original contribution to knowledge.
Studying at Warwick means joining a supportive and world-leading network of experts across a broad spectrum of literary, cultural, and theoretical topics.
Our warm and vibrant research community is one of the largest in the UK, with around 80 postgraduates every year.
We have an active set of research groups ranging from Feminist Dissent to Critical Environmental Studies.
We offer a full calendar of seminars, symposiums and conferences and training in research methods and professionalisation.
We also offer funding for postgraduate study and career development support during your time here.
You will study alongside ambitious scholars and researchers at the forefront of their fields.
We want you to harness your intellectual ambitions and interests and to bring your own distinct personal experiences and circumstances to bear on your work.
You must hold, or be currently studying for, an MA or international equivalent in a relevant discipline, with a predicted or final mark of 65 or above.
If you have not already taken an MA at Warwick, you may be required to take part in the ‘Research Methods’ of the taught MA.
This will not be formally assessed but will equip you with the necessary skills for further research.
Applicants are required to submit a writing sample, typically a chapter from their MA dissertation, an essay from their MA coursework, or a published article.
Applicants are encouraged to consult prospective supervisor(s) before applying.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-english-drama:
P-Q3PE
The MA in English and Drama offers an exciting opportunity to specialise in the study of dramatic texts and theatre history while maintaining a range of interests within the field of literary studies more broadly.
You will work with leading experts in Shakespeare and early modern drama, theatre history, and modern performance theory and practice.
This MA combines a focus on dramatic texts and theatrical performance and includes the option of a professional placement or an extended practical project.
In addition to the core module in Drama and Performance theory, you will study three modules of your choice and write a dissertation on an (approved) topic with a specialist supervisor.
You may choose one of the following modules instead of a Dissertation:
For more information, please visit the English and Drama web page on the English website Link opens in a new window .
Course structure
The MA in English and Drama comprises a Research Methods module, the core module, Drama and Performance Theory, three further optional modules, and either a Dissertation of 16,000 words or a professional placement or an extended practical project.
Professional Practice or Practice-as-Research
You may choose one of these options instead of a Dissertation.
The Professional Practice dissertation allows you to undertake a six-week placement with a professional theatre company or similar organisation, developing your knowledge of professional practice in the fields of literature, theatre or performance.
You will need to approach the organisation you plan to work with, and the department will support you in this.
You will use your placement to explore clearly articulated research questions and to reflect critically upon these questions in a written submission.
The Practice-as-Research dissertation, meanwhile, offers the opportunity to undertake a research process that leads to the creation of an artistic output (such as a script or a performance).
For more information, please visit the English and Drama web page on the English website.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mphil-phd-english-language-teaching-applied-linguistics:
P-X3ZM
If you are interested in studying for a PhD within the Department of Applied Linguistics, in the first instance please contact our Postgraduate Research Studies Admission Tutor, Professor Neil Murray, N dot L dot Murray at warwick dot ac dot uk

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mphil-phd-english-language-teaching:
P-X3PO
If you are interested in studying for a PhD within the Department of Applied Linguistics, in the first instance please contact our Postgraduate Research Studies Admission Tutor, Professor Neil Murray, N dot L dot Murray at warwick dot ac dot uk .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-english-literature:
P-Q3P1
Our MA will train you in the study of writing and culture across a range of periods, cultures, and genres.
It has an open and flexible study route.
You will choose from a number of modules that address a range of issues and topics in the field of literatures written in English as well as literary theory and World Literature.
Modules range from Feminist Literary Theory and Queer Studies to Ecopoetics, the Gothic, World Literatures, and Drama.
You will study four modules, two in Term One and two in Term Two, and undertake a dissertation project on an (approved) topic of your choice with a specialist supervisor in Term Three.
65% (or equivalent) in an undergraduate degree in English Literature or a related degree.
You will choose one Critical Theory module from options including:
The MA in English Literature comprises a Research Methods module, a core module from a list of critical theory options, three further optional modules, and a Dissertation of 16,000 words.
For more information, please visit the English Literature web page Link opens in a new window on the English website.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-environmental-bioscience:
P-D4A1
Escalating rates of environmental and climate change are forcing us to re-evaluate our management of agricultural and natural habitats.
The competing demands on agricultural land for food production and for bioenergy provision must be reconciled with environmental stewardship and mitigation of climate change.
This master’s course provides a timely and integrated perspective on environmental bioscience, management, societal matters and regulation as these relate to issues such as sustainable production of food and provision of ecosystem services.
Teaching is via facilitated sessions, including interactive lectures, short question and answer sessions and interactive workshops/tutorials and field visits.
Individual and team learning will be used for case study analysis.
Class sizes for this course vary between 5 to 90 students.
Assessment is continuous and varies between modules.
It typically includes essays, seminar presentations, practical reports, oral evaluation and assessed group work.
You will undertake an individual project during the third term and there is an option to undertake a work-based placement as part of your project.
Your project/placement will be assessed by a seminar presentation, a 6,000 word dissertation and a Research Performance piece.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-environmental-humanities:
P-Q3PK
Warwick is a thriving hub of Environmental Humanities Link opens in a new window research and teaching.
The MA in Environmental Humanities at Warwick will introduce you to major debates around climate change, the Anthropocene, energy, sustainability, ecological futures and environmental justice.
Drawing on a combination of seminars, research projects and fieldwork, you will deepen your critical understanding of key ecological concepts and methods, while developing your competence in analysing the implications and developments of the global environmental crisis and ongoing climate emergency.
As important, you will be given the opportunity to think creatively about ways of connecting theory and practice.
Considering your position as a future scholar and environmentally conscious global citizen, this MA will immerse you in the study of ecologically attuned cultural work from across the globe.
You will take a core module in the history, methodology and theory of Environmental Humanities, choose from a wide range of modules that address various perspectives on climate change, environment, sustainability and ecology, and write a dissertation on an approved topic of your choice with a specialist supervisor.
Applicants are asked to provide a writing sample and/or personal statement to demonstrate suitability for the course.*
*For example, those applicants from a non-Humanities background but with strong elements in Environmental Studies.
You are also able to fulfil the dissertation requirement by opting for an extended fieldwork project, which will allow you to carry out your research using a combination of qualitative data-gathering and written analysis.
For more information, please visit the MA in Environmental Humanities Link opens in a new window webpage on the English website.
The MA in Environmental Humanities comprises a Research Methods module, the core module, Fundamentals of World Literature, three further optional modules, and a Dissertation of 16,000 words.
You can take one of your three optional modules from outside of the Faculty, including from the Centre for Global Sustainable Development (GSD), the Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies (CIM), or Institute for Advanced Teaching and Learning (IATL).
Contact hours comprise 4 hours of seminars a week, 2 office hours per member of staff, weekly reading groups, workshops and research seminars, and one-to-one Dissertation supervision in terms 2 and 3.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/ias/about/community/networks/ehn:
The Environmental Humanities Network is excited to meet new Warwick Staff and Students at the start of the academic year, and to hear more about your research and teaching.
Dr John Morgan for the publication "Environment, Emotion and Early Modernity".
Dr Pietari Kääpä for the publication "Film and Television Production in the Age of Climate Crisis: Towards a Greener Screen".
Interested in the Environmental Humanities or Environmental Studies more broadly?
Everyone's warmly invited to join the University of Warwick Humanities Network, whether you are affiliated with the University or not.
The Environmental Humanities Network was established in 2019 to connect researchers across the university working from differing disciplinary perspectives in environmental studies.
Bringing the theoretical and methodological contributions of humanistic study to the investigation of environmental questions and concerns, we welcome participation from all faculties and research centres, both at Warwick and beyond.
Our members focus on topics ranging from climate and biodiversity crises to urban planning, pollution, ecopoetics and ecocriticism, hydrology, petrocultures, history of medicine, religion and ecology, microbiomes, digital environments and critical Anthropocene studies.
We maintain a regular schedule of talks, workshops, reading groups and collaboration with other research networks.
Anyone with interests in the field can become a member .
Check out our current membership list here Link opens in a new window .
The Environmental Humanities are a cross-disciplinary research focus engaging with a wide range of socio-ecological issues, problems and debates.
“The label of this research area follows a formula of innovation across a whole range of emergent fields that combines the term ‘studies’ or ‘humanities’ with a concept that has in the past been the purview of disciplines outside the humanities and qualitative social sciences: digital humanities, disability studies, food studies, human–animal studies, and medical humanities, for example.
Unlike most of these fields, the environmental humanities do not so much propose a new object of study, a new humanistic perspective on a nonhumanistic field, or a particular set of new methods, as they combine humanistic perspectives and methods.”
— Ursula K.
Heise, “Introduction: Planet, Species, Justice – and the Stories We Tell about Them,” The Routledge Companion to the Environmental Humanities , ed.
Ursula K.
Heise, Jon Christensen and Michelle Nieman (Routledge, 2017).
Our curated monthly newsletter lists a wide array of information including new publications, calls for papers, talks and conferences (recorded or upcoming), podcasts, funding sources and job opportunities.
Contact us: Turn on JavaScript to view obfuscated email addresses
Contact us IAS@warwick.ac.uk (+44)(0) 24 761 50565

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-film-tv:
P-W5P1
Film and Television Studies at Warwick is internationally recognised as one of the leading programmes in the field, offering an unparalleled training in the study of audiovisual media as cultural, historical, and aesthetic forms.
You will learn from leading scholars in the field through exciting modules that explore film theory, history, style, genre, representation, and global film cultures.
Rooted in the critical traditions of the humanities, the curriculum draws on a wide range of methodologies, offering an alternative to media industry- and communications-based approaches.
The programme provides a rigorous training in textual analysis alongside the historical and methodological study of film and television.
Through research-led teaching and specialised skills training, students develop competencies including critical thinking, interpretation and audiovisual literacy.
In the final phase, students hone these skills through an independent dissertation under supervision, allowing for in-depth exploration of a specialised area of interest.
The course equips students with a solid foundation in film and television studies.
It fosters advanced research and analytical skills essential for careers in media and cultural sectors, or for those preparing for further academic study.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in an adjacent subject.
All applicants are asked to provide us with a sample piece of written work of around 1,500-3,000 words (preferably, though not necessarily, on a film/TV-related subject) and a short (c.
200-300 words) description of the kind of research topic(s) they would be interested in studying for the mandatory 15,000 word dissertation undertaken by our students on the MA in Film and Television Studies.
For a speedier decision on your application, we advise you to provide us with these supplementary documents when you apply.
This supplementary materials can be uploaded in one document to your application.
Read more about the core and optional modules for this course on the Film and Television Studies website Link opens in a new window .
During the Autumn term you will take a core module, Advanced Methods in Screen Studies: Analysis, History, Theory , where a number of staff will introduce key methodological and conceptual approaches, often drawing on elements of their own research .
You then choose three further optional modules taken over the first two terms (one in the Autumn term and two in the Spring term).
The core elements of the Film and Television Studies curricula are supported by a programme of research seminars (departmental staff, PhD students and visiting speakers) and the wide range of screenings for other courses and more generally on campus.
As postgraduate students, you are an important part of the research culture in the department.
The programme also includes dedicated sessions in Skills Training and Research Workshops that will equip you with the necessary academic skills to excel in Master’s assignments, develop your scholarly aptitude and prepare you for PhD applications
We have a superb staff-student ratio: for example, our taught MA is normally restricted to twenty students whilst there are seventeen full-time members of staff, and all MA students are allocated a personal tutor.
There is an average of 16 contact hours per week.
A combination of assessed essays and a 15,000 word dissertation.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-film-tv-by-research:
P-W5P3
This course is designed for students with an academic background in film and/or television studies.
Applicants will normally have achieved a First Class result at undergraduate level, have firm PhD plans and feel that they need to develop their knowledge of fields that are not covered by our taught modules, in order to prepare for their proposed PhD project.
Through this MA programme, you will be able to draw upon the renowned expertise of our staff to develop a programme tailored to prepare for your doctoral research.
First Class Honours undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in Film and/or Television Studies.
200-300 words) description of the kind of research topic(s) they would be interested in studying for the mandatory 20,000 word dissertation.
This supplementary material can be uploaded in one document to your application.
Three taught modules, plus one independent study module designed in consultation with a supervisor and a 20,000 word dissertation.
The core elements of the Film and Television Studies curricula are supported by a programme of research seminars (departmental staff, PhD students and visiting speakers) and a wide range of screenings.
As postgraduate students, you are an important part of the research culture of the department.
The programme includes dedicated Skills Training and Research Workshops that will equip you with the necessary academic skills to excel in Master’s assignments, develop your scholarly practice, and prepare you for PhD applications.
We have a superb staff-student ratio: for example, our taught MA is normally restricted to twenty students whilst there are thirteen full-time members of staff, and all MA students are allocated a personal tutor.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mphil-phd-film-tv:
P-W5P2
A PhD in Film and/or Television Studies will help you to shape the field of moving image studies, as you develop original research which intervenes in the most exciting and relevant discipline in the Arts and Humanities.
In partnership with your dedicated supervisor or supervisory team, you will be supported on your journey to becoming a fully independent researcher in screen studies.
You will be able to take advantage of the unparalleled resources our department has to offer, from global experts in film and television history, theory and criticism, to 35mm film projection and a digital editing suite.
You will join a vibrant and international community of scholars, with the opportunity to participate in an exciting programme of research seminars and professional development and training events.
Doctoral Stud y in Film and Television Studies proceeds through regular meetings between the student and their PhD supervisor or supervisory team, with the additional resource of a designated mentor.
Together, you will design and develop your topic and the structure of your thesis, refining your research and writing through a process of drafts and close commentary, constructive critique and discussion.
We currently have 1 7 full-time members of staff with many research strengths who could be your supervisors.
International applicants (including EU students) are eligible for the Warwick Chancellor's International Scholarship .
Applicants who hold a People’s Republic of China may also apply for the Warwick China Scholarship Council award.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-finance-economics:
P-LN1J
Our MSc Finance and Economics course is ideal for you if you already have a strong grounding in economics, are highly numerate, and want to learn to apply your knowledge to finance.
You will explore the most advanced tools in finance and use your economics background as a springboard to increase your career options.
You will be considering jobs in the City or in the capital markets of your own country, in areas such as asset management, corporate finance, trading, financial regulation, and economic and financial consulting and central banking.
As the anticipation of jobs being challenged by Artificial Intelligence becomes a reality, we aim to share the skills and depth of understanding needed to design, develop, and supervise these new forms of financial intelligence.
2:1 or First Class Honours undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in a related subject.
Your degree would normally need to be in economics, or have had a substantial economics component, and you must have taken courses in microeconomic and macroeconomic theory at an intermediate level.
Competencies are also required in calculus, statistics and econometrics.
Please refer to our website for more detail.
Lectures introduce key theories, concepts and economic models.
In classes, you will solve financial problems and numerical exercises, analyse case studies and make presentations.
Modules are taught by staff from both WBS and the Department of Economics at Warwick through a combination of lectures, classes and computer lab sessions.
The typical class size for this course is around 35 students.
Students on this MSc will typically receive between 26 and 30 contact hours per module.
Your dissertation
A 6,000 word dissertation gives you the opportunity to test and apply techniques and theories you have been learning and to complete an original piece of research.
You will be supervised and supported by one of our academic staff or Teaching Associates and will usually submit your dissertation in early September.
Internship
Your core modules will be registered for you and you'll be able to choose your optional modules when you join us.
Classes may run up to 7pm and other events, such as careers presentations may take place later or on Saturdays.
Occasionally, classes and exams may be held on Saturdays.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mres-phd-finance-economics:
P-N3P5
Our fully-funded MRes/PhD Finance and Economics programme combines highly relevant and structured training with close mentorship from a team of supervisors to embed you in our culture of curiosity and help you in developing and deepening your chosen area of research.
Jointly run with the Department of Economics, we aim to establish our MRes programme as one of the leading programmes in Europe, supporting you to pursue a future career in top academic positions, international organisations and central banks.
This programme will provide you with a thorough understanding of state-of-the-art research techniques and in-depth appreciation of principal areas of interest for researchers in finance and economics.
You will study four compulsory modules in Year One, and five compulsory modules plus a dissertation in Year Two.
You will then continue on to our PhD Finance programme, and complete your doctoral thesis.
The overall course structure is 2+4 years (MRes/PhD).
Academic requirements for our MRes/PhD Finance and Economics programme
Our vision is to develop cutting-edge research that leads debate and deepens our understanding on the practice of finance and economics.
During the second year of the MRes, you will be allocated a supervisor.
A second supervisor will be allocated if you are admitted into the PhD, at the end of the MRes.
The two supervisors will have appropriate research expertise and interests.
Tuition fees Our MRes/PhD Finance and Economics programme is fully funded.
Our MRes/PhD Finance and Economics programme is fully funded.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-finance:
P-N300
Our MSc Finance is ranked 4th in the UK and 25th in the World by the Financial Times (2025), and 6th in the UK and 21st in world by QS Business Masters Rankings (2025).
For those applicants with a quantitative degree at undergraduate level, but who have not yet studied Finance, we offer a supplementary course that you can take at your own pace in Summer2026.
The course will help you to develop a deep theoretical and conceptual knowledge of finance and quantitative skills, preparing you for a range of careers in the financial industry.
Go beyond the application of skills and develop your ability to challenge, evaluate, and rethink established paradigms.
WBS benefits from excellent links to key financial institutions and employers, and this course has benefited from industry recommendations.
A 2.1 or first (or equivalent) degree in a relevant undergraduate subject from a UK university or an equivalent qualification from a globally recognised institution.
Candidates who have aspirations in finance and have studied quantitative undergraduate degrees, such as Mathematics, Statistics, Physics, Computer Science, Data Science, and Engineering are also encouraged to apply, especially those who have opted for finance electives in those programmes.
For those applicants with a quantitative degree at undergraduate level, but who have not yet studied Finance, we offer a supplementary course that you can take at your own pace in Summer 2025.
These will provide you with additional skills and knowledge in Finance for you to succeed on the course.
We may require engagement with this supplementary course depending on your academic background.
You will be to undertake an introductory course in a foreign language as part of your degree.
Core modules cover key areas in modern finance while optional modules allow you to focus on your preferences.
Please note that availability and delivery modes of modules may vary.
Modules are taught through a combination of lectures, classes, and computer lab sessions.
The typical class size for this course is around 110 students.
Assessment is a mix of exams and coursework, bringing all of your learning together at the end with a dissertation or internship.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-financial-technology:
P-H60Z
This interdisciplinary course will teach you to innovate and adopt new technologies to transform the financial industry, democratise finance, and accelerate financial inclusion.
The course was devised out of our Gillmore Centre for Financial Technology , a world-class, cutting-edge research hub focusing precisely on this subject.
You’ll first be trained in quantitative methods, data science, artificial intelligence, blockchain technology, finance, and information systems.
As your knowledge develops, we’ll be encouraging you to evolve your creative mindset by challenging and critically evaluating established paradigms within the field.
Not just another finance course with a couple of crypto or AI modules, our MSc Financial Technology provides an in-depth, specialised curriculum designed for the FinTech era.
(compulsory for students choosing Research Paper route)
To complete your degree, you will have the option to choose between the Research Paper or self-sourced Internship, or FinTech in Practice:
Research Paper
The Research Paper route offers the opportunity to synthesise, apply and extend your knowledge gained during the course, with a 6,000 word final dissertation.
Students choosing this route must select the Research Methods optional module.
FinTech in Practice route
This module provides an opportunity to explore a project of practical relevance in financial technology together with the Gillmore Centre for Financial Technology, or one of its industry partners.
This will give you the chance to finetune the skills learned on the course in a realistic, situational format.
This module involves trips a series of trips to The Shard, London, where students will be exposed to FinTech companies presenting their business models and current challenges.
Students will then work on solutions to present back to faculty and industry representatives.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-food-security:
P-D4A3
Delivering global food security is one of the critical challenges of the 21st century.
Each nation needs to balance local food production with imports and consider environmental and economic impact.
This master's course considers the critical factors influencing global food security including the contributions of climate change, biodiversity, water, soil, land use, labour, diet and urbanisation.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/pga-research-methods-education:
P-X9Y6
The Postgraduate Award in Research Methods in Education will provide you with knowledge and understanding of the theoretical and methodological issues involved in conceptualising and designing educational research.
It includes general and specific aspects of research training including key dimensions of qualitative and quantitative research, their applications, understanding of relational aspects between them, and appreciation of the politics and ethics of doing educational research.
The module is designed to contextualise educational research, in terms of its theoretical, epistemological and methodological underpinnings, for a broad cross section of students, enabling you to understand different facets of educational research in an integrated and coherent fashion.
The aim of the assessment method is to lead to research design and dissertation planning.
In addition, practical skills are built into the module, through workshops, seminars and tutorials, designed to develop library, software, web and applied IT search skills, and research skills relevant to your needs and interests.
Depending on which module you select, the course is either delivered entirely online, through a dedicated distance learning portal over one term, or face to face over two terms.
For the online variant, you will use a mixture of online text extracts and journals, and will undertake regular tasks alongside the end of module assignments.
Support will be given via email and/or face-to-face with your subject tutor, depending on the delivery mode chosen for the module chosen.
For the face-to-face variant , the course will be delivered through a variety of teaching methods: lectures, seminars, discussions, presentations and case studies etc .
Support will be given via email with your subject tutor.
The assessment on this course supports students to think about their dissertation project.
Assessments include a research proposal (either a poster and presentation or written proposal document if completing the module online) and a critical reflective essay.
This Programme will provide students with a solid foundation in how to design and carry out a research project in the field of Education.
It will be useful for those who need to engage with research in Education as part of their job as well as those who would like to develop their skills in carrying out a project of their own.
This course is part of the Education Studies department which follows a non-standard fee structure.
Associated costs can be found on the Study tab for each module listed in the Module Catalogue (please note most of the module content applies to 2022/23 year of study).

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-french-studies-by-research:
P-R1P4
Research and write a 40,000-word Dissertation on a topic of your choice under the supervision of one or more of our internationally-leading experts.
The course is suitable for students who already have considerable research skills and a clear idea of their own particular area of interest for further research.
Before you arrive, you will be matched to one or more of our expert supervisors.
During the course, you will meet with them frequently for guidance on the conceptualisation, research and writing of your Dissertation.
This will include reading and discussion of draft material.
You will also be expected to participate in the research culture of the School, for example by attending research seminars.
The School of Modern Languages and Cultures is one of the UK's leading sites of research in French, German, Hispanic, Italian and Translation and Transcultural Studies, and our expertise ranges from the Early Modern period to the present.
82% of our research outputs and 100% of our research environment in the REF2021 exercise were judged to be world-leading or internationally excellent.
We welcome applications from prospective PGR students wishing to work in the following areas:
Please note that we do not accept proposals from students wishing to work on second language acquisition or language learning.
Full details of our research interests Link opens in a new window are listed on the School of Modern Languages and Cultures website.
Explore our School of Modern Languages and Cultures Research Directory where you will be able to filter by your chronological, geographical, linguistic and disciplinary interests.
It is up to applicants to identify an area of possible study which interests them and which is achievable within three full-time or five part-time years of MPhil/PhD study (or one full-time / two-part-time years of study for the MA by research).
Students should submit a statement of around 500 words outlining their proposed area of study.
This should situate a topic within a particular thematic or chronological area, and should make specific references to authors, texts, events, regions, intellectual configurations, or cultural practices(whichever are most relevant).
We recognise, of course, that all projects change and evolve during the actual processes of researching and writing up, and that it is difficult to define a project in advance of carrying it out.
However, it is very important, when assessing applications, for us to have a clear idea of your project, not least to enable us to ensure that a suitable supervisor is available.
See our tips on writing a PhD proposal Link opens in a new window .
The School of Modern Languages and Cultures is a close-knit community with an excellent reputation for innovative teaching and world-leading research.
The School comprises five major sections – French, German, Italian, Hispanic Studies (all broadly conceived) and Translation and Transcultural Studies – and a Language Centre offering linguistic training in Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish.
Get to know us a bit better by exploring our department website Link opens in a new window

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mphil-phd-french-studies:
P-R1P2
Research and write an 80,000-word thesis on a topic of your choice under the supervision of one or more of our internationally leading experts.
Suitable for students with an excellent academic record who already have considerable research skills and a clear idea of their own area of interest for further research.
This will include reading and discussion of draft material, and advice on appropriate skills and career development opportunities.
You will also be expected to participate in the research culture of the School, for example by attending research seminars, and will receive advice on appropriate skills and career development opportunities.
If you intend to apply for competitive funding, early enquiries are advised.
Please contact the Director of Graduate Studies via the School Office at SMLCOffice@warwick.ac.uk
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) and preferably a Master’s in a related subject.
You will be required to submit a sample of written work and may be invited to an interview.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-games-engineering:
P-H1SK
As a Master’s student of Games Engineering, you will be engaged in one of the most performance-driven elements of computer science and will be well prepared to launch your career as an expert developer in the multi-billion-pound computer games industry.
Video game development is a particularly complex software engineering process, requiring expertise in a number of wide-ranging areas including high-performance graphics, programming, data structures, physics, acoustics, Artificial Intelligence (AI), machine learning, networking, modelling and rendering.
Throughout the course, you will be trained in the complex game development process, learning the fundamental and theoretical aspects of how to create game engines from the ground up, as well as working with established game engines (i.e.
Unreal, Unity) to understand the intricacies of their capabilities and limitations.
Fundamental to becoming an expert developer is having deep understanding of algorithmic concepts and high-level programming languages, so, through this degree, you will not only master languages like C++ and python, but will form a conceptual understanding of computing principles with programming as a vehicle to grasp these concepts.
Developed in collaboration with Warwick’s Visualisation Research Group, this Master’s degree draws on our particular expertise in Visual Computing and games, with a strong focus on computer graphics, vision, imaging, distributed and parallel systems, Human Computer Interaction, and AI.
This close link with research means that the course will cover start-of-the-art game development methods and will help prepare you for future developments in the industry.
It is delivered in the multidisciplinary WMG department, Warwick’s largest academic department with 1400 full-time MSc students across a portfolio of courses, and 34 research groups driving a significant amount of the research conducted at the university.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in a related STEM subject (Computer Science, Engineering, Technology, Maths).
As part of the MSc in Games Engineering, all students are required to study the following core modules:
Alongside your core modules, you will need to select an elective module so that your taught modules equate overall to 120 CATS (or 1200 hours of learning).
Your elective module list will be shared at the start of the academic year and will include modules such as:
Please refer to the departmental website for more information and module content for this course Link opens in a new window .
For the taught component, we blend synchronous and asynchronous learning delivered through lectures, seminars, lab work, syndicate exercises, simulations, case studies, and professional portfolio development.
Our teaching faculty has extensive industry and research experience, with guest speakers from industry bringing real-world insight into your learning experience.
The outputs of your academic year will also form the basis of an industry standard portfolio.
This course can accommodate around 25-30 students.
Module delivery patterns vary, but most will be delivered in a short learning block of up to 4 weeks, allowing you to focus on one module at a time.
Each 15 CATS module nominally accounts for 150 hours, which includes scheduled classroom and lab time, as well as your independent study and assessments.
Your modules will be assessed through a variety of methods including original programming applications, programming projects, game development, reports, and critical reviews.
In additional to the main assessment, there may be assessed presentations, online tests, self-reflection, and a range of other assessment methods during each module.
Your assessments can be used to develop your professional portfolio.
There are no written exams for this course.
Modules will include scheduled classroom/lab time and online sessions as well as your independent study and assessments, and will usually be delivered within a 4 week timeframe.
The academic, technical, and professional expertise you will gain on this course are highly sought by multi-billion pound computer games industry.
We would expect graduates to secure senior technical roles within the industry where there is such a huge demand for talent.
The skills you will develop are also highly transferable into other sectors - from the film industry through to the finance sector - where visual computing, advanced programming, and machine learning are widely required.
Throughout the course, you will develop an industry standard portfolio to present to future employers.
You will enjoy networking opportunities with leaders in the games industry, and our close proximity to Leamington Spa, nicknamed ‘Silicon Spa’ due to the abundance of Game Companies located in the area, means excellent access to many of the industry leaders as well as rising stars, including Codemasters, SEGA, Ubisoft, Lab 42, Midoki, and Pixel Toys.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-gender-development:
P-M9P7 full-time
If you are interested in questioning the concepts of gender and development and giving priority to issues and debates identified within countries of the Global South – rather than relying on predominantly western literature – then this is the programme for you.
It is an international, interdisciplinary and analytical course.
It does not assume that development is about the ‘Third World’ modelling itself on the West, nor that gender is a fixed category determined by sex, or that men constitute the ideal development subject.
Read our department advice on applying to ensure your application has the best chance for success.
You can take four optional modules, at least one from List (A) and one from List (B).
Further modules can be taken from any list but no more than one outside option can normally be taken, from the list of Recommended Outside Options (List D) or, by agreement with the Course Convenor, one module offered by another Department or Centre within the Faculty of Social Sciences.
Read more about our core and optional modules on the Sociology website.
Each of our MA courses has specified core modules which will be studied alongside a range of optional modules.
You will be required to choose four optional modules from our departmental list.
All our MA courses follow a consistent structure meaning that you will follow a programme of taught modules, followed by a 15,000-word dissertation.
Class sizes can range from 6 to 30 students, dependent on each module.
Each module consists of at least 18 hours of teaching.
Many modules are taught in 2-hour seminars of 10-15 students.
Others follow a 1-hour lecture and 1 hour class format.
You will also have a supervisor for your dissertation, who you will meet regularly to support this independent research project.
Taught modules are assessed through written assignments.
You will focus on your 15,000 word dissertation after the end of Spring Term.
We have an international reputation for research excellence, a global and cosmopolitan perspective, and high-quality teaching.
Our curriculum offers a comprehensive and up-to-date foundation with a diverse range of specialist options.
What does it mean to understand the world in which you live?
What will your contribution be to this changing world?
How do your own experiences and life chances compare to those of others?
Sociology – the study of humans in society – attempts to capture the rich variety and complexity of human social life.
Indeed, it is difficult to think of any area of social existence that a sociologist wouldn’t be interested in examining, from the most intimate of personal relationships to the worldwide circulation of ideas, beliefs, products and people.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-gender-sexuality:
P-L30J
Much is changing all over the world, in terms of gender and sexuality; there are new languages, threats, achievements, challenges, tensions and mobilisations.
These changes require fresh ways of thinking and learning about gender and sexuality, and that’s what this new MA offers.
It is an inclusive, interdisciplinary, and intersectional programme which will enable you to gain confidence and critical literacy in feminist, queer and trans theories, epistemologies and methodologies.
The programme draws on expertise from different disciplines across the University of Warwick and uses innovative learning and assessment approaches inspired by feminist and queer pedagogies.
As co-producers of knowledge, students on this MA are encouraged and supported to participate actively in the research life of the Department of Sociology and the Centre for the Study of Women and Gender.
You will be encouraged and supported to go beyond familiar histories of gender and sexuality studies.
You will be invited to think about the field in new ways, exploring interdisciplinary and intersectional connections and complexities of contemporary gendered lives.
This will help you engage intellectually, practically, and ethically with the complex, contested and ever-changing landscape of gender and sexuality across the world.
Upon completion of the course, you will:
Read our departmental advice on applying to ensure your application has the best chance for success.
One module on Research Methods
You will take at least one module in research methods.
You can choose one (or more) from the following list:
You will choose three optional modules .
Up to two of those modules can be modules offered by other departments at Warwick.
Optional modules vary from year to year.
Example optional modules offered within the Department of Sociology include:
You will choose three optional modules :
Many modules are taught in 2 hour seminars of 10-15 students.
Others follow a 1 hour lecture and 1 hour class format.
Taught modules are assessed through essays and other types of assignment.
Graduates from our courses have gone on to work for employers including universities, NGOs and the charity sector, international agencies, arts organisations or the civil service.
They have worked in areas such as teaching and lecturing; data analysis and research; campaigns and activism; aid and development; publishing and the media; law; social work; social policy; arts and culture; HR, consultancy and business.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-german-studies-by-research:
P-R2P3
6 October 2025
Suitable for students who already have considerable research skills and a clear idea of their own particular area of interest for further research.
Before you arrive, you will be matched to one or more of our expert supervisors and during the course.
You will meet with them frequently for guidance on the conceptualisation, research and writing of your Dissertation.
You may be invited to submit a sample of written work and may be invited to an interview.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mphil-phd-german-studies:
P-R2P2
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) and preferably a Master's in a related subject.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/pga-pgcert-pgdip-msc-global-central-banking-financial-regulation:
N1CA (MSc)
October, February and June each year
MSc/PGDip/ PGCert/PGA
Link opens in a new window Important information We are planning to make some changes to our Global Central Banking and Financial Regulation degree for 2026 entry.
The MSc Global Central Banking and Financial Regulation is a part-time, online programme delivered in collaboration with the Bank of England.
Postgraduate (PG) Award, PG Certificate and PG Diploma qualification options are also available.
The WBS website offers further information on this course.
Built with banking, finance and professional services industry professionals in mind, this specialised programme has been designed to introduce the latest evidence led and practice informed financial regulation and monetary policy.
Download our Global Central Banking and Financial Regulation brochure Link opens in a new window
Candidates must possess previous relevant work experience within the banking and financial regulation sector.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in a related subject or possess demonstrable experience of working in banking and financial regulation at a level sufficient with the requirements of the course.
Modules are currently undergoing approval through the University's rigorous academic processes.
This programme consists of six modules (from a choice of eight) of equal weighting and a Research Methods and Dissertation module.
Upon successful completion of a single 20-credit module, you will be awarded a Postgraduate Award.
From this, you may wish to build up to a higher qualification level such as a Postgraduate Certificate (on completion of three 20-credit modules), a Postgraduate Diploma (on completion of six 20-credit modules) or a full MSc.
(MSc option only)
You will choose six of the following modules:
This programme is taught 100% online and delivered on the same bespoke platform, my.wbs, as our Global Online MBA.
You will be taught through a variety of methods which may include live or recorded lectures and material, formative exercises, reflective exercises and forum participation.
Each module, excluding your dissertation, is taught in a 17-week slot.
As a guide, you can expect to spend approximately 11 hours studying each week.
Your learning will be assessed through a variety of methods.
These may include online timed assessments, and individual written assignments or reports.
If you would like to view reading lists for current or previous cohorts of students, please contact the Recruitment and Admissions team.
Read about how to apply to our Global Central Banking and Financial Regulation MSc.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/pgcert-pgdip-msc-climate-change-policy:
P-F76B (MSc);
P-F76D (PGDip);
P-F76F (PGCert)
The postgraduate courses in Global Decarbonisation and Climate Change (GDCC) are a university-wide transdisciplinary initiative and explore key climate emergency issues.
You will investigate the causes and consequences of climate change as well as explore emerging solutions to reducing levels of global carbonisation.
The Policy pathway provides a critical appreciation of tackling climate change in context, through knowledge of environmental and climate policy, analysis of tactics by governments, and the effect of policymaking and legislation upon scientific approaches.
Beside the core modules you will choose a minimum of 2 core-optional modules, to explore topics such as climate justice and the transition to a sustainable world, climate change and development, and circular (eco) design and life cycle management.
In addition, this pathway offers you the opportunity to select wider optional modules.
Appealing to graduates of a range of disciplines including sciences, engineering, social sciences, business or life sciences, the emphasis is on quantitative skills for environmental data analysis, whilst broadening your understanding of environmental politics.
You will:
Dr Rachel Hand and Prof.
dr.
ir.
Stefan Bon Link opens in a new window head our MSc/PGDip/PGCert Global Decarbonisation and Climate Change courses.
Please contact sus dot fut at warwick dot ac dot uk with any specific questions, where our staff are available to discuss any queries.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) ideally in Physical Sciences, Engineering, Mathematics, Social Sciences, Business or Life Sciences.
The department also welcomes applications from those who have or are on track to achieve a 2:2, ideally in a Physical Sciences, Engineering, Social Sciences, Business or Life Sciences background.
The department further welcomes applications from those who have 5+ years work experience, ideally in a Physical Sciences, Engineering, Social Sciences, Business or Life Sciences background, regardless of degree status.
Such applications will be considered by the department on a case-by-case basis.
Teaching in this emerging field represents practice and research-driven advancements that have been incubated and implemented by world-leading scholars at Warwick and beyond.
Teaching methods on the programme include any or a combination of:  lectures and flipped lectures; seminars, tutorials or examples classes for expanding on lecture material; demonstrations and site visits; invited talks and workshops from industry; laboratory, practical or computer room activities; project supervision or project activities.
New for 2023.
It is anticipated class sizes will range from 5 to 40 students, dependent on modules: some of which are shared across programmes.
Depending on your module choices, you can expect to attend around 10-25 hours of lectures and workshops per week (for part time students, this is 3-10 hours per week).
Some modules might also include additional supervised practical sessions (for example laboratory or field work).
The assessments will take a variety of forms for example: Parliamentary POSTnotes on future scenarios; problem sets; research summaries, examinations; student-devised assessments; presentations (group and individual); reports; and, depending on study level, group projects; group debate; interdisciplinary research projects; project dissertation.
Reading lists
Your personalised timetable will be complete when you are registered for all modules, core, core-optional and optional, and you have been allocated to your lectures, seminars and other small group classes.
Your core modules will be registered for you and you will be able to choose your core-optional and optional modules when you join us in accordance with your level of study and pathway.
This course will open up a variety of potential career paths in the rapidly expanding market for climate professionals including employment within a wide range of government, non-government and academic organisations, as well as private companies.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/pgcert-pgdip-msc-climate-change-science:
P-F76A (MSc);
P-F76C (PGDip);
P-F76E (PGCert)
The postgraduate courses in Global Decarbonisation and Climate Change(GDCC) are a university-wide transdisciplinary initiative and explore key climate emergency issues.
You will investigate the causes and consequences of climate change as well as the emerging solutions to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from human activity.
The Science pathway focuses on the physical science aspects of reducing global carbonisation and tackling climate change.
It is suited for people with a scientific background who wish to develop themselves further through the GDCC program keeping a scientific focus but, at the same time, wish to broaden their horizons and skillset with non-STEM modules.
Core modules offer a thorough understanding of the causes and consequences of climate change and some of the nature-based solutions that may alleviate impacts.
Beside the core modules you will choose a minimum of 2 core-optional modules, to explore topics such as sustainable energy systems, food system and plastics.
Develop a wide range of talents including creative, critical, and strategic thinking, effective communication, professional engagement, teamwork, problem solving and research analysis through diverse learning approaches and perspectives.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) ideally in Physical Sciences, Engineering, Social Sciences, Business or Life Sciences.
International Students We welcome applications from students with other internationally recognised qualifications.
For more information, please visit the international entry requirements page Link opens in a new window
For the science pathway, mathematical capability to A2 level either via qualification or an assessment at entry via a mathematics test.
Teaching methods on the programme include any or a combination of: lectures and flipped lectures; seminars, tutorials or examples classes for expanding on lecture material; demonstrations and site visits; invited talks and workshops from industry; laboratory, practical or computer room activities; project supervision or project activities
Depending on your module choices, you can expect to attend around 10-25 hours of lectures and workshops per week(for part time students, this is 3-10 hours per week).

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/pgcert-pgdip-msc-climate-change:
P-F764 (MSc);
P-F765 (PGDip);
P-F766 (PGCert)
Whether you're looking to launch a career in a climate-related field, or simply want to gain a deeper understanding of crucial topics, our Global Decarbonisation and Climate Change postgraduate courses explore the key climate emergency issues.
We will provide you with a critical appreciation of climate change action in context, through knowledge of environmental and climate policy, analysis of the approaches taken by governments, and discussion around the role that science plays in this.
Appealing to graduates of a range of disciplines including sciences, engineering, social sciences, business or life sciences, it builds on your training with an emphasis on quantitative skills for environmental data analysis.
All whilst broadening your understanding of environmental politics.
International Students We welcome applications from students with other internationally-recognised qualifications.
Teaching methods on the programme include any or a combination of: lectures and flipped lectures; seminars, tutorials or examples classes for expanding on lecture material; demonstrations and site visits; invited talks and workshops from industry; laboratory, practical or computer room activities; Project supervision or project activities.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-global-education:
P-X3AN
Education plays a variety of often contradictory roles in public debates, policy discourses, and academic research related to globalisation and international development.
Education may be seen as the silver bullet, the solution to global inequalities and the vehicle for economic and social development.
Alternatively, education is blamed for not delivering its promise, or even for reproducing or exacerbating the very problems it was supposed to solve.
Education systems and institutions are themselves sites which are affected by patterns of globalisation and policy changes regarding development and aid.
Increasingly we are moving into a ‘post-development’ era, where it is no longer possible to separate the globe into clear-cut regions that are designated as ‘developed’ and ‘developing’: local, regional and international connections and transitions demand that we re-focus attempts to understand and theorise the role of education in contemporary society.
Education policy and practice faces the imperative of adapting to enhanced mobility and immobility, changing political regimes, and the ever-shifting relationship between education and social change.
MA Global Education and International Development addresses a complex array of interconnected challenges and issues in relation to education, understood in its broadest sense.
The programme brings together theoretical and conceptual challenges with applied considerations for education practitioners and development interventions.
The MA includes an option to take a placement module which enhances your professional skills and employability.
The above module is a strongly recommended optional module for this degree.
In addition to this, there are a number of other optional modules to choose from.
You will attend one or two 3-hour taught sessions for your module/s each week during the Autumn and Spring Terms, plus research methods training lectures and seminars throughout all three terms.
Assessment types vary depending on modules selected but may be a mixture of written assignments taking a variety of forms and oral presentations.
You will also complete a dissertation based on an individual research project, with support from a member of research supervisor.
Graduates from this course will be equipped students to work in educational settings with a global focus, and to work in global education settings (such as charities, NGOs, think tanks).
Current and past students work in the following: outreach work for a new university in India; working with an informal education organisation in China; working for an NGO in Pakistan which the student got to know during her dissertation project; working for a UK university in relation to internationalisation; gained a PhD scholarship to continue with postgraduate research at Warwick.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-global-media-communication:
P-W4PG
This course combines rigorous research of global media products, content and technologies with the creative and management skills required to work in this fast-changing industry.
You will take an interdisciplinary approach to develop an oversight of media, communication, culture, politics, power, business, marketing and creativity.
It will deepen your understanding of these complex dynamics and practices, preparing you for a career in this fast-changing industry.
You will explore the role of ideas, beliefs and values in media production and consumption.
You will also learn how media products and content enable us to communicate creatively and effectively across global markets and cultural borders.
You will consider how media can inform new kinds of professional practice and anticipate future developments.
However, we may ask applicants to write a short essay, provide a video statement, attend an interview or respond to a set of questions.
There are five core modules, which also includes their course-specific applied management module.
The bespoke applied management module for this MA is ‘Applied Communication Project’.
Read more about the MA in Global Media and Communication on the Centre's website.
The course will enhance your research, writing and communication skills through guided and autonomous reading, group projects, presentations, case studies, reports, critiques and assignments that may require engagement with audio-visual technologies.
Typical contact hours range between 6-10 hours each week for core teaching – this excludes additional tutorials, workshops, and research seminars.
Graduates from the Centre for Cultural and Media Policy Studies have gone on to work in television, film, communications, data analysis, arts and educational organisations, research, PR, publishing and have even set up their own businesses.
The course is designed for students seeking managerial careers and entrepreneurial roles in the media industries or the communications departments of public and private sector organisations.
The course is equally popular amongst UK graduates and those from countries where the media and communications industries are experiencing rapid growth and negotiating the challenges of the global digital economy.
Our graduates have gone on to work for employers including: Acacia Avenue, Barclaycard, BBC, British Embassy, Bankside Films, The Economist, EMEA, Facebook, Fox Networks Group, Global Influencer, Google, The Academy of Urbanism, OVO, Penguin Random House and Sky.
Past students have taken up managerial roles in corporate branding, marketing and communication, public relations, community media, digital media, social and participatory media, media production, publishing (print and digital) and media research.
Our graduates are multi-skilled self-starters who can fulfil a variety of roles from creative director, editor and consultant, to project manager and communications expert.
We have a dedicated professionally qualified Senior Careers Consultant offering impartial advice and guidance together with workshops and events throughout the year.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/masc-global-sustainable-development:
P-L801
MASc  (Master of Arts and Science)
In Global Sustainable Development (GSD) we take a critical approach to the dominant discourse of sustainable development.
We are committed to understanding as well as challenging existing practice, and want you to join us, as we seek innovative, transformative responses to complex global challenges.
Based in the School for Cross-faculty Studies Link opens in a new window , our academic home is a natural place for future transdisciplinary leaders to flourish.
On this course you will work with Warwick’s GSD Department Link opens in a new window , the Institute for Global Sustainable Development (IGSD) Link opens in a new window , and partner departments across the University.
Our staff are at the forefront of their fields and share your passion for global sustainable development.
Core modules will support your development as an intellectual leader dedicated to bringing about positive change.
They will help to deepen your understanding of the core global challenges we face, and develop your critical and reflective approach, as well as your technical and methodological skills.
Your learning will be rooted in critical intellectual enquiry and philosophical understanding, which will support your personal development as a leader of thought and action.
In addition, by having a broad range of optional modules and flexible capstone project options, you can tailor the course to your own areas of interest.
In Term Three and the summer, you will have an exciting opportunity to ‘learn by doing’ as you undertake a transdisciplinary capstone project.
We will offer you a choice of research, practice, and work-based experiences.
Your chosen project will enable you to develop a skillset and expertise most suited to your future career goals.
By the end of this course, you will be equipped to play an authentic, ethically-grounded and reflective role in global citizenship.
You will also have a defined understanding of what is necessary to act as a leader of positive change.
The route you choose upon graduation will be defined by your own interests and aspirations.
Your learning from the course will equip you with what you need for a career in applied research, in policy, business, or in third sector activity.
This programme is ideal for you if:
You will learn to:
Find out more about our requirements.
We encourage applications from students with diverse backgrounds, from the sciences, social sciences, and the humanities.
We particularly welcome students with experience of, or interest in, interdisciplinary study.
In certain circumstances, we will consider applicants with a lower second-class honours degree, or a normal degree (and their equivalents).
This is particularly the case for applicants with relevant professional experience which can be explicitly and directly related to our curriculum.
To find out more about how to apply please visit the GSD website.
All applicants need to provide a Statement of Interest.
This should be 1-2 pages long in content.
Your statement should include:
You will be required to take at least two of the following optional core modules:
You will also select optional modules offered by GSD and partner departments.
You will select one of our transdisciplinary capstone projects:
The number of optional modules you take will vary depending on how many of the above optional core modules you select.
Your optional modules will be offered by the GSD Department and partner departments and you will have the opportunity to specialise in thematic learning.
Optional modules could include:
Please note, optional modules are subject to availability and offerings may change each year to keep your learning experience current and up-to-date.
You will also need to discuss your optional module choices with your personal tutor and receive approval from the Director of Graduate Studies in GSD.
Other optional modules may be available across other departments.
Read more about our optional modules on the GSD website.
We offer a transdisciplinary approach to learning about problems of global sustainable development.
The global challenges we face today do not fit neatly within disciplinary boundaries, instead, requiring integration of different disciplinary perspectives.
This is reflected in our range of expert tutors, drawn from a variety of disciplines across the humanities, social sciences and scientific fields.
Transdisciplinarity also requires engagement with non-academic partners, breaking down boundaries between academic thinking and practical application.
The capstone projects on this course bring this to the forefront.
For instance, you may choose to work with an employer, unifying knowledge from academic and non-academic viewpoints.
We pride ourselves on a pedagogy of active learning.
You will be taught key course content via interactive lectures and task-guided reading.
However, most of your learning will be through your engagements in class activities and discussions, informed by guided independent preparation.
This pedagogy allows you to develop applied process skills and academic subject content at the same time.
The capstone modules offer structured and supported opportunities to ‘learn by doing’.
This is learning not just by means of authentic tasks that mirror the ‘real-world’, but by offering learning as being a fundamental part of daily, collectively-lived reality.
On this course you will benefit from expertise in Warwick’s Institute for Global Sustainable Development (IGSD).
IGSD provides a focal point for Warwick’s sustainable development research, contributing towards the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, but still challenging of them.
Researchers in IGSD will contribute to our taught modules via guest lectures.
They will also, where appropriate, be available to supervise the capstone projects in Term Three and the summer.
Class sizes will vary with around 15-25 students in core modules and fewer in optional core GSD modules.
Class sizes for optional modules in GSD will be small, typically with around 10 students.
In other departments, optional module class sizes will vary according to the size and nature of their postgraduate programmes.
In the first term you will have 8-10 hours of contact time each week which will comprise of lectures, seminars and practical sessions.
In Term Two your contact hours will vary depending on which options are selected.
Each of the 10 CAT GSD optional core modules offer two contact hours per week in the form of seminars and/or practical sessions.
The form and number of contact hours on the Capstone modules in Term 3 and the Summer will depend on the particular capstone project you’re enrolled on.
All students will primarily work independently on these projects.
Students on Research Projects can expect individualised support from an academic supervisor within the GSD division.
Students on Practice-Based Projects will be supported through workshops and meetings run by a member of staff in GSD.
Students on the Workplace Project will be working full-time with an external organisation, but will be supported through workshops and check-ins with a member of academic staff and/or the Employability and Placements Manager.
The core modules on this course will be assessed in a variety of ways including essays, presentations, and research project plans.
The assessments are designed to help you develop the skills for research, analysis, and communicating your work with others.
For example, you will have opportunities to write articles and prepare a short documentary communicating scientific research to wider audiences.
All assessments in modules offered by the School for Cross-faculty Studies link to practical applications.
Transdisciplinarity is at the heart of our teaching, learning, and research in the Global Sustainable Development (GSD) Department.
Global challenges spill over disciplinary boundaries, and our unique academic home reflects this.
Based in the School for Cross-faculty Studies, our staff and students have genuine opportunities to transcend disciplinary boundaries, creating new knowledge about the world.
On our innovative courses, you'll contest longstanding inequalities and actively promote change.
From your first day, we'll encourage you to make positive interventions with a beneficial impact.
Beyond your studies, you’ll have a myriad of opportunities to apply your learnings to the world around you.
By joining our department you’ll be inspired, and challenged, by our passionate tutors.
You’ll work together with our team to find responses to pressing problems of global sustainable development.
Get to know GSD better by exploring our departmental website.
The School for Cross-faculty Studies is pleased to offer bursaries for Home and EU/Overseas students commencing the MASc in Global Sustainable Development.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mphil-phd-global-sustainable-development:
P-L800
There is a global need for researchers who are skilled in challenge-led, transdisciplinary methods to help close knowledge gaps around research and practice related to the sustainability of human-environment interactions.
Our Global Sustainable Development MPhil/PhD is for those driven to develop innovative approaches to complex challenges of sustainable development.
With the support of a supervisory team, you will work on a transdisciplinary project addressing a sustainability challenge.
Through structured training, you will be equipped to integrate methods and perspectives from different academic and practice fields to address current and future sustainable development challenges.
In the first year, you will have the opportunity to undertake postgraduate module(s) and establish a personal development plan in collaboration with your supervisors.
Throughout the programme, you will have the opportunity to gain methods training designed to broaden your research approach.
Collectively, this training will prepare you to co-produce transformative, transdisciplinary research projects.
We are excited to welcome students with diverse backgrounds and skills to this programme.
Students on this programme will be trained to have competence in a subject area that spans at least two disciplinary perspectives.
You will be trained in transdisciplinary methods, enabling you to draw on skills from multiple disciplines to work effectively and equitably with non-academic partners.
In the first year, you will have the opportunity to study postgraduate module(s) in GSD and/or from across the University totalling 20 CATS.
You will discuss which module(s) you would like to take with your supervisors in the early stages of your research.
You will also agree a tailored personal development programme with your supervisors for your first year of training.
For instance, your development programme may include taking other postgraduate modules from across the University to develop specific skills required for your research.
You may also decide to take researcher development training courses and workshops facilitated by the University’s Doctoral College as part of your development programme.
You will join a community of postgraduate students, early career researchers, and academics in GSD and IGSD conducting cutting edge transdisciplinary research on global sustainable development, committed to tackling global challenges and enabling transformative change of human-environment interactions.
At Warwick positive research culture is one of our key priorities  fostering an inclusive, collegiate and dynamic research environment where all researchers and research enablers can be themselves and thrive to produce the best quality research.
Throughout your degree you will be encouraged to engage actively in research activities by forming reading groups, participating in workshops, masterclasses and guest lectures, and taking part in our annual GSD Symposium.
You will have opportunities to engage with research across the University, including research led by Warwick’s Interdisciplinary Research Spotlights  and other cross-cutting research centres across the University, such as the Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies (CIM), the Warwick Institute for the Science of Cities (WISC), the Warwick Interdisciplinary Research Centre for International Development (WICID), and the Centre for Digital Inquiry (CDI).
2:1 undergraduate degree and a Master’s (or equivalent) in a related subject.
Much of the research on this programme is currently organised around the following clusters:
Climate resilience and socio-environmental justice
This cluster draws on Warwick’s expertise in areas such as complex systems modelling, geographic information, and critical research on environmental justice, enabling students to investigate transformations of human-environment interactions towards resilience to climate change and environmental risks.
Sustainable urbanisation, health and wellbeing
This cluster concentrates on research for transforming urban human-environment interactions, investigating the interlinkages between the built environment, human behaviour and health and wellbeing outcomes.
Sustainable economies and the food-water-energy nexus
This cluster draws on Warwick’s research excellence in sustainable materials, critical data studies, business strategy and food supply systems, in order to enable students to study transformations to the food-water-energy nexus towards sustainable economic and financial relationships.
We also welcome and encourage research proposals in global sustainable development which are outside the above clusters.
Examples of current PGR projects include:
Find out more about our current PhD students’ research projects.
Please visit our PhD supervisors web page to identify people with your range of interests.
Once you have identified an appropriate supervisor, please initiate a dialogue to discuss whether your proposal falls within their area of expertise and if they have the capacity to supervise you.
In order to consider supervising you, they will need a brief outline of your research proposal, a copy of your CV and any relevant transcripts, so please ensure these are sent directly to them.
Once supervision is agreed, your application should name the lead supervisor.
Find out more about how to apply via our Global Sustainable Development web page.
Your supervisors will support your progression to thesis submission.
Researchers on this programme will have a supervisory team composed of two or more academic supervisors from different disciplines.
You may also receive mentorship from a practice organisation related to your field of research.
The pool of academic supervisors for this programme draws on Warwick’s global sustainable development research community and spans all three faculties at Warwick: Arts and Humanities, Social Sciences and Science, Engineering and Medicine.
If you would like to apply for our research degree, the MPhil/PhD in Global Sustainable Development, you will be asked to provide an outline of your chosen research topic.
This should be a maximum length of 2500 words and include the following:

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/pgcert-mres-healthresearch-care:
TMSS-B9R1 (MRes); TMSS-B9R2 (PGCert)
MRes/PGCert
Research into health and care today can positively impact and change health and care policies and systems for the future.
Our Master’s of Research in Health and Care enables and prepares you to conduct your own research in the most efficient and effective way.
Course content includes research methods, designing and conducting your own research, and broader research skills (such as ethics and public involvement).
The course structure allows you to tailor your learning to become proficient and specialise in research approaches that suit your area of individual interest.
You will learn the skills to conduct your research in the most efficient and effective way possible.
You will have opportunity to learn:
Flexible choice of modules
Students can choose three modules to study on different research methods that are of most interest and relevance to them.
There are a total of six modules available to choose from covering diverse research approaches, such as statistics and epidemiological research, qualitative research methods, and mixed methods.
Research dissertation tailored to students’ interests
All students complete a significant research dissertation on a topic of their choice, to suit their interests and needs.
Students are supported by an experienced supervisor and the extensive, in-depth nature of the dissertation allows students to maximise opportunities for research impact.
A firm entry point into a research career
The MRes is recognised as a high-value, research-intensive qualification that prepares students to design, conduct, manage and lead their own research in the future.
The MRes is increasingly embarked upon by students interested in pursuing a PhD as a first step towards doctoral study, and by health and care professionals wishing to integrate research as part of their professional practice and to develop as a researcher.
The MRes offers a firm foundation to understand more about the theory and practice of undertaking research in health and care.
Interdisciplinary focus
Our MRes Health and Care programme at Warwick is unique in its training for both health and social care research.
Training will equip students to be able to conduct research in either health or social care, and to do this proficiently in their chosen specialism.
It will also encourage – and challenge - students to think about how different research methods can be applied in different contexts.
Our module leaders, lecturers and dissertation supervisors come from a range of professional and disciplinary backgrounds and bring a range of expertise to support you in your studies.
Career advancement
Our MRes provides a programme of training and development designed to advance your health and social care research career.
If you work in health and social care, studying for an MRes can support your career progression by providing the opportunity to develop new skills, experiences, and enhance your potential for new responsibilities and leadership opportunities.
Builds on a strong foundation of health research at Warwick
Our MRes is a new programme that builds on an excellent foundation of world-class health research and teaching at Warwick.
You will be studying with internationally renowned research academics within Warwick Medical School who deliver pioneering research in the fields of Health and Care Sciences, Clinical Trials and Biomedical Sciences.
Our focus on interdisciplinary applied research enables a responsive, dynamic, and evidence-based approach to tackling health challenges, improving care, and transforming individual and population health and wellbeing.
Warwick offers an outstanding cultural, intellectual, and physical research environment within which to enhance your research experience and skills.
We welcome applications from graduates with at least a 2:2 honours degree, or equivalent qualification, in an appropriate subject.
We also consider candidates with other relevant qualifications and individuals with a minimum of three years’ work experience.
Those without formal qualifications need to demonstrate relevant work experience and the ability to study at postgraduate level.
Where there is strong justification, you may choose a Master's level module from across the University available in the relevant year of study as your third module.
You must take advice from the course director about your choice to ensure it will provide what you need from your studies.
Your module choice is subject to approval by the course director.
Students will be expected to check the timetabling of modules to ensure dates do not clash with other module commitments.
The following are some suggested optional modules:
Candidates for the Postgraduate Certificate are required to successfully complete three core-option modules.
Teaching is through seminars and lectures and includes either a professional project or dissertation - an extensive piece of work that you will choose, research and write with individual supervision from your tutor.
Modules are assessed by written assignment or a combination of recorded oral presentation and written assignment.
Your dissertation will need to be an original work of 20,000 words on a topic agreed with your supervisor.
You will also complete a viva-voce on your dissertation.
Most departments have reading lists available through Warwick Library.
If you would like to view reading lists for the current cohort of students you can visit our Warwick Library web page Link opens in a new window .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/pgcert-pgdip-msc-healthcare-leadership-iheed:
PGCert - B93Z PGDip - B93Y MSc - B93X
This course, designed in partnership with iheed, and delivered by world-leading medical leaders, comprehensively closes the gap in clinician leadership competency.
Whether you are a clinician seeking to move away from direct care or a senior administrator looking to take up a managerial role in a healthcare setting, this online Master of Healthcare Leadership is designed to give learners a broad, interdisciplinary perspective on the changing face of healthcare.
The course provides a highly engaging, richly informative and convenient educational opportunity for busy professionals and is accessible through a dedicated state-of-the-art online learning environment.
Core Modules - MSc
Acknowledging the busy schedules of healthcare professionals, this part-time, wholly online course offers a state-of-the-art flexible online learning environment, allowing students to balance their studies with their personal and professional commitments.
In a rapidly evolving healthcare sector, a Masters in Healthcare Leadership helps individuals develop the high-level strategic thinking and leadership capabilities that healthcare organisations actively seek in their managers and leaders.
Completing a Masters in Healthcare Leadership provides evidence of a commitment to excellence, your ability to handle complex challenges, and your readiness to occupy senior roles.
As the sector becomes increasingly complex, with challenges ranging from healthcare technology integration to policy reform, professionals equipped with a comprehensive understanding of leadership dynamics are best placed to steer organisations towards excellence in patient care.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-hispanic-studies-by-research:
P-R4P2

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mphil-phd-hispanic-studies:
P-R4P1

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-history:
P-V141
We are planning to make some changes to our History (MA) for 2026 entry.
Our MA programme allows you the opportunity to both specialise and diversify, to follow your passion and to try something new.
You will be taught by experts in their field, introducing you to their areas of research and what it is to be a historian.
You will have the opportunity to study and write about what really enthuses you, and to pursue in-depth research on your chosen dissertation topic.
Optional modules will offer a chronological, geographical, and thematic range of topics, including in modern history, early modern history, global history, and the history of medicine.
You’ll be able to take advantage of the Department's field-leading research centres Link opens in a new window , including participating in the lively schedule of academic research seminars, lectures and conferences.
Our new core module, redeveloped for 2026 entry, is called ‘History Writing: Theory and Practice.’ Over two terms you will learn about recent theories and methodologies in history writing to understand human experience and agency, questions of power and knowledge, and conceptions of historical change.
As well as covering more fundamental themes and approaches to historical research, this module will enable you to prepare for the dissertation research and writing process.
Interactive workshop sessions will support students to develop the skills needed to produce an original piece of historical research.
Students will have the option to graduate either with an MA in History, or an MA in a more specialised area of study.
The routes available are:
In order to graduate with a specialised route title, you must pass at least 30 CATS of History modules and complete a dissertation in the relevant subject area.
You must also attend research seminars and events in that area, and reflect on your learning from these events.
In terms of optional modules, you can take either two or three optional modules.
The modules on offer each year will vary according to staff availability and student demand.
We are currently revising our suite of optional modules for 2026-27, but they will offer a chronological, geographical, and thematic range of topics.
You are also able to take optional modules in cognate disciplines e.g.
Politics and International Relations, English and Comparative Literary Studies, Film & TV, History of Art, Theatre Studies, Modern Languages and Cultures, Sociology.
Finally, you will complete a dissertation.
In your dissertation you will have a large amount of freedom to develop a project of your own choice with help and guidance from your supervisor who will meet with you regularly.
The programme will appeal equally to those wishing to undertake further postgraduate study and those pursuing a career outside of the University, equipping you with research, writing and critical thinking skills vital in a range of professions.
We are planning to make some changes to our History (MA) modules for 2026 entry.
New core and optional modules are being introduced and are currently undergoing approval through the University's rigorous academic processes.
We are currently revising our suite of optional modules, and more information will be available in the coming months.
You will choose two or three modules from the list above.
You are also able to take optional modules in cognate disciplines, e.g., Politics and International Relations, English and Comparative Literary Studies, Film & TV, History of Art, Theatre Studies, Modern Languages and Cultures, Sociology.
History Writing: Theory and Practice
This compulsory 60 CATS two-term core MA module will equip you with the theoretical and methodological skills needed to carry out an extended piece of historical research and writing.
Teaching will be delivered in a combination of lectures, seminars, and workshops.
Dissertation
The dissertation (60 CATS) is the most important piece of work you will produce in the course (a 15,000 word project).
You should view it mainly as an opportunity to do in-depth research on your favourite topic and to develop research techniques and methodologies as well as to present the research in an appropriate format.
It is helpful to begin the course with a clear, if general, idea of your dissertation topic.
The University of Warwick welcomes applications from students wishing to undertake the master's degree on a part time basis.
Part-time students complete the same quantity of work undertaken by full time students, but this work is spread out over a longer period.
Part-time study for the History Master’s degrees typically takes two years, instead of the usual one year.
The Department of History offers a high degree of flexibility in the construction of individualised programmes of part-time study.
However, we recommend that part-time students follow the mandatory Writing History module in the first year.
This will mean that the optional modules are followed in the second year.
(If students have external commitments which mean that a different structure is more appropriate, this can normally be accommodated.)
Part-time students will rarely be required to be on campus for more than one or two days a week.
Part-time students will join the vibrant community of postgraduates in the Warwick History Department, and are encouraged to attend as many of the wide range of departmental offerings (seminars, reading groups, discussion forums, conferences, staff-student liaison committee, etc) as they are able to accommodate into their own timetable.
Queries about part-time MAs should firstly be directed to the Postgraduate Coordinator via email at PGHistoryOffice at warwick dot ac dot uk .
Each year, we attract excellent students like you to Warwick.
We will help you develop the skills needed to conduct research, including in the archives, engage critically with your sources, and support you in developing critical thinking and writing skills.
Whether you’re working with classmates in seminars and workshops, or getting involved with the History Society, at every turn you’ll find like-minded people who share your fascination with the past and its significance in the present.
Warwick specialises in research-led teaching and as a taught Master’s student you will be supported by a team of exceptional historians who will help you take your passion for History to the next level.
We are home to four field-leading Research Centres Link opens in a new window , which underpin our History MA.
Our History MA degree will provide you with the skills and experience you need to continue on to a History PhD or to help you enter your chosen career.
Read more about our courses on the History website Link opens in a new window .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-history-by-research:
P-V1PC
The breadth of expertise and experience in the History Department (currently forty or so full-time members of staff), along with a thriving culture of research, seminars and conferences, make Warwick one of the very best universities in the UK to undertake research in history.
Students taking the MA by Research are expected to complete their degrees in one year of full-time study, or two years part-time.
As a research student your closest contact will be with your supervisor, or supervisors, who will meet with you regularly to discuss your work, and agree a programme of reading, research and writing with you.
Additional support and training, including English language support, are provided by the Department, Arts Faculty and the Doctoral College, as well as by History’s many reading groups, seminars, workshops and conferences.
History researchers will benefit from the University Library’s Research Exchange, a dedicated postgraduate conference and study area, with state-of-the-art facilities.
Please contact the department to discuss whether the MA by Research, rather than the Taught MA, is the right course for you.
For postgraduate queries, please email PGHistoryOffice at warwick dot ac dot uk .
For further information about the department, please visit the History Department web pages .
You will audit the core taught History MA module, which is designed to equip students with the methodological skills needed to carry out an extended piece of historical research and writing.
MA by Research students are also invited to attend the History Graduate Research Forum Link opens in a new window .
This weekly evening workshop will assist research students in the design and implementation of their research, and provide guidance and advice on skills and strategies needed to develop their thesis toward completion.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in a closely related subject.
All of our courses are delivered in English so, if English is not your first language, you have not graduated from an English speaking university or worked in an English speaking environment for at least two years you must demonstrate a minimum overall standard in a recognised English Language Test .
The certificate will be required as evidence.
The Department of History at Warwick has particular strengths in the history of the early modern and modern periods.
Our Faculty have expertise in subjects across the world, and we host a number of specialist Research Centres Link opens in a new window (in Global History, the History of Medicine, the Early Modern and Eighteenth Century, and Modern European History) facilitating new research by students and scholars.
The Department has an outstanding reputation as pioneering practitioners of social, cultural, early modern, European, Latin American and medical history, and has more recently been at the forefront of developing the methodologies of the new global history.
Inspired by an expansive and inclusive vision of historical research, our historians' work is multi-disciplinary and draws on environmental, literary, visual and material sources spanning the globe across five centuries.
Warwick’s History Department features a host of exceptional historians and has an outstanding national and international reputation.
You can search our academic staff by their areas of expertise Link opens in a new window .
Our historians highlight global and innovative perspectives on traditional themes and share an enthusiasm for history beyond the confines of academia.
Their research and teaching reflects a cutting-edge take on established historical fields and ideas.
They are prepared to take an unconventional view.
This willingness to look beyond the traditional boundaries of the discipline makes for a distinctive learning environment at Warwick.
The Department’s commitment to supporting research that is internationally field-leading, innovative, and engaged is underpinned by the belief that understanding the past helps to shape the present and the future.
Research within the Department is underpinned by three key guiding principles: rendering visible people, objects, themes, institutions and processes whose histories have been neglected, misunderstood or under-valued; achieving engagement and impact for our findings, within academia, museums and archives and beyond; and internationalism, in terms of the scope of research, the composition of the Department, and our approach to collaboration.
If you are intellectually curious, and prepared for your investigations to take you into unexpected territories, you will be at home in Warwick’s Department of History.
Find your potential supervisor using the link below and contact them to discuss what you would like to research.
View our History Staff Directory where you will be able to explore the areas of expertise, research centres and research networks within the department.
If you need additional guidance please email us .
For the application, we would expect a detailed research proposal of approximately 2,000 words (excluding footnotes and bibliography).
This should give:
Please add a short bibliography of key relevant works.
Please upload all this as a single supporting document in Word or PDF document.
See more details about the application procedure on our webiste Link opens in a new window .
Whether you're working with classmates in seminars and workshops, or getting involved with the History Society, at every turn you'll find like-minded people who share your fascination with the past and its significance in the present.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mphil-phd-history:
P-V1P0
92% of our research was rated as world-leading or internationally excellent in REF 2021 and our Department achieved a 89% overall satisfaction result in the 2023 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey, one of the highest in the country.
PhD students normally complete their degrees within three to four years of full-time study, or five to seven years part-time.
As a research student, your closest contact will be with your supervisor, or supervisors, who will meet with you regularly to discuss your work, and agree a programme of reading, research and writing with you.
Additional support and training, including English language support for those studying for a PhD in a second language, are provided by the Department, Arts Faculty and the Doctoral College, as well as by History’s many reading groups, seminars, workshops and conferences.
History researchers benefit from the University Library’s Research Exchange, a dedicated postgraduate conference and study area, with state-of-the-art facilities.
For postgraduate queries, please email PGHistoryOffice at warwick dot ac dot uk
For further information, including details about funding opportunities, please visit the History Department web pages .
2:1 undergraduate degree and Master's degree (or equivalent) in History or a closely related subject
The department and university offer assistance for students working in a second language.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-history-of-art-by-research:
P-V4P4
The MA by Research in History of Art is a research degree, offering you the chan c e to undertake a substantial piece of original research.
It is awarded on the basis of successful completion of a thesis of 40,000 words.
Find a supervisor
Research proposal guidance
2:1 undergraduate degree in History of Art or a related subject.
We typically ask for two academic references for research degrees.
Applicants will be asked to attend an online interview to assess their suitability for the course.
E xamples of current research interests of the department’s academic s include:
Please establish whether the department will be able to supervise and support your research.
You will probably already have in mind a member of staff who works in your field as a potential supervisor.
However, if you are unsure whether our department has the necessary expertise to supervise your project you should:
Contact our Director of Graduate Studies, Otto Saumarez-Smith , who will be very happy to advise on whether we can support your research and, if so, will put you in touch with a potential supervisor.
Candidates must have sufficient knowledge of their intended thesis topic to be able to provide a detailed research proposal (2000 words in length) as part of their application.
The proposal should outline the key research questions to be addressed and the provisional scope and structure of the project.
This will enable us to assess your preparedness for PGR study and whether we shall be able to supervise your research.
Take the perspective that brings you closer
The History of Art department covers a wide range of research from the medieval to the contemporary, from Britain and Europe to the Global South, and across media including art, architecture, design and craft, moving image, and material culture.
We work with cutting-edge approaches and themes including environmentalism, cryptography, empire, materiality, and theories of display and spectatorship.
Our Venice programme , which is central to our research culture offers a wide range of research opportunities for our PGR students .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mphil-phd-history-of-art:
P-V4P0
The MPhil/PhD in History of Art is an advanced research degree, consisting of original research and engagement with current scholarship.
It is awarded on the basis of successful completion of an individual research thesis of 80,000 words (60,000 words for MPhil) and an oral examination.
In addition to working closely with your supervisors, you will be involved in our vibrant research culture, which includes regular seminars, workshops, symposia and reading groups, and the PGR Research Collective, which allows PhD students to organise their own research programme.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in History of Art or related subjects and a Master’s in History of Art or a related subject , preferably with Distinction.
Areas for PhD supervision and examples of current research interests of the department’s academic researchers include:
Contact our Director of Graduate Studies, Dr Otto Saumarez -Smith , who will be very happy to advise on whether we can support your research and, if so, will put you in touch with a potential supervisor.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-humanitarian-engineering-management:
P-H1C3
Humanitarian Engineering is the use of science and engineering to invent, create, design, develop, or improve technologies that promote the wellbeing of communities facing grand humanitarian challenges.
The course brings together students and professionals from a wide range of backgrounds – including law, science, education, engineering, humanities, and medicine - to tackle real-world societal challenges.
You’ll work in multidisciplinary teams that reflect the collaborative approach of today’s leading global organisations.
Key themes include international development, humanitarianism, ethics, energy, global health, water and environmental management, disaster response, food security, sustainable cities, humanitarian supply chains, urban resilience, innovation through design, and mindful project management.
This degree explores the same broad themes as our main Humanitarian Engineering degree , but with a specific focus on Management through tailored core and optional modules.
You’ll explore complex humanitarian challenges from multidisciplinary perspectives, developing balanced, thoughtful and effective solutions.
After graduation you’ll be well-placed to work with governments (e.g.
central banks, ministries of finance, rural development, and education), international development institutions (e.g.
World Bank, IMF, United Nations), NGOs and the private sector (e.g.
professional services, manufacturing, investment banking).
You may also decide to pursue PhD studies.
For full details, visit the Humanitarian Engineering MSc pages on the School of Engineering website .
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent), ideally in Engineering, Science, Social Sciences, Natural Sciences, Humanities, Business or Medical Sciences, although we will consider graduates of all disciplines.
In certain instances we will also consider applicants with a degree result of 2:ii (or equivalent).
This may be the case if an applicant has relevant professional experience (see below) in a subject relevant to the content of the course such as (but not restricted to) Engineering, Politics, International Relations or Political Science, International/Sustainable Development Studies, Sociology, Business, Geography.
Professional experience considered in the above context can be in the following areas, although this list is not exhaustive: Humanitarian Sector, International/Sustainable Development, Social Enterprise, Professional Services or Administration/Public Sector.
For more details about modules, visit the Humanitarian Engineering MSc pages on the School of Engineering website .
Each module will run intensively over one week (or two weeks, in some cases).
Typically a few weeks before each module, learning materials will be provided for you to engage with the content in your preferred learning style allowing you space to apply your expertise to the subject area.
Face-to-face teaching over the week block then gives you the opportunity to discuss and apply theories within the classroom.
During the week block you will participate in lectures, seminars, workshops and fieldwork, depending on your module selection.
You’ll have the chance to carry on the conversations outside of the classroom and feel a real sense of camaraderie through your shared experience.
After teaching has finished, you will have a number of weeks to complete assessments and prepare for the next module.
Core modules are up to 30 students; optional modules vary between 5-15 students and seminars typically average around 15-20 students.
Contact hours vary from 24 to 30 hours per module, per week.
The core modules are assessed in a variety of ways including essay, poster, presentation, artefact, student-devised assessment.
If you would like to view reading lists for current or previous cohorts of students, most departments have reading lists available through Warwick Library on the Talis Aspire platform
Please see the modules tab of this page or the module catalogue
Humanitarian Engineering graduates will be well-placed to work with governments (e.g.
central banks, ministries of finance, rural development, and education).
You'll gain skills that are sought after by multilateral development institutions (e.g.
professional services, manufacturing, and investment banking).
Think Differently.
Do Differently.
Humanitarian Engineering is an exciting programme designed for students of all disciplinary and professional backgrounds.
It brings together the expertise and insight of multiple disciplines to discover new and innovative solutions to the world's most pressing problems.
Learn more about us by visiting our website.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-humanitarian-engineering-sustainability:
P-H1C2
This degree explores the same broad themes as our main Humanitarian Engineering degree , but with a specific focus on sustainability through tailored core and optional modules.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/pga-pgcert-pgdip-msc-humanitarian-engineering:
P-H1C1 (MSc) P-H1C5 (PGCert) P-H1C4 (PGDip) P-H1C6 (PGA)
Postgraduate Award, Certificate and Diploma options are specially designed to support professional development for those already working in the field or interested in humanitarian engineering.
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent), ideally in Engineering, Science, Social Sciences, Natural Sciences, Arts and Humanities, Business or Medical Sciences, although we will consider graduates of all disciplines.
(One chosen from List A and one chosen from List B)
List A:
List B:
The Postgraduate Award, Certificate and Diploma are specially designed to support professional development for those already working in the field or interested in humanitarian engineering.
Making time for work, family, and friends is important, so take advantage of our flexibility.
Each module runs over 5 days (in weekly or biweekly blocks), meaning study can fit in around other commitments and is tailored to your personal interests or development requirements.
Postgraduate Award (30 credits)
Select any combination of core (excluding Project) and optional modules for 30 credits (2 modules).
Postgraduate Certificate (PGCert) (60 credits)
Take any combination of core modules (excluding Project) for 60 credits (4 modules) or any combination including a maximum of 30 credits of optional modules.
Postgraduate Diploma (PGDip) (120 credits)
Complete all core modules (excluding Project) for 90 credits, and any combination of optional modules for 30 credits (2 modules).
The core modules are assessed in a variety of ways including essay, poster, presentation, artefact, student-devised assessment, video, report, blog.
Your personalised timetable will be complete when you are registered for all modules, compulsory and optional, and you have been allocated to your lectures, seminars, and other small group classes.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-innovation-entrepreneurship:
P-H1S6
Designed for innovators eager to make an impact on the worlds of commerce and industry, whilst keeping in view the demands being placed on businesses to remain socio-economically responsible.
This course will benefit those who want to develop an entrepreneurial mindset and implement transformative solutions, be that within a start-up, an established family business, or even a major conglomerate.
You will apply leading edge approaches to assess emerging opportunities in new markets, industries and geographies.
It is a practical course, covering the new venturing process from generating new business ideas, understanding market trends, applying new technology, and designing the infrastructure, right through to launching the business.
You will focus on how innovation can be exploited to design leading-edge new products and services.
Themes covered include business modelling, disruptive thinking, product design, growth hacking, corporate venturing, and financial analysis.
Throughout your final project, you will be mentored to develop your own business idea, so that by the end of the course you will be in a strong position to launch your own business, or rejuvenate an existing one.
In WMG, our focus on building key competencies through start-up simulations, industry engagement and experiential learning style helps students in bringing their new venture visions to fruition.
You will gain a wide array of skills from 3D printing, digital content creation, idea pivoting to sales.
You'll also have numerous opportunities to pitch your ideas, take part in contests, and explore start-up ecosystems.
2 :1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent).
For Innovation and Entrepreneurship (IAE), you will take three core modules from WMG and three from WBS.
Your core modules are:
Students will take two additional elective modules chosen from a list of options provided to you at the start of the academic year - one from WMG and one from WBS.
Please see below for an indicative list of electives available for this course:
This course has two components – a taught component accounting for two thirds of your time and effort, and a research component accounting for one third.
For IAE students, your project is usually devoted to developing your business idea in a rigorous manner so that by the end of the course, you not only have a strong piece of academic research, but you will also be well equipped to launch your business if this is your intended next step.
The project is nominally 600 hours (60 CATS points) of learning, mainly taking place during the Spring and Summer terms.
You will be expected to engage regularly with your Project Supervisor or Coach and to provide progress updates and drafts of your work to an agreed schedule.
The typical intake for this course is around 100 students, with most modules being delivered in smaller classes of 25-30.
WMG runs a module in Interdisciplinary Research Methods which is designed to meet the complex learning and professional needs of postgraduate students.
This is a blended module delivered throughout the year alongside your modules.
Whilst it is an unaccredited module for IAE students, your participation in the lectures, workshops and online sessions is strongly encouraged.
For the research component, you will undertake a major project, which will develop your research and analytical skills.
Your elective modules will be bookable through the same system later in the term.
Innovation and Entrepreneurship graduates will often start their own business, and we’ve seen graduates become successful in a wide range of sectors including: food and drink, music, business consultancy, digital education, oil and gas, outsourcing, fashion, textiles, luxury goods and jewellery, logistics, and finance.
Others go on to create new divisions and ventures for their family business, or start work in sectors in which they plan to later launch their business.
Both WMG and WBS have dedicated professionally qualified Senior Careers Consultants offering impartial advice and guidance together with workshops and events throughout the year.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-intercultural-communication-business:
P-X9PJ full-time or part-time, or P-X9PT part-time (fixed 2 years)
This programme provides you with a wide range of in-depth knowledge and skills, and enables you to focus on aspects of intercultural communication that are relevant to people working either in business or in other professions.
Our core modules develop your ability to analyse, explain and investigate effective communication across cultures.
Optional modules enable you to select particular areas in which you want to specialise, according to your own intellectual interests or career aspirations.
The programme concludes with an empirical piece of research, which will allow you to put your knowledge into practice and further hone your practical skills in carrying out systematic research.
You will choose one of the following options (totaling 60 credits):
Lectures, seminars, workshops and experiential practice sessions.
In addition, you will carry out guided reading and complete assessed work for each module, such as assignments, portfolios of materials and oral presentations.
You will be introduced to research methodologies which will help you carry out your research for your dissertation or major project.
You will complete this in the summer with the support of a supervisor.
Several of the modules will also help prepare you for living and working in an unfamiliar culture.
Class size will vary depending on type of module (core or optional) and teaching session (lecture or seminar), ranging from around 10 students (for some optional modules) to around 80 students (for core module lectures).
There are 10 weeks in each term.
For both Terms One and Two, you will usually have 8 weeks of teaching contact with the remainder of each term dedicated to module related reading, assignment work and optional tutorials.
Programmes within the department of Applied Linguistics are assessed through a variety of methods.
Examples of the types work you might submit for assessment include individual academic essays or research assignments, examinations, group projects and presentations.
Previous graduates from the Department of Applied Linguistics have gone on to work for employers such as*:
Please visit our department scholarship page for more information on our Applied Linguistics Masters Scholarships and Bursaries.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mphil-phd-intercultural-communication:
P-Q11B
2:1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in English, Intercultural Communication, Linguistics, Languages, Business or Management Studies or a relevant discipline and a Master’s degree in Intercultural Communication, Linguistics, Applied Linguistics or a relevant discipline.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-interdisciplinary-biomedical-research:
P-B91Z
Our goal with this course is to prepare you for your next career stage, whether in academia or industry.
The MSc in IBR is a vibrant scientific community where you will gain knowledge in both life and physical sciences and train with the very best professional researchers in cutting-edge labs.
You will acquire a multidisciplinary mind-set, gain intellectual and practical skills across disciplines and develop as well-rounded scientists.
During the year you will have the opportunity to conduct two 12-week research projects in two different disciplines, preparing you for your future career.
First degree (2:1) or equivalent qualification, in Physical Sciences (Chemistry, Maths, Physics, Stats or Engineering), or Life Sciences (Biology, Biochemistry, Biomedical Sciences)
Maths A level or equivalent is strongly recommended.
Read more about the core and optional modules on the Medical School's website.
This course is all about being interactive.
A balanced mix of lectures, seminars, workshops, hands-on and problem-solving sessions, as well as lab work, will train you to tackle biomedical issues with creativity.
Class sizes will vary, however on average they comprise of 10-15 students.
Our ethos is that assessments should reflect real-life situations and be a method to learn and progress.
As such, you will be assessed in many different ways, including short reports, dissertation, oral presentations, oral exams, posters and podcasts and more traditional written exams.
£2,000 (self-funding students) to cover laptop for duration of study and consumables for 2 x 11-week research projects.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mphil-phd-interdisciplinary-studies:
P-L99B
An interdisciplinary PhD at CIM allows you to conduct research in more than one area of inquiry and/or methodology, across innovative fields such as:
It will allow you to do research that might not fit easily in a traditional PhD programme.
An interdisciplinary study does not mean that you are ‘free floating’ or that you will not have identifiable expertise at the end of your study.
It means that you will develop and acquire research expertise and an accompanying skillset that crosses more than one discipline, and the ability to engage with and contribute to broader interdisciplinary discussions within and beyond the university.
While CIM is not the only place where interdisciplinary study is possible, there are very few places where the development of interdisciplinary methodology is the focus.
In CIM, you will benefit from tailored guidance from academics and professional staff with experience and expertise in the challenges of interdisciplinary research.
Most doctoral students at CIM are supervised by two academics, with co-supervisors based in CIM or in relevant other departments at Warwick, such as:
2:1 undergraduate degree and a Master's (or equivalent) in a related subject.
Detailed sets of supervision topics can be found in academic's profile pages .

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-international-business:
P-N1F4
If you are a graduate looking to develop a career in international business, this course will give you the skills and knowledge needed to do business in a global context.
You will develop an appreciation of the special requirements for successfully conducting business across national boundaries along with knowledge of relevant theories and their practical application to business cases.
If you are considering further academic study (PhD) and you would like the opportunity to research a topic relating to international business, the dissertation enables you to test and apply the techniques and theories you have gained.
If you would like to develop further applied skills to suit your career aspirations, you can complete your studies with one additional optional module and our applied Business in Practice module.
This course will suit a wide variety of candidates looking to break into business, and continue to develop their knowledge in business, and we welcome applicants from all academic fields.
Applicants with three or more years of post-graduation professional business experience are typically better suited to our Full-Time MBA programme .
If you are unsure about the course your experience aligns best with, please don’t hesitate to send your CV to MastersRecruitment@wbs.ac.uk or request a 1-2-1 consultation to discuss each programme in advance of making an application.
(Compulsory for students choosing the Dissertation route.)
In total you will study eight core modules, two optional modules and also complete the compulsory Business in Practice or Dissertation capstone module.
If you are considering further academic study (PhD) and you would like the opportunity to research a topic relating to international business, the 6,000-word dissertation enables you to test and apply the techniques and theories you have gained.
In total you will study eight core modules, two optional modules and also complete the Business in Practice capstone module.
Your career

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/llm-international-commercial-law:
P-M223
The objective of Commercial Law is to facilitate commercial transactions, whether a sale of goods, dealing in digital content or data, secured financing arrangements, or mergers.
Once a commercial transaction crosses jurisdictional borders, complex questions arise regarding the enforceability of all the terms in a commercial agreement, the law(s) which apply to the transaction, and where any disputes which might arise from the transaction can be resolved.
This LLM will provide you with a solid foundation for understanding the legal challenges of international commerce, and will allow you to explore how a range of international transactions are regulated through a combination of contracts, domestic law and internationally agreed rules.
To read more about the modules for this course, please visit the Law School website .
Please note: Only modules running in the current academic year are listed.
These are subject to change in future years.
Modules will be taken during terms one and two, leaving you term three and the summer to complete your dissertation.
If you choose to study part-time, this will be split over two years of study.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/llm-international-corporate-governance-financial-regulation:
P-M221
On this LLM programme you will undertake in-depth comparative and contextual study of the regulation and governance of companies.
You will look at the various ways in which different jurisdictions respond to similar economic and social pressures, examining key topics in the post financial crisis era.
You will develop an understanding of the interaction between the process of globalisation and general principles and theories of corporate governance and financial regulation.
The course allows you to study the main topics in corporate governance and financial law and regulation, including compliance dimensions but you will also learn to appreciate the economic and social context in which corporate decisions are made, as well as the historical and theoretical dimensions of corporate governance and financial regulation.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/llm-international-development-law-human-rights:
P-M1M2
This course enables you to consider the relationship between development, human rights and global justice.
It adopts an interdisciplinary approach which critically examines the place of law within its wider political, social, economic and global contexts in its engagement with issues such as globalisation, economic regulation, climate justice, citizenship (and migration), gender justice and social activism.
As part of your learning, you will gain knowledge and experience in key areas of theoretical debates and substantive law, and develop skills of policy and legal analyses, reflexive public advocacy and cause lawyering.
You will pursue independent research and be involved in group work and presentations.
In all of this, you will be encouraged to think critically and creatively about issues of development, rights and justice.
All IDLHR modules will be assessed by essay rather than examination.
The core module will be assessed by your dissertation.
Assessment methods of optional modules may include essays, examinations, portfolios and presentations.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-international-development:
P-M9PT
Join internationally renowned experts at Warwick's Politics and International Studies Department and the Warwick Interdisciplinary Research Centre for International Development ( WICID ).
Develop your critical thinking and research skills and learn how to translate these into practical solutions for pressing global challenges.
This programme will introduce you to the intellectual and political foundations of International Development, to the key events and themes which have shaped its evolution, and to the major issues that have (and have not) been addressed in the scholarship and practice of International Development.
You will examine the institutions of International Development put in place through the Bretton Woods System, the various United Nations institutions, governmental and non-governmental policies and practices in the historical context of Empire and of contemporary globalisation.
We believe that theoretical work and empirical work are both necessary, and complementary with one another.
Practical problems stimulate theory construction, and theories inform the ways in which we handle substantive issues.
Students will learn to write policy papers and develop skills to translate critical thinking into problem solving.
We offer an exciting package of core and optional modules which include both theoretical and applied learning.
This classroom-based work is reinforced and deepened by bringing our MA students into contact with the work of WICID which is housed in PAIS.
MA students can join WICID events, engage with the centre’s Think Development Blog and learn about the work of its academic, policy and practitioner collaborators.
Students can lead and participate in the Warwick Global Development Society and a student-led end of the year Development Conference, which offers additional opportunities to learn valuable professional skills and to apply learning throughout the year in shaping the content of the conference.
Our Double Degree programmes enable you to combine the study of this MA programme in PAIS with a Master’s programme at any one of our partner universities:
Learn more about our Double Degrees
Visit our PAIS web pages for department-specific advice on applying to ensure your application has the best chance for success.
Postgraduate FAQs (PAIS specific)
Postgraduate FAQs (General)
The optional module lists Link opens in a new window are updated regularly.
You may select up to 40 CATS (normally two modules) from a list of specialist modules for this course, and a further 40-80 CATS from our extensive range of optional modules for a total of 120 CATS of taught modules.
Most modules are taught via one 2-hour seminar per week.
Every seminar will be based on extensive guided reading you will do each week, but there is no strict pattern to how sessions are run.
This may include mini-lectures followed by discussion, Q&A sessions, organised debates, peer presentations, policy briefs, small group work, and other projects.
You can also choose to study part-time with us.
Find out more about part-time study on our PAIS web pages .
Normally a maximum of 18 per seminar group in PAIS delivered modules.
6 hours of seminars per week for 9 weeks in Terms One and Two plus advice and feedback hours when requested and Dissertation supervision in Terms Two and Three.
Part-time students attend an average of 3 hours per week for 9 weeks in terms 1 and 2, plus advice and feedback hours.
Dissertation supervision takes place in terms two and three of year 2.
Teaching hours are spread over the two years as evenly as possible , and considering personal extra-academic constraints.
Assessment methods include research essays, a policy brief and other (written) assignments throughout the year, culminating in a 10,000 word dissertation at the end.
Your compulsory modules will be registered for you and you will be able to choose your optional modules in a module pre-registration process about which you will receive information at the beginning of September.
Join an innovative, creative and passionate department with a lively and interactive culture.
Stretch and challenge yourself with the support of friendly staff and your peers.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/llm-international-economic-law:
P-M3P7
International economic law broadly refers to the legal and regulatory architecture that governs our global economy.
The rules and institutions of international economic law constitute the framework within which cross-border economic transactions, for example, trade, finance and investment, take place.
On this programme, you will study the legal and other regulatory foundations of the global economy.
You will be introduced to the operations of the main global institutions and frameworks governing international economic relations, including trade and investment treaties, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Trade Organisation (WTO).
You will examine both the wider issues of governance and regulation, and specific legal issues arising from various types of international economic transactions ranging from trade, foreign direct investment, competition law, international taxation, intellectual property and international arbitration.
The course also develops your understanding of, and asks you to consider, legal implications of the changing roles of international economic institutions in both global and regional contexts.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-international-political-economy:
P-M1P3
International Political Economy (IPE) is a field of enquiry concerned with the distribution of power, wealth and agency in a rapidly changing and contested global context.
With such a diverse range of interest, IPE encourages a plural and often eclectic approach to study.
IPE builds on the scholarly legacy of classical political economists but is oriented to the international political context of globalisation.
IPE is concerned with the connections between politics and economics within the contemporary world order.
Since the pioneering work of scholars such as Susan Strange in the early 1970s, IPE has grown into a large and buoyant field of study.
PAIS can boast one of the largest concentrations of IPE scholars anywhere in the world.
Our MA is a truly global programme and attracts students from all over the world.
You will benefit from an engaging intellectual environment and are able to choose from a selection of cutting-edge options in trade, finance, development, and global governance.
The optional modules lists Link opens in a new window are updated regularly.
Modules are taught via one 2-hour seminar per week.
Assessment methods include research essays and other (written) assignments throughout the year, culminating in a 10,000 word dissertation at the end.
Learn more about exciting department specific opportunities.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-international-relations:
P-M9P9
This programme will tackle the ‘big’ issues facing global decision-makers such as: war, terrorism, security, migration, environmental degradation, climate change, pandemics, poverty, and inequality.
Traditionally, the discipline of International Relations (IR) has been concerned with issues of war and peace, focused on explaining and understanding the behaviour of states in their relationships with each other in the international state-system.
However, the end of the Cold War and other currents in IR exposed the limitations of this approach, highlighting a need for the inclusion of non-traditional concerns that would normally be outside the remit of ‘orthodox’ IR.
On this programme, you will learn what theory is and what it means to theorise; the key theoretical approaches in IR from Realism to Postcolonialism; and how to understand and apply these theories to historical and contemporary issues.
Ultimately, students are equipped to evaluate theoretical positions in the light of pressing issues in contemporary political life.
6 hours of Seminars per week for 9 weeks in Terms One and Two plus advice and feedback hours when requested and Dissertation supervision in Terms Two and Three.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-international-security:
P-M9PC
International Security is a field of study concerned with war and peace, life and death, safety and survival in an increasingly complex world.
Traditionally its terrain has focused on concerns about the stability of the states-based system, the use of force, nuclear proliferation, military strategy, intelligence and the distribution of resources.
Today, however, concerns about climate change, migration, poverty, health, privatisation, organised crime and international terrorism are also on the agenda.
Our MA is one of the most comprehensive international security graduate programmes in the country taught by staff at the innovative forefront of international security research.
You will choose from a broad range of modules which will allow you to explore different conceptual frameworks for understanding security in and through  a diverse thematic and geographic focus.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/msc-international-trade:
P-H1S8
The MSc in International Trade, Strategy and Operations (ITSO) is an interdisciplinary course that integrates the three principal pillars of international trade, strategy, and operations management within global trade and business management.
The course provides a comprehensive overview of how companies operate in an international context.
It will enable you to develop a broad set of skills to increase your involvement in the whole business process, from initial engagement with a new market right through to the delivery of a product or service.
Throughout the year, you will learn to identify business opportunities, formulate strategic options, evaluate trade environments, and define business winning propositions.
You will learn to lead and manage change, and improve operational and supply chain processes within international businesses.
The programme is heavily focused on the application of theory into practice and how the skills developed throughout your studies will be used to best advantage in a professional environment.
As a student you will benefit from industry inspired teaching and immersive learning through case studies, business simulations, games, negotiations and more.
The teaching team bring a wealth of research and industry experience to the classroom, with many tutors actively participating in world-leading research and/or engaging with business on an international scale.
WMG’s collaboration with the Institute of Export & International Trade (IOE&IT) provides access to useful resources and industry benefits.
This course is ranked 16th in the World (3rd in the UK), in the QS International Trade Rankings 2024.
It will appeal equally to those with a background in international trade or business and those from a wide range of other disciplines who wish to pursue a career in the field of international trade.
2 :1 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in a relevant subject.
For International Trade, Strategy and Operations (ITSO), your core modules are:
One elective module should be chosen from the following list, allowing you the flexibility to tailor the course in line with your specific interests:
For the taught component, we blend synchronous and asynchronous lectures and seminars, with syndicate exercises, simulations, and case studies.
Others practice large-scale lectures, which are backed up by seminar and syndicate activities.
In addition to your taught modules, you will undertake a major project as part of your Master’s degree.
Within the ITSO programme, there are a number of alternative project options.
Most are major individual projects, which will develop your research and analytical skills and enable you to specialise in an aspect of particular interest to you.
These are submitted in the form of a dissertation at the end of the year.
Alternatively, you can undertake either a Company Collaboration Project (CCP) - an individual project taken in collaboration with an industrial partner, which provides the opportunity to tackle a real-life challenge facing industry, or an Industry Impact Project (IIP) - a team project working with an industrial partner on a pre-defined subject relating to Supply Chain and Trade.
The typical intake for this course is around 220 students, with several modules being delivered in smaller classes of 30.
Modules will include scheduled classroom time and online sessions as well as your independent study and assessments and will usually be delivered within a 4-week timeframe.
The International Trade programme will prepare you to take on a senior role within a company that trades internationally.
The breadth of the programme enables students to gain a clear overview of all the elements of international trade whilst giving the opportunity to also focus or specialise on a particular aspect of interest to the individual.
The programme opens up a range of career options including transportation and logistics; customs and the legal aspects of international business; business development, relationship management and negotiation; implementation of strategy.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/pga-islamic-education:
P-X3V6
University of Warwick and Online
This pioneering short course is the first of its kind to be offered in any UK University.
It aspires to bridge the gap between the educational cultures of traditional Islamic seminaries and modern higher education.
It is open to those who have an interest in exploring Muslim faith and its diverse traditions of education.
The award is designed to help participants develop a reflective academic grounding in the foundations of Islamic education.
Students will critically explore narratives of education in Islam and engage with modern educational theory and models of pedagogic practice.
It facilitates gaining essential research skills to be able to identify and pursue further academic study on diverse perceptions of education and cultures of teaching and learning within the context of historical and contemporary Muslim societies.
Students will develop knowledge and understanding of Islam, the historical, cultural, theological and philosophical foundations of Muslim educational thought.
The course aims to build students’ educational and pedagogic competence through facilitating a reflective engagement with a range of theoretical perspectives on the nature of education and educational values and practical skills for organising effective teaching and learning environments within the context of formal and informal Muslim educational settings.
Students who successfully complete the course will have the option of continuing with their studies by upgrading to MA Islamic Education: theory and practice.
2:2 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) or Islamic Seminary Training having teaching experience within formal and informal community based educational settings (Islamic schools and supplementary education sector like Madrassas and Maktabs).
The study programme consists of studying one module, Foundations of Islamic Education and will be 3 hours taught face to face over ten weeks in Autumn Term (October).
You will be guided to select the appropriate materials for completing their critical review essay.
You will be provided with suggestive essay topics but will also be encouraged to formulate essay questions reflecting their own areas of interest the field.
Ten weeks of 3 hours of taught face to face sessions in the Autumn Term (October), with each session lasting 3 hours.
The study programme consists of studying one module, Foundations of Islamic Education and will be taught face to face over ten weeks in Autumn Term (October).
Each session will be three hours.
The course is assessed through a critical review and an essay.
This is a short course and more than half of those who graduate progress onto completing the full MA in Islamic Education offered at the Department of Education Studies.
Most of the community-based education institutions such as Muslim schools and Madrassahs now prefer to employ teachers who completed the Warwick PGA in Islamic Education.
Our department has a dedicated professionally qualified Careers Consultant offering impartial advice and guidance together with workshops and events throughout the year.

New sentences found on https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ma-islamic-education:
P-X3V7; P-X3V9 (2 years); P-X3V5 (3 years)
The programme is designed for opening up professional development pathways for diverse groups of educational practitioners, Muslim educators and faith leaders who work within the context of formal and informal Islamic and general educational settings.
The programme is open to mainstream education practitioners who wish to deepen their knowledge and understanding of Islam, facilitate critical Islam literacy and be able to respond effectively to the educational needs of Muslim children and young people under their care.
Islamic Education is a new exciting interdisciplinary field of scholarly study, empirical research professional development.
It has growing national and international interest among Muslim and wider education practitioners.
The programme enables students to develop critical academic competence in theory and practice of Islamic Education facilitating reflective practice among a specialist community of educational practitioners and researchers.
Students will explore diverse perceptions of education and pedagogic practice in historical and contemporary Muslim societies, engage with modern educational theories, pedagogic models and develop essential research skills necessary to be able to identify personal areas of further research in the field.
The course adopts an integrative approach to pedagogy which facilitates student engagement through strategies of self-organised and blended learning i.e.
combining online resources, platforms as well as face to face workshops, seminars and lectures.
The emphasis on the course will be on the importance of contemporary educational research into Islamic Education, especially research springing from the Social Sciences directed towards pedagogy and curriculum development.
The course will enable students to develop the competence to ‘think educationally’ about Islam and critically examine the theory and practice of Islamic Education in the modern Muslim world and across the Muslim communities in the West.
Students will have the opportunity of critically examining the existing Islamic Education textbooks, curriculum and the syllabuses.
Furthermore, they will discuss the educational challenges facing Muslim communities in the Western Diaspora with special reference to exploring the educational needs of Muslim youth.
The course will critically examine how best to develop appropriate educational strategies to tackle religious extremism and address issues concerning the faith development of Muslim young people in Britain.
The course attracts a wider range of practitioners within the field of faith-based and religion-related practitioner education by explicitly identifying and responding to the professional development needs of practitioners engaged in Islamic Education.
As such the programme, in a distinctive way, opens professional development pathways for diverse groups of Muslim educators, faith leaders and those who wish to engage with Islamic Education as an area of further academic development.
This programme will also be of interest to RE practitioners and teachers who are interested in improving their understanding of Islam and the educational needs of Muslim children and young people under their care.
2:2 undergraduate degree (or equivalent) in a related subject or successful completion of the Islamic Education PGA.
Minimum 3 years of teaching experience within formal and informal Muslim education settings.
These institutions include Islamic faith-based schools, supplementary Mosque schools (Madrassahs), Islamic higher education institutions/Islamic study circles, chaplaincy and couching related youth work and community development centres.
The candidates need obtain references from these institutions substantiating their formal and informal teaching and work experience relevant to the MA Islamic Education programme.
Graduates from this course have gone into senior roles in Islamic schooling, community-based education sector and research/policy development related job opportunities in private and public sectors*.