# Site: https://www.winchester.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 491
# --------

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk:
Clearing is open!
Free gym access and guaranteed accommodation (T&Cs apply)
Get ready for our 13 September Open Day
Our Clearing team is on hand to guide you through next steps - fast, friendly and without the fuss.
Become more this September with our range of programmes
Whether you're changing your mind, or making it up as you go - start your next chapter at Winchester.
You haven't missed your moment.
At Winchester, you'll find a place that's ready to welcome you, with courses built around real world skills.
(Graduate Outcomes Survey 2024)
(Rightmove 'Happy At Home' Index, 2023)
(National Student Survey, 2022)
Find out more about why our students love studying here and further details about the courses we offer.
There's lots of reasons to apply via Clearing!
Whether you're unsure about your grades or have changed your mind about where to study, our friendly team will understand your needs and are ready to guide you through your options.
We offer guided campus tours as an opportunity to see our beautiful campus and outstanding facilities throughout the year.
At Winchester we’ll inspire you to see the world differently and to experience everything student life has to offer.
Remi Pereszczak, is preparing to start a law degree at the University of Winchester after being the first patient in the world to receive revolutionary gene therapy treatment at Great Ormond Street Hospital (GOSH)  to reverse the effects of a life-threatening condition.
At Winchester we offer a wide range of undergraduate courses.
From a traditional 3 year degree, 4 year sandwich year to a  6 year part-time option, there is a course and study mode to suit everyone.
We offer an excellent selection of postgraduate courses at Winchester in a variety of subjects.
From MBA, MA, MSc to MRes degrees, our portfolio will help to enhance your career prospects and knowledge.
We offer the best of both worlds, a friendly campus set in the beautiful countryside, with the convenience and social life of Winchester city centre right on your doorstep.
We offer a wide range of courses across a number of different subjects - explore our subjects to find the course for you.
Find out all you need to know about studying with us in the UK.
Our business and community engagement is driven by our desire to support business growth, help enrich communities and foster innovation.
Get in touch to benefit from our broad range of expertise and our excellent facilities.
University of Winchester
Sparkford Road,
Winchester.
Hampshire.
SO22 4NR.
Tel: +44 (0) 1962 841515
enquiries@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events:
Read the latest news from the Press Centre, and come and be inspired at our public events
News from our Press Centre
Lectures and other events open to the public
with Research
Join our Winton Society
Our Open Days and Evenings are a great opportunity to see our beautiful campus, take a tour of our stunning accommodation, and meet staff and students from the course you are looking to study.
We'll have a number of opportunities for you to visit us throughout the year, so we look forward to welcoming you soon.
This website uses cookies to improve user experience.
By using our website, you consent to all cookies in accordance with our Cookie Policy .
I agree

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Alumni:
Established in 1874, the Winton Club (now Winton Society) is one of the oldest alumni associations in the country.
Now over 30,000 members strong it has a proud past and a formidable future.
Winchester Cathedral is the inspiring setting for our annual graduation ceremonies, where we celebrate with pride the successes of each new graduate.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/Contact-us:
Contact us and find out how to reach the University of Winchester
University of Winchester Sparkford Road Winchester Hampshire SO22 4NR
Tel: +44 (0) 1962 841515 Fax: +44 (0) 1962 842280
For enquiries about applying to study at the University: Tel: +44 (0) 1962 827234 or Admissions@winchester.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0) 1962 827322 Fax: +44 (0) 1962 827264 Email: conferences@winchester.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0) 1962 827678 Email: press@winchester.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0) 1962 827532 Fax: +44 (0) 1962 827548 Email: alumni@winchester.ac.uk
Winchester Sports Stadium Milland Road Highcliffe SO23 0QA
Tel: +44 (0) 1962 827007 Email: sportsenquiries@winchester.ac.uk ​
Tel: +44 (0) 1962 827418 Fax: +44 (0) 1962 827449 Email: SU_Comms@winchester.ac.uk Web: www.winchesterstudents.co.uk
IT Helpdesk in the Library Tel: +44 (0) 1962 827654 Email: servicedesk@winchester.ac.uk
(for existing student issues) Email: registry.enquiries@winchester.ac.uk
We are well connected with bus services in and around Winchester.
Bluestar 1 service links Southampton with Winchester via Chandler’s Ford and runs several times an hour.
Every bus has free Wifi and USB charging points.
The nearest Bluestar 1 bus stop is on Southgate Street, less than a ten-minute walk from the University.
Stagecoach buses operate across the city.
The nearest bus stops to the University are on Cromwell Road (service no.
1), Sparkford Road (service no.
69) and Romsey Road (services 4, 5, 46, E1/E2, 66).
National Express operate routes from London and all major airports (including Heathrow Airport and Gatwick Airport) as we all as linking to cities across the UK.
Winchester is on the main line from London Waterloo with trains running several times an hour (taking approximately 1 hour from London).
We are less than one mile (approximately 15-minute walk) from Winchester train station.
On foot from the station – Leave the station by the main exit (platform 2) and turn right onto Station Road leading onto Upper High Street.
Turn right over the bridge and then left onto Clifton Terrace.
Continue past the green until you reach the main road (Romsey Road).
Turn right and walk up the hill past the Royal Hampshire County Hospital and the Hillier Garden Centre.
The West Downs Centre is on your right.
Cross the Romsey Road on foot and proceed along St James’ Terrace.
Cross the road and turn right and take the path through the cemetery.
The King Alfred Campus is on the other side of the cemetery.
The train station is located a few minutes walk from the airport and is called Southampton Airport Parkway.
There are regular trains to Winchester train station, a 15-minute walk from the university.
The journey from Southampton Airport Parkway to Winchester train station is approximately 10 minutes.
Taxis are available from outside the terminal but need to be booked at the taxi desk inside the airport.
By train : Train services operate from London Waterloo direct to Winchester train station.
Heathrow airport to London Waterloo is via central London and the London Underground.
The average journey time is 40minutes to 1 hour.
The average journey time from London Waterloo to Winchester is 1 hour.
By coach : The National Express coach service operates from the bus station at Heathrow airport to Winchester coach station.
On direct services the average journey time is 1 hours and 30 minutes.
By train : Train services operate between Gatwick airport and Clapham Junction.
The average journey time from Clapham Junction to Winchester train station is 1 hour.
By coach : National Express coach services operate from Gatwick airport to Winchester coach station via Heathrow Airport.
The average journey time is 4 hours.
Winchester has four Park & Ride car parks and the University is well served by the Park & Ride buses.
The nearest bus stop is outside the Royal Hampshire County hospital on Romsey Road, a short walk from both campuses.
All buses on the service stop here.
Once you have alighted at Royal Hampshire County Hospital:
For King Alfred Quarter walk downhill on Romsey Road and turn right on to St James' Lane.
Follow the road around the sharp bend and turn right on to Sparkford Road.
Walk downhill towards Burma Road and the University will be on your right.
For West Downs Quarter walk uphill on Romsey Road and the University will be on your right.
Park and Ride car parks:
Travelling south on the M3 use junction 9,
travelling north on the M3 use junction 10.
Junction 11 off the M3
B3040 Romsey Road near to Pitt roundabout
Learn more on the Park and Ride website or on our Travel and Transport page.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study:
Take a look through all of our courses to find what you're looking for.
From Animal Welfare to Creative Writing to Law to Sports Psychology, our foundation, undergraduate and postgraduate courses combine excellent teaching with small class sizes, with our aim to give you an outstanding experience at university.
Courses
Degrees
Study
Combine learning with earning with our Degree Apprenticeship Programmes.
Are you looking to enhance your career?
Then take a look at our industry led short courses.
We are delighted that you are looking to study at Winchester.
We want the application process to all of our courses to be as simple as possible.
Here you can find out everything you need to know about the application process, your offer and how to secure your place.
The University of Winchester offers a safe and supporting global community for International Students.
Come and visit us at our Winchester campus at one of our open events to find out more about our courses, facilities and to meet our academics and students.
Undergraduate teaching at the University of Winchester has been rated as generally “very high quality” but “outstanding” in some areas in the latest round of assessments by the Office for Students (OfS).
The University received an overall Silver Rating in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023
If you have a question about one of courses, or want to talk to one of our programme leaders, get in touch with us by phone or email and we'll respond as soon as possible.
Email: enquiries@winchester.ac.uk
Order your Undergraduate and Postgraduate Prospectus here.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/Clearing:
Clearing is your chance to take control and choose a place that sees where you're headed - and backs you all the way.
At Winchester, ambition isn't one-size-fits-all.
Whether you're changing your mind or changing direction, this is your moment to move forward with purpose, not pressure.
We're ready to take your call and talk about your options.
During the Clearing period, we consider students with grades that would not normally meet our entry requirements on an individual basis.
This means we will consider grades lower than 104 UCAS tariff points.
Call our Admissions Team on 01962 827234.
Belong here.
Grow here.
Make moves here.
Apply through Clearing for vibrant campus life, cutting-edge resources, and a community that values your individuality.
Whether you're unsure about your grades or have changed your mind about where to study, our friendly team will understand your needs and are ready to guide you through your options, no question is too big or too small for us.
Call us today.
Take advantage of free access to our on-site gym for your first academic year!
Our modern and welcoming gym is ideal for everyone, no matter what stage you're at on your fitness journey.
You can contact us via phone 01962 827234, Live Chat or email: admissions@winchester.ac.uk
Want to know more about Clearing?
Come along to one of our Clearing Advice Days on Friday 15 August and Monday 18 August you will have the chance to talk to advice staff including Admissions, Housing, and Student Services.
Confirm your place by 1 September 2025 for guaranteed accommodation
You can apply for our clearing vacancies for 2025 courses from 5 July 2025.
*Guaranteed accommodation applies to undergraduate students for 2025 entry who go firm and apply for accommodation by Monday 1 September 2025 .
Students must have selected the University of Winchester as their firm first choice University via UCAS to be eligible.
The University does not guarantee a choice of accommodation.
We allocate on a ‘first come first served’ basis in date order and we aim to offer students their preference choices.
There is no cash alternative.
**Offer applies to first year undergraduate students only for the duration of your first academic year inclusive of 8 September 2025 to 31 July 2026.
Students must complete enrolment with the gym no later than Friday 26 September to take advantage of this offer.
Rewatch our Clearing webinar with Lucy as she guides you through the Clearing process.
Whether you’re exploring alternative choices or just curious about how Clearing works ahead of results day, Lucy will answer your questions, and help you feel confident about your next steps.
If your grades were lower than anticipated, don't assume university is out of reach.
Our admissions team reviews individual applications, considering factors beyond just UCAS points, including your experience and passion for the subject.
Explore our Clearing course listings; a different degree or a Foundation Year might be a suitable alternative.
Foundation Years provide a structured pathway to build academic skills, bridging any gaps before progressing to your full degree.
For personalised advice, contact our Clearing team directly.
They will offer guidance to help you understand your specific opportunities at Winchester.
What felt right a few months ago might not feel right today.
If you've been having second thoughts about your original university choice, your course, or even if university is for you, you're not alone.
Many students use Clearing as a chance to find a path that truly excites them.
Clearing isn't just for those who missed their grades; it's also a fantastic opportunity for anyone looking for a fresh start or a different direction.
Our Clearing courses span a wide range of subjects, and you might discover a degree you hadn't considered before that perfectly aligns with your interests or career goals.
Our friendly Clearing team is here to listen, not to push, and will chat through your thoughts, interests, and what you're hoping for from your university experience.
Whether you've turned down your firm choice, are holding no offers, or are just starting to think about university, we can guide you through the process.
Many students thrive after making a last-minute switch, and this could be the perfect moment to pivot towards a future that genuinely inspires you.
Clearing offers a direct, efficient path to join Winchester this September.
You don't need a prior UCAS application either.
Simply contact our Clearing Team to discuss available courses and assess your eligibility based on your qualifications.
We will then talk you through the application process and get you ready to join in September.
If your child's university plans haven't gone exactly as expected, or if they're feeling unsure about their next steps, please know that Clearing is a legitimate, positive, and incredibly successful route to university.
Our clear and supportive Clearing process is designed to be straightforward.
Our experienced advisors are calm, knowledgeable, and ready to guide your child – and you – through every step, from initial enquiry to accepting an offer.
We look beyond exam results, focusing on your child's individual potential, passion for their subject, and overall drive, even if grades weren't what they hoped for.
Once enrolled, your child will benefit from extensive student support services, including wellbeing and career guidance, within our vibrant and safe campus environment.
We also offer Foundation Year options for those seeking additional academic preparation, ensuring a strong start to their degree.
Experience a transformational education that grows your curiosity, builds your confidence and gives you the skills you need to have a successful and meaningful career.
Winchester combines the best of city life with the freshness of the surrounding countryside .
Our campus is conveniently located just a short walk from the centre.
A 2025 Uni Compare survey placed us in the UK's Top 10 for Graduate Employment thanks to our extensive careers support.
Graduates also have access to Careers Advice for Life!
Primary and secondary teachers are "exceedingly well prepared to teach in a variety of contexts" (Ofsted, 2024)
Your new home from home is a short walk to both the campus and city centre.
Our dedicated teams are ready to help you with topics such as careers, disability, health and wellbeing, money, international visas, cultural support, study abroad opportunities, and more.
Previous years have seen students getting involved in the SU's netball club, LGBTQPIA+ network, cosplay society, F1 society, and many more.
Activity groups can change each year and you can even suggest or start your own!
"I wanted to go somewhere a bit more local to me so within 45 minutes from home, and that’s how I found Winchester.
I found that they offered creative writing with English Literature, which was something that I hadn’t necessarily considered.
I never thought about doing Creative Writing before so I phoned up the friendly team at Winchester and they offered me a place, which I was really pleased to take…"
Whether you have only just decided to come to university, have missed out on the grades you needed, or applied after the deadline, Clearing can help you find the best place to study.
There are a few things you can do to make sure you are well prepared for what can sometimes be a stressful time.
You can apply for our clearing vacancies for 2025 courses from 5 July 2025
Want to get to grips with Clearing but not sure where to start?
We've broken down the basics so you can best support your young person through the process.
Further information for our school and college colleagues
Find out more about the University of Winchester.
Explore our courses and learn more about the University of Winchester

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/subjects:
We have courses across a wide range of subjects - browse through the subjects below to find the course for you.
Download a copy of our Undergraduate and Postgraduate Prospectus and discover the courses we offer at Winchester.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/find-your-course:
Clearing is Open - Call 01962 827234
Read more

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply:
We want your application process to be as simple as possible.
For information on how to apply for each of our courses visit the relevant link below and find out everything you need to know about the application process, your offer and how to secure your place.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Prospectus:
Download a copy of our undergraduate or postgraduate prospectus to find out more about why our students love studying here and details about the courses we offer.
Not sure about which course to study?
Check out our subject pages to get a better understanding of what's on offer.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/On-Campus-Events:
Find out more about our campus and facilities, and hear from our academic staff and current students about life at the University of Winchester.
Our Open Days are a great opportunity to explore our campus and find out what university life is like.
A great way to see our beautiful campus and take a tour of our accommodation.
Visit us at one of our postgraduate events to find out more about further study.
Find out more about our events open to the general public.
Find out more about our latest news releases, research blogs and announcements.
You can find directions the University of Winchester on our Contact Us page.
Open Days
We are occasionally able to offer limited permit parking on campus for these events, however this is not guaranteed.
You will be able to apply for a permit during your open day booking if there is space available, if there is no option to apply during your booking then there are no spaces available.
Therefore, we recommend using the local park & ride services or public car parks which can be found a short distance from campus.
Campus Tours
There is no parking for on campus for this event.
Taster Lectures
Postgraduate Events
We are occasionally able to offer limited parking on campus for these events, however this is not guaranteed.
I can't find my permit
If you can't find your permit please email opendays@winchester.ac.uk with the name you booked on with and the team will be able to help further.
Accessible parking
We offer accessible parking permits to guests with blue badges or to those with any specific needs which would require accessible parking.
Please email opendays@winchester.ac.uk directly for more information about requesting a permit.
Upon arrival, you will need to register at one of our registration desks.
These can be found either outside The Stripe building in our King Alfred Quarter or at reception in the West Downs Centre in our West Downs Quarter.
Please head to our Main Reception in our Kind Alfred Quarter.
Here you will be able to sign in and pick up a map of the campus.
Please head to our Main Reception in our Kind Alfred Quarter to start your day.
Upon arrival, you will need to register at our registration desk in the West Downs Centre in our West Downs Quarter.
Please keep an eye on your emails, we will send out information on the days programme nearer to the event.
This will also be posted on our website.
You will receive an email from us at point of booking - please refer to that for information or email us on opendays@winchester.ac.uk .
You can bring up to four guests with you and these must be booked on at point of booking.
Yes, however we do limit this to four guests per group.
All guests must register at reception.
Due to limited spacing, non-applicant guests are not permitted to attend taster lectures.
Please do not book them a space as this limits spaces for other applicants.
Additional guests are welcome to join you for a self-guided tour or enjoy the university grounds and catering facilities.
There will be refreshments available at various points across both our campuses.
There are a range of refreshment services on-campus that will be open on weekdays for the purchase of drinks and light snacks.
Yes, there will be refreshments available at this event.
Please don't worry if you can't find the QR code on your email, our team can register you on the day with the name you signed up with.
You can contact our Open Days team by emailing us at opendays@winchester.ac.uk .
Find out more about what's on offer.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Mature-Students:
Welcome to this next, exciting chapter in your life.
You can expect a warm welcome, support at every stage of your University journey and a rich and rewarding academic experience.
Whether you are starting out on your first undergraduate degree or are joining us as a postgraduate student, scroll down to find out everything you need to know.
Find out more on how to apply.
Explore our beautiful city.
Find out more about our Student Support.
Explore your commuting options.
We welcome applicants who are over 21 and have a wide range of qualifications and experience.
Applications from mature students are considered on their own individual merit, and work and other experience can be taken into consideration.
If you are able to demonstrate recent study at Level 3 or above, for example achieving an A‑level or equivalent qualification, then you may not need to fulfil the standard entry requirements for your chosen programme.
For mature students, achieving a pass with an Access to HE Diploma will fulfil the general entry requirement for the majority of our programmes.
If you are applying for a course with accreditation requirements such as Nursing/Nutrition & Dietetics/Physiotherapy/Primary Education/Social Work please contact the admissions team to discuss entry requirements and they can advise you further admissions@winchester.ac.uk
All applications for full‑time study are made online via the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
They have helpful advice and information to guide you through the process How to Apply
For part‑time study enquiries, contact our friendly Admissions team admissions@winchester.ac.uk
The typical entry requirements are a first or second-class Honours degree or professional experience in the area of study.
A related Honours degree is desirable but not essential for most courses.
You can check the entry requirements for your chosen course on the relevant course page or for further information please contact the Admissions team: admissions@winchester.ac.uk
All applications for postgraduate study are made online on our website.
Most mature students prefer to travel in and we have a page all about your options as a commuting student Commuting - University of Winchester
Winchester Student Union runs a Commuting Students Network and they keep the the joining fee low.
The Network have a dedicated Commuters Lounge with homely facilities to give you a 'home from home' on campus (think sofas, kettle, microwave, shower, lockers and even PCs and a printer).
Read our handy blog on all things commuting .
First of all, don’t worry.
We know you may not have been in formal education for a while as you’ve been busy with work or caring responsibilities or both.
The Academic Success team are here to support you with academic skills training at any stage of your studies.
They can assist you in developing skills such as referencing and academic writing, and can also advise on the best ways to approach your assignments.
Our friendly Student Support and Success team can provide advice and support in the following areas: mental wellbeing, finances, general life advice, disability and learning diversity support and careers advice.
You can book a 1:1 appointment to see how we can best support you.
Our Mental Wellbeing Team (mentalwellbeing@winchester.ac.uk) has trained professionals who offer information, advice and guidance on a range of issues relating to mental health and wellbeing.
The team can refer or signpost to other local services such as the NHS and local charities.
If you are applying for a course and you would like to discuss reasonable adjustments to study and access to specialist support due to an existing mental health condition, please contact the super friendly team at disability@winchester.ac.uk
There are two childcare providers, West Downs Nursery and Tops Day Nursery , very close to the University campuses.
They are not run by the University, but they do offer Winchester students a discounted rate.
You have lots of options to get into Winchester as the city is really well served by bus and train.
Have a look at our transport pages .
There is no general parking for students, but we have a small number of spaces for those who need them for accessibility reasons, for example if you have a disability or medical need which means you need to have your vehicle on campus.
Please contact Student Support and Success in the first instance to discuss this.
We encourage all of our students and staff to use public transport to travel in, but if you prefer to drive, we recommend you make use of one of the four Winchester Park & Ride car parks which offer students discounted day rates.
Travel and transport - University of Winchester
Yes!
We’d love to welcome you on campus.
As well as the Saturday Open Days we run informal campus tours most Tuesday afternoons throughout the year which are led by one of our Student Ambassadors.
If you prefer to have a look around in your own time, you can head over to our Main Reception 8am-5pm Monday to Friday and pick up a map of the campus.
We also have an audio tour that you can download using the VoiceMap App and searching for 'University of Winchester'.
Open Days - University of Winchester
This is the most important one - accept your offer!
After that you will need to:
We allocate our accommodation on a first-applied, first-allocated basis so we recommend you get your application in and don’t leave it too late.
If you accept your offer of a place on your course by the Housing deadline published on our website, we guarantee you a place in our University Managed Accommodation.
Take a virtual tour of the campus and your different accommodation options.
Winchester is a beautiful, historic city, and our two University campuses (King Alfred Quarter and the West Downs Quarter) are both just a 10-15 minute walk from the city centre and a 15-minute walk from the train station.
You are welcome to come and visit us, either on an Open Day, at a postgraduate Open Evening or at an informal Tuesday afternoon campus tour and then head down to the city afterwards.
All of our events are here .
To get to know the city, have a look at our handy A-Z Guide to all things Winchester.
Find the information you need on funding your undergraduate or postgraduate degree here Students and money - University of Winchester
If you are planning on studying a health course, you may be eligible for a grant from the NHS if your course is one of the NHS's eligible pre-registration courses.
Find out more about the NHS Learning Support Fund here NHS Learning Support Fund (LSF) | NHSBSA
The University has various scholarships, bursaries and awards for undergraduate students, postgraduate students and international students.
Find out if there are any you might be eligible for.
Our Knowledge and Digital Services (KDS) department provides your library, IT and multimedia services.
In our two beautiful libraries, the Martial Rose Library (on the King Alfred Quarter) and the West Downs Library (on the West Downs Quarter) we have different study environments including quiet study areas and collaborative rooms.
We have PCs, loan laptops and desks where you can plug in your own device.
Our multimedia centre has recording studios (TV, music, audio) with editing facilities and equipment you can borrow to use outside the studios.
The majority of resources that you’ll need, such as books, articles, theses and images are available online and you can discover all of them via our OneSearch facility.
As a Winchester student you have access to Microsoft365 applications and Canvas, which is our Virtual Learning Environment, and we provide guides, videos and advice on the University intranet.
There are plenty of study spaces around the campuses, from our cafés to our contemplation space pods, all of which have points where you can sit down, plug in and study.
University of Winchester students are all automatically members of Winchester Student Union .
The SU represents the student voice and offers a huge range of societies and events that you can get involved in.
If you will be travelling into Winchester, as opposed to living in the city, consider joining one of the SU’s networks, the Commuting Students Network .
For more information about this network, see the answer to the Commuting Students question above.
Our Careers Hub offers ‘Careers Advice for Life.’ The Hub can help with applications for graduate roles and postgraduate study, lists part-time work available locally and can help with volunteering opportunities to boost your skills and CV.
“I have definitely got high standards from this course.
There is always really productive feedback and there’s so much knowledge amongst the lecturers and so much experience of actual primary school teaching."
"The course was pivotal for me because as well as securing my job, I also now teach at the University too.”
“I really love the course and if I could go back again, I don’t think I would do anything differently.
It’s potentially opened a lot of new doors for me as well career-wise, so I think the option of doing a PhD here afterwards is something that could be on the horizon for me.”

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
Experience a transformational education which grows your curiosity, builds your confidence and gives you the skills you need to have a successful and meaningful career.
Fully immerse yourself in a campus life as you deepen your love of learning and make friends for life.
Embrace every opportunity and succeed as part of a supportive community.
Start your Winchester journey by exploring our courses
See for yourself why people love it here
We're proud to be Top 10 in the UK for graduates in employment or further study*
Student support to be yourself as part of our diverse & compassionate community
Explore our state-of-the-art teaching, learning and accommodation facilities
Bring your family and friends to our beautiful campus to experience what life at Winchester is like
If you have any questions about our undergraduate courses and whether they are right for you, then get in touch with our admissions team who will be happy to help.
Email: admissions@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/On-Campus-Events/Open-Days-:
Register your place to explore our campus and courses.
Ideal for those taking their first step into university.
These events are designed to give you an introduction to everything you need to know about studying at Winchester.
We also host tours throughout the year.
These are suitable for those who want to see the campus at a quieter time or are unable to attend one of the Open Days above.
Find out more about our Campus Tours .
View all our other events, including Postgraduate Evenings, at our On Campus Events page .
Our events will give you a taste of student life and all the information you need to choose a course.
Be sure to browse our courses before you arrive so you can plan your day around the subjects that interest you the most.
You will need to register at one of our registration desks.
Get 34% off your SWR train ticket cost if you are attending an Open Day.
If you have a 16-25 Railcard, the discount is 40%
This is available to the student and any guests travelling with the student to the Open Day
Book your discounted train ticket.
SWR Discount for Open Day T&Cs and FAQs

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/Landing-Pages/Pathways-programmes:
Some of our courses offer a Pathways Programme where you have the opportunity to engage in a series of practical and informative sessions led by our academic team.
Our Pathways Programmes are designed to give you an introduction to your subject and life at the University of Winchester before you arrive.
As part of the Programme, you may: • Attend interactive taster lectures/seminars on a variety of relevant topics • Experience practical exercises/activities • Receive personalised career guidance and advice from relevant professionals • Request optional interview experience with a Dean of Faculty or Head of Department Eligible applicants who complete the programme may receive a contextual offer (one grade lower than the typical offer).
Our Pathways Programme is open to all Year 12 and 13 students from the UK or Channel Islands but spaces are limited.
Find the list of Pathways available below.
.
The Faculty is designed to bring together the core disciplines of a modern, forward thinking University and develop interdisciplinary linkages with the remaining four Faculties in the University of Winchester.
Accountants are indispensable to every business.
At Winchester we are passionate about enhancing your digital capabilities and agile thinking to make sure that you thrive in this core and rapidly evolving industry.
Find out more on our Accounting and Finance course page.
Business Management undergraduate degree at Winchester aims to develop confident, responsible and innovative managers and leaders of the future.
Find more information on our Business Management course page
Computer Science at Winchester uses a wide range of approaches to develop an enhanced understanding of computer science, data and security.
Find out more on our Computer Science course page.
Security gives focus to the strategic deployment and implementation of Cyber Security within an organisational context.
Find out more on our Cyber Security course page.
Economics and finance at the University of Winchester focuses on Macroeconomics, Microeconomics, Applied Economics and finance.
Find out more on our Economics and Finance course page.
Event Management at Winchester combines theoretical understanding with the development of the practical skills needed to operate in the sector.
Find out more on our Event Management course page.
Fashion Business at Winchester is interdisciplinary, drawing together expertise from business, marketing and fashion.
Find out more on our Fashion Business and Marketing course page.
Marketing at Winchester develops a critical understanding of marketing - theoretical concepts are explored in a multitude of contexts.
Find out more on our Marketing course page.
Software Engineering is designed to offer both a general understanding of computer science as well as specialist skills in secure software development.
Find out more on our Software Engineering course page.
We deliver outstanding education in a diverse range of subject areas linked by their commitment to progressing health and wellbeing for all life, including animal welfare, childhood studies, nursing, physiotherapy, sport and exercise, sport management and social work.
Sport and Exercise Psychology at Winchester can lead to eligibility to train to become health and care Professionals.
Find out more on our Sport and Exercise Psychology course page.
Sports and Exercise Science at Winchester focuses on the disciplines of sport and exercise physiology and psychology.
Find out more on our Sport and Exercise Science course page.
Sport Coaching and Physical Education at Winchester allows students to critically engage at an academic level with one of the fastest growing sports disciplines.
Find out more on our Sport Coaching and Physical Education course page.
Sports Therapy at Winchester enables students to empower athletes and sports people of all abilities.
Discover more about our Sports Therapy course.
Find out more on our Sports Therapy course page.
Sport Management at Winchester focuses on current issues such as the growth and importance of sponsorship.
Find out more on our Sport Management course page.
The Faculty of Law, Crime and Justice brings together the related subject areas of Law, Policing, Criminology and Forensics, allowing for an interdisciplinary approach.
Criminology at Winchester engages with the key theories, concepts and perspectives on crime, criminal activity and the criminal justice.
Find out more on our Criminology course page.
There are few subjects more compelling than crime and law.
Together, they capture the public imagination, dominate the news headlines and rule the bestseller and TV box-set charts.
Find out more on our Criminology with Law course page.
Criminology with Psychology at Winchester explores and analyses social structures and human relationships.
Find out more on our Criminology with Psychology course page.
Forensic Investigation at Winchester enables students to engage with the key issues surrounding forensic detection methods.
Find out more on our Forensic Investigation course page.
Forensic Science at Winchester enables students to engage with the key issues surrounding forensic detection methods.
Find out more on our Forensic Science course page.
Single Honours Law at Winchester explores questions pertinent to today's world.
Our course covers everything from discrimination to copyright.
Find out more on our Law course page.
Our Law and Criminology programme explores the legal framework of our modern society, whilst being underpinned by criminological theories and issues.
Find out more on our Law with Criminology course page.
Professional Policing at Winchester is a new entry route in to the police service.
Find out more on our Professional Policing course page.
Visit us to find out more about studying at Winchester
Find out about studying at Winchester
Check out our travel initiatives and discounts
Find out how to apply

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Top-up-Degrees:
Upgrade your Higher National Diploma (HND) or Foundation Degree into a full degree with a one-year conversion course.
Top-up Degrees mirror the final year of a typical undergraduate degree.
They are ideal for those who have achieved an HND or Foundation Degree and would like to ‘top-up’ their qualification to a full degree.
Ordinarily, a full degree would take three years to complete.
Because Top-up Degrees recognise the progress you have made at other institutions, it is possible to gain your Bachelor’s Degree in just one year.
Browse our range of Top-up Degrees .
To find out more about applying for one of these, please contact Admissions@winchester.ac.uk .
Upgrading to a Top-up Degree gives you access to further training at postgraduate level and within graduate schemes, can make you more competitive in the jobs market, and could open doors to future promotions and earning potential.
The additional skills, knowledge and confidence gained from a Top-up Degree will also be highly rewarding for your own sense of personal achievement.
Employability
Our graduates’ success in entering the workforce has placed us in the Top 25 for Graduate Employment in the UK (Graduate Outcomes Survey 2024), so you’ll have plenty of access to careers resources, industry links, and personal guidance.
Supportive Learning Environment
We recognise that many Top-up Degree students will have studied in a college environment for their HND or Foundation Degree.
As a close-knit institution, our learning environment will feel familiar and welcoming – with a focus on the individual and their specific needs.
Flexible Study Options
You can study part-time or full-time with the support of tutors in balancing work, family life, and study.
We see students of all ages and backgrounds join our courses and are experienced in supporting students with additional commitments.
Your Top-up Degree will be awarded by the University of Winchester and is recognised in the same way that traditional three-year degrees are.
You will also be eligible to attend a graduation ceremony and have access to all the same services and facilities as any other student or graduate from Winchester.
Contact our Admissions Team to start your application to a top-up degree.
We will talk you through the process and answer any questions you may have,
We have Top-up Degrees available in a variety of subjects.
Visit our course pages to find the right course to upgrade your HND or Foundation Degree.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Postgraduate:
Postgraduate study at Winchester is an excellent choice for advancing your skills, knowledge and confidence to make a difference in the world around you.
Immerse yourself in inspirational, research-informed teaching in one of the UK's most historic cities to build your love of learning and help you to be more.
Join us to take your career to the next level with a postgraduate qualification from the University of Winchester.
Advance your skills, knowledge and confidence to make a difference in the world around you.
Immerse yourself in inspirational, research-informed teaching in one of the UK’s most historical cities to build your love of learning and help you to be more.
More confident, more inspired, more ambitious.
The University of Winchester – your place to be more .
Apply for one of our postgraduate courses.
“Did you know that those holding a postgraduate qualification earn on average £5,000 more than those with just an undergraduate degree?
* Graduate Labour Market Statistics 2023, Department for Education” (2024 statistics not released until June 2025)
If you are a mature student or you have been out of education for a while, you can join activities led by the Academic Success team to help you gain confidence in your academic skills ahead of the start of term.
Our Academic Success team have lots of resources available and offer one-to-one appointments or group sessions to boost your study skills throughout your time with us.
We offer a whole range of employability support including one-to-one advice, online resources, events and workshops.
The team also provide guidance on securing a work placement or volunteering role.
And the best part?
Here at Winchester, we offer careers advice for life.
We have a wide range of additional support in place for our postgraduate learners, including a discount for students at West Downs Preschool and Nursery.
Up to £12,471 from the Government to help towards fees and living costs.
20% tuition fee discount when enrolling on an eligible Masters course if you graduated from the University of Winchester or King Alfred’s College.
See which courses are eligible.
Up to £2,390 from the Government or UK Research and Innovation Studentship for doctoral research.
"I have definitely got high standards from this course.
There is always really constructive feedback and there’s so much knowledge amongst the lecturers and so much experience of actual primary school teaching that I have so many ideas of what could be, which is really good because you are constantly required to reflect on your teaching practice"
Discover Our Short Courses

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/Landing-Pages/Conversion:
We offer a range of conversion courses designed for individuals looking to change their career path or pursue a new area of study.
These postgraduate programmes are tailored for those who hold a degree in one discipline but wish to gain expertise in another field.
Whether you're interested in Law, or Psychology, the conversion courses are structured to provide you with the knowledge, skills, and professional qualifications needed to succeed in your new chosen career.
Are you a non-law graduate, interested in pursuing a legal career?
Designed to cover the foundations of legal knowledge subjects of the law that will allow you to progress onto the next stage of training to become a Solicitor or Barrister in England or Wales.
Discover the science behind how we think, feel and behave.
Information on tuition fees and government funding for new and current postgraduate students at the University of Winchester.
We offer a range of scholarships, bursaries and awards to support students and recognise achievements.
We have a number of catered and self-catered accommodation options on and off campus to choose from.
We offer a wide range of student services to support you during your time at the University.
From wellbeing, academic skills support to finance, we're here to support you along the way.
Find out more about how our Careers Team can help support you to succeed.
Our postgraduate prospectus will inform you about our wide variety of subjects and the courses on offer

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/foundation-year:
Choosing a Foundation Year is the perfect way to boost your academic skills, build your confidence and gain wider subject knowledge.
This extra year at the start of your full degree course will equip you with everything you need to reach your full potential and succeed at Winchester.
At Winchester we have around fifteen Foundation Year courses to choose from across a wide variety of subjects.
We offer a range of courses within the arts, humanities, social sciences, cultural studies, computing, and business management..
Find out everything you need to know about studying a foundation year at the University of Winchester.
Further information about the application process
Studying a Foundation Year means you’ll have the chance to pursue an undergraduate degree even if you have just missed out on the grades and entry requirements.
You’ll be a pro at uni life by the time you start your degree!
Knowing your way around the city, campus and best places to get coffee will also be a great way to make even more friends when it comes to starting the first year of your undergraduate course.
If you have any questions about our Foundation courses and whether they are right for you, then get in touch with our admissions team who will be happy to help.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/foundation-year/What-is-a-Foundation-Year-:
A Foundation Year is an extra year of study at the start of your course (Year 0) which leads onto a full degree programme (Years 1, 2 and 3).
At Winchester we have around fifteen Foundation Year courses to choose from – take a look at the options below.
In Year 0 of your Foundation Year, you'll study a set of modules from across your Faculty which are designed to develop your academic and practical skills.
This broader focus in your first year introduces you to studying at university level and provides you with a better understanding of your own degree pathway and related disciplines.
You will experience a variety of teaching methods including lectures, discussion-based seminars and independent study.
You will also receive support to boost your academic skills to prepare you for onward study at Winchester.
In Years 1, 2 and 3 you specialise in your chosen subject area and can begin to choose optional modules to further tailor the course to your interests.
A Foundation degree, also known as an integrated 4-year degree, might be right for you if you:
- don’t currently meet the grade requirements for the 3-year version of the course you wish to study - have spent some years away from education, for example, in full-time employment - want to retrain in a subject area that is new to you
During your Foundation Year you will study three modules each worth 40 credits (total 120 credits).
These three modules are the Skills module, the Breadth module and the Depth module and you will study all three modules in both Semester 1 and Semester 2.
Each module has four hours per week of scheduled contact time and so all Foundation Year students will have 12 hours of scheduled contact time throughout the academic year.
Skills Module
You’ll learn the core academic skills of academic writing, speaking in small groups, delivering presentations, analytical and critical thinking and will develop your confidence and skill with assessments.
You will learn how to use technology such as the University’s learning platform, Canvas, Microsoft Teams and the Intranet.
On this module you will study alongside students from your course as well as related courses.
The Skills module has ongoing continuous assessment with engagement tasks, approximately 10 tasks across the academic year.
Breadth Module
You’ll learn how your subject sits in a wider context.
This module has assessments at the end of Semester 1 and at the end of Semester 2 which may be written assignments, presentations or other assessments appropriate for your particular subject area.
Depth Module
This is a focused module which will prepare you for the particular programme you have enrolled on and will explore certain themes in much more detail.
This module also has assessments at the end of Semester 1 and at the end of Semester 2 which may be written assignments, presentations or other assessments appropriate for your particular subject area.
Our Academic Skills Advisers support all students – regardless of your study level, ability or course – to help you achieve your full potential.
We cover a wide range of topics including academic writing; assignment planning; critical thinking and analysis; exam revision; grammar; presentation skills; proofreading; punctuation; referencing; reflective writing; report writing; research skills and time management.
You can access support via group workshops; one-to-one appointments with an adviser; and SkillsNet, our bank of online resources.
We also have an Academic Skills mentoring scheme where you can be paired with a ’Student Academic Mentor' who you meet with on a weekly basis to build your confidence and to help you to study efficiently and effectively.
Successful completion of your first year, Year 0, automatically guarantees you a place on the relevant linked undergraduate degree course you chose – so you progress onto the next level, Year 1.
Many of our Foundation Year courses also offer you the option to change course after Year 0 if you wish; for example, moving from completing Year 0 on the Accounting and Finance (with Foundation Year) course to starting Year 1 on the Business Management course.
When you start Year 1, some students will have also completed a Foundation Year and some students may be starting directly at this level.
Many students who have already completed a year at Winchester find this advantageous as you will be familiar with both the city and the University learning environment.
"In your Foundation year you’ll meet other like-minded students who either needed to top up their qualifications before starting a degree or just want to be eased into university life."
Find out how to apply to our foundation courses.
At Winchester we have around 15 Foundation Year courses to choose from across a variety of subjects, take a look at our full list of courses here

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/foundation-year/Meet-our-Foundation-Year-students:
Find out what it's really like to study a Foundation degree from our Foundation students.
Meet our Foundation Student Imogen.
Meet our Foundation Student Hannah.
Read our blog post on 'Five benefits to studying a Foundation year.'
Book onto an Open Day or Campus tour.
Find out more about the application process.
Discover our Foundation courses and the degree options available.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/research-degrees:
We offer a wealth of postgraduate research degree opportunities within a supportive environment.
Find out more about doing a research degree at Winchester
Explore our research degree options
Further information on the application process
Research student Paula Glover asks: are we getting the most out of Employer-Supported Volunteering?
Further information on student support
Further information on Student Finance
Further information on Studentships
Explore our excellent research facilities

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/research-degrees/Research-Degrees-at-Winchester:
Our research students are treated as individuals not numbers, and are a valuable part of our research community.
As a research student at Winchester you will join a thriving community of staff and postgraduate students who share scholarly interests, attend seminars and conferences and social events.
Support mechanisms are first-class and the learning environment is professional but friendly.
All our research students are encouraged to become active contributors to the University's vibrant research community.
We offer supervision in a wide range of subjects and have an excellent track record of completions.
If you decide to study for an MPhil/PhD at Winchester, you will be allocated to a supervisory team headed up by a Director of Studies.
Your Director of Studies will be an expert in your chosen field of study and he/she will advise and support you as you progress through your research.
All our supervisors regularly publish in their field and you can be confident in the expertise they bring to your project.
All research students are administered by the University of Winchester Doctoral School, which also hosts the viva voce examinations and provides training for both research supervisors and research students; see below for more information on research training.
From the role of culture in interviewing witnesses to approaches to detecting deception, explore the exciting research degree opportunities in the Centre for Forensic and Investigative Psychology.
We regularly offer exciting opportunities for doctoral studentships, both fully funded and fees-only.
Find out more about our Studentships.
At Winchester, research training is an essential part of research candidature.
The Doctoral School runs Research Training events throughout the year.
In addition, research students register for a Postgraduate Certificate in Research Skills which runs alongside their MPhil or PhD.
The PGCert is made up of three 20-credit modules and is taught at a distance using technology-enhanced learning.
As well as offering students the opportunity to reflect on their own research, the PGCert also engages students in the dissemination of their work and with their own career development.
Research students are also able to take modules preparing them for teaching in Higher Education as part of the research training programme.
Everything you need to know to apply for a research degree
For any queries, please do not hesitate to email the Doctoral School .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Apprenticeships:
A degree apprenticeship is a particular type of job, which combines work with higher-level learning, and which leads to an undergraduate degree.
Apprentices spend most of their week at work, but they also spend at least 20 per cent of their time in off-the-job study or training.
Find out more about the degree apprenticeships on offer at Winchester below.
Find out about our Degree Apprenticeships
Browse our Degree Apprenticeship Programmes
Our programmes are designed to support those wishing to obtain a full bachelor's degree, whilst gaining practical paid experience to enhance their professional profile.
At Winchester we work with several organisations to ensure our Degree Apprenticeships meet the requirements and expectations for businesses and students.
All the information you need about our Degree Apprenticeships in Health and Social Care
All the information employers need about our Degree Apprenticeships and how they work.
All the information learners need to apply for one of our Degree Apprenticeships at Winchester
The Aptem system is our new digital platform, designed to provide learners and employers with a streamlined apprenticeship experience
For more information, or to discuss the opportunity to become a partner contact please get in touch with the Centre for Degree Apprenticeships
Tel: + 44 (0)1962826478
Email: Apprenticeships@winchester.ac.uk
Please read our Statement of Expectation for Subcontractors .
Please read our .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Apprenticeships/What-are-Degree-Apprenticeships:
Combining learning with earning.
Apprenticeships are real jobs that combine work with training and study.
You'll earn a wage, gain skills, and have the opportunity to put what you learn into practice.
A degree apprenticeship allows you to graduate with an honours or master’s degree.
A higher apprenticeship will give you a professional qualification equivalent to foundation level.
Our range of higher and degree apprenticeships provide you with an opportunity to gain a professional qualification and degree whilst you work.
Apprenticeships are work based training programmes designed for current and future employees aged 16 or over.
A Degree Apprenticeship allows you to study whilst also earning a salary, enabling you to gain the necessary qualifications and experience to progress.
An apprenticeship can offer the best of both worlds – here are some of the benefits of choosing an apprenticeship:
Studying as an apprentice is not an easy option – you have to balance your university workload with your paid employment.
An apprenticeship can be a great opportunity if you are looking to combine work with study.
You are entitled to paid time off to attend university, typically one day a week, this will be decided by your employer.
As a Degree Apprenticeship learner, you are also entitled to all the benefits of being a student at the University of Winchester – membership of the Student Union, access to our Student Services Department, Sports Facilities and our 24-hour Library, to name just a few.
Degree Apprenticeships are open to candidates of all ages – you don’t have to be a school-leaver!
​ Our apprenticeship programmes are aimed not only at those who are looking to begin a new career, but also at existing employees wanting to develop their skills and capabilities, with the support of their employer.
If you already have a job and would like to take on more structured learning, talk to your employer about Degree Apprenticeships - you could progress your own career whilst filling in skill gaps in your workplace.
Degree Apprenticeships allow employers to develop existing staff as well as recruiting new talent and show that professional development is a priority for the business.
Hiring an apprentice or enrolling existing employees on a Degree Apprenticeship programme can offer a wide range of business benefits:
To find out how hiring an apprentice could benefit your business, please contact Apprenticeships@winchester.ac.uk
Hannah Lee, a junior data scientist at Zurich Insurance, explains why she chose to study on the programme and how what she is learning is boosting her career prospects.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Apprenticeships/Business-and-Digital-Technologies-Partnerships:
At Winchester we welcome new partnerships and would love to hear from you if you would like to discuss the opportunity to become a partner.
We are working with several organisations to ensure our Degree Apprenticeships meet the requirements and expectations for employers and learners.
As part of the Government initiative, the National Apprenticeship Service co-ordinates, supports, funds the delivery of apprenticeships throughout England and Wales.
You can find out more by visiting the Apprenticeships website.
Techskills believe in a world where every organisation has access to the diverse digital talent it needs to thrive.
It brings together employers and apprenticeship providers to develop the digital talent industry needs.
The University of Winchester is a Tech Industry Gold approved training provider.
This collaboration ensures our programmes create the knowledge, skills and behaviours necessary for the digital economy.
CMI (the Chartered Management Institute) is the only chartered professional body in the UK dedicated to promoting the highest standards in management and leadership excellence.
CMI is the only organisation awarding Chartered Manager status, the hallmark of any professional manager, and encompasses a membership community more than 120,000 strong.
Our Chartered Manager degree apprenticeship (CMDA) is dual accredited by the CMI.
This means your programme is designed so that upon successful completion of your CMDA you receive your apprenticeship, your degree and a CMI professional qualification.
By adding this CMI qualification to your University qualification, you’re really on the road to success.
During your studies with us you will become a CMI Affiliate member, giving you a host of additional benefits to support your CPD.
As a CMI Affiliate member, you will: •    gain access to exclusive CMI networking events.
•    Have access to CMI’s dedicated resource portal, ManagementDirect, providing additional resource to further support your studies.
•    Have access to CMI’s latest career development portal.
CGI is a global business with 68,000 professionals in 40 countries across the Americas, Asia-Pacific and Europe who provide end-to-end IT and business process services that facilitate the ongoing evolution of our clients’ businesses.
We have been working with CGI for over eight years to design and deliver programmes that meet their business needs.
Discover more about CGI
Fujitsu provides information technology solutions for businesses including application services, IT consulting, infrastructure services and products.
We have entered into a partnership with the multinational IT solutions company Fujitsu to foster the next generation of digital apprentices.
Learn more about Fujitsu
Please contact
Tel:

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Apprenticeships/Information-for-learners:
To apply for a Degree Apprenticeship, you need to be:
•    16 or older, •    resident in England, •    not in full-time education.
If you are already employed, talk to your employer about Degree Apprenticeship opportunities.
If you are a school or college leaver looking for a degree apprenticeship you can:
•    Contact employers in the careers sector you are interested in and apply for vacancies, •    Apply through UCAS.
When applying for a degree apprenticeship you will need to:
•    Apply for the job: each employer will have their own application process, but it would typically involve a covering letter and CV, and you may be invited to attend an assessment centre and/or interview •    Complete your University application: Once you’ve signed a contract with your employer, you will need to fill in the University application form and enrol on the course.
This would normally happen a couple of months before the programme starts
The Disabled Students’ Commission has put together a guide for disabled applicants applying for a higher or degree apprenticeship; to help you through the process of asking the important questions of, and making sure you have the necessary support from, the university, college, or independent learning provider from the outset of your journey.
Considerations for disable applicants to degree apprenticeships guide
If you have any questions about the application process, you can contact our team:
Tel: +44 1962 827586
Email: Dominic.Northcott@winchester.ac.uk
'It is fantastic to be recognised for delivering exceptional apprenticeship training and even more special and significant because it is voted for by students themselves' - Stella McKnight, Director of Employer Partnerships

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Apprenticeships/Information-for-employers:
As your training provider, we can help support you with the process of recruiting an Apprentice.
We will list your vacancy on the National Apprenticeship Service website, the most widely used database for apprenticeships across the country.
As well as this we recommend that you advertise your apprenticeship roles on your own website, as you would for any other role.
We hold a number of Open Evenings specifically for Apprenticeships, which give you an ideal opportunity to make contact with potential candidates.
As part of our service we can also offer you support with your own assessment process, by attending and contributing to your assessment centres or interviews.
Businesses can use their Apprenticeship levy contributions towards the cost of tuition fees for their Apprentices.
The funding each organisation is eligible for is determined by a number of factors including, annual payroll, age of learner(s) and number of people employed.
The Apprenticeship Funding Flowchart will help you navigate this.
As an employer with a pay bill of more than £3 million, you’re required to pay the apprenticeship levy.
You can manage funds using the apprenticeship service and spend it on training and assessing your apprentices.
The government will apply a 10% top up to the funds you have in your account.
If you don’t have enough funds, you just pay 5% of the outstanding balance and the government will pay the rest.
This is up to the funding band maximum allocated to each specific apprenticeship such as those offered by the University of Winchester.
You can use your apprenticeship service account to transfer up to 25% of your unused levy funds to a business of your choice.
By transferring levy funds, you will be supporting other businesses in paying for their apprenticeship training and assessment costs (up to the funding band maximum).
When creating a pledge, you can select how much funding will be available for that financial year.
You can also choose which businesses you’d like to support by selecting optional sector, skill or location criteria.
For more information regarding funding an apprenticeship, please click on the link below:
Funding an apprenticeship (apprenticeships.gov.uk)
As an employer that doesn’t pay the apprenticeship levy, you pay just 5% towards the cost of training and assessing an apprentice.
You will need to reserve funding to cover the costs of the apprenticeship training and assessment, for more information regarding this, please click here.
The government will pay the rest up to the funding band maximum.
You’ll pay the training provider directly and agree on a payment schedule.
If you employ fewer than 50 employees, the government will pay 100% of the apprenticeship training costs up to the funding band maximum for apprentices aged: •    16 to 18 •    19 to 24 with an education, health and care plan provided by their local authority or previously having been in the care of their local authority This is up to the funding band maximum allocated to each specific apprenticeship such as those offered by the University of Winchester.
Employers will get an extra £1,000 when they take on an apprentice: •    aged 16 to 18 •    aged 19 to 24 who has either: o    previously been in care o    Has an education, health and care plan provided by their local authority This is to help with additional costs.
The DfE pays this to employers in 2 equal instalments: at 90 days and 365 days.
It makes the payments to employers via their training provider, who will pass the money on.
These payments are not deducted from an employer’s apprenticeship service account.
Employers who get the small employer co-investment waiver will also receive these payments.
To receive the full payment, the apprenticeship must last for at least one year.
You can only use funds in your account to pay for apprenticeship training and assessment for apprentices that work at least 50% of the time in England, and only up to the funding band maximum for that apprenticeship.
We define the workplace as the physical place of work, designated by the employer.
It is where the employer expects the apprentice to spend most of their time during their apprenticeship (50% or more).
Employers must confirm the workplace location as part of their written agreement with the main training provider in the evidence pack for each apprentice.
If the costs of training and assessment go over the funding band maximum, you will need to pay the difference with other funds from your own budget.
You can’t use funds in your account to pay for the other costs associated with your apprentices (such as wages, travel and subsidiary costs or setting up of an apprenticeship programme).
For further information about making your Apprenticeship Levy payments, and how to use them, please see the government’s apprenticeship funding pages.
Contact:

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Apprenticeships/Health-and-Social-Work-partnerships:
We are delighted to offer a range of apprenticeship pathways in health and social care and social work sectors.
The University of Winchester offers the following health and social care and social work apprenticeships
Our programmes are designed to support those wishing to obtain a full bachelor's degree, whilst gaining paid experience in practice.
We are working with a range of organisations to ensure our Degree Apprenticeships meet the requirements and expectations for organisations and learners.
We are proud of our strong employer partnerships and welcome new employer partners.
We create an environment where future apprentices can be inspired and fulfil their potential.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/further-study-options:
At Winchester there are a variety of study options available to all our students including distance learning, study abroad full and part-time study.
Studying as a distance learner enables you to decide when and where you want to study.
Thinking about studying abroad?
Many of our courses offer the opportunity to study abroad in America, Europe or Asia for a semester.
View all our courses across Undergraduate, Postgraduate and Research.
Get in touch with our admissions team to find out more about Further Study options at Winchester

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/further-study-options/Distance-and-flexible-learning:
At the University of Winchester, we are committed to offering high-quality learning and teaching and working with students to ensure a safe, respectful, and supportive environment.
Our distance learning programmes are no exception.
They allow students to study engaging topics on programmes that are accessible and use innovative approaches to learning and teaching.
BSc (Hons) Animal Science and Conservation
MA Death, Religion and Culture
MRes Health Science
MRes Sport and Exercise
MSc Animal Welfare Science, Behaviour and Law
MSc Global Health
PGCert Practice Education
Your course will involve a range of different “modes” of online participation, all of which combine to support your learning.
The precise combination will vary from course to course, but you should expect to be involved in structured, self-paced learning activities and live online sessions.
These live sessions may resemble tutorials, seminars and lectures.
Some will be wholly tutor led, others will involve inquiry and discussion and are opportunities for you to interact with tutors and other students.
You can expect the structured, self-paced study and the live online sessions to be supported by engaging learning materials and all these activities take place within our secure and accessible virtual learning environment.
This comprises the Canvas online learning platform and other communication and collaboration tools (e.g.
Microsoft Teams and Padlet).
This places you within a vibrant community of students who share your interests and passions.
You may be interacting with other professionals in similar fields, but you will also benefit from a wealth of experience from students with a broad range of backgrounds.
You will find peer to peer support and networking opportunities within your programme.
You may be encouraged to make use of local educational resources and have the flexibility to choose a suitable environment for private study.
It is recommended that live online sessions are attended in a private study space with a stable internet connection and a headset with microphone.
Find out more details on the minimum technical requirements for online distance learning courses page .
Please check with your programme leader about any additional specific requirements that may apply to your programme.
Some programmes will require you to be online for specific activities that are scheduled to take place at UK time.
Please check requirements with the programme leader.
Course Materials are accessed via the Canvas online learning platform, which will hold all the important information and study materials that you need to successfully complete the course.
This is also where you will submit assignments online.
You will receive log in details from the university when you are accepted on to the course and, once the course has started, you will be able to log in and find “courses” for each module of study.
You may even be invited to log in to canvas and access other resources before that date!
Microsoft Teams enables groups to meet in a live online classroom.
Your student IT account includes a full Microsoft Office 365 license which you can use to access Teams and other Microsoft Office applications.
For the best experience you should instal the MS Teams Desktop app and log in using your university of Winchester email and password.
These sessions are facilitated by the tutor for the course and include presentations, group discussions and activities.
Online discussions are conducted using Canvas tools and work in the same way as instant messenger or an email thread.
The good thing is that you can reply and read the messages at a time that is convenient to you.
They are an important way in which you can communicate with your tutors and others on the course.
Discussions may focus on a study topic, assignment or an interesting piece of reading.
Your student handbook and Canvas courses will also include all the contact information you need alongside all the important dates of the course.
Email is a key way in which distance learners communicate with their tutor, to ask questions, get information about the course and get advice.
All University of Winchester students are issued with a student email address.
This mode of communication suits those with busy lives and helps individuals balance study with other time commitments.
Information for entire classes is most commonly distributed via Canvas announcements, but you can enable notification settings in Canvas so that these are sent to you by email as well.
In any case it is important to check your email regularly, to ensure that you are up to date with all information relating to your course.
Most courses offer 121 and group tutorials at regular intervals so you never feel out of touch.
These can be organised at mutually convenient times and enable key points of communication to occur.
These sessions will be facilitated using Microsoft Teams and in certain circumstances may be conducted by phone.
Whether you're looking to improve your academic skills, need advice on student life.
or require materials for your research, we have a variety of resources available to support you through your studies:
Our welcoming, friendly and supportive Student Services teams are available to discuss individual needs.
We work hard to anticipate needs and fully support your learning experience.
You can phone or email to book an appointment with a student adviser who will be able to offer information and guidance on a range of student life and support matters.
Our student advisers are a great first port of call for advice on any university or personal matter.
Phone and online appointments (Microsoft Teams) can be arranged, as well as on-campus face to face appointments.
Student Services cover a range of things from Disabled Student Allowance to the Access to Learning Fund.
Disability advisers are available to talk to and the university also runs a mental wellbeing service covering mental health and counselling.
For those who are returning to education and need to brush up on academic skills such as academic writing, reading or referencing, we have a dedicated academic skills support team here to help.
The team offer a wide range of online resources to help you if you are studying at a distance and they also provide one to one support.
Our Student Services Teams can be contacted here:
Email: studentservices@winchester.ac.uk Telephone: 01962 827341
If we can’t help you directly we will either follow up the query or signpost you to other relevant areas.
If you need help please don’t hesitate to get in touch.
Students who are new or returning to higher education may wish to refresh their study skills like academic writing and reading techniques.
We have a dedicated study skills support team and you will gain access to helpful 'How To' guides and one to one tutorials via Microsoft Teams or phone.
Visit our Academic Skills page .
The Library has a range of online resources to support Distance and Flexible Learners.
It provides a wide range of resources to support Distance and Flexible Learners.
Once you have registered for your course you will be able to view information and direct links to our full list of online resources .
Further information on the services we offer can be found on the Library page .
The interlibrary loans scheme allows a student to request a book or journal article that is not part of the University of Winchester library collection.
Distance learners can make requests by emailing interlibararyloans@winchester.ac.uk and you can find out more about the scheme on the Interlibrary Loans intranet page .
Books must be collected and returned in person, so this may not be possible for all distance learners.
However, if you request an article we will be able to post it to you; just send us an email at the above address, with the details of your request and your postal address.
In certain cases, we may be able to email them to you instead.
Please note there will be a fee for this service.
The Library participates in the SCONUL Access scheme , which entitles UK residents to borrow items from other participating Libraries.
If you are resident in the UK you can apply online, to participate in this scheme.
However, please note, due to the Covid pandemic this scheme is currently suspended.
The Winchester Student Union is run for students, by students.
We are an independent organisation from the University itself, and we are dedicated to representing and supporting you as students, as well as providing a wide range of opportunities, activities and events for all students across our Education, Welfare, Activities and Services Zones.
Supporting the welfare of our members by providing representation, educational development and should you wish, social and extra-curricular opportunities.
Particularly handy for a distance or part-time student - they can provide an onsite presence - to physically represent you when an email or phone call just won't do.
By all means, make use of them.
Send them to committee meetings with your views… Get their help to form your own online communities within your course and beyond… Find out where you stand with difficulties such as finance or registry procedures… Have a good moan…Or just need to chat with someone who understands your circumstances.
Your SU representatives are here for you!
Find out more on the SU website .
Find out about all the courses we offer at Winchester in our Undergraduate and Prospectus.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/further-study-options/Study-abroad:
Many of our courses offer the once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to study abroad in America, Europe, Canada or Asia for a semester.
If you prefer, there are shorter field trips to a variety of destinations.
The University welcomes applications from all study abroad students who wish to study at the University of Winchester for a period of one semester or a study abroad year.
Study Abroad students include visiting and exchange students.
Study abroad allows you to spend part of your university degree overseas

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/international:
Winchester offers a safe and supportive global community for international students.
We welcome applications from international students and accept a range of international qualifications to all of our courses.
In addition to this our International Student Support Services provide advice and guidance for non-academic related queries, support to study abroad and opportunities to improve academic skills through engagement with our Academic Success team.
From a traditional 3 year degree, 4 year sandwich year to a 6 year part-time option, there is a course and study mode to suit everyone..
We offer an excellent selection of postgraduate courses in a variety of subjects.
From MBA, MA, MSc to MRes degrees, our portfolio will help to enhance your career prospects and knowledge..
Our International students come from all over the world and we understand that some things are a little different when applying and then arriving at the University.
We offer a variety of services for international student support.
These services provide advice and guidance for non-academic related queries, support to study abroad and opportunities to improve academic skills through our Academic Success Team.
Our international recruitment team attend many overseas events throughout the year.
Find out more about the events and activities in your part of the world.
Our international agent network is managed and recruited by our International recruitment team inline with our Agent policy.
Get in touch with us to find out about our International network.
Winchester is based in the South East of England and was once the ancient capital of England and former seat of King Alfred the Great.
Winchester is a quintessential English city with a rich heritage and vibrant contemporary culture.
This friendly and highly walkable city of about 50,000 people has an easy-going vibe, fabulous local food, a lively music scene and a wonderful street performance festival – The Hat Fair – to rival Edinburgh.
There are a number of different ways for international students to apply to the University of Winchester.
Visit our How to Apply section for all the information for each course.
Our International students come from all over the world and we understand that something’s are a little different when applying and then arriving at the University.
We have therefore provided a list of some of the countries we work in with specific information included on Entry Requirements, Funding Opportunities, Visas and other useful information.
The Student visa is required for most students applying to study on undergraduate and postgraduate courses in the UK.
Full information about this visa is available on the UKVI website including details on the money that you will need; knowledge of English; the supporting documents that you need; and how to make an application.
We provide free support and advice on how to apply for your visa and we are happy to check your documents and answer any questions.
All teaching at the University is in English and to help you get the most out of your time with us, you will be required to demonstrate your level of English during the application process.
We would love to hear from you if have you any questions about applying to study with us in the UK.
Tel: +44 (0) 1962 826427
Email: international@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/international/international-events:
Our International Team regularly participate in both virtual and in-country events to meet future students and answer questions on studying at Winchester and in the UK more generally.
At the University of Winchester, we want you to have all the knowledge you need to make an informed decision on where you would like to study.
We can offer advice via email, however, we know that one-to-one conversations are usually better.
Therefore, we aim to attend as many events as possible, both in-person and online.
Our International Team regularly visit different countries, agent offices, school and colleges and exhibition events to meet future students and share their experience with regards to studying in the UK.
Whether you're looking for advice on the Visa application process, financing your studies or what you'll need to apply for your chosen course, our representative agents and International staff team can support you in your journey to Winchester.
These services provide advice and guidance for non-academic related queries, support to study abroad and opportunities to improve academic skills through our English Language Teaching and Support Unit (ELTSU).

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/international/why-winchester:
Find out about Community, Study and the city of Winchester from our students.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/international/International-Entry-Requirements:
Due to the variety of educational systems across the world, our entry requirements reflect the wide range of qualifications and routes to higher education represented in our global student community.
The information below will help you determine the necessary criteria needed to apply and study with us.
If your home country is not listed or if you have a question about something that is not included then please contact us.
Find out more about our English language entry requirements .
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Argentina onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Argentinian students.
Students applying for a Foundation programme at Winchester will be required hold the following qualification :-
For language requirements, please visit our English Language Requirements page .
All students applying for a Bachelors (BA, BSc and LLB) degree at Winchester will be also be required hold one of the following qualifications:
All students applying for a Masters degree (MA/MSc/MBA) at Winchester should hold one of the following qualifications:
OR
Students from Argentina would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
For more information please click here
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Algeria onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Algerian students.
Students applying for a Foundation programme at Winchester will be required hold one of the following qualifications :-
For details of our English Language requirements for students from Algeria please click here .
We offer a range of English Language programmes to assist students to reach the required English Language level for their programme.
More details can be found by clicking here .
Students from Algeria would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Australia are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
Their website and contact details can be accessed by clicking here .
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Australia onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Australian students.
We require a High School Certificate (specific state qualifications named below) and an appropriate ATAR score of at least 70.00 or an Overall Position (Queensland) of 14.
Students without an ATAR score may still be considered and should contact us to enquire.
Students who have studied in Australia are usually not required to submit additional evidence of English Language.
If you have not studied the full duration of High School or University in Australia you may be required to provide evidence of your English Language.
Further details on this can be found if you click here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Australian students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
The University of Winchester International Students Scholarship
Chevening Scholarships for Australia
Students from Australia would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
For more information and instructions on how to apply please click here .
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Austria onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Austrian students.
All students applying for a Bachelors (BA, BSc and LLB) degree at Winchester will also be required to hold one of the following qualifications:
All students applying for a Master’s degree (MA/MSc/MBA) at Winchester should hold one of the following qualifications:
The University of Winchester welcomes students each year from Bahrain onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to students from Bahrain.
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Bahrain students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Ministry of Higher Education Scholarships
Students from the Bahrain would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
For more information please click here .
The British Council in Bahrain are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Bangladesh onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to students from Bangladesh
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for student from Bangladesh coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Chevening Scholarship in Bangladesh
Students from Bangladesh would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Bangladesh are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Belgium onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Belgium students.
Holders of Bachelor, Licence/Licenciaat or Bachelors degree will be considered for postgraduate study
Students from Belgium would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Brazil onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Brazilian students.
Advanced level entry to Year 2 may be possible with grades from the below:
*As some Universities use different grading systems and pass marks, please contact us to find out if your grades are acceptable for the course you are applying for.
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Brazilian students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Chevening Scholarship in Brazil
Students from Brazil would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Brazil are an excellent source of information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Brunei onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Bruneian students.
Students from Brunei may be able to provide their English O Level as part evidence of English Language.
We require a grade C or above.
In some instances, we may request a student takes an English Language test (e.g.
IELTS, Pearson's PTE).
For further details of our English Language requirements for students from Brunei please click here
More details can be found by clicking here
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Bruneian students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester:
Chevening Scholarship in Brunei
Students from Brunei would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
Their local website and contact details can be accessed by clicking here
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Bulgaria onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Bulgarian students.
Diploma za Sredno Obrazovanie/Sredno Spetsialno Obrazovanie/ Zavŭrsheno Poluvisshe Obrazovanie with min grade of 3
Holders of the Diploma za Zavarsheno Visshe/Bakalavŭr/Profesionalen bakalavŭr with a grade of 4.0 or abovemay be considered for postgraduate study
Students from Bulgaria would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Cambodia.
All information below relates specifically to students from Cambodia.
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Cambodian students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Chevening Scholarship in Cambodia
Students from Cambodia would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Cambodia are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Canada onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Canadian students.
Canadian High School Diploma (see below)
For details of our English Language requirements for students from Canada please click here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Canadian students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Chevening Scholarship in Canada
Students from Canada would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
For more information and instructions on how to apply please click here .
The British Council in Canada are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
Students with Svjedodžba o Maturi (Matura Certificate) with an overall grade of 2 or better will be considered for admission to Foundation programmes
Students from Croatia would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from China onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Chinese students.
Students with  Senior Secondary School Certificate/Huikao with min score of 70% - Gaokao with minimum overall score of 55%
More details can be found by clicking here.
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Chinese students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Chevening Scholarship in China
Students from China would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in China are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Cyprus onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Cypriot students.
Apolytirion of Lykeio with minimum overall grade of 13
The University of Winchester welcomes students from the Czech Republic onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Czech students.
Maturitni Zkouška / Maturita or a Vysvedcení o Maturitní Zkoušce with minimum grade of 4.0
Holders of the  Maturitni Zkouška / Maturita or a Vysvedcení o Maturitní Zkoušce with a minimum grade of 2.5 or better
Holders of the Magister/ Bakalarwith a grade of 2.0 or better  will be considered for postgraduate study
Students from the Czech Republic would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Denmark onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Danish students.
Holders of the  Bevis for Studentereksamen / Bevis for Højere Forberedelseseksamen (Studentereksamenor Højere Forberedelseseksamenor Højere Handelseksamen (HHX) with grades of 7 and abovewill be considered for admission to a Bachelors degree
Holders of aBachelor degree or Professionsbachelor (Bachelor degree or Magisterii) with a grade of 7.0 or above may be considered for entry to Masters degree course
Students from Denmark would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students each year from Egypt onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Egyptian students.
Tawjahiya/Thanawhiya Al-Aama with a minimum of 65%
Four year honours degree achieving a good result from a reputable Egyptian institution with a 65%/Good/CGPA 2.7
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Egyptian students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Students from the Egypt would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Egypt are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Estonia onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Estonian students.
Gumnaasiumi Loputunnistus (School Leaving Certificate) with a minimum grade of 3.0
Holders with Gümnaasiumi lõputunnistus (with the Riigieksamitunnistus) - with a minimum grade of 4.0 will be considered for entry to Bachelor degree programmes
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Finland onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Finnish students.
Holders of Ammattikorkeakoulututkinto, AMK / yrkeshÃ¶gskoleexamen, YHS (polytechnic degree, min.
160 credits) are suitable for postgraduate study
Students from Finland would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from France onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to French students.
Students applying for a Foundation programme at Winchester will be required hold the following qualification :- Baccalaureate General / Technologique minimum grade 10
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Germany onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to German students.
Students applying for a Foundation programme at Winchester will be required to have secured Zeugnis der Allgemeinen Hochschulreife / Abitur below 2.4
All hold one of the following qualifications:
In exceptional cases holders of the Fachochschuldiplom/Diplom (FH) with 2-3 years relevant work experience may be considered for entry to postgraduate degrees.
Students from Germany would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Ghana onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Ghanaian students.
For details of our English Language requirements for students from Ghana please click here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Ghanaian students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Chevening Scholarship in Ghana
Students from Ghana would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Ghana are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Gibraltar onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to students from Gibraltar.
As the Education system in Gibraltar is the same as in the UK, please refer to the individual course pages for entry requirements.
They can be found by clicking A to Z of courses .
The Government of Gibraltar provides assistance with funding to students who wish to study overseas and at the University of Winchester.
Please click here to find out more and for contact details.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Greece onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Greek students.
All students applying for a Foundation programme at Winchester will be required hold the following qualification:-
Holders of the  Diploma Panepistimiou or Ptychio (University/ University diploma) or Diploma/ Diploma from AEN/ TEI With a grade of 5.5 or better
Students from Greece would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Hong Kong onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to students from Hong Kong.
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Hong Kong students coming to study at the University of Winchester
The Chevening Scholarship in Hong Kong
Students from Hong Kong would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Hong Kong are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Hungary onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Hungarian students.
Holders of the Foiskola Oklevel with high grades or additional relevant work experience may be considered for postgraduate study
Students from Hungary would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from India onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Indian students.
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Indian students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Chevening Scholarship in India
Students from India would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in India are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Indonesia onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Indonesian students.
For details of our English Language requirements for students from Indonesia please click here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Indonesian students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Chevening Scholarship in Indonesia
The Indonesia Endowment Fund for Education or Lembaga Pengelola Dana Pendidikan (LPDP)
Students from Indonesia would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students each year from Iran onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Israeli students.
For details of our English Language requirements for students from Israel please click here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Iranian students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Students from the Iran would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Iran are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Ireland onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Irish students.
Students applying for a Foundation programme at Winchester will be required hold the following qualification :- Irish Leaving Certificate with 4 Irish Highers at grade H5
All students applying for a Bachelors (BA, BSc and LLB) degree at Winchester will be also be required hold one of the following qualifications:​
The University of Winchester welcomes students each year from Israel onto a range of courses.
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Israeli students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Students from the Israel would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Israel are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Italy onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Italian students.
Students applying for a Foundation programme at Winchester will be required hold the following qualification :- Diploma di Esame di Stato with minimum grade of 50%
Holders of Diploma di Laurea/Licenza di Accademia di Belle Arti/Diploma di Mediatore Linguistic/Diploma di Laurea/Diploma accademico di primo livello with a grade of 100 or better
Holders of the Licenza di Accademia di Belle Arti will be considered for entry to postgraduate study.
We have a long history of welcoming students from Japan onto a range of programmes.
All information below relates specifically to Japanese students.
See more of our English Language requirements for students from Japan
Click here to find out how to apply
Click here to find out more about the fees for each course
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Japanese students coming to study at the University of Winchester
The Chevening Scholarship in Japan
Students from Japan would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Japan are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
See the British Council in Japan website.
The University of Winchester welcomes students each year from Jordan onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Jordanian students
Tawjahiya/Thanawhiya Al-Aama with minimum of 60%
For details of our English Language requirements for students from Jordan please click here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Jordanian students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Students from Jordan would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in the Jordan are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students each year from Kuwait onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Kuwaiti students
Tawjahiya/Thanawhiya Al-Aama with minimum of 65%
For details of our English Language requirements for students from Kuwait please click here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Kuwaiti students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Students from Kuwait would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Kuwait are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Latvia onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Latvian students.
Students applying for a Foundation programme at Winchester will be required hold the following qualification :- Atestāts par vispārējo vidējo izglītību at 6 overall with 60%
For details of our English Language requirements for students from Lithuania please click here .
The British Council in Latvia are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
Students from Latvia would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from the Lebanon onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Lebanese students.
Students applying for a Foundation programme at Winchester will be required hold the following qualification :- Baccalaureat General/Baccalaueat Technique/Lebanese Baccalaureate with a minimum grade of 12
Bachelor Degree from American University of Beirut/Beirut Arab University with minimum grade C/Good/70% - Diplome d’Etudes Superieures/Approfondies with minimum grade 12
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Lithuania onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Lithuanian students.
Students applying for a Foundation programme at Winchester will be required hold the following qualification :- Brandos Atestatas at Grade 5
The British Council in Lithuania are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
Students from Lithuania would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Luxembourg onto a range of programmes.
All information below relates specifically to students from Luxembourg.
Students with Diplôme de fin d'études secondaires with an overall score of 30 or better will be considered for admission to Foundation programmes
Students from Luxembourg would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Malaysia onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Malaysian students.
Students from Malaysia who have taken the SPM 1119 may be able to use this as evidence of English to meet the English Language entry requirements.
For further details of our English Language requirements for students from Malaysia please click here .
Funding and Scholarship Information
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Malaysian students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Chevening Scholarship in Malaysia
Public Service Department of Malaysia
Majlis Amanah Rakyat (MARA)
Students from Malaysia would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Malaysia are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Malta onto a range of programmes.
All information below relates specifically to Maltese students.
Students with a Matriculation Certificate with an overall score of 44 or better will be considered for admission to Foundation programmes
Holders of a degree from a university in Malta with a score of 55% (IIB) or better will be considered for entry to postgraduate level study
Students from Malta would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Mexico onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Mexican students.
For details of our English Language requirements for students from Mexico please click here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Mexican students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Chevening Scholarship in Mexico
Students from Mexico would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Mexico are an excellent source of information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Morocco onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Moroccan students.
Students applying for a Foundation programme at Winchester will be required hold the following qualifications :-
Successful completion of a 4-Year Bachelor's degree/Licence with a final grade of 11/Assezbien
For details of our English Language requirements for students from Morocco please click here .
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Myanmar.
All information below relates specifically to students from Myanmar.
For details of our English Language requirements for students from Myanmar please click here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Burmese students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Chevening Scholarship in Myanmar
Students from Myanmar would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Myanmar are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from the Netherlands onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to students from the Netherlands.
Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO), Grade 6
Students from the Netherlands would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Nigeria onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Nigerian students.
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Nigerian students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Chevening Scholarship in Nigeria
Students from Nigeria would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Nigeria are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Norway onto a range of programmes.
All information below relates specifically to Norwegian students.
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Norwegian students coming to study at the University of Winchester
Lånekassen – Norwegian State Educational Loan Fund
Lånekassen - Page for the support for students with disabilities
Students from Norway would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
Norwegian students no longer to need to pay a tuition fee deposit to the University prior to securing a CAS statement and applying for a visa.
The British Council in Norway are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
Their website and contact details can be accessed by clicking here
Association for Norwegian Students Abroad (ANSA)
Click here to access the website for the association for Norwegian students abroad
The University of Winchester welcomes students each year from Oman onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Omani students
For details of our English Language requirements for students from Oman please click here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Omani students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Students from Oman would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Omanare an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Pakistan onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to students from Pakistan.
For details of our English Language requirements for students from Pakistan please click here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for student from Pakistan coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Chevening Scholarship in Pakistan
Students from Pakistan would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Pakistan are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Poland onto a range of programmes.
All information below relates specifically to Polish students.
Holders of Licencjat/Inzynier with a minimum grade of 4.0 (C )
Students from Poland would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Portugal onto a range of programmes.
All information below relates specifically to Portuguese students.
Students from Portugal would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Qatar onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Qatari students.
For details of our English Language requirements for students from Qatar please click here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Qatari students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Sidra Scholarships
Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani Scholarship
Students from Qatar would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Qatar are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Romania onto a range of programmes.
All information below relates specifically to Romanian students.
Students with Diplomă de Bacalaureat with a minimum score of 5 will be considered for admission to Foundation programmes
For details of our English Language requirements for students from Romania please click here .
Please see below funding opportunities for Romanian students coming to study at the University of Winchester
The University of Winchester Student Support
The British Council in Romania are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Russia onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Russian students.
For details of our English Language requirements for students from Russia please click here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Russian students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Chevening Scholarship in Russia
Students from Russia would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Russia are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students each year from Saudi Arabia onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Saudi students.
For details of our English Language requirements for students from Saudi Arabia please click here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Saudi students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Students from Saudi Arabia would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Saudi Arabia are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Singapore onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Singaporean students.
Singapore Cambridge GCE A-levels with minimum grades DD
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Singaporean students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Chevening Scholarship in Singapore
Students from Singapore would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Singapore are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Slovakia onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Slovakian students.
Holders of the Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Maturita) with an average score of 2.6 or better will be considered for entry to Bachelor degree programmes
Holders of the Magister/Professional title will be considered for postgraduate Masters degree courses or where appropriate PhD study
Students from Slovakia would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Slovenia onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Slovenian students.
Maturitetno Spricevalo with a score of 2.5 or better
Holders of the Maturitetno Spricevalo with a score of 3.0 or better will be considered for entry to Bachelor degree programmes
Students from Slovenia would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from South Africa onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to students from South Africa.
For details of our English Language requirements for students from South Africa please click here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for student from South Africa coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Chevening Scholarship in South Africa
Students from South Africa would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
If you are unsure if you require a visa or not then please contact us .
The British Council in South Africa are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students each year from South Korea onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Korean students.
For detail of our English Language requirements for students from South Korea please click here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Korean students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Chevening Scholarship in South Korea
Students from South Korea would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in South Korea are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Spain onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Spanish students.
Holders of the Titulo Universitario Official de Graduado (Grado) with a score of 6.0 or betterwill be considered for entry to postgraduate level study
Students from Spain would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
Holders of the Avgångsbetyg / Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskola with a minimum of 12 will be considered for admission to a Foundation programme
Students from Sweden would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Switzerland onto a range of programmes.
All information below relates specifically to Swiss students.
Students with Gymnasialer Maturitätsausweis/ Certificat de maturité gymnasiale/ Attestato di maturità liceale with a minimum grade of 4.0 will be considered for admission to Foundation programmes.
Holders of Diplom/Diplôme; Lizentiat/Licence; Staatsdiplom/Diplôme d'Etat OR a Fachhochschule Diplom (FH)/ Hautes Écoles Specialisées Diplôme with a grade of4 (1-6 scale), 3 (1-5 scale), 0r 6 (1-10 scale) better will be considered for entry to postgraduate level study
Students from Switzerland would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Taiwan onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Taiwanese students.
For details of our English Language requirements for students from Taiwan please click here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Taiwanese students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Chevening Scholarship in Taiwan
Students from Taiwan would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Taiwan are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester has a history of welcoming students from Thailand onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Thai students.
For details of our English Language requirements for students from Thailand please click here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Thai students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Chevening Scholarship in Thailand
Royal Thai Government Scholarships
Students from Thailand would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Thailand are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Turkey onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Turkish students.
Successful completion of Lise Diplomasi with overall minimum 50%
For details of our English Language requirements for students from Turkey please click here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Turkish students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Chevening Scholarship in Turkey
Jean Monnet Scholarship​
Students from Turkey would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Turkey are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students each year from the United Arab Emirates onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to students from the UAE.
For details of our English Language requirements for students from the UAE please click here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for UAE students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Abu Dhabi Police Scholarship
Students from the UAE would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in the UAE are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester is very popular amongst International students who are already studying in the UK either on Foundation, A Level or English Language courses as well as with students studying at other Universities who want to come and study at postgraduate level with us.
The information below is for all students currently studying in the UK.
Students who have previously studied in the UK may be required to produce an English Language test depending on the level of previous study, time spent in the UK and visa status.
If you are unsure if you are required to take a test then please contact us .
If you are required to take a test then the scores we require can be found on our English Language Requirements page .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for International students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
The University of Winchester Alumni Scholarship
Visa Requirements
Students from already in the UK may require a visa to continue studying in the UK.
We have a long history of welcoming students from the United States of America.
Below you can find the entry requirements we look for from American students.
If you would like to apply for a study abroad or exchange programme then please click here .
Students from the US are not normally required to provide evidence of English Language ability however if we do ask for it, details of our English Language requirements for students from the US can be found by clicking here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for US students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester.
US Federal Aid The University of Winchester International Students Scholarship
Students from the US would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
US students no longer to need to pay a tuition fee deposit to the University prior to securing a CAS statement and applying for a visa.
The British Council in the US are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.
The University of Winchester welcomes students from Vietnam onto a range of courses.
All information below relates specifically to Vietnamese students.
For details of our English Language requirements for students from Vietnam please click here .
Please see below a number of funding opportunities for Vietnamese students coming to study in the UK at the University of Winchester
Chevening Scholarship in Vietnam
Students from Vietnam would normally require a visa to study in the UK.
The British Council in Vietnam are an excellent source of Information on studying in the UK.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/international/english-language-requirements:
Please see below our requirements for English Language Tests for all students who are required to provide a test as part of their application to the University.
English language and Student Visa
If you require a student visa to study in the UK, you will need to be able to demonstrate that the qualification you hold is equivalent to CEFR B2 in all 4 components (speaking, listening, reading and writing).
We accept a range of recognised English Language qualifications for entry including:
Please contact: admissions@winchester.ac.uk for further information on alternative qualifications that we may accept.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/international/visa-information:
We provide free help and advice on applying for your visa and we are happy to check your documents and answer any questions.
Most international students will now require a visa to study in the UK, You can check if you need a visa on the UKVI website .
If your course is shorter than 6 months (or 11 months on an English course), you can apply for a Short-term study visa .
Full information on the Short-term study visa is available on the UKVI website .
Once you have received an offer of a place to study at the University, you will be invited to use the CAS Shield platform as part of the process of obtaining a CAS.
If you are required to complete a Pre-CAS interview, you will complete this via CAS Shield and once you have completed this successfully, you will be required to pay a Tuition Fee Deposit to the University.
Students are required to either live on campus in student accommodation, or within a reasonable commutable distance of the University of Winchester.
A reasonable commutable distance is recommended to be within 90 minutes travel time and/or a 60-mile radius of the University campus.
Living further away from campus can affect your ability to fully engage with your studies, and not engaging with your studies can lead to withdrawal from the University and your visa cancelled.
Once you have Accepted an Offer of a place to study at the University, and paid your Tuition Fee Deposit, you are encouraged to request your CAS as soon as you have all the necessary documents and financial arrangements completed.
You should not leave applying for your CAS until late in the cycle as there may be delays in our processing your CAS request, delays in acquiring a visa, and increased costs in long-haul travel.
Some students will be required to attend an online Pre-CAS Interview with the University of Winchester.
It is not a test of academic or creative skill but to ensure that they are committed and ready to study at the University in the UK.
This interview is compulsory for those students invited.
The interview is to learn more about you and your reasons for studying in the UK.
You will also be given the opportunity to ask us questions at the end of the interview should you wish.
The interview will be conducted online in English, using CAS Shield; so broadband access and a computer/tablet with camera and microphone (not a smartphone) will be required.
The interview will be recorded.
You will need to be in a room on your own for the interview, for up to 30 minutes without interruptions and you will need the following documents to hand during the interview (you may be requested to send scans of documents prior to your interview):
The interview will be recorded and stored in secure location by the University in such a way that it could be released to authorised parties should that be required.
Once you have received your CAS you can apply for your student visa using the UK government student visa page
Applying from outside the UK
Applying from inside the UK
You should carefully read the UKVI Guidance notes before making your application for a student visa.
And if you have any doubts or questions about the application process, please contact us .
UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) are developing a digital immigration system.
This means they are replacing physical immigration documents, such as Biometric Residence Permits (BRP), with an online record of your immigration status - known as an eVisa.
You will need to create a UKVI account to be able to access your eVisa.
Updating your physical document to an eVisa does not affect your immigration status or the conditions of your permission to enter or stay in the UK.
Further information regarding eVisas can be found here: Online immigration status (eVisa) - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk) .
When you first entered the UK, you might have been given a BRP with an expiry date of 31 st December 2024.
If so, you will need to create a UKVI account to access your eVisa and you may have already been contacted to create your UKVI account.
If you have not yet been contacted about creating an account, you’ll be able to create your account and access your eVisa later in 2024.
Sign up for updates on this page to keep up to date on when you’ll be able to access your eVisa.
Watch this video to find out more about creating a UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) account
You need to create a UKVI account to access your eVisa and share information about your immigration status and conditions, such as your right to work or rent in the UK, using the view and prove service .
You do not have to pay to create a UKVI account.
You can share your immigration status information with third parties, such as employers or landlords, by generating a share code in the view and prove service , which will give them time-limited access to your immigration status information.
If you are a British or Irish citizen, and you hold a British or Irish passport, you do not need an eVisa or a UKVI account and do not need to do anything.
You should continue to use your passport to prove your status in the UK.
If you need any assistance with accessing your eVisa, please feel free to book an appointment with International Student Success via the intranet pages: Appointments | Winchester (omniacloud.net)
Alternatively, please contact International Student Success via email: international.support@winchester.ac.uk .
A Graduate visa gives you permission to stay in the UK for at least 2 years after successfully completing an undergraduate or postgraduate course in the UK.
You must be in the UK when you apply.
Full information on the Graduate visa is available on the UKVI website
There are a number of useful links below to help you with preparing for your visa application:
Whilst we try to ensure the accuracy of the information and advice given, the requirements relating to visas are complex and change frequently, therefore, the University of Winchester cannot accept responsibility for any inaccuracies or errors in its information or advice.
This page was last updated in May 2022.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/international/Meet-our-students:
Meet the students behind our vibrant international community and find out why they love Winchester and the UK.
Tiril, who studies Film Production and is an international student from Norway shares her story of what it's like to study and live in Winchester.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life:
At the University of Winchester there is so much more than just your studies.
Winchester is renowned as a quintessential English city with a rich heritage and vibrant contemporary culture, meaning there's so much to experience alongside studying your degree.
Our campus is friendly and compact with a community feel, offering first-class, sustainable facilities for learning, teaching and student life.
The campus is split into 'Quarters': King Alfred Quarter, West Downs Quarter, Medecroft Quarter and Bar End Quarter.
We have three beautiful student accommodation villages on campus to chose from; Burma Road, Queens Road and West Downs Student Village.
We have two halls of residence for students looking for catered accommodation.
All students, academic staff and support staff are automatically members of the library and can use their University card to borrow our materials and use our services.
The library has a range of services and facilities to support study, teaching and research.
Based in the King Alfred Centre, Winchester Student Union is run for students, by students.
We offer excellent sports facilities for the use of our students, staff and members of the community.
Make online payments for tuition fees, accommodation fees, library fees, update payment information and access the online store.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Our-campus:
It is located within easy walking distance to Winchester city centre.
At Winchester, our campus is friendly and compact with a community feel, offering first-class, sustainable facilities for learning, teaching and student life.
It's close proximity to Winchester City Centre gives you the opportunity to explore the history and culture that the city has to offer alongside your studies.
Download a copy of our interactive Campus map
Student life is centred on our King Alfred Quarter, within walking distance of the historic cathedral city of Winchester.
In recent years, the King Alfred Quarter has been added to and renovated to enhance its facilities with the latest industry-standard equipment, digital networks and AV technology.
The award-winning King Alfred Centre is a bright and spacious social hub.
It houses the Student Union, bookshop, Learning Cafe , Food Hall , Terrace Bar , Student Union Shop and The Vault – the main venue for student social activities.
The St Alphege building offers state-of-the-art learning and teaching facilities, including 10 lecture rooms and a mezzanine floor with open-access PCs.
We are proud that all of our recent developments meet the highest environmental standards .
They feature a number of eco-friendly innovations such as natural ventilation, energy-efficient lighting, air source heat pumps, solar panels and a wildflower roof.
Our Martial Rose Library has over 300,000 books as well as a huge digital library of academic journals, e-books and databases.
There are also study rooms which can be booked for group work sessions.
There are 600 networked PCs available for students to use across campus, including 150 workstations at the Library.
You can benefit from the University’s Virtual Learning Environment, Canvas, which gives you easy access to all types of material such as reading lists, academic papers and video clips.
The King Alfred Quarter is also home to a beautifully restored Chapel , a cutting-edge Life Fitness gym and other sports facilities, the Performing Arts Studios , Multimedia Centre and faculty buildings where the majority of lectures and seminars take place.
Many undergraduate students live in the halls of residence in the King Alfred Quarter, in our Queens Road and Burma Road Student Villages.
The West Downs Quarter is a short walk from the centre of the King Alfred Quarter.
It is the home of the West Downs Student Village and the University of Winchester Business School.
The contemporary design by award-winning Winchester-based architects Design Engine includes a 250-seat auditorium, art gallery, café, food hall, library, social learning areas and teaching spaces.
Find out more .
In addition to our halls of residence at the King Alfred Quarter, many students also live in the West Downs student village on the West Downs Quarter.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Conferencing-and-Facilities/Sport:
We offer excellent sports facilities for the use of its students, staff and members of the community.
We were a funding partner in the new Leisure Centre which houses a 50m swimming pool, a 200 station fitness suite and a rock climbing facility.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Conferencing-and-Facilities/library:
Martial Rose Library refurbishment project
The University is undertaking a full refurbishment of the Martial Rose Library (MRL).
Once completed we will have a modern digitally enhanced space with more study spaces for all needs and some new specialist spaces.
We are now half-way through the project and it will be complete by September 2025.
During this time, we have aimed to keep elements of the service open and available.
To help manage our spaces we will remain accessible to members of the Sconul Access scheme but will have to restrict access to other external members of our community for the duration of the project.
As part of the University partnerships with our local NHS partners HHFT and Southern Health Trust are still welcome to visit and use our spaces for study.
Access visitor WiFi
Our Library service provides the resources to support learning, teaching and research throughout the University of Winchester.
These resources cover all the subjects offered by the University, as well as many fields of general interest to serve students and staff of the University.
We are based on two sites: the Martial Rose Library (King Alfred Quarter) and the West Downs learning centre (West Downs Quarter).
There are many different study opportunities; group study areas, quiet areas to study in, bookable PCs, and individual workstations where you can bring your own laptop.
Our West Downs Library is open 24/7 for the University community with access outside staffed hours via swipe access.
Our printers are multifunctional machines that can photocopy and scan.
Please ask for directions to them when in the building.
The library has a range of services and facilities to support study, teaching and research:
OneSearch is the library’s discovery service via which you can search across not only the physical collections in our libraries but will also give our students and staff access to eBooks, eJournals and articles drawn from our vast array of online resources.
To access the full range of resources University staff and students need to remember to login.
Access OneSearch
In addition to those resources accessible via OneSearch, the library also has extensive access to online resources providing a range of text and media content.
For each course area we have a number of subject specific resources and tools which will support students with their learning and development.
These are detailed on the Subject Guide pages of the Library’s Intranet Site .
All students, academic staff and support staff are able to borrow items from the library.
All you need is your university I.D.
card which will be issued to you when you enrol at the start of your course or at the beginning of your employment with us.
It is also available as an e-card via the University app.
You will need to have your university I.D.
card or e-card with you if you wish to borrow any items from the library.
If at any time your card is lost or stolen you will need to contact the IT Helpdesk to arrange for a new card to be issued to you.
Items in the library have different loan periods depending on how much demand there is for the item.
The loan categories are 4-week loan, 7-day loan, 4-hour loan and reference.
Please be aware that all items are subject to recall, but you will have longer loan items for at least a week.
Reference and 4 –hour loan items are for use in the library only.
Students and staff may borrow up to 50 items at a time, Entitled Visitors may borrow up to 5 standard loans.
You can check your library account at any time online.
Access OneSearch through the website, sign in and then select 'my account' from the drop down menu at the top of the page.
This will take you to your account and will display what items you currently have on loan, when these items are due for return and any outstanding fines that you may have.
You can also check your library account by selecting 'Account' on the Self-issue kiosks.
Your items will auto-renew providing they have not been requested or there is an issue with your account.
Please note that 4-hour loans cannot be renewed during termtime under any circumstances.
Any standard (4-week) loan or 7-day loan item can be requested.
Please log into OneSearch and search for your item, select request and input which library site you wish to collect it from and click request.
You will receive an email when it is ready and you then need to reserve a collection slot to come and pick it up.
Details are in the confirmatory email.
If the items that you have borrowed are reserved by another user the items will be recalled from you.
You will receive email notification of which items are being recalled.
Recalled items are in demand and need to be returned within 7 days or fines will be incurred.
When items are issued to you, you are accepting responsibility for them.
If any items are lost, stolen or damaged whilst they are issued to you, you will incur our standard lost charge.
For these reasons we strongly advise against borrowing items on behalf of others.
Items (including almost everything in School Resources!) can be issued at any time using the Self-issue kiosks in both our libraries.
Select 'Borrow', scan your University ID card or e-card and place multiple items on the flat.
Please make sure all items have been issued before removing them by checking the screen.
Books, DVDs and CDs can be returned using the Returns machine on the top floor of the Martial Rose Library or the kiosks at West Downs Library.
Non-book items from the School Resources collection should be returned using the kiosks.
The kiosks also give receipts showing what has been issued and returned.
Please ask for a demonstration or assistance at the Library Desk.
As with all University facilities, there are rules and regulations relating to conduct within the library and use of library materials.
These rules must be adhered to at all times.
The Martial Rose Library has Quiet Study Zones for individual work and the School Resources Centre and Study Rooms can be used for group work.
However, please be aware that these areas are not soundproof and that too much noise can be distracting for other Library Users.
The West Downs library upper floor is more suited to group work and the lower floor is more conducive to quiet study.
Other study areas suitable for group work are provided elsewhere on the campus (Cyber Italia and Learning Cafe).
The use of mobile phones for calling purposes is permitted in the library but they should always be turned to silent mode when in the building.
Text messaging is permitted in the building, but only if the phone is in silent mode.
Please consider other library users before taking a call in a study area and move to an appropriate space.
Hot and cold drinks with lids are permitted in the Library.
Cold food can be consumed in quiet study areas, but not hot or smelly food.
Please use bins around the building to dispose of rubbish and be careful not to damage to books and electrical equipment.
Any mess or spillages should be reported to a member of staff.
At West Downs in the upper social area food and drink are permitted.
The library has a fining system for overdue books.
Please check your Receipt or Library Account for due dates.
The Library sends an email notice if your items are recalled.
If your book runs overdue you will incur charges as follows:
Standard (4-week) loan and 7 day loans: £2 a day (max.
£20)
4-hour loan: 50p an hour (max.
Fines should be paid immediately; fines over a certain amount will prevent you borrowing items from us.
Fines can be paid on the self-service kiosks using a card.
We encourage all students to monitor their library accounts or return items to us to avoid incurring these charges.
If there are extenuating circumstances that may prevent you from keeping your account in good order please contact the library immediately by phone or email.
These fines are in place to prevent valuable study materials from being kept from other users.
The library has a range of online services to support distance and flexible learners who live on mainland United Kingdom, outside the county of Hampshire or the Isle of Wight.
To use the online resources please log in to the University Intranet and visit the library's intranet pages by clicking on the 'Library' tab.
You should be able to access the various resources to which we subscribe, including e-books and online articles.
Please see the ‘Subject’ pages for your librarian’s recommendations.
The library has created guides on the following topics:
The library participates in the SCONUL Access scheme , which may entitle you to borrow items from other participating university and public libraries.
You can apply online.
Not sure where your nearest public library is?
Visit the findmylibrary website .
For anyone based in and around London, the British Library is well worth a visit.
The School Resources Centre (SRC) – located on the middle floor of the library – provides a wide variety of books and resources to help with planning and delivery of activities for children in the classroom.
The collection is especially aimed at students following teacher training courses, but all students and staff are welcome to use it.
Alongside children’s fiction and information books we have multimedia, teaching packs, posters and active learning toys and artefacts.
These resources are shelved together in a series of eight curriculum areas which relate to the whole range of the primary school curriculum and national guidelines.
Additionally, we hold journals relating to child and school-centred topics.
We also have a small reference children’s book archive containing facsimiles of early children’s fiction and textbooks.
We actively promote our collection by producing a range of value-added materials, such as booklists and displays.
The Martial Rose Library usually welcomes staff, students and researchers from other institutions via the Sconul Access Scheme.
From January 2025 to Summer 2025 As we enter the final phase of the major refurbishment of the Martial Rose Library we are now only able to offer study space to Sconul Access Scheme users during the week, Monday – Friday 9-5 at the Martial Rose Library.
We are unable to offer borrowing rights until the end of the Refurbishment as the majority of our stock is in off-site storage until the end of the project.
If you wish to use the Martial Rose Library for study purposes, please follow our usual procedures as indicated below.
We will update this page with more information as the project progresses.
Our usual procedures are detailed below.
Staff, students and researchers from other universities who have applied for SCONUL Access will be granted access to the library and borrowing rights if entitled.
Please bring your University ID card, SCONUL access e-mail (or card, if you still have one) and a passport-sized photograph to the main library desk along with the SCONUL application form.
Please be aware of the processes for Sconul users.
Please access the SCONUL website for more information.
If you are eligible to borrow from us, you may borrow up to 5 items at a time from the Main Library collection.
Your loans will auto-renew unless they have either been requested by another user or there is an issue with your account.
If you do not return requested items by the due date, you will incur fines.
Fines are charged at £2 a day per item, up to a maximum of £20 per item on standard and 7 day loans.
Auto-renewal will continue for up to 60 weeks (with the exception of the reasons outlined above).
At this point, if you still need to use the item, you will need to bring it in to one of the libraries to return and re-issue to restart the renewal process.
Any library items which are overdue for more than 4 weeks are considered Lost and attract a standard charge of £90 per item plus overdue fines.
This is automatically applied and takes into consideration the disruption of resource provision to our users, the cost of replacing with a suitable item, staff time and administration.
Any items reported lost or damaged by a user will attract the same charge.
We do not accept replacement copies under any circumstances and if you do find the item at a later stage, we can't accept it in lieu of the charge, as we will have already taken action to replace the resource.
Due to our Refurbishment Project there is no access to our libraries for members of the public, as we manage our spaces for our current students and staff.
All visitors are only allowed access when the Martial Rose is staffed.
There is no access to the West Downs Library for visitors.
Please email library@winchester.ac.uk , if you have any questions.
The Sybil Campbell Collection is no longer housed at the University of Winchester.
A significant element of the Collection is now at Goodenough College, Mecklenburgh Square, London.
It is not yet catalogued but can be visited by arrangement.
Please contact: library@goodenough.ac.uk A revised website on the Collection is in progress.
For further enquiries about the Collection, please contact Professor Carrie de SIlva, Chair of the BFWG Sybil Campbell Collection Trust, carrie@carriedesilva.co.uk
There is currently no access to the Thorold and Lyttelton Collection for Health and Safety reasons.
The Thorold and Lyttelton Collection is named after two local bishops whose personal libraries form its nucleus.
The collection covers all aspects of theology and supports both the teaching and research of the University in this area.
For visitor Wi-Fi access please follow the steps in the guide here: Visitor wifi access
Members of staff from the Hampshire Hospitals Foundation Trust and the Southern Health Foundation Trust are welcome to use the Martial Rose Library and borrow materials.
Please bring your NHS ID card and a passport-sized photograph to the main library desk along with the External visitors application form .
The library is committed to the University's accessibility policies.
We aim to make the building and services inclusive for all.
All comments and suggestions regarding the accessibility of our services are welcomed.
There are several designated disabled parking spaces in the King Alfred Quarter on Sparkford Road.
Please contact Reception on 01962 841515.
Parking is generally difficult here, so if you anticipate problems either with parking, or with entering and leaving the library, please contact the Enquiry Desk on 01962 827306 for advice.
The library's main entrance is situated on the same level as reception, opposite the chapel.
The entrance has automatic doors, with a lift to all three levels.
West Downs Library entrance is on the ground floor.
After staffed hours the entrance is University card controlled via the upper floor which can be accessed by the lift.
The West Downs library is on two floors which are also linked by an internal lift.
There is an Assistive Technology Room with assistive technology and a height adjustable table.
Please email libsupport@winchester.ac.uk or phone the library desk on 01962 827306.
Our staff are happy to help with any queries regarding the use of our services.
The Martial Rose Library is located in the King Alfred Quarter.
Martial Rose Library University of Winchester Sparkford Road Winchester Hampshire SO22 4NR
General Enquiries Email: Library@winchester.ac.uk Tel: 01962 827306
Inter-library Loans Email: interlibraryloans@winchester.ac.uk
Disability support Email libsupport@winchester.ac.uk
Reading lists/Aspire support Email libaspire@winchester.ac.uk
Research/PhD support Email libresearch@winchester.ac.uk
Search Collection: OneSearch

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Conferencing-and-Facilities/Food-on-Campus:
Food on Campus operates a number of coffee bars and restaurants on the King Alfred and West Downs Quarters so you are never too far away from a hot meal or a quick snack!
As a department our ethos is “we cater for LIFE” – Local, Independent, Fair and Ethical and we aim to deliver value for money, excellent service and great food and drink.
Our outlets are open to everyone with food available for all tastes and dietary requirements.
We operate eight outlets across two quarters and all our outlets are open to everybody from students, staff and external visitors.
Serving a range of homemade dishes to suit all tastes and dietary requirements including gluten free, vegetarian and vegan.
Our meals are created using fresh, seasonal and ethical produce with ingredients sourced from the UK as well as local and regional suppliers, where possible.
Use our Catering Outlet Map to view the locations of our outlets and vending machines on campus.
The Food Hall is located on Level 3 of the King Alfred Centre.
Term Opening Times:
Monday to Friday - 08:00-14:30 / 16:00-18:30 Saturday and Sunday – Closed
King Alfred’s Food Hall caters for all tastes, with a variety of food to suit everyone’s needs.
Breakfast is served from 08:00–11:30, serving a range of hot and cold breakfast items.
Lunch is served from 11:30 to 14:30 and hosts a variety of different options including homemade soups, salad bar, fresh baguettes, chef’s specials and jacket potatoes with fillings.
Dinner is served from 17:00-18:30 and serves a meat, vegetarian and vegan options including bakes, snacks and sides.
King Alfred’s Food Hall has a large number of plant-based and allergen free dishes to meet your specific dietary requirements.
KKB Cafe is located in the Kenneth Kettle Building.
Monday to Friday - 08:30-17:00
Saturday and Sunday – 09:00-17:00
The KKB Café is located in the social learning space in the Kenneth Kettle Building.
The team provide a full barista service for you using freshly ground Fairtrade coffee across the range of hot and cold beverages
In addition, there is also a range of hot grab and go paninis, toasties, sausage rolls and pastry's available throughout the day.
Sandwiches, salads and fruit pots provides a cold lunch option alongside a range of homemade muffins and cakes.
They also produce a variety of made to order cold beverages including fruit smoothies, frappes and milkshakes and bottled drinks.
The Learning Café on Level 4 of the King Alfred Centre.
Monday to Friday - 07:30-14:30
Saturday and Sunday – Closed
The Learning Cafe space provides an environment for students to relax and study.
The Learning Cafe stocks selection of grab and go sandwiches, panini’s, toasties, salads and fresh fruit pots.
All of Ethical Earth’s coffee beans are Fairtrade, Organic, Rain Forest Alliance Certified and served with milk or milk alternatives.
We also stock a variety of homemade cake slices and muffins; home baked pastries and a range of gluten free cakes and biscuits.
Also on offer are a variety of made to order fresh fruit smoothies, freshly blended frappes and milkshakes.
Courtyard Café is located on Level 0 of the West Downs Centre.
Monday to Friday - 08:00-17:00
Saturday and Sunday – Closed
The Courtyard Cafe sits on the ground floor of the West Downs Centre with views of the outside courtyard area and pond.
They also produce a variety of made to order cold beverages including fruit smoothies, frappes and milkshakes and bottled drinks
West Downs Food Hall is located on Level 1 of the West Downs Centre
Monday to Friday – 08:00-14:30
West Downs Food Hall caters for all tastes, with a variety of food to suit everyone’s needs.
Lunch is served from 11:30 to 14:30 and hosts a variety of different options including salad bar, fresh baguettes, pizza slices and chef’s special and jacket potatoes with fillings.
Food Hall Café is located on Level 1 of the West Downs Centre.
Monday to Friday - Closed
Saturday and Sunday – 10:00-16:00
The Food Hall Cafe is located in the West Downs Food Hall, next to the West Downs Library and open over the weekend.
The team provide a full barista service for you using freshly ground Fairtrade coffee across the range of hot and cold beverages alongside a range of sandwiches, salads and grab and go products.
All of the vending machines across campus are provided by Revive Vending of Downton near Salisbury.
The machines are replenished and serviced regularly.
Our premium coffee machines serve a variety of hot drinks.
From a frothy cappuccino to a warming cup of tea.
Whatever your drink preference, we’ve got you covered.
During our hunt for the perfect coffee beans for our Doozy coffee machines, we found 918 Coffee .
This innovative company, based a short drive from us, holds the answer to truly ethical coffee.
A solution called Eco Roast .
The team bring back used coffee grounds to Doozy HQ.
When 918 Coffee delivers our fresh new bags of coffee beans, they take away the old grounds and use them as energy to roast the new beans.
It really is a circular coffee economy.
Your University ID card is the key to edible credit which helps you save time and money at all Food on Campus outlets.
Scan your ID card or download the WINPay!
loyalty pass in our outlets to earn loyalty points, discounts for future purchases and enjoy free food and drink vouchers all year round.
No need to top up your card with money, just save a credit or debit card to your account and the transaction value will be taken from your account when you pay similar to contactless and apple pay.
The WINPay!
loyalty pass allows you to pay without your ID card and check your account.
The loyalty pass is available to download on the WINPay!
website once signed in for your google play and apple wallet.
Activate and view your account at www.winchester.ac.uk/winpay
Here at Food on Campus, we are Food Allergy Aware!
We want everybody to feel safe and confident when eating in our outlets, especially if you have a food allergy or dietary requirement.
With the introduction of the Food Information for Consumers regulation 1169/2011, which came into force on the 13 December 2014.
All of our staff have to complete allergen training when they join the department and complete yearly refresher training, we display allergens on outlet menu cards where possible and have allergen labels on products we have packaged.
If you have a food allergy and are not sure if your food choice is safe for you to eat, speak to a member of staff before ordering.
From 1 October 2021, all pre-packaged food that is made on site and then packaged by our Chefs and food production team will now be labelled with a full ingredients list, nutrition information and have the 14 allergens listed.
See our wellbeing portal which will show you all the details for our homemade and unpackaged products sold in our outlets.
The Catering Department recognises its responsibility to the environment and carries out its activities in an environmentally and socially responsible manner.
We strive to incorporate environmental and social considerations into our operation.
We recognise that it is our responsibility to encourage our suppliers to minimise negative environmental and social effects associated with the products and services they provide.
Find out more about our ethical catering .
We offer weekly catering packages allowing you to receive a weekly loading on your university ID card to use in our outlets.
We offer three packages:
Catering Package 1 which will purchase approximately 10 meals (one smaller meal or breakfast and one larger meal per day for 5 days).
Catered Halls and Catering Package 2 which will purchase approximately 14 meals (one smaller meal or breakfast and one larger meal per day for 7 days).
Catering Package 3 which will purchase approximately 21 meals (breakfast, one smaller meal and one larger meal per day for 7 days).
All meals numbers quoted are dependent on the individual card holder’s spending pattern and are only a guide as the card holder may spend the allowance in any outlet throughout the week as required.
For more information, visit our catered accommodation pages .
We can also offer catered packages to second and third year students, giving you flexibility to pick and choose how many weeks you would like to purchase.
For more information, visit our catering store .
Our staff are happy to help with any queries regarding the use of our services and outlets.
General Enquiries Email: foodoncampus@winchester.ac.uk Tel: 01962 827214
WINPay!
and Click and Collect Enquiries Email: cateringcard@winchester.ac.uk
Food Allergy Enquiries Email: foodallergyaware@winchester.ac.uk
Follow us on social media
Twitter: @uowcatering
TikTok: foodoncampuswinchester
Instagram: foodoncampuswinchester
Snapchat: uowcatering

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/Winchester-City:
Winchester is packed full of incredible entertainment, lively pubs and cosy cafes, great places to eat, stunning green spaces and plenty of history.
Fall in love with Winchester as you make this beautiful city your own.
As a Winchester student you will have no 30-minute bus rides to the nearest civilisation: it's just a 10-minute walk into the centre of the city.
Winchester is in the unique position of being a campus university on the edge of the city centre which means that the city is a big part of our identity, and it's going to be a big part of your time here too.
It's a friendly, easily walkable city of about 50,000 people, with an easy-going vibe, fabulous local food scene, lively music venues and wonderful independent businesses.
It's also recently been voted number one Safest Area in the UK 2025 (Anubis, 2025) .
Flick through our A-Z Guide below for bite-sized snippets of the city.
Our amazing city regularly doubles as Paris, London, Oxford and even The Vatican in movies and TV series.
Winchester's cobbled backstreets and generous share of medieval buildings have lent themselves to scenes in films such as The Da Vinci Code , Les Misérables and shows like Wolf Hall , and The Crown , where the cathedral doubled as Winchester Abbey for wedding and funeral scenes.
Whether you want to curl up in a cosy pub with friends, dance the night away, take centre stage at at karaoke or quiz with your flatmates - Winchester has you covered.
Enjoy a drink at one of the oldest pubs in England, the Royal Oak, or experience being served a cocktail in a shell at Incognito.
Alfie's, O'Neill's and The Broadway are the best spots for a dance.
For music, head to Overdraft for vinyl-only DJ sets; the Cathedral for a silent disco in an incredible venue and live music from new acts in venues across the city including The Arc and The Railway Inn.
For movies, head to Everyman Cinema, housed within a former chapel, close to campus and for live comedy and shows, try Winchester Theatre Royal, The Arc or Chesil Theatre.
Festivals not to be missed include immersive Boomtown in August and Hat Fair , the UK's longest running festival of outdoor arts, which brings joyful chaos to the city centre in July.
Winchester Books Festival is in May, the Comedy Festival is hosted in several venues across the city and the Cheese and Chilli Festival (no explanation needed) is in June.
To explore the full range of festivals on in Winchester throughout the year, visit the festivals in Winchester website .
For lots more information on nights out in the city, head to our blog post Going Out Out .
From on-the-go street food to an extravagant graduation meal, there is something for every craving and budget in Winchester.
Our favourites include New York pizza slices at 5 Boroughs ; sushi, bao and kimbap at Bento Factory ; Malaysian street food at Lucky Lychee ; and the pies at Piecaramba .
Food is taken so seriously in the city that as well as having your usual high street favourites like Five Guys, Pizza Express and Nando's, there are so many independent eateries to choose from.
The Stable and Three Joes are just two.
There are regular food markets, pop-ups and food festivals like Cheese and Chilli and the Foodies Festival .
For tips on places to eat and visit for under £10, head to our blog The Best of City Life on a Budget .
Once the ancient capital of England, Winchester is steeped in more than 2,000 years of history.
Follow the cobbled streets from stunning Winchester Cathedral to the ruins of Wolvesey Castle.
Most of the city’s historic buildings, monuments and museums are within short walking distance of each other.
To get an overview of the city, take the short climb up St Giles Hill.
From the top you can trace the sweep of medieval and Georgian buildings, laid out according to the original Anglo-Saxon street plan and catch glimpses of the River Itchen as it winds its way through the city centre and out to the meadows beyond.
Look out for the Gothic turrets of the Victorian Guildhall and the perpendicular lines of the magnificent cathedral.
For more of Winchester's local tales passed down through the generations, head to our Folklore blog .
From Anthropologie and vintage clothing to a three-storied second-hand bookshop and British artisan chocolate shop, Winchester offers unique, independent shops and boutiques as well as traditional and well-known national stores.
The High Street is bustling and traffic-free with street performers and markets two to three times a week.
You'll find independent shops along the cobbled streets surrounding the cathedral as well as on Kings Walk which has a record store, bike hire café, creative workshop space, and environmentally conscious cafe, Open House Deli.
Winchester has excellent transport links including a direct train service to London Waterloo which takes just under an hour and runs every 20 minutes during peak times.
Trains run to and from Southampton, Basingstoke, Bournemouth, Weymouth, Brighton, the New Forest and the north of England.
Here are typical rail journey times to Winchester.
The University is close to the M3 which provides easy road access to the M25 and M27.
Travelling to and from Heathrow and Gatwick airports is convenient by both road and rail and takes between one to two hours depending on your choice of transport and the time of day.
Southampton Airport is just 15 minutes away by train and offers flights within the UK, the Channel Islands and mainland Europe.
National Express coach service picks up from Winchester (St Catherine's Park and Ride car park) and serves dozens of destinations across the UK.
Ferry services from Portsmouth link to a number of ports in France and Spain.
You have so many options for taking a study break at Winchester.
Take a relaxing stroll along the river past water meadows, through the city centre and finishing at Winnall Moors Nature Reserve.
If you are feeling fit, climb St Catherine's Hill for impressive views across the city.
This view is from St Giles Hill which is a short, steep walk which easily rewards your effort with views of the city and cathedral.
Winchester is on the edge of the South Downs National Park which has longer distance walking and cycling trails.
The city's cafe culture rivals European counterparts.
You will have no problem getting your coffee exactly how you like it while you're catching up with friends.
Have your coffee or hot chocolate to go as you take the 10-15 minute walk from the city centre back to campus.
For mindful crafting, try Bella Crafts for pottery making and paint and sip Fridays.
Just outside the city centre is Winchester Science Centre and Planetarium and Marwell Zoo is a short car ride away.
It's really easy to get to lots of other cities in the region by train: London, Southampton, Portsmouth, Bournemouth and Oxford are all day trips.
Direct trains lines stretch to Birmingham, Coventry and Manchester.
That is great for the occasional weekend trip home and also opens up a wider world of potential work placement locations for you.
Crafting to escape rooms and karaoke to gigs
A student's guide to the city's food scene
The stranger side of the city's intriguing history
What you can eat and do for £10 or less

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/UWin-Student-Blog:
Welcome to the University of Winchester’s student blog.
Here you'll find everything to do with life at Winchester from what to pack for your first semester, where to eat in the city, student hacks, career options, study abroad experiences and preparing for life after you graduate.
A field trip to discover the history and excitements of Paris
Here are our top tips on Clearing for parents and supporters
Madison's story of choosing to enter Clearing
Follow Alex's experience of finding Winchester in Clearing

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Spirituality:
At Winchester we celebrate our Anglican Christian foundation and welcome people of all faiths and none.
In a world in which religion is often associated with exclusivity and anti-intellectualism, we seek to model ways of being religious which are inclusive and intellectually robust.
We believe that everyone expresses their spirituality through a unique collage of values, disciplines and practices.
Working and studying here will give you a chance to experience and reflect on the creativity, beauty and compassion in life – together, we aim to explore the mystery of life and grow in wisdom and love.
Our passion is to see staff and students grow as a whole person.
It is safe to try new things here, to stand up for what you believe in.
You will be supported to engage with the big and deep questions of life, to bring about change and really make a difference.
We seek to challenge and develop staff and students’ thinking, enabling them to develop in wisdom for a fulfilling life as well as the knowledge they need for a successful career.
Our staff and students will have the resilience and resourcefulness to seize the opportunities and face the challenges of life.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Accommodation:
Applying via Clearing for 2025?
Accommodation is guaranteed.
Visit our Clearing page for details and T&Cs .
We have stunning living options for you to choose from.
We allocate our accommodation on a first-applied, first-allocated basis so we recommend you get your application in as soon as possible.
All accommodation is University owned, managed or approved, either on- or off-campus.
We allocate accommodation on a first-applied, first-allocated basis so we recommend you get your application in as soon as possible.
Check out what's on offer and apply for your accommodation .
We would love to show you around, so why not come and visit us to take a look for yourself.
You can also experience our accommodation from the comfort of your own home with our Virtual tour .
Self-catered rooms start from around £6,000 for a single room (without ensuite).
The self-catered licence covers the Christmas and Easter vacations and there is no requirement for residents to move out during these times.
A catered room offers the peace of mind of knowing that most of your food is already paid for, as catering fees (approximately 10 meals per week) are included in the total residence fee.
During the Christmas vacation, a half fee retainer is paid (included in the total residence fee) and residents must move out but may leave belongings in their room.
The total licence fee includes your room fee, catering fees and the half rent Christmas retainer fee.
There are a small number of one and two bedroom self-contained self-catering flats available within our vibrant student villages.
These are available on a 50-week licence agreement.
Please see our Guide to Family Flats Booklet for more information.
We have a number of flats set aside for students who would prefer a quieter living environment.
These are located in all of our accommodation areas; Burma Road, West Downs, Queens Road & Catered Halls.
Students living in these areas are expected to adopt a moderate lifestyle in respect of alcohol, loud music and sound, and the way in which they socialise within the accommodation.
We cannot guarantee a permanently quiet or alcohol-free environment, but grouping likeminded people together is intended to support this choice of lifestyle.
Due to the high number of students living within student accommodation, we aren’t able to regulate the level of external or environmental noises, such as people coming in and out of blocks, people walking past the accommodation etc.
These areas are not monitored more closely than others, as residents are expected to independently self-manage their living environment.
However, there are mechanisms for addressing those who persistently fail to live in accordance with the Student Residence Regulations.
We set aside rooms in all our undergraduate accommodation areas, however there is limited availability meaning we cannot guarantee that all applicants will be successful.
However, if you would like to live in a Quieter Living environment you will need to include this request when making your accommodation application online.
We endeavour to provide students with disabilities or a severe medical condition, who provide evidence of medical needs, accommodation (subject to availability of suitable rooms) for the duration of their course.
For those students with specific access requirements, we would advise that you meet with our team and Disability at the University so we can understand which accommodation best meets your needs and whether reasonable adjustments can be made.
For those with multiple or complex needs, we strongly recommend that you contact the Disabilities and Learning Diversity Team by calling + 44 (0) 1962 827341 or emailing student.advice@winchester.ac.uk a longside contacting Student Housing Services as early as possible to have a discussion about your needs.
We will do our best to accommodate late applications but cannot guarantee a room or a particular type of room where applications are made after the deadline date.
If you have any specific requirements, please contact us to discuss this further.
Accommodation Subsidy
The following information applies to students who will be living in university accommodation during the 2025/26 academic year.
Students who may incur additional costs for en‐suite accommodation as a direct result of a disability may be eligible for a subsidy towards those costs on disability grounds.
The subsidy is only applicable for the following criteria:
Please contact housing@winchester.ac.uk for further information.
We recognise that some students may not have the support of a family network and/or access to alternative accommodation outside of term time.
We offer year-round accommodation for estranged students and care experienced students as part of our bursary and support packages, to find out more please contact student.advice@winchester.ac.uk
Where you live is probably the most important part of your university or college experience, especially in your first year.
So it’s reassuring to know that when you move away from home for the first time, The Student Accommodation Code is there to protect your rights to a safe, good quality place to live.
The Student Accommodation Code has been developed by Universities UK and GuildHE to make sure you get the best out of your time living in university or college accommodation.
For more information and to read the full code, please visit Student Accommodation Code
Am I eligible to apply for Housing?
To apply for housing you will need to have accepted your University offer by going firm with us.
You can hold either a conditional or unconditional offer.
Once you’ve gone firm and will be a full-time first-year student you are eligible to apply for housing .
See more information about our housing guarantee to check if it applies to you.
You are not able to apply for accommodation if Winchester is currently your insurance choice.
Around results day we will update our information if accommodation is still available for you to apply for.
Contact us if and when your status changes and we can let you know how to apply and what our availability is.
Foundation Year full-time students
Housing is available for students in their Foundation Year and usually available in the subsequent the first year of their undergraduate study, provided they are enrolled as full-time students.
You would need to re-apply for Housing for the subsequent first year .
each academic year.
Postgraduate full-time students
We accept applications for housing from full-time, fee-paying postgraduate students.
Please do be aware that we have limited availability for Postgraduate students.
We endeavour to allocate Postgraduate students together, however this may not always be possible.
Please see our guarantee for more information.
Families and couples
We do have a few self-contained flats for students with families or in a couple s .
You can apply for these using the normal housing application .
We will normally allocate self-contained flats to families first and then couples.
We do apply a level of needs-based assessment to applications to self-contained flats.
If we are not able to offer you a flat, will provide information and advice on seeking alternative accommodation.
I have a disability.
What is on offer for me?
We have a selection of residences with accessible rooms as well as adapted rooms.
These may include features such as:
We also have accommodation available for students who may need to be in a quieter area or residences with fewer people.
We endeavour to make reasonable adjustments for students who require extra support within their accommodation either due to a disability, long term medical condition or sensory/physical impairment.
This may include making a required adaptation to a room or allocating to a particular location to help them be involved fully in University life and the student experience.
You are strongly advised to contact the Disabilities and Learning Diversity Team at the University on disability@winchester.ac.uk as well as our Housing team on housing@winchester.ac.uk so we can best assist you.
Can I view the accommodation?
Details on upcoming Open Days and Campus Tours, can be found on our Open Days page .
You can also view the accommodation remotely through the Virtual Tour .
Follow us on Instagram for content related to our student accommodation, including ‘Get to know your area’ @universityofwinchesterhousing
Can I bring a vehicle or motorcycle?
Residents are not permitted to bring vehicles on campus whilst residing in the accommodation.
Residents can bring bicycles with them and can use the bicycle storage facilities located on campus.
How are the rooms allocated?
The allocation of rooms is undertaken on a first applied first allocated basis in date order from when the application was received.
We do aim to allocate students into one of their 6 preferences.
However, the later you apply the less likely this will be.
If we are not able to offer you one of your preferences, we will offer you the next alternative room.
We do prioritise applications from students who have additional housing requirements and who have provided supporting evidence to us.
When will I hear what room I have?
We aim to start sending room offers out from mid July and will continue to do so throughout the Summer.
We send our offers out in batches; this is to give our team a chance to respond to any queries received before sending the next batch out.
Please don’t worry if you see that someone else has received their offer and you have not.
If you have been receiving emails from us with updates on room offers, you will eventually receive your offer from us.
How do I accept my room offer?
You will need to make sure you have your login details from when you created your account to apply.
Your username will be a personal email address and you will be able to reset your password if you have forgotten it.
Follow the instructions on the acceptance process, making sure to read through all the important Terms & Conditions related to it.
You will need to make sure you accept your licence agreement within 72 hours of receiving your offer.
If you do not accept your room offer in time, we reserve the right to remove the offer.
The room would then be offered to another student.
Can I change my allocation?
We are not usually able to make any adjustments to allocations before you arrive as we anticipate that all our rooms will be full.
If you would like to find out more about the accommodation you have been offered, please do get in contact with us .
We know that some students may receive an offer for a room type that they were not expecting or that was not their top choice and we encourage students to wait till they get here and settle in.
Many students change their mind once they are here!
Students can engage with our room transfer process once here, further details are below.
When do we move into our accommodation?
Arrivals to accommodation are usually in mid-September.
We will contact you with full details of timings as soon as they are confirmed.
Can I book a time to arrive?
You will be asked to select a time slot when you accept your room offer.
We do limit the number of people who can arrive each hour so if you find that your preferred time is full, you will need to select an alternative time.
Can I arrive before September?
Unfortunately, we are not able to move anyone into accommodation prior to your scheduled move-in dates.
Can I arrive after my move-in date?
Whilst we encourage students to arrive on the original date(s), if you need to arrive later than this, you just need to let us know.
You will be sent information on how to do this over the Summer.
Where do we collect our keys?
Full information on this and other important areas will be sent to you before your arrival.
What do I need to bring?
All on-campus study-bedrooms are furnished with a:
En-Suite study rooms have their own WC, shower and sink unit.
Self-catered kitchens are fitted with:
Catered accommodation includes use of a small kitchenette with:
You need to provide your own:
Kitchens will be fitted with an oven, fridge, freezer and microwave as standard.
Most will also have a kettle and toaster already in situ.
Bedding and Kitchen packs can be ordered when you make your application – details of what is included and the cost will be indicated before you make your order.
If you have already applied and would like to add one of these packs to your application, please contact us .
What else should I do before I move in?
Please follow any guidance from the University about registration and complete the Online Accommodation Induction which will be sent to you by email.
Set up your payments for your accommodation via the Online Payment Portal .
Will my contents be insured?
We have partnered with student insurance provider Endsleigh to provide some cover for the contents in your room if you live in University Managed Accommodation (either on or off campus*).
You don’t need to do anything to action this cover, but we encourage you to ensure you fully understand the protection provided and check it is sufficient for your needs.
Visit Check Your Cover to:
Extend and personalise your cover to protect laptops, phones and other valuables.
How do I pay for my housing?
You can pay the residence fees all in one go and receive a discount off the total or set up a Recurring Card Payment to pay in three instalments which are in line with your loan payments.
Where do we go if we have a query about our accommodation?
Over the Arrivals weekend, speak with one of the Housing Helpers who will assist or direct you to a member of the Housing Team.
From Monday 16 September onwards, you can visit us in St Swithuns Lodge, call us on 01962 827533 or email housing@winchester.ac.uk .We usually experience a high volume of visits, calls & emails over the first couple of weeks, please do bear with us.
We would also highly recommend that you attend one of our Housing Introductions which will be held over the 1 st 2 weeks.
You will receive further information about this over the Summer.
Not all of our housemates have moved in, what happens next?
Don’t worry!
Some students arrive later to their accommodation, and for some this can be a couple of weeks.
If a room is completely vacant, we will use this to house either a new applicant or a student who has requested a room transfer.
We do our best to provide notice of this to current residents.
Can I stay in accommodation after the end of term?
We are able to offer ‘Summer Let’s to students over the summer period.
We don’t have access to all of the accommodation over this time, but students will be advised of availability when they apply.
Contact us from March onwards for further details.
How do I report a maintenance issue?
Maintenance reports need to be made via ‘Servicedesk’.
This can be found on the University Intranet, either by searching ‘Servicedesk’ or by locating it within the ‘My Links’ dropdown.
How do we report an urgent issue/emergency (maintenance, welfare, lock out)?
Mon-Thurs 9am-5pm and Friday 9am-4.30pm, please contact Housing on 01962 827533.
Outside of these hours, please contact Security on 01962 827666/827667.
Where can I access support on campus?
Details of who you can contact can be found on the wall planner in your accommodation.
This includes information for Security, Wardens, Residential Assistants, Finance, Student Support and Success.
Contact details for these teams can also be found on the Intranet.
How do I get help with internet connection?
Queries and issues related to internet connection on campus need to be reported via ‘Servicedesk’.
There is also a Walk-up service for IT support in the West Downs and Martial Rose Library desks.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Accommodation/Our-guarantee:
We guarantee you a room in University Managed accommodation (on and off campus) or in approved University Partner accommodation, if you are a first year, full-time undergraduate who has Winchester as your firm first choice university (via UCAS) and you apply for accommodation by our published guarantee dates.
Please note that our guarantee of accommodation is for a room, not a specific type of room.
We can guarantee you a room in accommodation allocated by the University if you:
are a full-time undergraduate student in your first year at Winchester starting your course in September 2025 – or January for Midwifery students
complete your housing application by 16 June 2025
We allocate on a first applied, first allocated basis so you need to get your application in early.
All accommodation is University owned, managed or approved, either on or off campus.
Once you have accepted your offer of study at the University of Winchester by going firm with us, you will be able to apply for accommodation.
For more information on applying, please see our How to Apply page.
We guarantee* a room in University Managed Accommodation to first year full-time undergraduates whose housing application is received by Student Housing Services by 16 June 2025.
Students must have selected Winchester as their firm first choice University via UCAS in order to apply.
Our guarantee of accommodation is for a room within our accommodation portfolio (which includes accommodation in properties off campus managed by the University and/or a Private Halls provider) and not a specific type of room.
*Please be aware that where the guarantee is for an offer of a room, if a student rejects the offer the guarantee is no longer applicable.
For students who require accommodation for a longer period due to their course continuing into Term 3, will still be able to apply for accommodation as others.
We have set aside flats in the following areas to accommodate these students:
West Downs (en-suite)
West Downs (shared bathroom facility)
Burma Road
Queens Road
Your licence will cover the dates required.
We are unable to offer extended licences in Catered accommodation.
If you select one of these as your top choice, please be aware that you will be required to move into alternative accommodation for the final few weeks of your first year of study.
If we receive more applications from this student group than we have longer licence rooms available, we will still allocate a room, but may then be required to move the student to alternative accommodation for the final few weeks of the first year of study.
This will be communicated to the student in good time.
Students are not able to make an application until they have confirmed Winchester as their first choice.
We welcome applications from students who previously held us as their insurance choice and students who are applying through Clearing.
Information on what is available to apply for will be provided in August 2025.
We guarantee* a room in University Managed accommodation to full-time International students for their first year of study, provided they hold Winchester as their firm first choice University and apply for accommodation by 5pm, 31 August 2025.
Accommodation may also be available for International students beyond their first year of study subject to availability.
Students can reapply for accommodation in each subsequent year by the deadlines published on our website.
*Please be aware that where the guarantee is for an offer of a room, where a student rejects the offer, the guarantee is no longer applicable.
We guarantee* a room in University Managed accommodation to full-time Channel Islands students for their first year of study, provided they hold Winchester as their firm first choice University and apply for accommodation by 16 June 2025
Accommodation may also be available for Channel Islands students beyond their first year of study, subject to availability and students reapplying for accommodation in each subsequent year.
There will be a proportion of accommodation available for postgraduate students.
Rooms are allocated on a first applied, first allocated basis.
We aim to house postgraduate students together in mature areas (over 24yrs) however this is dependent on the number of applications and accommodation areas available.
If there are no further rooms available with other students of a similar age, you may be allocated a room with students age 18+.
We’re sorry that we can’t accommodate Part-time students.
You will need to secure accommodation in the Private Sector and Student Housing Services will be pleased to provide information and advice to assist you.
Please see the off campus information
Applications must be received by 16 June 2025 and then in each subsequent year by the deadlines published on this web page.
For those with multiple or complex needs, we strongly recommend that you contact the Disabilities and Learning Diversity Team, (+44 (0) 1962 827341) in Student Services and Student Housing Services as early as possible to have a discussion about your needs.
If you are unsure if you are covered by this category, please contact Student Housing Services.
There are a small number of one and two bedroom flats on campus within our vibrant student villages.
We will normally allocate to families first, over couples applying a level of needs based assessment to applications, alongside our first applied first allocated policy and availability.
Students who are due to start a course which commences in January are still able to apply for accommodation.
We will ensure that accommodation is provided to you, however, please do be advised that we may be required to move you mid-licence.
Information will be provided on this.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Accommodation/Costs:
Our accommodation figures given here are rounded to give a headline cost.
The exact cost for payment purposes will be given during the online room offer process, which occurs during June-September.
Detailed below are the Residence Fees for the 2025-26 academic year.
Figures given here are rounded to give a headline cost.
The exact cost for payment purposes will be given during the online room offer process, which occurs during July-September.
All Residences Fees include heating, water, electricity, Internet costs and basic contents insurance.
There is no deposit payable for any university owned or managed accommodation.
Get in touch with our housing team to discuss our accommodation options
Tel: +44 (0)1962 827533
Email: housing@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Accommodation/catered-accommodation:
At Winchester we have two halls of residence rooms available in Halls of Residence for students who have a preference for catered accommodation
The se rooms are located on our beautiful King Alfred quarter and are a 15-20 minute walk away from Winchester city centre.
Experience Catered Accommodation from the comfort of your own home with our Virtual tour .
O ur catered accommodation rooms are within traditional halls of residence, with rooms arranged along communal corridors .
There is access to shared bathrooms and kitchenettes alon g the corridors .
Many rooms have beautiful views across Winchester and the South Downs and all rooms are larger than average single study bedrooms.
Each room also has its own washbasin with mirror above.
The catering element works on a part-board basis and each resident has a flexible weekly catering allowance automatically loaded on to their student ID card.
Residents use their allowance to pay for items in the University catering outlets.
Students are free to spend the allowance as they would like over the course of the week and should be able to cover approximately 10 meals a week.
The kitchenettes in the halls provide facilities for cooking small meals and snacks.
This is an indicative floor plan for a typical room in catered accommodation.
Student Housing Services is here to support students living on campus.
The team comprises of 9 staff with the Housing Manager on campus holding the overall responsibility for both day-to-day operations and the promotion of a positive living environment for residents.
There is also a dedicated team of staff and student staff who provide out-of-hours pastoral care in the residences so there is always someone on hand to assist or give advice.
Here at Winchester the safety and security of our students is paramount and the 24-hour Site Steward Team provides security emergency call out and pastoral care amongst other duties.
Our Police liaison officer can also provide advice to students.
The University’s Campus Management team visits all on-campus residences regularly and cleans communal and shared facilities (toilet and shower) areas.
We’re sorry, but our cleaners don’t do the washing up!
The University has an in-house maintenance team that manages the day-to-day maintenance of our accommodation.
Emergency cover out of hours is also provided.
Whether you live in catered or self-catered accommodation, there is always somewhere on campus to find something to eat and facilities are open to all students.
We have a wide range of eateries providing meals inspired from around the world, as well as traditional home-cooked meals.
To help you with you budgeting, the University offers a number of catering packages, depending on your own individual needs and each one will load a weekly allowance onto your student ID card.
Please note: the allowance is loaded weekly on Saturday morning and any remaining balance will be lost if not used that week.
If you are in catered accommodation, you will automatically be provided with Catering Package 2 on your University student ID card as a weekly allowance to spend in catering outlets on campus.
If you are in self-catered accommodation, you are able to purchase one of the catering packages below.
Alternatively, you may set up an online account with your University student ID card so that you can add funds to be spent as required, with no specific weekly allowance.
For guidance, the 2023/24, the Catering Packages are:
Catering Package 1
Cost per week: £50.75 Cost for full contract: £1573.25
Catering Package 2
Cost per week: £67.00 Cost for full contract: £2,077
Catering Package 3
Cost per week: £88.25 Cost for full contract: £2,735.75
All meals numbers quoted are dependent on the individual cardholder's spending pattern and are only a guide as the cardholder may spend the allowance in any outlet throughout the week as required.
The cost of data connection is included in the residence fees and wireless access is available in all University on-campus accommodation providing students with flexible study options.
For a guaranteed internet connection there are wired data points within all study bedrooms, although WiFi is also available in all communal areas and most study bedrooms.
The University has an ICT Acceptable Use Policy which students will be advised of along with information on how to connect to and use the University network.
Students living on campus have access to a wide variety of benefits and facilities, here are some of them:

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Accommodation/burma-road-student-village:
Our modern Burma Road accommodation is on the King Alfred campus and consists of 499 ensuite rooms arranged in flats of eight with shared kitchens and two one-bedroom family flats.
At Burma Road all 499 ensuite rooms are finished to a high standard and contain energy-conscious features such as motion-sensor lighting systems.
Access is by a secure swipe card system and there are lockable cupboards in all kitchens.
There are 6 bedrooms (and their associated kitchens) adapted for wheelchair users.
Residents have the University gym on their doorstep along with a laundrette and easy access to all the facilities on offer on the King Alfred campus.
There are designated quiet areas and flats set aside for mature (age 24 or over) students.
Our halls at Burma Road are named after local women recognised in history for their outstanding achievements.
These are:
You can experience our Burma Road Student Village from the comfort of your own home via our Virtual tour .
This is an indicative floor plan of a typical room in Burma Road Student Village.
See the rooms for yourself on our Virtual Tour .
The team comprises of 9 staff members with the Housing Manager on campus holding the overall responsibility for both day-to-day operations and the promotion of a positive living environment for residents.
Here at Winchester the safety and security of our students is paramount and the 24-hour Site Steward Team provides security, emergency callout and pastoral care amongst other duties.
Whether you live in catered or self-catered accommodation, there is always somewhere on campus to find something to eat.
The Foodhall on the King Alfred campus and the Catering outlets on the West Downs Quarte offer a range of options including hot and cold breakfasts, homemade soups, filled baguettes and pizza slices as well as homecooked dishes from our ‘Tastes of the World’ section.
You can order your favourite coffee and panini from the Learning Café or Cafe Life.
The University is cash-free so students can pay for items or benefit from various discounts by using their student ID card.
For students in catered halls, their card is automatically topped up each week as part of their accommodation package.
For all other students, the University offers a number of catering packages that students can purchase or they can set up an online account so they, or their family and friends, can add credit on an ad-hoc basis.
Students living on campus have access to a wide variety of benefits and facilities.
Here are some of them:

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Accommodation/Queens-Road-Student-Village:
Queen's Road Student Village consists of 399 ensuite rooms arranged in flats of four to eight rooms, with shared kitchens.
There are 24 Premium rooms available and one room adapted for a wheelchair user.
Our vibrant Queen's Road Student Village consists of 399 ensuite rooms arranged in flats of four to eight rooms, with shared kitchens.
There are also 24 single occupancy premium rooms which have a larger bedroom space and a double bed.
Experience Queen's Road Student Village from the comfort of your own home via our Virtual tour .
Residents have access to the laundrette, shop and other facilities on the King Alfred campus and the University gym is just a short walk away at Burma Road.
There are designated quiet areas and flats set aside for mature students (age 24 or above).
Access to the blocks and flats is by a secure swipe card entry system and every resident has a lockable cupboard in their kitchen.
This is an indicative floor plan of a typical room at Queen's Road Student Village.
The team comprises of 9 members of staff with the Housing Manager on campus holding the overall responsibility for both day-to-day operations and the promotion of a positive living environment for residents.
The University has an in-house Maintenance team that manages the day-to-day maintenance of our accommodation.
The cost of data connection is included in residence fees and wireless access is available in all University on-campus accommodation providing students with flexible study options.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Accommodation/west-downs-student-village:
At our West Downs Student Village there is a mixture of ensuite and shared facility rooms and some one and two-bedroom family flats.
Our beautiful West Downs Student Village is a self-catered residence on the West Downs campus and a short walk away from the King Alfred campus.
Rooms are arranged in houses and flats of six to eight rooms.
There are ensuite and shared-facility rooms and some one- and two-bedroom family flats.
Ensuite rooms are single occupancy and have their own shower, toilet and basin.
Shared bathroom facility rooms are single occupancy and have their own vanity unit (basin, mirror and cupboard).
There are two separate showers and two separate toilets per house.
West Downs also has 16 premium rooms which have a double bed and shared bathroom facilities.
Experience our West Downs rooms from the comfort of your own home with our Virtual tour .
Mature students (those age 24 and above) are welcome to apply for University Managed Accommodation and we endeavour to set aside designated flats/houses for mature students across all our accommodation where possible.
Residents have the benefit of a shop, laundrette, cafe and 24-hour vending machines and the University gym and other catering outlets are a short walk away.
This is an indicative floor plan of a typical room in West Downs Student Village.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/Winchester-Student-Union:
Welcome to Winchester Students' Union
Based in the King Alfred Centre, Winchester Students' Union is run for students, by students.
Your leaders, elected by you The President, Vice President, Education and Welfare and the Vice President, Activities, along with the 5 Student Officers, are students elected annually by the student body to run the Students' Union, with support from a dedicated staff team.
Look out for your elected officers across campus and on social media, encouraging you to share your opinions and views about your student experience.
Have a chat to them, get in contact and make your voice heard as they will campaign on important issues on your behalf relating to all aspects of your university experience at Winchester, for example access to funding, student welfare, or enhancement of campus facilities.
We believe that students can be powerful change agents in shaping their academic experience at university, and we greatly encourage you to get involved with our rewarding Education Zone schemes.
Through the Education Zone you can also get involved with our environmental and sustainability initiatives.
Student Academic Representatives Scheme (StARs) Be the voice of your cohort and represent fellow students on your course at Student-Staff Liaison Committees, or be elected as Student Chair.
You will receive comprehensive training, a free StARs hoodie and be part of our StARs reward scheme!
Student-Staff Recognition Awards An evening hosted by the Union to celebrate exemplary practice from both students and staff.
Student welfare is a priority for the Students' Union, and we understand the challenges many students face when going to University.
The Student Union runs campaigns throughout the year to promote positive student wellbeing, such as University Mental Health Day, “Let’s Talk About Sex” Week, and Diversity Week.
Student Recharge Days Our Student Recharge Days encourage you to take a break from studying and focus on your wellbeing.
We offer massages, therapy dogs, smoothies and breakfast bars, wellbeing support and tips, and ‘night off’ movie nights – all for free!
Period Poverty/Sexual Health ‘Freebie Bin’ We offer free, reusable and single use period products, different sized condoms, pregnancy tests and personal safety equipment - all available for free to all students as part of our Advice Centre.
Student Listeners This is a peer support scheme run for students, by students who have received training in listening and support skills.
Speak to our Student Listeners about anything from homesickness, low self-esteem, relationship/housemate difficulties, to course worries and more.
Why not become a Student Listener yourself?
The Student Listeners also run a weekly Wellbeing Café from 2-4 during term-time.
You don’t need to book, just come and visit us on Level two of the KAC in “The Lounge”.
You can meet new people, chat to a Student Listener, play games, and get a free hot drink.
Winchester Students' Union Advice Centre offers free, independent and impartial support and guidance on a range of issues that may be impacting upon your University experience.
We specialise in supporting students through the academic processes of appeals, misconduct or complaints, and the Advice Centre also provides support on issues such as wellbeing, money, and housing.
Visit www.winchesterstudents.co.uk/advice to read our toolkits and find out more.
Our activity groups are open to all, and if you wish to join one or 10, please do!
Or if you want to start a new activity group we will support you with setting this up and provide funding.
Through the Activities Zone you can also get involved with volunteering, community action and fundraising.
Sports Teams We have an impressive range of both competitive and non-competitive level sports.
With around 54 sports teams available, we pride ourselves in being open to all, whether you want to try something brand new or join the sport you’ve been playing for years.
See what teams we have .
Societies We have over 40 different societies representing a huge variety of interests and areas of life.
Societies are student-led groups that are supported by the Union, allowing you to express your passions and become part of a community at University.
See what societies we have .
Representational Networks Representational networks receive additional support from the Union and have an increased focus on advocating equality, diversity and accessibility within specific underrepresented student groups to directly improve the experience of students from the background they represent.
See what networks we have .
Winchester Students' Union is a not-for-profit charity, which means that all income generated from our Services, across our bars, venue, events, shops and laundrettes, goes 100% back to the Union to fund all our activities and directly improve the student experience.
King Alfred Centre The Student Union is located in the award-winning King Alfred Centre.
The Vault, Terrace Bar and The Lounge are the social hub of the campus, Events take place regularly and include club nights, quizzes, comedy evenings, live music, promotions, multi-venue events and theme nights.
The Vault is the biggest and best venue in the city and was awarded national runner-up at the NUS Best Bar None Scheme 2019.
The Vault can play host to a wide variety of events and entertainment and the Terrace Bar is our more relaxed coffee bar offering Costa Coffee.
With fantastic indoor and outdoor seating, the Terrace Bar and The Lounge offer a great atmosphere and the perfect place to relax between lectures.
Shops The Union also runs shops and launderettes on campus.
These commercial services provide value for money for students and income to support Union core activity.
NUS TOTUM Discount Card Once enrolled, you can apply for your National Union of Students (NUS) card, giving you access to plenty of student discounts.
Find out more at www.totum.com
We want to give you the best welcome to Winchester, and will be providing a number of activities, events and welcome sessions to help you to settle into university life.
Freshers Week is your chance to meet new people, get involved and find out what your Students' Union can do for you.
For more information about Freshers and an idea of the programme of activity, please visit our website .
The Students' Union website is the only place to book onto official Union events, so be wary of any other sites claiming to provide freshers events.
Freshers Fayre Our Freshers Fayre is an opportunity for you to discover the many extracurricular and cocurricular activities which are available to you from your Students' Union, the University and beyond.
It will also be an opportunity to discover some of the local regions, leisure, culture and employment opportunities.
Above all, Winchester Students' Union is a membership organisation which promotes inclusion, participation and representation, here to ensure that you have the opportunity to get the absolute most out of your student experience whilst studying at Winchester.
For more details about the Union, our activities and opportunities available, or to book any of our events, please visit our website .
Make sure you follow us on social media to keep updated with all our events, opportunities, giveaways, and what our elected officers are campaigning on for you:
Facebook: Winchester Student Union Instagram: @winch_su Winchester Officers: @winchofficers
Students' Union President SU_PRES@winchester.ac.uk
Students' Union Vice President Education and Welfare SU_Education@winchester.ac.uk
Vice President Activities and Commercial SUActivities@winchester.ac.uk
As a student at the University of Winchester you automatically become a member of Winchester Students' Union when you enrol, meaning you can access all our opportunities, seek support, and vote in our elections.
If for any reason you do not wish to be a member, or if at any point you wish to opt out of membership, please email SU_pres@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Student-Support:
University is an exciting adventure, and at Winchester we do everything we can to support you through this new chapter of your life.
We offer a wide range of services to support you during your time at the University so If you need information, advice or support, we are here to make it easy for you to get the help you need.
Our Students and Money team is able to offer information and advice on student loans, bursaries and scholarships and provide guidance and support in cases of financial hardship.
We offer a range of scholarships, bursaries and awards to support students
Our wellbeing services consists of a team of professional and approachable counsellors and mental health advisers who can provide you with a confidential space to be listened to and to help explore issues.
These services provide advice and guidance for non-academic related queries, support to study abroad and opportunities to improve academic skills.
When your son or daughter leaves home for university it is likely to be a huge change for the whole family.
For them, starting university will be one of the biggest and most exciting challenges they have faced in life so far.
And for you, as parents and guardians, the experience is bound to raise many questions and a certain amount of apprehension as your young adult prepares to leave home.
Study Needs Assessors may find the information on these pages helpful when assessing students for the purposes of Disabled Students' Allowances (DSAs).
If you require further information please contact the Disability and Inclusion Team.
Academic Success Advisers help you to take an active role in developing the skills you need for success.
Our emphasis is on enhancement of learning to assist you in achieving your full potential.
Our programme is designed to support the needs of all students from all levels and disciplines.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Student-Support/Academic-Success:
At Winchester our Academic Skills Advisers will help you to take an active role in developing the skills you need for success.
Our emphasis is on enhancement of learning to assist you in achieving your full potential during your studies and beyond.
At Winchester, our Academic Success team will help you to take an active role in developing the skills you need for success.
Our Academic Success team members comprise generalist advisers as well as tutors able to offer specialist support for students with a Specific Learning Difference (SpLD), Autistic Spectrum Condition or those for whom English is an additional language.
Our programme is designed to support the needs of students from all levels and disciplines.
Whether you are an undergraduate learning to write your first academic essay, or a postgraduate about to embark on a Master’s degree or postgraduate research, you can make use of our accessible, tailored materials and support.
Our skills programme includes a wide range of workshops including Assignment Planning and Writing, Academic Referencing, Critical Thinking and Analysis, Exam Revision and Presentation Skills.
We also run tailored workshops within the academic curriculum.
In addition, we offer a one-to-one service, allowing students to discuss their current work with one of our Academic Success team.
Appointments are available either in person or online, via Microsoft Teams.
Finally, the Academic Success Centre houses a large range of card resources, which all students are welcome to take away, including vocabulary cards, essay structuring tips and more.
SkillsNet
Winchester has also developed SkillsNet, an online resource bank that offers tips and information, all designed to boost your academic performance.
It provides easily accessible, relevant online materials, including digital versions of all our Academic Skills resources.
Whether you are preparing ahead, or working to a deadline, SkillsNet is there to help you.
Good academic skills are critical to success at University and many are transferable to future employment, too.
Logged-in users can access the full SkillsNet site on Canvas here .
Get in touch to book or enquire about our Academic Success workshops and appointments.
Tel: +44 (0)1962 827341
Email: academicskills@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Student-Support/Wellbeing:
We offer a variety of student support services to ensure all of your wellbeing needs are catered for.
Here you will find an overview of all our services:
Our mental wellbeing service consists of a team of professional and approachable counsellors and mental health advisers who can provide you with a confidential space to be listened to and to help explore issues.
Use of this service is free and available to all students.
The Mental Wellbeing team offers the following services:
For further details about either service, please ring Student Services Reception on 01962 827 341 or email: student.advice@winchester.ac.uk
Our team of advisors and coordinators are often your first point of contact.
We offer advice, guidance, and support to all students on a wide range of issues, which may affect your personal or academic life, including:
For further details about Student Journey please ring Student Support & Success Reception on 01962 827 341 or email: studentsupport@winchester.ac.uk
Who do we support
We welcome disabled students and are committed to improving access to all aspects of student life through:
The Disability Advisers can offer support and guidance to you if you have a disability that affects your ability to study.
This would include:
The Disability Adviser role also encompasses disability in its broadest sense.
This includes making arrangements for students who need support due to long term and short term injury or illness.
What support is available?
The University of Winchester support students through the Inclusive Learning Policy which provides support for all students through baseline expectations incumbent on all programs and those supporting student learning, to ensure that the university sustains a culture of inclusive learning.
Learning Agreements
Learning Agreements are confidential documents created by Disability Advisers using supporting document
This information allows disability advisers to make recommendations of reasonable adjustments that will ensure students have an equitable opportunity of accessing learning material and engaging in university life.
Assistive technology training and support
The University of Winchester has several assistive technology software packages available to all students on our Campus network.
These include screen reading and mind mapping software.
Students can access support and guidance on these software packages through our virtual learning environment Canvas.
Non-DSA Funded support
The Disability and Inclusion team can arrange non- DSA funded support.
This includes access to lecture notes, extra time for examinations and buddy support during welcome week.
Get in contact with the Disability team as soon as possible if you are an international student or not eligible for the Disabled Students Allowances funded support.
We will discuss your needs to make sure you are confident that the University can meet them.
How do I access support?
If you have applied or are considering applying to study at Winchester, we recommend that you let us know of any additional requirements as soon as possible.
This can be done through UCAS or via email to the Disability and Inclusion Team.
We consider applications from disabled students on the same academic basis as all other applications.
If you disclose your disability in your application, you will receive an additional requirements questionnaire (ARQ).
By completing this questionnaire, you can tell the disability team and the housing team as well as other key departments such as Timetabling and Health and Safety about your specific requirements
If you want to apply for university accommodation, please also contact the Student Housing Services team as early as you can.
This helps us to check the availability of suitable accommodation.
Our ability to meet your needs is dependent on establishing a clear understanding of what your needs are, what the University can reasonably offer and where there are any gaps.
We will make reasonable adjustments to address any gaps.
Where any gaps remain, we ensure that you are aware of them.
This way you can get an informed view of whether our university and housing are suitable for you.
Medical and supporting evidence
To provide appropriate support, we need supporting documentation of your specific requirements.
This can be a letter from a GP, consultant or another appropriate report from a medical professional, an exam arrangement supporting document such as the JCQ-Form 8 or similar.
To apply for support from the Disabled Student Allowance (DSA) for support for a learning difference, such as dyslexia for example, you need a full diagnostic assessment.
If you need a specific type of accommodation or adaptations to our accommodation, such as ensuite, or specialist furniture, the supporting document from a medical professional should refer specifically to why your condition requires this rather than just confirm a condition.
Please note: these are example and should not be considered a definite list of supporting documents
Support Adjustments examples
Supporting documents examples
Exam Arrangements such as 25% extra time
Learning Agreement
If you intend on applying for the Disabled Students Allowance (DSA) the DSA have different evidence thresholds, check that you are applying with the correct evidence.
For example, to apply for DSA support for Dyslexia the DSA requires a full Educational Psychologist or Specialist Teacher/Assessor assessment.
The DSA would not accept a screening or JCQ-Form 8.
How do I fund my support?
Disabled Students' Allowance (DSA)
Most UK students with a physical disability or mental health difficulty, long term health condition or specific learning difficulty or Neurodiversity will be eligible for Disabled Students' Allowances (DSAs).
These are a non-means tested and a non-repayable source of funding for disabled students' who incur additional expenditure as a direct result of attendance on their university course.
There may be other options available for international students.
DSA can help towards the cost of:
To apply for the Disabled Student Allowance (DSA) please go to the Gov.uk DSA Website
If you’ve already applied for student finance
If you are a UK student, you can find out more about DSA funding and download the application form online at the Gov.uk website
NHS Disabled Student Allowance
If your degree is funded through the NHS  Bursary you may be eligible for the NHS Disabled Student Allowance.
Please visit the NHS DSA webpage for more information.
What does the DSA Support person do?
What does a specialist study skills tutor do?
A specialist study skills tutor helps students develop skills and strategies to promote independent learning.
For example, they might work with you on:
A study skills tutor will not
What does a specialist mentor do?
A specialist mentor helps students with mental health issues and/or autistic spectrum condition to become more independent learners.
A mentor will not
Personal care and assistance
If you think that you are likely to require care assistance or equipment whilst you are at university, you should contact your Home Social Services department as soon as possible to start discussing this.
Personal assistance with daily living is the assistance that you might require even when you are not in university.
This would include support with domestic activities such as cooking, cleaning or shopping; help with personal hygiene or some medical needs such as injections.
The University of Winchester only provides study-related assistance.
We do not provide personal assistance or personal care support.
However, our disability advisers can work with you alongside external providers and Social Services (if applicable) to provide advice and information about realistic opportunities for arranging suitable local support.
Funding personal care needs
The responsibility to fund your personal care package rests with Social Services within the local authority where you are "ordinarily resident".
Guidance on the identification of the ordinary residence of people in need of community care services, England (March 2010) can be found on the Department of Health website.
Social Services within the local authority are responsible for assessing and paying for support at university, even if you will be living away from home.
Please be aware that due to its personal nature, the process of applying for and finalising a package of personal care support can take a long time.
For some applicants the process can take up to twelve months to complete.
This is because you will either be a new referral (if you have never used the service before) or you will be transferring from children to adult services.
If you tell the Disability Team that you’re applying for personal care support, we can provide you with information about the course you will be studying and the university environment, to ensure that your care support needs are assessed as accurately as possible.
Please contact us via email Disability@winchester.ac.uk.
The team are happy to meet with you and your personal care team ahead of arriving at Winchester University.
Please also contact the housing team if you need an additional room for a carer once you have the offer of a place on a course.
Your home Social Services will need to reflect this in their budgeting.
Housing can be contacted via email Housing@winchester.ac.uk
International students
All students with additional requirements are eligible to receive advice and support from the Disability and Inclusion Team regardless of funding.
Although non-UK based students are not eligible for funding through DSAs, there may be other sources of funding.
Many students coming to the UK to study are eligible for funding through their home government.
This is usually applied before you begin your programme of study.
Students from Northern Ireland, Scotland or Wales
If you live in Northern Ireland, Scotland or Wales and are studying anywhere in the UK, your application for student finance is dealt with by the authorities in your own region.
Please follow the links below for the relevant website:
Northern Ireland: Student Finance NI
Scotland: Student Awards Agency Scotland
Wales: Student Finance Wales
Students from the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man
The States of Jersey and Guernsey and the Isle of Man also provide support packages for disabled students.
Please click on the links below for more information:
States of Jersey States of Guernsey
Isle of Man
International Students
All students with additional requirements are eligible to receive advice and support from the Disability team irrespective of funding.
Many students coming to the UK to study are eligible for funding through their home government; this is usually applied for before you begin your programme of study.
You are advised to speak with a Disability Adviser before accepting your place to study.
Other financial support
If you cannot get the money you need to do a course from official or statutory sources, trusts may be able to help you.
Each trust has its own eligibility criteria, so it is important that you make sure you meet the trust's criteria before you apply:
Student Health Association Assistance Fund
The Snowden Trust
The Mike Devenney Scholarship
After arrival at Winchester
Once you have started at Winchester, we encourage you to meet with a disability adviser as soon as possible.
If you need to have reasonable adjustments, put in place or need to arrange specialist support the Disability Adviser will assist you.
They will make sure your needs are met and will work with you to put guidance in place for staff who may need to know about your needs.
Please make sure you have been in touch as early as possible to alert us to any needs you may have once you arrive at Winchester.
How to contact us
If you wish to discuss your support requirements with a member of the Disability and Inclusion Teamr please email disability@winchester.ac.uk If you would like to book a campus tour please contact opendays@winchester.ac.uk to arrange your visit.
The transition to university is an exciting one for students and quite often a nerve-wracking one for parents and those who have parental responsibilities!
One of the things that can be difficult to understand in advance is the relationship between the student support services and parents (which includes all those with parental responsibilities, for example guardians or carers).
This leaflet linked on this page aims to clarify that relationship, and to answer the most frequent questions that parents put to us.
You are welcome to call us to clarify any of this, or to ask further questions about it.
Top Tips for those with Parental Responsibilities & Confidentiality information leaflet https://unimailwinchesterac.sharepoint.com/:w:/r/sites/DisabilityTeam/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc=%7B48F0AF10-DED4-4A7F-BE09-6036AE2870D1%7D&file=Top%20Tips%20for%20those%20with%20Parental%20responsibilities.docx&action=default&mobileredirect=true
One of the most significant differences with students at university is that, once they turn eighteen, are adults under the law.
Decisions that would have been made with or by parents are now the responsibility of the student.
This means that all our interactions must be directly with the student, and they are responsible for their life at university – including the bills and what they choose to tell you about.
This is quite a change from life before university.
Unlike school or sixth form college, universities cannot disclose anything to you about how your son or daughter is progressing, academically or personally.
The Data Protection Act 1998 and GDPR 2018 rules means that their information is their own, and it is their choice as to whether and how they want to share it.
This includes everything from their address to their degree result.
In some situations, it can be helpful for parents/carers to be involved in conversations with the student, if we have the student's permission.
We can then listen to you and answer any specific questions that you have regarding their support at Winchester.
It also means that we can update you, if necessary, although we won’t be able to provide regular updates as we would usually expect the student to do this themselves.
You can pass on information that you think we should know that the student may not have mentioned.
What it doesn’t mean is that you can represent the student, that is, talk on their behalf.
They can’t just ‘hand over’ to you.
They would still be the person we are working with, and they would still need to talk with us directly about what they needed.
There are exceptional circumstances where this is different, for example if they are very unwell for a period of time, but this is exceptional.
Support examples – School/College vs University
Here are some examples of how support at university is different to school or college and how you best navigate these differences.
College
University
Parental/ trusted adult role
While parents/trusted adults can’t play a direct role when their young person attends university, there are still things they can do to help them succeed.
For instance, parents/trusted adults and students can work together to create a time management system.
If a parent/carer contacts the Disability and Inclusion team to raise a concern about their young person this will be listened to and often acted on.
However, there will be a limit to what information we can share.
We encourage students to set up regular communication with parents/carers to keep them informed of any difficulties or worries.
This could be a simple WhatsApp or other online chat group.
Required Documentation
Exams and marking
We encourage all our students to register with a GP practice.
There are three GP practices in Winchester.
These are St Clements Practice, The Friarsgate Practice and St Paul's Surgery.
All three practices offer most of the NHS services including advice on sexual health, repeat prescriptions and general consultation.
All three practices have information specifically for students on their websites.
You can choose to register at any of these GP practices.
Please click on the practice name below to get to the website for each surgery:
To assist you in choosing a GP practice, or in sourcing other medical support in Winchester, you may also wish to look at the following resources:
NHS Choices webpage
NHS GP Patient Survery
CQC ratings
Students are encouraged to continue with regular checks with the family dentist during the holidays.
However, should an emergency arise whilst at University, the Dental Helpline should be able to help.
All university students are advised to have the Menigitis ACWY vaccine.
This is available from your home GP and our local GPs will also be offering the vaccine to students throughout the academic year.
All first year undergraduates are now advised to have a Meningitis (ACWY) booster if they were less than 10 years of age when they received their first Meningitis C injection.
If you have not had the vaccination, or if you are unsure, speak to your GP.
The University of Winchester has a comprehensive Managing Menigitis Policy, developed with the support of the Health Protection Agency and this is followed should there be a suspected/confirmed case of meningitis at the University.
The Meningitis Research Foundation runs a 24 hour helpline: 080 8800 3344
No vaccine protects against all types of meningitis, so it is important to remain vigilant and aware of the symptoms.
Find out more information regarding the Meningitis ACWY vaccine
Find out more information regarding the symptoms of Meningitis infection
Further information and support for students is available from Meningitis Now
The University has a comprehensive policy in place should the H1N1 virus affect the day to day running of the institution.
Information will be regularly communicated to students and staff via the internal website should the University be affected.
For the latest information see the Department of Health website.
If you have a question or would like to talk to someone from our student support team get in touch with us via email or phone.
Tel: +44 1962 827 341
Email: studentsupport@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Careers-Support-and-Advice:
We are dedicated to helping you to prepare for your futures, find work or postgraduate study, and build connections and skills.
We work with students and graduates to enable you to develop understanding, gain experience and build the professional mindset necessary to access a range of employment and study opportunities.
With Winchester topping the ranking as Britain's Best City for Jobs & Work Opportunities in 2025 (SME Today), you're set up for employment success right here.
Our professional and dedicated team support students and graduates of the University of Winchester wherever they are on their career journey.
We are proud to offer Careers Advice for life, so are here whenever you need us!
The University of Winchester and Winchester Student Union offer over 150 opportunities to get involved with activities outside your degree, including sport clubs and Societies, Interest Groups, Extra-curricular Academic Engagement, Jobs on Campus and Volunteering
As a graduate of the University of Winchester you have access to Careers Advice for Life, and we have a huge range of resources to support you as you move forward on your career journey.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Students-and-money:
Student Journey Co-ordinators provide a listening ear and support those experiencing personal issues affecting study, struggles with workload and university life, course concerns and a range of other issues.
For further details on Undergraduate financial information
For further details on Postgraduate financial information
For further details on International financial information
For further details on U.S Federal Aid information
The most frequently asked questions in relation to tuition fees and other costs
We offers a range of scholarships, bursaries and Awards
An idea of the main costs that you may incur whilst studying
An idea of the main costs associated with your course
How to make a payment online

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Scholarships-bursaries-and-awards:
We offer a range of scholarships, bursaries and awards to support students and recognise achievements

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Students-and-money/Online-Payments:
We have compiled all our frequently asked questions into to one place for your reference.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/search:
1 - 10 of 2,601
                    

                        search results for
Everything you need to know about clearing.
Information on courses, key dates and contacts.
The University of Winchester offers a wealth of postgraduate research degree opportunities within a supportive environment.
Discover more.
The University of Winchester has over 175 years of experience in teaching excellence.
Discover more about our history, values and courses.
Learn more.
The latest news and events from around the University of Winchester.
We have lectures and events open to the general public throughout the year.
Contact the University of Winchester to learn more about our community, courses and research.
Explore the University of Winchester's excellent research, knowledge exchange and teaching facilities
Welcome to the University of Winchester website.
Discover our courses, research and beautiful campus.
Read more.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Parents-and-Supporters:
We recognise that researching universities and courses and preparing your young person for Higher Education is a learning process for you, as parents and supporters, as well as for your child.
For your young person, starting university will be one of the biggest and most exciting experiences they have faced so far, and for you, the experience is bound to raise many questions and a certain amount of apprehension.
Read on for lots of helpful information, tips and answers to your questions.
Find out the dates of our upcoming open days
Sign-up for more information and the latest news to help you support your child
Many students live on campus in their first year in one of our residences, either self-catered or catered and all of our campus accommodation is within walking distance of the city centre.
A key aspect of living on campus is safety.
We have live-in wardens, Resident Assistants and 24-hour first-aid trained security staff.
Campus is such a convenient place to live, with laundrettes, the gym and catering facilities on site.
At Winchester, we guarantee University-Managed Accommodation to all full-time first year undergraduates who hold Winchester as their firm choice and apply by the deadline published on our website.
Find out more about our range of accommodation and the application process on our housing page .
Winchester has an active community of commuting students who travel in to their classes.
They even have their own club, the Commuting Students Network with their own home-from-home facilities and social activities.
Have a look at our Commuting Students page for tips and information and read our blog which has lots of advice on how your young person can get the most out of their commute as well as their university experience.
We understand that starting university is a big change for both you, as parents and supporters, and your young person.
At Winchester, we ensure that your young person's health, happiness and wellbeing are our top priority.
Winchester is a tight-knit community where we get to know our students as individuals providing a friendly and supportive environment.
Our Student Support and Success team offers a wide range of support, advice, information and guidance on every aspect of student life.
This includes advice and support on Mental Wellbeing (we have a team of professionally trained counsellors and mental health advisors on campus); Disability Support (who ensure the provision of specialist support or facilities to meet the requirements of your young person) and Academic Success (who help and advise on academic skills to ensure your young person realises their full academic potential).
One of the most significant differences between college and university is that, once your young person turns eighteen, they are adults under the law.
Decisions that you may have taken jointly with your child at college are now the responsibility of your young person.
This means that all of our interactions must be directly with the student, and they are responsible for their life at university, including what they choose to tell you about.
As a parent, carer or guardian, this can feel like quite a big change from life before university.
If you have concerns that your young person may need some support, then please do encourage them to reach out to us.
If you have concerns and don’t feel the person you are supporting is able to, or will, make contact with us directly, please do feel able to reach out to us.
We will always listen to your concerns, and act where appropriate; however, it may not be possible for us to share information back with you.
We ask our students to nominate a ‘trusted adult’ as well as an emergency contact.
This may or may not be the same person.
A ‘trusted adult’ is someone who is nominated for the University to reach out to if there are concerns about a student’s safety or wellbeing.
They may be contacted before an emergency occurs.
An emergency contact would typically only be contacted in the event of an emergency, such as when there is a serious concern for a student’s health and safety and consent to share information cannot be obtained.
We would encourage you to speak to the person you are supporting about who they would like to nominate as their ‘trusted adult’.
If a student has someone named as their ‘trusted adult’ we can, in some situations, involve that person in conversations with the student.
It doesn’t mean that the individual then represents the student or talks on their behalf; however, it can provide opportunities for us to listen and answer any specific questions regarding support at Winchester and, if appropriate, provide updates (although this would not be on a regular basis).
Respecting the confidentiality and privacy of the student remains a priority; therefore, only information necessary to manage risks and ensure the immediate safety of the student will be shared with the ‘trusted adult’.
If you reach out to us, as a ‘trusted adult’ to share concerns about a student, we will be able to listen to those concerns; however, in order to maintain confidentiality, we may be unable to share information about the student with you.
To understand more and to learn more about the sharing of information, please have a look at the ‘Consent to Share’ section of this page Student Wellbeing .
At Winchester, our courses facilitate the development of a range of skills invaluable to employers.
We offer guest lectures, work placements and other projects with organisations to support our students in gaining experience as part of the curriculum.
In addition, our Careers and Opportunities Hub can support students in finding and applying for part-time work, placements, volunteering opportunities, graduate jobs and even postgraduate study.
They can access one-to-one appointments in person or via MS Teams to explore career possibilities and get help with crafting a CV, writing job applications and preparing for interviews.
All students remain entitled to this after they have graduated through our offer of Careers Advice for Life, meaning they can get back in touch with the team at any stage on their career journey.
For undergraduate study, eligibility for funding depends on an individual’s nationality, their residency status and if it’s their first time studying in Higher Education, as well as the course they’re intending to study.
If your young person meets the eligibility criteria, they can apply for funding to pay for their course costs, as well as funding towards their living costs.
Further information regarding eligibility can be found here: Student Finance: Who Qualifies .
Eligibility and funding for postgraduate study is different, so please follow the link below for further information.
For undergraduate study, please see our Undergraduate Financial Information page for more information.
For postgraduate study, please see our Postgraduate Financial Information page for more information.
If you have any questions, please contact studentsandmoney@winchester.ac.uk .
Winchester is a beautiful cathedral city with a rich heritage and a vibrant contemporary culture.
We have two campuses, West Downs and King Alfred Quarter and both are only a 10-15 minute walk from the city centre.
Big enough to have a wide variety of things to do and see, but small enough to never feel lost, Winchester combines modern city life with historic roots and plenty of easy access to green spaces.
Travel connections to the city are really good, with Southampton Airport a 10-minute train ride away and London Waterloo only an hour by train.
The University is close to the M3, with easy road access to both the M25 and M27.
National Express runs a regular coach service from Winchester to a range of destinations.
To find out more about the city, flick through our handy A-Z Guide .
Bike, bus, car, train: tips on the best routes if you prefer to commute
Definitive packing list written by third-year student Ceri
Mum Clare’s honest advice on helping son Tom with his uni choice
Dad Stuart's experience helping Maddie choose her course and uni

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/parentsignup:
By submitting this data, you agree to our privacy policy

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Term-Dates:
For details about the semester dates (term dates) for the next few academic years, please see the following details:
Monday 8 September 2025 to Friday 16 January 2026
Early Start Programmes
Monday 8 September 2025 (BN Nursing and PGCE/School-Led programmes)
Welcome week**
Monday 22 September to Friday 26 September 2025
Teaching Begins
Monday 29 September 2025
Progress Week***
Monday 10 November to Friday 14 November 2025
Teaching Concludes
Friday 19 December 2025
Christmas break****
Monday 22 December 2025 to Friday 2 January 2026
Assessment Weeks
Monday 5 January to Friday 16 January 2026
Monday 12 January to Friday 29 May 2026
Welcome Week
Monday 12 January 2026
Monday 19 January 2026
Monday 2 March to Friday 6 March 2026
Spring break
Monday 30 March to Friday 10 April 2026
Friday 24 April 2026
Consolidation/Revision Week
Monday 27 April 2026
Assessment weeks
Tuesday 5 May to Friday 15 May 2026
Most undergraduate courses end for the year on 29 May.
Tuesday 5 May to Friday 31 July
Monday 11 May 2026
Progress Week
Monday 22 June – Friday 26 June 2026
Friday 24 July 2026
Monday 27 July – Friday 31 July 2026
Monday 16 September to Friday 20 September 2024
Monday 23 September to Friday 18 October 2024
Monday 21 October to Friday 25 October 2024
Monday 28 October to Friday 20 December 2024
Monday 23 December to Friday 10 January 2025
Monday 13 January to Friday 24 January 2025
Monday 27 January to Friday 14 February 2025
Monday 17 February to Friday 21 February 2025
Monday 24 February to Friday 4 April 2025
Monday 7 April to Friday 25 April 2025
Easter Sunday 20 April
Monday 28 April to Friday 16 May 2025
Monday 19 May to Friday 30 May 2025
Monday 11 September to Friday 15 September 2023
Monday 18 September to Friday 20 October 2023
Monday 23 October to Friday 27 October 2023
Monday 30 October to Friday 15 December 2023
Monday 18 December to Friday 5 January 2024
Monday 8 January to Friday 19 January 2024
Monday 22 January to Friday 9 February 2024
Monday 12 February to Friday 16 February 2024
Monday 19 February to Thursday 28 March 2024
Friday 29 March to Friday 19 April 2024
Easter Sunday 31 March
Monday 22 April to Friday 10 May 2024
Monday 13 May to Friday 24 May 2024
Monday 12 September to Friday 16 September 2022
Monday 19 September to Friday 21 October 2022
Monday 24 October to Friday 28 October 2022
Monday 31 October to Friday 16 December 2022
Monday 19 December to Friday 6 January 2023
Monday 9 January to Friday 20 January 2023
Monday 23 January to Friday 10 February 2023
Monday 13 February to Friday 17 February 2023
Monday 20 February to Friday 31 March 2023
Monday 3 April to Friday 21 April 2023
Easter Sunday 9 April
Monday 24 April to Friday 12 May 2023
Monday 15 May to Friday 2 June 2023
* Some courses require attendance outside of these dates.
These are standard dates and not all courses follow them.
** There is a Welcome Week for all new campus-based students on taught courses prior to the start of Term 1.
*** Progress Weeks are replacing Reading Weeks from the 25/26 Academic Year.
While there will be no scheduled teaching during Progress Weeks, except where a professional programme may require it such as for placement learning, there will be sessions available for students at Programme and University level to support your learning and success including, for example, assessment preparation sessions, career planning advice and guidance, and wellbeing workshops.
Dates may be subject to change - for example if the academic year structure is amended.
Applicants should email any queries to admissions@winchester.ac.uk and students to registry.enquiries@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/collaborate:
We work closely with communities, organisations and individuals across the breadth of our areas of expertise, from local to global and with a focus on mutual benefit.
To find out more about partnering with us and benefiting from our expertise, email us on collaborate@winchester.ac.uk.
Our business, research and community services and our state of the art facilities enable to you access our expertise to benefit your organisation's needs.
Our case studies showcase our commitment to collaboration, creativity, and driving change through research excellence.
Our Careers and Opportunities Team provides professional support to ensure you find the right talent for your organisation.
Small and medium businesses (SMEs) are the beating heart of the economy and the University is committed to supporting SMEs and entrepreneurs.
Playing our part in developing a vibrant innovation ecosystem is critical to our ambitions and aligned to those of our city and region.
The University strongly believes in the transformative power of culture and creativity, and we are proud to be a key partner in the development and delivery of the Winchester District Cultural Strategy for 2030.
The University is the home of TEDx Winchester, a high-profile annual day-long event in which a host of inspirational speakers take to the stage to delight audiences.
We work with Schools and Colleges across the UK to encourage progression into higher education.
We welcome students from everywhere, including asylum seekers and refugees

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/collaborate/Our-Services-Facilities-and-Expertise:
Unlock new opportunities for your business or organisation through collaboration with our leading experts.
Our consultancy, training and partnership services are designed to drive innovation and growth.
We offer a range of services designed to help businesses and organisations innovate and thrive, whether you are looking for expert consultancy, bespoke training, applied research partnerships or something else.
To support our work, we have invested heavily in state-of-the-art facilities and are proud of our laboratories and equipment.
Explore our facilities .
Consultancy and contract research: Tap into our expertise to solve complex challenges and gain research-informed insights.
Partnerships: Partner with us to make a joint vision reality.
Training & CPD : Our tailored professional development programmes can meet your personal and professional development needs.
Community & Civic Engagement: Work with us to drive social change and tackle real-world challenges in our communities.
Email us at collaborate@winchester.ac.uk to discuss how we can support your goals and drive your business or organisation forward.
Use the widget below to access a wealth of further expertise in our academic community.
From AI to Arts and Animal Welfare, from History to Education, we can help.
For any queries, you can contact us on collaborate@winchester.ac.uk at any time.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Research-Facilities:
Explore our state-of-the-art teaching, research, innovation, outreach and consultancy facilities.
The University of Winchester has been investing heavily in state-of-the-art facilities.
From teaching and research to innovation, outreach and consultancy, we are excellently equipped to meet the needs of academics and students, external partners and researchers, community groups and individuals.
Archaeology, Anthropology and Geography have significant expertise in archaeological science and physical anthropology, in particular human bioarchaeology, environmental archaeology, geoarchaeology, geomorphology and geomatics, and is excellently equipped for analytical work in these subdisciplines.
In Physical Geography, we have significant expertise in hydrology, in particular flow gauging and water quality analysis, the environmental impacts of climate change, and conservation/biodiversity.
We also collect local meteorological data.
Over recent years, the University has invested heavily in new and improved laboratory facilities and equipment, including a purpose-built artefact and human bone store that meets the guidelines of the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists.
We sometimes welcome some familiar faces to our laboratories, such as Prof.
Alice Roberts, below, flanked by Dr Simon Roffey and Laboratory manager Dr David Ashby.
We are currently working towards achieving Green Lab status.
My Green Lab is considered the global standard for best practice in laboratory sustainability.
Find out more about My Green Lab .
Our application is a joint initiative between our laboratory technician and the University's Department for Student Engagement and Employability.
We have a teaching lab and a research lab; the latter is used by staff and students for research projects as well as by our commercial arm ARCA Geoarchaeology.
We have recently opened an Analytical Chemistry Lab.
Mainly for Forensic Science use, it contains analytical equipment that can also be used by Archaeology and Geography.
Teaching lab:
Research (ARCA) Lab:
Finds Processing Room:
We currently have the following equipment and software for our academic, undergraduate, postgraduate and commercial research.
Our Archaeology, Geography and Anthropology laboratory facilities and collections are available for use by external researchers such as Master's and PhD students.
The rate is £20 per day +VAT.
To book, please use our online store .
During weekends and outside the academic year, our laboratory facilities are also available for hire by external organisations and community groups who wish to run training courses or events within a laboratory environment.
For enquires, please contact the Laboratory Manager, Dr David Ashby.
Fieldwork equipment is also available to be hired by external organisations, community groups and commercial companies, including excavation and survey equipment.
For enquiries, please contact the Laboratory Manager, Dr David Ashby.
Please note, you must supply a valid insurance certificate demonstrating the equipment you are hiring from us is covered for the duration of the booking period.
Find out more about our research
Find out more about our consultancy and contract research
Criminology and Forensics are excellently equipped to undertake both fieldwork and laboratory-based projects in Forensic Biology, including botany and entomology, as well as CSI and soil analysis, and forensic linguistics.
We are licensed by DEFRA to run a taphonomic facility for carrying out decomposition research using pig carcasses.
We have a dedicated laboratory technician supporting all academic staff and students.
The Forensics laboratory was opened by David Suchet, a.k.a.
Hercule Poirot - watch the video .
In line with our values of sustainability and social justice, we are currently working towards achieving Green Lab status.
January 2020 saw the launch of a new Crime Scene House (CSH).
The CSH can be used for briefings, undertaking crime scene photography, packaging of evidence and as a Blood Pattern Analysis (BPA) space.
The Crime Scene House - image by student Emma Copley
The latest addition to our research facilities is an Analytical Chemistry Lab, which was opened in January 2023 and is used for both teaching and research.
It contains analytical equipment that is mainly for Forensic Science use but can also be used by Archaeology and Geography.
We currently have a UV-Vis spectrophotometer, an HPLC (High Performance Liquid Chromatograph), an AAS (Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometer) and an FTIR (Fourier - Transformed Infrared Spectroscope).
With these instruments we are able to analyse pure substances and complex mixtures, in biological and non-biological samples, including the detection and quantification of pharmaceutical components, solvents and metals .
We regularly invite young inquisitive minds such as scout groups into our laboratories to be a forensic investigator for the evening and solve a crime.
Find out more.
Dr Carolin Esser-Miles (left), Senior Lecturer in English and Forensic Linguistics, with scouts during one of our regular Whodunnit events
Our Forensics laboratory facilities and collections are available for use by external researchers such as Master's and PhD students.
The rate is £20 per day +VAT.
To book, please use our online store.
Some specialist Forensics equipment is also available to be hired by external organisations, community groups and commercial companies.
See below for Forensic Psychology facilities.
The University has been investing heavily in dedicated new facilities for these growing and important subject areas.
In addition to teaching and research, the laboratories below will be used to support Knowledge Exchange activities, working with external clients.
The University boasts a brand new Digital Innovation Hub, featuring:
To find out more, contact Dr John Richardson, Senior Lecturer in Innovation Management.
Our School of Media and Film is supported by outstanding purpose-built, industry-standard facilities.
These comprise a professional newsroom, sound recording/post-production studios and control galleries, and a multimedia centre.
The newsroom, opened by ITV journalist/broadcaster Alastair Steward in 2018, is also the hub for WINOL (Winchester News OnLine) , the news website produced by students of the BJCT-accredited BA in Journalism.
The state-of-the-art sound recording and post-production studios - designed by specialist acoustic architects - were launched by the Mercury Prize-winning group alt-J in 2018.
The multimedia centre incorporates a computerised radio station/studio; two HD TV studios and galleries, with green screens and state-of-the-art cameras, and facilities for multi-track audio recording.
Find out more about our School of Media and Film
Take a virtual tour of our facilities
Martial Rose Library
The University's Martial Rose Library houses over 300,000 books, including key course textbook, as well as a huge online library of academic journals, e-books and databases.
The Library welcomes members of the public, staff, students and researchers from other institutions and anyone wishing to use the Sybil Campbell and Thorold & Lyttelton Collections.
It also has an Education Resource Room.
Find out more about the Martial Rose Library
Take a virtual tour of the Martial Rose Library
West Downs Library
Located adjacent to the Business School, our West Downs Library, based in the brand new West Downs development, has dedicated resources for the various subject areas in the Faculty of Business, Law and Digital Technologies, including Fashion and Mathematics.
Find out more about the new West Downs Centre
Our Performing Arts spaces comprise 6 studios, specifically:
2 smaller studios (capacity ~20)
3 large studios (capacity ~30), including a dance studio with mirrors, ballet bars and a sprung floor, and a dance space with mirrors and some portable, height-adjustable ballet bars.
All rooms have pianos, or can be equipped with a piano if requested.
1 'black box' with a black-painted floor-level performance area and seating (capacity ~20).
A Performance Gym, a larger black box space with a full lighting rig, black painted sprung floor, flexible scene arrangements and seating bank.
Seating can be stowed and chairs installed around performance area if so desired.
Performance space dimensions – seating deployed - 8.4m x 7.2m; Performance space - seating stowed 8.4m x 12m.
NB all capacities are for room users, not seating capacities.
All our spaces are bookable, subject to availability.
Please direct any Performing Arts venue hire enquiries to theatretechnicians@winchester.ac.uk .
Take a virtual tour of one of our spaces
Between 2018 and 2020, the Psychology Department underwent a multi-phase refurbishment, including extensive upgrading of our facilities for staff and student research.
Our refurbished facilities comprise a range of specialist labs and 8 two-person, general-purpose project labs, each equipped with one or more research-grade PCs and testing space.
We also have a range of specialist equipment such as BioPACS for physiological measurements, GENEActive actigraphy devices for sleep and activity monitoring , mobile eye-trackers, access to a wide range of standard software used for conducting psychological research (e.g.
Matlab, Qualtrics, EPrime, SPSS), together with support for work using other platforms (e.g.
PsychoPy, R) and a well-stocked psychometric test library with a range of cognitive, educational and developmental test batteries as well as aptitude, ability and personality tests.
Electro-encephalography and Neurostimulation Lab
The remodelled EEG and Neurostimulation lab includes a sound-proof, shielded testing booth and is equipped with a 64 channel Biosemi EEG system and a NeuroConn Transcranial Electrical Stimulator.
The set-up facilitates a wide range of cognitive neuroscience research.
For instance, recent work has explored brain responses to email alerts as a function of work-life balance , the relationship between neural inhibitory processing, thought suppression, Obsessive Compulsive Disorder and anxiety, auditory hallucinations, and musical preference.
Social Interaction Suite
The Social Interaction Suite includes a room with a multicamera recording system and a large central screen for displaying stimuli to groups, plus an adjacent control room.
The suite facilitates a wide range of research that uses approaches such as focus groups or interviews and can be adapted to have large open areas for group interaction.
Examples of the kind of research that this lab can be used for include interviewing for investigative psychology (to find out more, explore the academic profiles of Dr Feni Kontogianni and Dr Beth Parsons ), Dr Liam Satchell’s research on first impressions, and Dr Kim Bradley-Cole’s qualitative research on leadership.
Infant and Child Observation Suite
This large space has plenty of room for groups of children to play and for work with their parents and carers.
It is equipped with comfortable sofa seating, a multi-camera recording system and large display for stimulus presentation.
The camera system also streams footage to a remote camera observation room allowing for non-intrusive observation work.
Examples of the kind of research that this lab can be used for includes work on reading development.
Meet the reading development researchers, Dr Kirsty Ross and Dr Amy Warhurst .
Alcohol Research (‘Bar’) Lab
One of our most unique Psychology spaces is the Alcohol Research ‘Bar’ Lab.
In 2023 this lab underwent a significant transformation to become a more modern and realistic bar setting.
The space now features not only its own bar, alcohol, research computers, and police approved breathalysers, but also a sound system and lighting effects to simulate a typical social drinking space.
This lab allows staff, undergraduates, and PhD students, to explore the effects of alcohol in a controlled lab environment, whilst encouraging study participants to relax and engage in their usual behaviour.
With around 40% of violent crimes in the UK being committed, or witnessed, by someone under the influence of alcohol, we primarily use this lab to explore the effects of alcohol on social interactions, deception, and eyewitness memory.
Research conducted in this dedicated space has already informed the Ministry of Justices’ Achieving Best Evidence guidelines (2023), which guide police practice in interviewing witnesses.
Under the supervision of the department’s alcohol researchers, our Psychology students can also conduct their own research looking at the effects of alcohol on a range of different factors, and further develop their research skills ready for future employment.
Meet our researcher Dr Debbie Crossland .
Eye Tracking Lab
The Lab is equipped with a SR Research Eyelink 1000 system and has black out blinds and black walls to minimise the effects of light.
The facilities in this room are appropriate for a wide range of experimental psychology research, such as work on face perception and recognition (meet the researcher Dr Daniel Gill ), crime scene perception, computer user interaction research or any work where it is important to monitor participant gaze position in relation to visual stimuli.
Virtual Reality Lab
The Lab is equipped with a HTC Vive Eye Pro wireless system allowing participants the freedom to move around the space without fear of tripping over wires.
The Vive Eye Pro also comes equipped with a built-in eye tracking system so that it is possible to monitor participant’s point of gaze in their virtual world.
Research in this laboratory is just getting underway.
A recent project used VR to explore self-consciousness and paranoia, placing participants in a city roaming the streets whilst looking for a coffee shop and interacting with virtual characters.
Psychophysics Lab
This lab is light-proofed to allow for vision research and is equipped with a range of visual stimulus presentation equipment, including high-spec displays suitable for vision research, and custom-built visual testing apparatus.
The lab is suitable for a wide range of vision work, including research into face perception .
Visit the Psychology department webpages to find out more about our research and to meet our laboratory technicians and researchers
See below for Sport Psychology facilities.
We are excellently equipped for Biomechanics, Physiology, Strength & Conditioning, and Sport Psychology.
Delsys Electromyography (EMG) Sensors (Trigno Avanti System) Woodway Treadmill (PPS MED) Wattbike Cycle Ergometer (Pro) Kistler Force Plate (9281ea) BTS Bioengineering G-Walk (G-Walk) Qualisys Motion Capture Cameras (Oqus 300, 310 & 600) Microgate Gyko Lafayette hand-held Dynamometer
The Altitude Centre Hypoxicator (Everest Summit II Hypoxic Generator) Baty International Skinfold Calipers (Harpenden Skinfold Caliper) Body Stat Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis (BIA) Devices (Body Stat 1500) EKF Diagnostics Blood Glucose/Lactate Analyser(Biosen C-Line Sport) EKF Diagnostics Lactate Analyser (Lactate Scout) Hawksley Haematocrit Centrifuge (Haematospin 1300) Vitech Scientific Refractometer (Osmocheck) Schiller 12-Lead Electrocardiogram (ECG) (Cardiovit CS-200 Touch) Polar Heart Rate Monitors (A300) Monark Cycle Ergometers (874E & 894E) SRM Cycle Ergometer (SRM Training System) Woodway Treadmill Harvard Apparatus Dry Gas Meter Cranlea Douglas Bags Servomex Gas Analyser (5200 Servoflex miniHF) Cortex Gas Analyser (Metalyzer 3B) Brower Timing Gates (TC-Timing System) ADInstruments PowerLab (PowerLab 15T) AtCor Medical SphygomoCor (SphygmoCOr XCEL) Terason Ultrasound (uSmart 3300) Artinis Medical Systems Near-Infrared Spectroscopy (NIRS) (PortaLite) Fitech CardioChek (CardioChek) SMT-Medical Vicorder Concept II Rowing Ergometer
ESP Fitness Power Racks (TotalPower) Eleiko Powerlifting Barbell (IPF Powerlifting Competition Bar) BlkBox Weightlifting Barbells (15kg & 20kg Belfast Bar) Microgate OptoJump (OptoJump Next) PUSH Inc.
PUSH Bands (PUSH Band 2.0) Kinetic Performance GymAware
SensoMotoric Instruments Eye-Tracking Glasses ANT Neuro Electroencephalogram (ECG) (Eego Sports 32) Batak (Professional) Oculus Rift Garmin 360° Camera (Virb)
Visit our departmental webpages to find out more about our research and to meet our laboratory technicians and researchers.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/collaborate/Case-Studies:
Turning ground-breaking ideas into real-world solutions
At the University of Winchester, we are committed to pushing the boundaries of knowledge and innovation.
Our research impacts local and national industries and communities, by turning ground-breaking ideas into real-world solutions.
See how our academics are shaping the future, one innovation at a time.
ARCA is a geoarchaeological consultancy based at the University of Winchester.
Led by geoarchaeologist Professor Keith Wilkinson , it has been providing specialist geoarchaeological services to a wide range of public and private sector clients since 2005.
Visit the ARCA website
The University of Winchester collaborates with British Fencing to develop a coaching analysis tool using fisheye cameras in helmets for fencers and coaches.
This initiative, led by sport coaching expert Richard Cheetham MB E, aims to enhance performance through detailed video analysis.
Highly regarded in the field of Holocaust Education, the University of Winchester has an ongoing partnership with the Holocaust Education Trust.
Most recently, Holocaust Education expert Dr Alasdair Richardson has led an evaluation of the HET's Lessons from Auschwitz Project, researching students’ experiences.
From helping to inform research on children’s rights to speaking to the media as a reputable thought leader in the field, family law expert Dr Emma Nottingham , Co-Convener of the Centre for Information Right s, is leading the University of Winchester to be an influential and constructive contributor to narratives around children’s rights issues.
The University of Winchester is launching a student-led creative agency, Winchester Creative Sparks.
Initially specialising in video production, the agency will enable students to gain experience within the wider industry and a comprehensive understanding of how a business operates.
Our talented Film and Media students have already been playing a key role in the success of TEDx Winchester, hosted annually by the University.
Find out more in the case study below and on our TEDx Winchester page .
Justine Clements, Business Development Manager in the Faculty of Health and Wellbeing, has led at the University of Winchester in its development of a portfolio of short courses in response to calls from the health sector to support the Continuing Professional Development (CPD) of healthcare professionals.
Explore our short courses in Health and Wellbeing
The University of Winchester has been using archaeology to support military veterans’ mental health .
Led by archaeologist Dr Paul Everill , the Heritage for Heroes studentships and the veteran wellbeing programme as part of his excavation in Nokalakevi , Georgia , have helped build new skills and enhance wellbeing.
Building on these initiatives and developed in collaboration with psychologist Dr Karen Burnell, the AMPHORA (Authentic and Meaningful Participation in Heritage Or Related Activities) guidelines support the safe delivery of heritage projects that aim to improve public mental health.
Emma Goto is Senior Lecturer in Primary Education and an expert in computational thinking in the context of primary education.
She has been working with Blue Zoo Animation Studio, Alphablocks Ltd and the BBC, providing expertise for a new CBeebies computational thinking programme, Wonderblocks.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/collaborate/Schools-and-colleges:
The Schools and Colleges Team at the University of Winchester are committed to working closely and collaboratively with our colleagues within schools and colleges.
Our aim is to help raise students’ Higher Education aspirations by offering engaging student activities for secondary and post 16 pupils.
We recognise the integral role that Teachers and Careers Advisers play in supporting young people.
We therefore offer a range of resources and opportunities to enhance your own understanding, and to share with your students.
We also strongly value the role of Parents and Guardians throughout the young person’s progression, therefore please feel free to share the resources and opportunities more widely within your institution.
Digital resources will be found in each relevant section below.
If you'd like more information or to sign up to our newsletter, please email the team on schoolsandcolleges@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/collaborate/Schools-and-colleges/Schools-and-Colleges-Talks-and-workshops:
Our expert Schools and Colleges Team are available to deliver a variety of talks and workshops on campus, virtually, or in person at your school or college.
All our sessions are designed to enable every student to make informed decisions about progression to Higher Education, whilst supporting your Gatsby Benchmarks .
To request our support on any of the opportunities below, please email schoolsandcolleges@winchester.ac.uk to arrange.
For specific subject sessions please visit our Academic Talks and Workshops page
Our Parents and Supporters’ webinar series is aimed at those with year 12s and year 13s considering their options and preparing for going to university.
The series may restart in autumn 2025.
Whether you went to university or not, this is your first or third child to go to university or your young person is undecided about whether to go to university, we hope these sessions will offer further insights and support to you.
Our Degree Apprenticeships talk explains what a degree apprenticeship is and the advantages and disadvantages of this alternative provision.
Audience: Y12 & Y13, Parents & Supporters
Length of Session : 20-60 minutes
Gatsby Benchmarks: 2, 7
This talk provides an overview of all Higher Education opportunities available for students leaving College or FE, demonstrating different pathways to achieving a degree or higher-level qualifications.
Length of Session: 20-60 minutes
Gatsby Benchmarks: 2, 3, 7
This talk gives a simple but comprehensive overview of what Higher Education entails.
It outlines the reasons for further study and explains some of the places students can get started in researching if it’s a route for them.
It also highlights some of the myths associated with studying Higher Education.
Gatsby Benchmarks: 2, 3, 4, 7
The Post 18 Options talk demonstrates all the opportunities once leaving school or college, including a wide variety of pathways and experiences available to young people upon completion of their Level 3 qualifications.
This talk is perfect for those at the end of year 10 or in year 11 as it discusses what is next after school, the next steps and the importance of year 12.
Audience: Y10 & Y11, Parents & Supporters
Gatsby Benchmarks: 4, 7
This session looks at the challenges of starting university, moving away from home and the likely differences of university to school or college.
The session will think about resilience for study and developing techniques to work through change and challenges.
Audience: Y11, Y12 & Y13, Parents & Supporters
Gatsby Benchmarks: 7
This talk acts as guide to what admissions tutors are looking for in a statement, common mistakes to avoid and how students can make the most of their strengths and experiences.
Audience: Y12 & Y13, Teachers & Advisers
Please encourage your students to use our new interactive Personal Statement Worksheet for top tips on what to include to make their statements stand out.
Applicants can meet with team members 1 to 1 to receive advice, guidance and feedback on applicants' Personal statement, whichever stage of their application they are at.
Clinics would be run on site at your School or College, or virtually.
Audience: Y12 & Y13
Length of Session: 10-15 minutes per applicant
Gatsby Benchmarks: 3, 7, 8
This talk provides an overview of the financial support available, including the latest information on tuition fee loans, maintenance loans, student loan repayment, budgeting and how to plan ahead for managing finances.
It also ensures students are aware of scholarships and bursaries they can access.
Audience: Y12 & Y13, Teachers & Advisers, Parents & Supporters
An opportunity to hear directly from our student ambassadors about a range of topics such as making friends, student accommodation, academic life and budgeting.
This talk is an introduction to all aspects of the application process including: setting up Apply, what UCAS Track is all about and what happens once an application is sent.
This can also consider UCAS Extra and Clearing.
We can attend a range of events at your setting, including but not limited to:
HE Fairs
Careers and Employability Events
Parents and Guardians Events
STEM events
Open Evenings
Safeguarding Statement
All staff in the Schools and Colleges Team are DBS checked, and regularly complete the NSPCC training course “Safeguarding 16-25 year olds”.
We are committed to providing a safe and secure environment for students and staff, Read our Working digitally with your students guide for more information.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/collaborate/Schools-and-colleges/Academic-Talks-and-Workshops-:
Our Academic talks and workshops are designed to deliver specific subject insight to your students.
These provide a valuable opportunity to experience University style lectures a nd seminars either at your institution or on campus with our team.
Please note, these talks and workshops will only be delivered subject to availability of our Academics and access to facilities.
There are a few options you may enquire about:
These sessions deliver a seminar style activity around a topic of interest.
These can either be at your institution or on campus with our team.
These sessions would be Lecture style sessions at your institution, either in person or via teams.
They may also be in the format of videos that can be delivered within your classrooms if there is limited availability..
We can arrange for Academics to visit your institution for specific cross college events, to support the delivery of your activities.
If you wish to request any further information, please contact schoolsandcolleges@winchester.ac.uk to organise next steps.
Accounting and Finance
Acting
Animal Science and Conservation
Anthropology
Archaeology
Business Management
Childhood and Youth
Classical Studies
Computer Science
Creative Writing
Criminology
Digital Media Design
Economics
Education
English Literature
Event Management
Film Production
Forensics
Geography
Health and Social Care
History
Journalism
Law
Midwifery Degree Apprenticeship
Midwifery Degree
Musical Theatre
Music
Nursing
Philosophy, Religion and Ethics
Physiotherapy
Politics with International Relations
Primary Education
Professional Policing
Psychology
Social Work
Sociology
Sport
These lectures provide an opportunity to experience the type of content our Academic team deliver on their programmes, featuring; some of their most exciting topics to teach, student favourites, and fascinating research and developments within their subject area,   

This is a new initiative that isn’t yet complete, so videos will continue to be uploaded.
Please feel free to show these videos in your lessons!

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/collaborate/Schools-and-colleges/Discover-Winchester-Scheme:
We are committed to widening participation for students from all backgrounds.
Discover Winchester is a new scheme designed to provide additional support to applicants from specific backgrounds, who may have faced additional challenges in their lives and might otherwise struggle to access higher education.
We also offer an accompanying scheme for advisors in schools and colleges supporting students to access Discover Winchester.
Through the scheme we offer eligible applicants:
The Discover Winchester Scheme is available to applicants who meet one of the following criteria:
* Applicants will need to self- identify upon their UCAS application to be considered eligible.
Other mitigating circumstances
In addition to the 9 criteria above, we also offer an additional category to cater for significant extenuating circumstances and/or disrupted pattern of education not covered by the above categories.
This may be provided to the University in a personal statement, reference or separately by the apply centre and allows the University to apply a level of discretion to cater for less common complex circumstances.
Examples include, but are not limited to:
We understand that you may face financial difficulties which may prevent you from attending an Experience Winchester Day.
To help you with this, if you are eligible to participate in the Discover Winchester Scheme, we will offer a Travel Bursary as a contribution towards the cost of travelling to an Experience Winchester Day.
The contribution towards your travel costs will be calculated at the rates shown below, based on the distance (as the crow flies) from your home address to the University (SO22 4NR).
Tier 1 - up to five miles radius: £10
Tier 2 – 5.1 to 25 miles radius: £20
Tier 3 – 25.1 miles plus radius: £40
Please be aware that there is limited funding available and travel bursaries will be allocated on a first come, first served basis until funds have been exhausted.
The bursary will only be paid after you have attended an Experience Winchester Day.
Please note: Registering for the Discover Winchester Scheme does not guarantee that you will receive a Travel Bursary.
To register for this scheme and in turn, the Travel Bursary, please complete our Discover Winchester Registration Form
If you have any questions or queries regarding the Discover Winchester Scheme, there will be staff available to talk with you, from Admissions & Student Support and Success, at both Experience Days on Saturday 22 February and Saturday 22 March 2025.
You can find us at the ‘Advice Fair’ based at West Downs Campus throughout the day.
The University of Winchester finds it beneficial to work in partnership with schools and colleges in order to ensure that the Discover Winchester scheme offers the most appropriate support for applicants.
We therefore invite staff to join our Discover Winchester Advocates scheme.
This will ensure you receive termly newsletters and an invitation to our annual forum where we brief on updates and also invite feedback on the scheme.
If you would like to join the Discover Winchester Advocates scheme please email us via discover@winchester.ac.uk .
Applicants to courses with an integrated foundation year will be able to access additional support and the travel bursary but are excluded from the contextualised offer due to the lower entry requirements already in operation.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/collaborate/Schools-and-colleges/Channel-Islands:
The University of Winchester has a long and successful tradition of welcoming students from the Channel Islands through our well-established collaborative partnership.
The Channel Islands Partnership
The Channel Islands Partnership* aims to continue to improve student participation rates in Higher Education and involve students who come from sections of the community not traditionally represented.
We recognise the unique experience and challenges for Channel Islands students when applying to mainland Universities, and as such our Partnership aims to offer consistently clear and supportive pathways for students through a collaborative and aspirational partnership with Channel Island education providers.
We continually develop both our provision and our presence in the Channel Islands and provide in-person support at regular points throughout the academic year.
Our Partners
Beaulieu Convent School, Jersey
Blanchelande College, Guernsey
De La Salle College, Jersey
Elizabeth College, Guernsey
Guernsey College of Further Education
Les Varendes High School and The Sixth Form Centre, Guernsey
Hautlieu School, Jersey
Highlands College, Jersey
Jersey College for Girls
The Ladies’ College, Guernsey
Victoria College, Jersey
If you have any questions about the partnerships or Channel Islands liaison, please contact Lucy Dixon
*The Channel Islands Partnership is reviewed on a 5-yearly basis.
During this time, partners reserve the right to revoke the agreement, within reason.
The partnership will be reviewed in Summer 2025.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/collaborate/Schools-and-colleges/Academy-Trust:
The University is an Outstanding provider of teacher education and we have a strong track record of raising aspiration among young people.
The University already has a strong partnership with many schools and academy sponsorship was a natural development of our commitment to education, social justice, and to our community.
The University of Winchester was approved as an academy sponsor by the Department of Education in 2014.
The University of Winchester Academy Trust has been set up to run our academies.
Our first academy is the new-build Barton Farm Academy in Winchester.​ This is soon to be joined by a brand new primary school in Chestnut Avenue, Eastleigh.
The ambition is to create academies which are exemplars of values-driven education and which have sustainability at their heart.
They will be both a cornerstone of the local community and recognised for their inspirational and evidence-based learning.
The University of Winchester is also a co-sponsor of the Bishop of Winchester Academy in Bournemouth.
For further information visit the University of Winchester Academy Trust or email us at uwinat@winchester.ac.uk ​

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/collaborate/Schools-and-colleges/CPD:
Our Future Students team are available to support teachers and careers advisers with advice activities relating to Higher Education.
With all the changes taking place in higher education and across post 16 education more broadly we appreciate it can be difficult to keep up.
We are keen to offer sessions to tutors and teachers to support training days and CPD meetings taking place at your school or college.
Previous activities we have delivered include, reference writing guidance, applying to university with vocational qualifications and support for promoting specific subjects.
Please contact us to discuss your requirements.
If your school/college has a Compact Partnership Agreement with the University of Winchester, you are invited to join us, where we will provide you with information on how our Compact Scheme has performed for your students so far this year, and ask you for feedback and suggestions about how our scheme can continue to work in the best interests of your students.
If you would like to discuss becoming a partner school/college contact schoolsandcolleges@winchester.ac.uk
Collaboration with NetSixthForm demonstrates our focus on working with Heads of Sixth Forms across the country.
They provide a wealth of free information via newsletters and resources.
We regularly contribute to the Head of Sixth Form Conferences, please visit NetSixthForm for further details.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/collaborate/Schools-and-colleges/Teachers-and-advisers:
We therefore offer a range of resources to enhance you.
We also strongly value the role of Parents and Guardians throughout the young person’s progression, therefore please feel free to share the resources more widely.
If there is anything you are looking for that is not listed below, or you would like additional guidance on any of our resources, please contact us for further information.
For writing a personal statement, please see our Personal Statement Writing Presentation.
We also highly recommend making use of the Unifrog Personal Statement Builder , if your school or college is subscribed to this service.
For UCAS Reference Writing see the UCAS Reference Writing Guidance to support with what to include this year.
All advice and guidance on these changes can be found on UCAS's Personal Statement for 2026 Entry Onwards page, including a Webinar and an Advisor Slide Deck for internal training.
P lease do contact us if you would like additional support.
Understanding Student Finance can be confusing, especially with the wealth of resources available.
We have collated those we think are most useful, but you can request our own recorded presentation by emailing schoolsandcolleges@winchester.ac.uk
This video from the Department of Education is a strong and comprehensive resource for explaining the process of applying for a Student loan, and the repayments of this loan following University.
Student Finance England and Student finance in England - Everything you need to know (ucas.com) have created a range of supporting materials to help you understand and explain student finance to students and parents.
Both provide support for additional items such as:
Disability Student Allowance
Dependents
Parents
Deferring
Loan Repayment
Other Funding
Information for advisers in Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland
Contact the education authority directly if you work in the Channel Islands ( Jersey and Guernsey ) or Isle of Man .
Information to support the above, including contact details of relevant agencies can be found on our Students and money page.
Often the area of most concern when considering applying for Student Finance, the following resources give greater detail and useful examples.
Student Loan Repayment - Everything you need to know
Repaying your student loan: How much you repay
Find out more about students considering Higher Education over the age of 21.
Not all students move to University!
We have a wide range of travel options and benefits on offer to support our commuting students.
Find more advice and guidance for parents, guardians and carers.
If you are supporting students from the Channel Islands please take a look at our dedicated Channel Islands page.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/collaborate/Widening-Participation:
We value the wealth of experience, skills and knowledge which students from diverse backgrounds bring to the experience of other students and staff of the University.
We have a strategic target to foster stronger recruitment from groups currently under-represented in higher education, by working to raise aspirations and break down barriers to participation such as those created by culture, geography, social and economic factors.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Conferencing-and-Facilities:
Ideally located, the University of Winchester is situated just one hour away from London and close to the historic city centre of Winchester.
The University has built up an established reputation as a venue for accommodation, conferences, events and weddings, thanks to the high standard of customer care.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research:
Our research is a force for good.
From Heritage to Health, from Art to AI, our researchers are driven by a desire to open doors and open minds.
Our research aims to transform lives and create a better future for people and planet.
Staff and students across our five faculties carry out transformative and innovative research.
They collaborate with a wide range of organisations and regularly share their expertise and passion for their subjects through public engagement and consultancy.
Is the war in Ukraine undermining Russia's power base in Eurasia?
Dr Sean Roberts, Senior Lecturer in Politics and International Relations, and Dr Ulrike Ziemer, Senior Lecturer in Sociology, look at the stress the invasion of Ukraine is putting on Russia’s relations with its regional partners.
Our research students are a valued part of our research community and our support is first-class.
Discover the enriching experience that is doing a research degree at Winchester.
Explore our state-of-the-art research, teaching and consultancy facilities
We are proud of our supportive research environment and are holders of the Vitae HR Excellence in Research Award.
Our academic experts broaden horizons, spark curiosity and improve lives.
Attend our events, explore our digital offerings, benefit from our expertise or take part in our research projects.
WUP focusses on the arts, education, social sciences, and local and regional heritage, literature and culture

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Public-engagement-with-Research:
Our academic experts and students love to share their passion for their subjects and we offer a wide range of public engagement events and opportunities throughout the year, from walks and talks to exhibitions and performances.
The University subscribes to the National Coordinating Centre for Public Engagement 's Manifesto for Public Engagement , which ' invites institutions to publicly affirm, celebrate, and support their public engagement activities and commitments'.
We are keenly aware of the wealth of insight and experience that exists outside academia and we warmly invite you to become co-researchers and shape a better future together.
We encourage you to tell us what your research and expertise needs are and to take part in our participatory research projects.
To find out more about how you can work collaboratively with us, explore our Collaborate page or email collaborate@winchester.ac.uk .
We are deeply embedded in the fabric of our community and we have a wealth of knowledge about the local and regional history and archaeology as well as the arts and culture sector.
Our academics are working with numerous local and regional organisations, and they feature prominently in local annual festivals such the Hat Fair, BBC History Weekend and Winchester Heritage Open Days - explore our vibrant programme of events for Winchester Heritage Open Days 2024.
Historic West Hill Cemetery is one of the sites we annually shine a spotlight on as part of the Winchester Heritage Open Days
We have significant expertise in the Holocaust, both in Education and in Modern History, and have highlighted this in a myriad ways, including videos and podcasts for Holocaust Memorial Day.
Explore our public engagement for Holocaust Memorial Day and meet the experts.
Our academics have lent their expertise to popular TV programmes such as The Last Kingdom and major local tourist attractions such as 878AD and Medieval Jewish Winchester .
Our Archaeology consultancy ARCA is a partner in the Central Winchester Regeneration project , providing specialist research services and public engagement.
We are the lead sponsor of the Winchester Books Festival , of which the inaugural 2022 edition featured many of our staff and students.
We also have a well-established partnership with Winchester Poetry Festival and the inclusive Blue Apple Theatre company, both of which are based at the University.
Over the decades we have supported many performing arts startup businesses run by our students and graduates, such as the inclusive dance school Integr8 Dance and Platform School of Dance.
The University is proud to be a key partner in the development and delivery of the Winchester District Cultural Strategy for 2030 .
We believe strongly in the transformative power of culture and creativity, and we are dedicated to helping to build a thriving and dynamic community where art, heritage and innovation can flourish.
We look forward to working with partners across the district to deliver this ambitious strategy for our community.
We maintain close links with our local and regional health services and contribute our health and wellbeing knowledge and expertise to our communities , such as the HELP Hampshire Stroke Clinic, Winchester Wellbeing and Sport Consultancy and the Winchester Health Clinic (image below).
Explore our Health and Wellbeing links and engagement.
We work closely with regional partner schools through our University of Winchester Academy Trust and through our expertise in e.g.
creativity in the classroom, climate education, inclusive education, refugee education and Special Educational Needs.
Explore our Centre of Research for Educational Action and Theory Exchange (CREATE)
Find out how we are working with schools to embed creativity in the curriculum
Investigating teachers' wellbeing at work
Our Institute of Education has teamed up with researchers in our Psychology Department to investigate teachers' mental health and wellbeing at work.
If you are a teacher and would like to take part in the survey, see below under Take Part in our Research to find out more.
The Engaging Communities Research Centre is passionate about making a difference to communities by developing academically and community-informed solutions to contemporary social issues
We are a team of researchers from the University of Winchester who are surveying teachers’ experience of work and mental wellbeing.
We have launched a two-part survey; part one is a short 5-10 minute series of questions, part two is a 10-15 minute detailed questionnaire about current challenges in teaching.
If you take part in either or both parts of the study, you can be entered into a random prize draw to win a voucher.
If you complete both parts of the survey you will be entered into the draw twice.
Take part in the survey If you have any questions about the project or its outcomes, please email Dr Liam Satchell .
Find out about our research into media and children's privacy, and get involved.
A team of health psychology researchers would like to hear from men with BPH who are willing to share their stories of how they chose their treatment and how it has affected their lives.
Find out more and how you can take part.
Explore our virtual visual showcase of Research and Public Engagement
Podcasts
Videos
The University is an active member of The Conversation, an independent source of news and views, sourced from the research community and delivered direct to the public.
Over the years, many of our academics have published thought-provoking articles, from the history of animal names to animal welfare, crime fiction to scary movies, sporting highs and sporting lows, and from modern-day Queens to Kings under car parks.
Read all University of Winchester articles in The Conversation
Background image: Historian Dr Carey Fleiner, a specialist in Roman and medieval textiles, demonstrating spinning and weaving at the event Spinning a Yarn: Fabric making, Identity, Language and Storytelling Through Time , part of the 2023 Being Human Festival, a national annual celebration of the Humanities.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Research-Environment:
The University of Winchester is committed to providing a supportive environment in which researchers can flourish.
Explore the many ways in which we achieve this.
The Research Ethics Policy and Procedures are grounded in the University’s three core values of Compassion, Individuals Matter and Spirituality; our policy enacts these values in relation to research.
Our work places a strong emphasis on research integrity: researchers are expected to act with honesty, care and respect, in a transparent, rigorous and accountable way, guided by relevant legal and regulatory requirements.
The research ethics review process is peer-led, intended to be constructive and to strengthen research practice.
We are committed to training, supporting staff and research students to consider research ethics and integrity throughout the lifecycle of a project, and promote researcher reflexivity.
For queries regarding research ethics, email ethics@winchester.ac.uk .
The Research and Innovation Directorate (formerly Research and Knowledge Exchange Centre) develops R&I Strategy across the University and coordinates the University's REF and KEF/HE-BCI submissions.
Members of the R&I team work closely with colleagues across the institution as well as with external partners.
R&I is proud holder of the Vitae HR Excellence in Research Award .
R&I provides support, development and administration in:
The University has recently published its new Strategic Plan 2023-28 and the Research and Innovation Directorate has developed an enabling strategy that will help deliver the institution's key aims and ambitions.
The University has been investing heavily in state-of-the-art research, teaching and innovation facilities.
Explore our excellent facilities
Our Institutional Repository showcases the excellent research undertaken across the University, including prizes, output, projects and other activities.
It also features a world map visualising our international collaborations, which span the globe.
Explore our Open Access Repository.
For any enquiries, contact the Research & Innovation Directorate by emailing researchinitiatives@winchester.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Research-Excellence-Framework:
The REF is the UK’s system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions.
The next exercise will be conducted in 2029.
According to the results of the latest Research Excellence Framework, REF 2021, the University of Winchester has continued to develop the range and quality of its research.
Our research rated 4* or world leading in terms of originality, significance and rigour has increased threefold since the previous REF in 2014.
Most notably, we have evidenced a 147% increase in institutional research power, which is the 17th largest increase nationally.
This places us at 98, compared with 107 in 2014.
The overall picture of REF 2021 is positive and offers a strong foundation for our future research impact.
The next REF is planned for 2029 and we are already busy gearing up for it.
Key points arising from REF 2021:
Visit the REF website to view our results in detail.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research:
Staff and students across our five faculties carry out transformative research and knowledge exchange, from high-impact research to sharing their expertise through consultancy and public engagement.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Business-and-Digital-Technologies:
We are a research community working towards Excellence, Engagement, Exchange and Impact within a number of notable research strengths.
We are passionate about putting into practice our Global PRiME (Principles for Responsible Management Education) Champion status, as well as being at the cutting edge of digital innovation.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Education-and-the-Arts:
Education and Arts are central to our strategic vision.
We have a number of notable Research and Knowledge Exchange strengths; we carry out interdisciplinary projects with colleagues across the University and collaborate with a wide range of external partners.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-and-Knowledge-Exchange-in-Health-and-Wellbeing-:
We believe that health and wellbeing are at the heart of what it means to flourish.
Our vision is to carry out world-leading research that enables humans and animals alike to live happy and healthy lives.
Through our multidisciplinary approach, we aim to translate theory and research into effective policy and practice.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Humanities-and-Social-Sciences:
We are driven by passionate inquiry into what makes us human, from how we live alongside each other to how we live alongside animals, and from the deepest past to recent history affecting modern-day life.
We achieved strong results in the most recent Research Excellence Framework and we attract more research students and research funding than any other faculty.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Law-Crime-and-Justice:
From Cold Cases to Big Data, researchers in the Faculty of Law, Crime and Justice (comprising the subject areas of Criminology, Forensics, Law and Policing) are engaged in important and impactful research and knowledge exchange.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Winchester-University-Press:
Our mission is to spread knowledge through the publication of high-quality titles across the globe, with no barriers to access.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/HR-Excellence-in-Research-Award:
In June 2016, the University of Winchester was awarded the prestigious European Commission HR Excellence in Research Award and has successfully retained the award following a rigorous external review in 2023.
In June 2016, the University of Winchester was awarded the prestigious European Commission HR Excellence in Research Award and has successfully retained the award following a rigorous external review in 2023 .
The award was established by the European Commission in 2005 and is managed by Vitae .
It highlights institutions that are committed to aligning process and practice to the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers .
This achievement reflects the University of Winchester’s ongoing commitment to developing researchers and the research environment.
Research is at the heart of the University’s mission to educate, to advance knowledge and to serve the common good.
As such, the development of our researchers – staff and students – is a priority.
We are constantly enhancing the support systems, processes and activities that encourage our researchers.
We provide them with the opportunities to realise their potential and deliver high-quality outcomes for their careers at the University of Winchester and beyond.
Our new HR Excellence in Research Action Plan (see below) is driven by the ambition to create an inclusive and resilient research and innovation culture.
The University will be supporting researchers and research students `from the ground up,’ enabling the forging of sustainable partnerships, and celebrating achievements and successes.
It will provide central support for supporting research careers through appropriate management, guidance, and development opportunities, including the creation of a comprehensive researcher development framework, leadership training at all career stages, for all researchers to receive individual research development reviews, and careers guidance for academic careers and beyond.
Organisations that hold the HR Excellence in Research Award are required to undergo external peer review to assess their progress in achieving the actions and targeted impacts set out in their action plan once every three years (‘triennial’).
Progress against the action plan is updated quarterly by the Research Concordat Action Group.
For further information on the HR Excellence in Research award or on the University’s Research Concordat action plan, please contact the Research and Innovation team .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us:
We are a thriving university with a deep commitment to teaching and research excellence.
Established in 1840 by the Church of England, everything we do is underpinned by an unrelenting commitment to our values.
As a university, we have always been – and will always be – led and driven by our values.
As the world around us changes, we have accepted the challenge to change with it and move forward with confidence.
We are proud of our heritage with over 175 years of values-driven excellence.
Ideally located, the University of Winchester is situated just one hour away from London and close to the historic city center of Winchester.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Our-values:
As a community, we value:
As individuals and as a community, we seek to discover new ideas, and understand new perspectives.
We pursue both a depth and breadth of knowledge.
We celebrate academic excellence and intellectual challenge.
We seek to understand the perspectives of others and we welcome respectful debate, listening to views which may differ from our own with interest and defending our own with reason and humanity.​
As individuals and as a community, we seek to bring our best to our work and our study.
We commit to striving to be successful, to do things well and play our part.
We recognise that excellence only comes with effort and persistence.
We are confident and believe in ourselves, collectively and individually.
We are a welcoming, professional and respectful community.
We see working together in partnership – in our own community and beyond it – as key to expanding our horizons and creating opportunities.
From our Church of England foundation in 1840, built upon deeply held principles of creating a better world for everyone through education, we continue to play our part to ensure lasting change in the communities we serve through transformational education, impactful research and enduring partnerships.
We make a difference by educating graduates who will create a better, fairer world with enthusiasm, energy and creativity.
We make a difference undertaking and sharing research which will inform and enable lasting change.
We make a difference to our world by committing to care for it and live in it sustainably.
We make a difference to each other by behaving with humanity and respect, recognising that we each make a worthy contribution to a community which we value and of which we are all an important part.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Our-history:
The story of the University of Winchester started with a mission the Church of England had in the 1830s to create an institution that would train teachers to teach in poor communities.
The Diocesan Training School was eventually established by Bishop Sumner in 1840.
Its original location was 26/27 St Swithun Street, a grand terraced house only a short walk from Winchester Cathedral.
It then moved to Wolvesey Palace before finally moving to the purpose-built buildings on West Hill in 1860 – a building that is still at the heart of our campus today.
It was hoped that HRH Prince Albert – one of whose servants had previously attended the College for training – would perform the official opening of the new building; however his illness and premature death in December 1861 prevented that.
In 1840 there were just ten pupils; today we have close to 8,000 students.
In all of that growth and change our story, our long history, has followed in the way of the original mission to provide transformational education.
The roots of the University of Winchester began when the Winchester Diocesan Training School was founded as a Church of England foundation, designed to provide training of elementary schoolmasters.
The School became Winchester Training College.
The origins of the University's King Alfred Quarter began when a new building (now the Winton Building) was built for the College, on land granted by the Cathedral.
The College became King Alfred's College.
The Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) established that the College's standards and quality were fully commensurate with the university sector as a whole.
Degree awarding powers were conferred and the institution became known as University College Winchester.
The Privy Council conferred the title of the University of Winchester.
The RIBA award-winning King Alfred Centre officially opens.
Research degree awarding powers were granted by the Privy Council.
We enhance our sports provision by opening the Winchester Sports Stadium at Bar End Quarter.
Our Performing Arts Studios are built in the King Alfred Quarter and Queens Road Student Village opens.
HRH The Earl of Wessex officially opens St Alphege, a £6.5 million learning and teaching building.
The University's investment in campus accommodation continues with the addition of the Burma Road Student Village.
Staff, students and alumni celebrated our history and achievements as part of the 175 year anniversary.
Alan Titchmarsh MBE VMH DL is appointed Chancellor of the University of Winchester.
Almost two and a half years after a groundbreaking ceremony in January 2018, the University took possession of the new West Downs Centre in May 2020.
Hugh Dennis is appointed Chancellor the University of Winchester .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Work-with-us:
We have a principal emphasis on the personal creativity and development of our students and our staff.
Established in 1840, the University of Winchester combines heritage with innovative learning and teaching.
These pages are designed to help you find out more about what it is like to work here.
Today the university employs over 700 members of staff and aims to encourage a positive working environment in which employees are helped to reach their full potential.
Winchester offers innovative and forward-thinking teaching with scholars at the forefront of their disciplines.
This is combined with an excellent environment for learning underpinned by committed, knowledgeable and enthusiastic staff working in a huge range of roles.
Always striving for excellence, we are the only University in the UK to be awarded five-star accreditation rating for overall organisational excellence by the British Quality Foundation, under its Recognised for Excellence scheme, which uses the EFQM Excellence Model.
You can enjoy a range of benefits, support, discounts and events to help you and your family both within and outside the workplace.
Staff can utilise the many facilities on campus and can take a stroll into vibrant and historical Winchester city centre.
There are many benefits on campus for staff to enjoy.
On-site benefits include (but are not limited to):
Employees can benefit from discounts, helping you to save money:
At the University of Winchester, we take care of our staff.
The University embraces diversity and believes that individuals matter.
The University of Winchester is proud to be a Disability Confident Employer.
Disability Confident is a scheme which is designed to help us recruit and retain people with a disability in a job which is a good match with their skills and talent.
If you would like more information about the scheme please visit gov.uk .
If you would like to speak to the Recruitment team about your requirements in relation to the recruitment process please use the contact details at the bottom of this page.
If you have any queries in relation to working here at the University our contact details are:
Human Resources University of Winchester Winchester Hampshire SO22 4NR Email: recruitment@winchester.ac.uk Tele: 01962 827279
Opening Times Monday - Friday 9am - 5pm

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance:
Our strong leadership and governance has been recognised by the 2017 Times Higher Leadership and Management Awards and the 2017 British Quality Foundation Excellence Award for excellence in all areas of governance and operation.
Vice-Chancellor
Executive Leadership Team
Chief Operating Officer
Pro Vice-Chancellor
Chair of Board
Governor
Former Student Governor
External Non-Governor
Bishop of Winchester
Staff Governor
Student Governor
Further details on Governors and Committees

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Academic-excellence:
We have over 175 years of teaching and academic excellence
The UK has a world-class higher education sector, with rigorous systems in place to ensure high quality teaching.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Academic-excellence/Teaching-Excellence-Framework:
In 2023 the University of Winchester was granted a Silver award in the Teaching Excellence Framework.
This result reflects the high quality of our teaching and the tireless commitment and hard work of all staff to teaching excellence.
The results are based on a range of metrics supplemented by a written submission which demonstrate that students from all backgrounds achieve excellent outcomes at Winchester.
Our metrics also highlight very high levels of student satisfaction with academic support.
The TEF Panel considered the University submission in relation to the TEF criteria and its judgement reflects, in particular, evidence of:
The Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) is a new scheme for recognising excellent teaching, in addition to existing national quality requirements for universities, colleges and other higher education providers.
It provides information to help prospective students choose where to study.
The TEF is voluntary and each higher education provider decides whether or not to take part.
The TEF was developed by the Department for Education in England.
While higher education policy is a devolved matter, individual higher education providers in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland are also able to take part if they wish to.
Participating higher education providers receive a gold, silver or bronze award reflecting the excellence of their teaching, learning environment and student outcomes.
The awards cover undergraduate teaching.
The Government introduced the TEF in 2016 as a trial year, from which lessons will be learned for future years.
The results were published in September 2023.
The University of Winchester has received a silver award for delivering high-quality teaching, learning and outcomes for its students.
It consistently exceeds rigorous national quality requirements for UK higher education
The awards are decided by an independent TEF Panel of experts, including academics, students and employer representatives.
See the panel here.
The provider’s undergraduate teaching is assessed against ten criteria that cover the areas of teaching quality, learning environment and student outcomes.
The TEF Panel considers evidence from a set of metrics using national data as well as written evidence submitted by the provider.
The metrics cover continuation rates, student satisfaction and employment outcomes.
The metrics for each provider are benchmarked to take account of differences in its students’ characteristics, entry qualifications and subjects studied.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Academic-excellence/Learning-and-teaching-development:
High-quality teaching that is engaging, purposeful and inclusive.
The Learning and Teaching Development Unit (LTDU) works closely with colleagues across the University to implement the Education and Student Experience (ESE) Strategy (2024 - 2028).
The ESE Strategy sets out the University's vision to build students’ curiosity, confidence and capabilities through consistently high-quality teaching.
The Learning and Teaching Development Unit is comprised of two teams:
Technology Enhanced Learning (TEL) is implemented in an evidence-based and systematic way at Winchester, despite the rapidly changing environment.
The purpose of using technology is central to any innovation we support - the use of TEL at Winchester starts with asking why?
Students play an active role in shaping the digital environment, and in supporting innovation at Winchester.
The University of Winchester uses Canvas as its virtual learning environment.
Canvas has been designed with current students in mind and features an intuitive user interface and a range of mobile apps for both staff and students.
Completely cloud-based, Canvas ensures that students studying at the University of Winchester always have access to their course content if they have an internet-enabled device.
LTD@winchester.ac.uk
TEL@winchester.ac.uk
Learning and Teaching Development.
University of Winchester SO22 4NR Tel:+44 (0)1962 841515

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory:
Senior Lecturer
Visiting Research Fellow
Faculty of Health and Wellbeing
Professor
School of Humanities
Associate Lecturer
Faculty of Education and the Arts
Lecturer
School of Performing Arts
Laboratory Manager
Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences
Professor Emeritus
Reader
School of Psychology and Social Sciences
University Governor

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Our-faculties:
An established provider of high-quality programmes in the fields of teaching, the academic study of education, performing arts, film and media, and journalism.
An innovative values-driven faculty comprising Business and Digital Technologies
Enriching the health and wellbeing of individuals, families, communities and society
Our new faculty provides the framework and understanding for a modern society.
A diverse yet closely related set of subject areas driven by passionate inquiry into what makes us human
Find out more about our Leadership and Governance

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Our-faculties/ea:
The Faculty is home to the Institute of Education, Department of Education and Childhood Studies, Department of Performing Arts, and School of Media and Film.
We offer a wide range of dynamic courses at both undergraduate and postgraduate degree level that are tailored to meet the needs of the professions.
These programmes are consistently rated highly in internal and national surveys of student satisfaction.
Our teaching staff have both practical know-how and academic expertise with many years of experience in these subject areas.
The faculty is dedicated to inspirational learning, combining highly creative teaching with work placements and impactful research and knowledge exchange .
The Faculty of Education and The Arts has a strong record in Research, Knowledge Exchange, and Consultancy.
The Latest Research Excellence Framework in 2021 evidenced a 147% increase in institutional research power, the 17th biggest increase nationally.
Education produced the second largest increase in Research Power rank in the Education league table, moving from 62nd to 36th, up 26 places.
They increased their 4* research contribution by the largest volume institutionally, increasing from 12% to 20% 4*, while more than tripling FTE submitted.
66% of research in music, drama, dance, performing arts, film and screen studies was internationally excellent or world-leading.
Over 75% of research made very considerable impacts in terms of their reach and significance.
We offer a vision of higher education that gives priority to your personal, social, ethical and spiritual development.
The Institute of Education provides outstanding teacher education.
We are a vibrant community with professional focus, creativity and collaboration at its core.
The School of Media and Film is a thriving and energetic department
Our research engages with creative practice across our areas of expertise, comprising media, film and performing arts
One of the University's founding disciplines, Education is central to our strategic vision.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Our-faculties/bdt:
An innovative and values-driven faculty comprising the University of Winchester Business School and Digital Technologies.
The Faculty of Business and Digital Technologies comprises of the University of Winchester Business School (which manages our Business and Finance-related programmes) and the Department of Digital Technologies.
To find out more about each, explore the Department links below.
There are over 1600 UK, European and overseas students registered in the Faculty across a range of full- or part-time, undergraduate, postgraduate or doctoral programmes.
The Faculty spans a wide range of disciplines including Accounting and Finance, Economics, Business Management, Computer Science, Cyber Security, Digital Marketing, Digital Media, Events Management, Fashion Marketing, Project Management and Marketing.
We are connected with the professional community, ensuring that our teaching is relevant and that our graduates possess essential employability skills.
We strive to ensure our students have the skills to become the difference in their future careers.
Many of our degrees have a period of employment built into the structure of the programme and this is regarded as an integral part of your learning to become an employable graduate from the University of Winchester.
We offer an opportunity for you to apply your knowledge and skills in an industrial setting while experiencing the atmosphere and pace of the work place.
This will ultimately help you to develop confidence, agility and define your future career goals.
On most programmes, you can expand your horizons and gain an international perspective through our partnership agreements with universities and colleges in America, Canada and France.
Be the difference by studying within the Faculty of Business and Digital Technologies .
Sarah Moore-Williams
Dr Sakib Anwar
Lisa Simpkin
Dr John Richardson
Dr Claire Ancient
From responsible management to sustainable tourism and digital innovation to applied mathematics

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Our-faculties/hss:
Research-led teaching and outstanding support is offered across undergraduate and postgraduate study in a diverse range of subjects: Anthropology; Archaeology; Classical Studies; Creative Writing; English Literature; Film Studies; Geography; History (ancient, medieval and modern); Philosophy and Religions; Politics and International Relations; Psychology; and Sociology.
We are proud of the range and quality of our undergraduate and postgraduate programmes.
These programmes are widely recognised as providing students with high-quality learning opportunities.
Our innovative programmes enable you to develop in-depth subject expertise and relevant skills for the future that not only meet but exceed employers’ expectations.
Besides being dedicated lecturers, our academics are active researchers who contribute substantially to a high-impact research environment.
Our faculty achieved strong results in the most recent Research Excellence Framework, especially in Theology and Religious Studies, History and Psychology.
We actively engage in research and knowledge exchange through our centres, consultancies, public engagement and the many fascinating projects carried out by our researchers.
Free research seminar series, open to staff, students and the general public alike, are organised every academic year .
Keep an eye on our Public Events page and our dynamic Research Centres and Research Groups for all the latest.
Image top courtesy of History alumnus Patrick Young.
Home of Anthropology, Archaeology, Classical Studies, Creative Writing, English Literature, History, Film Studies, Philosophy and Religions
Home of Geography, Politics, International Relations, Psychology and Sociology
Research centres and projects, consultancy and facilities, open access journals

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Our-faculties/hwb:
We deliver outstanding education in a diverse range of subject areas, linked by their commitment to progressing health and wellbeing for all life, including animal welfare, childhood studies, nursing, physiotherapy, sport and exercise, sport management and social work.
Study is undertaken at undergraduate and postgraduate level, and we offer a growing range of short courses and CPD as well.
We offer research degree opportunities at both MPhil and PhD level.
Find out more about research degrees at Winchester .
The Faculty works to translate world-leading research into effective policy and exceptional practice.
It is home to a number of active research centres with close ties to public bodies and professional teams, from the local community to internationally.
Find out more about our high-impact Research and Knowledge Exchange.
If you have any questions please email Health and Wellbeing Enquiries .
Follow the Faculty of Health and Wellbeing on Twitter .
We offer a range of undergraduate courses including Childhood and Youth Studies, Health and Social Care, Sport and Exercise Science, Nutrition and Dietetics, Strength and Conditioning and Animal Science and Conservation.
Inspiring programmes for aspiring health and care professionals
Elizabeth Davies-Ward
Dr Hazel Brown
Dr David Jessop
Justine Clements
Kath Whiting
Sophie Gay

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Our-faculties/LCJ:
The faculty of Law, Crime and Justice provides the framework and understanding for a modern society.
The Faculty of Law, Crime and Justice brings together the related subject areas of Law, Policing, Criminology and Forensics, allowing for an interdisciplinary approach .
The Faculty focusses on the teaching, research and knowledge exchange opportunities within these dynamic subject areas, which provide the framework and the understanding for modern society.
With a global staff and student body, the Faculty provides an industry-ready experience, giving the opportunity to engage with the professional community through real-life case work, project-based modules and volunteering.
We have a range of specialist facilities to service our subject areas, including moot courts for Law and extensive forensics and criminology facilities including teaching, research and linguistics laboratories, a dedicated crime scene house and a DEFRA–licensed taphonomic facility for carrying out decomposition research.
Explore our excellent facilities.
If you have any questions please email Faculty of Law, Crime and Justice Enquiries .
Founded in 2008, Law at Winchester provides a dynamic learning environment with a stimulating range of legal subjects on offer.
Further information on the Department of Policing, Criminology and Forensics
Bill Davies
Christopher Hull
Dr Amelia Shooter
Dr Emma Nottingham
Natacha Harding

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Our-future/Financial-Information:
Financial statements from 2009 to the present
The document contains the full financial statements and annual reports for the University of Winchester.
You can see our financial statements below:
External requests for further information All requests should be submitted in writing to:
Finance Administrator University of Winchester Sparkford Road Winchester SO22 4NR United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Corporate-Information/Remuneration-Committee:
The University’s Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining pay and reward for designated colleagues, including designated senior staff.
The University recognises the guidance set out in the Committee of University Chairs (CUC) Higher Education Senior Staff Remuneration Code, and the Remuneration Committee seeks to ensure compliance with this Code.
The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee are reviewed and revised annually.
This review ensures that the Terms of Reference, and the activities of the Committee, remain appropriate and compliant with relevant legislation and guidelines.
Consistent with the Terms of Reference, the Remuneration Committee has direct responsibility for determining remuneration related matters for designated senior staff.
During 2023/24 designated senior staff were:
The Remuneration Committee is Chaired by a Governor, who is not the Chair of the Board of Governors.
The Vice-Chancellor is not a member of the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee also maintains an oversight role in terms of the University’s approach to wider Senior Leadership and Management remuneration.
For example, the remuneration of the Pro-Vice Chancellors.
The University recognises the importance of attracting and retaining strong leaders, to ensure that it can continue to execute its strategy of Transformational Education.
When considering matters of remuneration, the Committee is required to balance many factors, including the wider context of the Higher Education sector, University performance, market rates of pay, inflation, external perceptions of senior pay, and internal equity factors.
To assist in delivering this balance, the Committee has access to a range of information to inform decision making, including:
During 2023/24 the Remuneration Committee met once, in July 2024.
This was a face-to-face meeting, with full attendance from Committee members.
At this meeting, the Committee addressed several agenda items, including:
As has been well documented in the Higher Education sector, financial sustainability remains a significant challenge for many Universities.
This reflects several factors, notably the continued freeze in domestic tuition fees (which has the effect of reducing University income in real terms over time), inflationary pressures impacting the cost of operations, and wider factors that have influenced the number of students choosing to commence Higher Education (for example, changes to immigration rules for some potential international students).
At the University of Winchester, several actions were taken during 2023/24 to strengthen the financial position.
These actions included Voluntary Severance Schemes for colleagues, compulsory redundancies, and wider cost saving measures (for example, review of other operating expenditure).
The Remuneration Committee were cognisant of this context when reaching decisions relating to remuneration for designated senior staff.
Given the challenging market context, and despite the strong performance of designated senior staff during the past twelve months, the Remuneration Committee made the difficult decision to not make an annual pay award (consolidated or non-consolidated) for designated staff in 2024.
The Committee confirmed that the sole reason for not making an annual pay award (consolidated or non-consolidated) for designated staff in 2024 was the University’s financial context, and that in a ‘normal’ year, the strong performance of the designated staff, coupled with the wider benchmarking data reviewed, would have supported a pay award being made.
The contribution of the designated staff in driving sustained transformation across the University during 2023/24 was noted and strongly supported by the Remuneration Committee on behalf of the Board of Governors.
The Remuneration Committee was also aware, in reaching the decision for designated senior staff, that the University had taken a decision to not make an annual pay award for wider Senior Leadership and Management roles in 2024 – again, reflecting the University’s financial context.
The Committee noted, in particular, the continued development of senior colleagues, and the positive individual and collective contributions that the Senior Leadership and Management team have made to the University’s performance over the past year.
In aggregate, this means that no Executive, Senior Leader, or Manager of the University of Winchester has received an annual pay award for 2024.
The Committee noted that this, in no way, reflected the performance, contribution or impact of those designated senior staff, wider Senior Leadership and Management colleagues, who continue to work tirelessly to transform the University and provide the best possible student and staff experience.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Charitable-Status:
Learn more about our charitable status.
The University of Winchester is an exempt charity.
As such, it is required to have charitable purposes and apply them for the public benefit.
The University must comply with the general law of charity.
Members of the Board of Governors are charitable trustees.
Under the Charities Act 2011, the Office for Students (OfS) acts as the principal regulator for universities that are exempt charities.
The OfS has a legal duty to do all that it reasonably can to promote compliance by charity trustees with their legal obligations in exercising control and management of the administration of their charity.
Please see the Guidance on higher education providers that are exempt charities for more information.
The University register of interests is available upon request from clerk@winchester.co.uk.
The legal framework within which the University operates is contained in the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the University Board of Governors.
The Board of Governors and its committees meet on a regular basis throughout the year.
Governors are responsible for setting the educational character of the University, determining its Mission and Vision, and for the oversight of its activities.
The full audited consolidated financial statements are available for download.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Policies-and-Regulations:
These pages contain approved policies, regulations, procedures, guidelines and reports.
Documents are sorted by A-Z.
Published documents are always the most recent version and are applicable to the current academic year (unless otherwise stated).
If you need a different format please contact: policies@winchester.ac.uk
University of Winchester Access and Participation Plan (2024-28)
Academic Integrity Policy
Academic Regulations for Taught Programmes
Academic Regulations for Postgraduate Research Programmes
Admissions Policy
Appeals Regulations
Apprenticeship Provision Sub-Contracting Policy
Apprenticeship Attendance and OTJ Policy and Procedure
Apprenticeship Initial Needs Assessment Procedures
Assessment Regulations
Assistance and Emotional Support Animals Policy
Attendance Policy
B
Bring Your Own Device Policy
Bullying, Harassment & Sexual Misconduct Policy
C
Carbon Management Plan Annual Monitoring Report 2023 -24
D
Data Protection Policy
Data Retention and Deletion Policy
Data Sharing Agreement University of Winchester and Winchester Students Union
Degree Outcomes Statement 2023 -24
E
Environment Strategy Annual Report 2023 -24
Employers Liability Certificate 2025 -26
Equality Diversity and Inclusion Policy
Ethical Fundraising Policy
Ethical Investment Policy
Ethics Policy
Exceptional Circumstances Policy
Exceptional Circumstances and Self-Certification Policy
External Examiners of Taught Programmes Policy
F
Fitness to Practise Policy
Freedom of Speech Policy
Financial Regulations
Freedom of Speech -Code of Practice
G
Gender Identity and Reassignment Policy
H
Health and Safety Policy
HREiR Action plan template for institutions (2022-2025)
I
Intellectual Property Policy and Regulations
IT Acceptable Use Policy
Inclusive Learning Policy
M
Mental Health Strategy
Modern Slavery Statement
N
Network Security Policy
O
Open Access Policy
P
Payment of University Fees Regulations 2025-26
Placement Procedures
Prevent Duty Implementation & Delivery Model
Privacy Notice for Graduation Ceremonies 2025
Procurement Policy and Procedures
Public Complaints Policy
Q
Quality Assurance of Collaborative Provision Policy
R
REF 2021 Code of Practice
RKE Ethics Policy and Procedures
Relationships Policy
Research Data Management Policy
S
Safeguarding Policy
Security Monitoring Policy
Smoking Vaping on Site Policy
Social Media Policy 2024
Student Conduct and Disciplinary Policy
Student Charter
Student Complaints Policy
Student Global Mobility Procedures
Student Protection Plan
Staff Reasonable Adjustments Policy and Process
Student Voice and Representation Policy
Student Pregnancy and New Parenthood Guidelines
Suicide Prevention Strategy
Support to Study Procedures
Sustainability Policy 2024
Student Terms & Conditions 2025 -26
U
US Federal Aid How to Apply Guide.
US Federal Aid Procedures
V
Visa Sponsorship Policy

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/termsandconditions:
Our Terms and Conditions apply to all students from the date they accept an offer to study with us.
You can find the relevant terms and conditions for the year you started studying with us below.
View and download our Student Terms and Conditions 2025-26
View and download our Student Terms and Conditions 2024-25
View and download our Student Terms and Conditions 23_24
View and download our Student Terms and Conditions 2022_23
View and download our Student Terms and Conditions 2021_22
View and download our Student Terms and Conditions 2020_21
View and download our Student Terms and Conditions 2019-20
View and download our Terms and Conditions 2018.
The University's terms and conditions are accompanied by various policies and regulations.
These form part of your contract information.
They can be accessed on the Policies and Regulations page .
2.1 This document (together with any documents referred to in it) explains the terms and conditions on which You can make Payments to the University in respect of Fees or Print Top Up.
This online payment system is provided by the University and its third party suppliers.
The University may update these terms and conditions from time to time and any changes will be effective immediately upon being set out here.
By submitting a Payment You are agreeing to these terms and conditions.
If You do not accept these terms please do not proceed with the submission of your Payment.
You should print a copy of these terms and conditions for future reference.
2.2 Please note that these terms and conditions only relate to Your use of Our online payment facility.
They do not govern any wider contractual relationship that You may have with Us.
Acknowledgment of a Payment shall not in itself constitute an agreement between You and Us.
2.3 If you have any queries relating to Your use of this online payment system or these terms and conditions, please contact us on the following email addresses.
3.1 All text, images and other content on this payment site is copyright of the University or its licensors unless explicitly stated otherwise.
In accessing this payment site You agree that the payment site is made available for Your personal, non-commercial use only.
Unless you have the University's prior written permission, You are not permitted to copy, make available to the public, download, store (in any medium), show in public, adapt or change in any way the material (or any part of it) contained on this payment site for any purpose whatsoever.
3.2 Without limitation to any matter set out in these terms and conditions of use You must not use this payment site to:
(i) commit or encourage unlawful acts or in breach of these terms of use;
(ii) misrepresent Your identity;
(iii) hack, or attempt to hack, any part of the payment site or any system used to run it;
(iv) store personal data derived from the payment site;
(v) technically harm the payment site and/or its systems (including, without limitation, computer viruses or malicious software or harmful data); and
(vii) provide any information that is inaccurate or is in breach of any laws or regulations.
Where information provided by You whilst using the online payment system is inaccurate or does not agree with the University records, You may not be able to make a payment using this service.
You undertake that:
4.1 You are capable of entering into legally binding contracts;
4.2 You are at least 16 years of age;
4.3 You are authorised to make the relevant Payment; and
4.4 in making any Payment You are not breaching any third party rights and are not acting fraudulently or in breach of any laws or regulations applicable in the UK or Your country of residence.
5.1 Payments may only be made by or on behalf of Students who have registered with the University and been given a Student ID which may be used for this website.
5.2 All Payments must be made in Pounds Sterling.
Any currency conversion costs or other charges incurred in making a Payment shall be borne by the Payer, and shall not be deductible from the amounts due to the University.
5.3 Payments for Fees will be applied to the Student´s University account in accordance with the details submitted electronically.
Any cancellation rights and/or rights to a refund will vary depending on the terms of the wider contractual relationship between You and the University.
5.4 In the event that an overpayment is made in respect of any Fees, the credit balance arising will be used to offset any debt or invoice on the Student´s account (whether arising from tuition, accommodation, or any other Fees in due date order).
5.5 If there is no other debt or invoice, then the credit balance will be refunded in accordance with the University´s regulations for payments of Fees
5.6 Where there is an unused balance on a Student Print Account and the Student has finished their course of study at the University, then a refund of the balance will be made to the Student by request only, and when the Student Print Account balance exceeds £15.00.
5.7 If We are due to provide You with a refund, this will be made to the Card used to carry out the original transaction in accordance with the University´s regulations for payments of Fees; see link to regulations in 5.5.
The exception to this are refunds of balances on Student Print Accounts, these will be made by other payment methods.
6.1 By accepting these terms and conditions, You authorise the University to charge the debit or credit card account You have provided to collect Payments of Fees as they fall due from the instalment term You have selected as detailed in the University Regulations for the payment of Fees.
6.2 You agree that there will either be sufficient availability or sufficient funds under the Card limit/account to make the recurring Card Payments when they fall due under the instalment terms.
6.3 In the event that a Payer authorises recurring Payments as detailed in 6.1 above but the expiry date of the relevant Card predates the date that any Fees are due, the University shall use reasonable endeavours to contact the Payer and the Student giving reasonable notice of such expiry before any Fees falling due after the expiry date of the relevant Card becomes due, but the University shall have no liability for any failure to contact the Student or the Payer.
If your Card will expire whilst Payments have still to be made under a recurring Card Payment mandate, it is your responsibility to notify Us in advance in respect of alternative arrangements for Payment.
6.4 The Payer may cancel its instructions to the University to collect future Payments from its Card by giving the University at least 10 days' notice by email to:
studentpayments@winchester.ac.uk (For security reasons please do not send Card details by email).
The University shall confirm in writing to the Payer's email address such cancellation and, where the Payer is not the Student, the Payer consents to the University providing notice of such cancellation to the relevant Student
6.5 If the Card is due to expire in the circumstances set out in 6.3 and the Payer has not notified Us of alternative arrangements for Payment, or if the Payer gives notice of cancellation of its payment instructions in accordance with 6.4, the University shall be entitled prior to the relevant expiry date or end of the cancellation notice period (as appropriate) and on notice to the Payer to collect Payment from the relevant Card of all Fees payable to the University in respect of the relevant Student.
6.6 In the event that the University is unable to collect any Payment for all or any part of the Fees from the Card as a result of a reason related to the Student, all outstanding Fees for the relevant Student (including all remaining instalments) shall become due and payable immediately by the Payer.
7.1 While every reasonable effort has been made to ensure accessibility, the University does not guarantee that use of the online-payments system will be compatible with all hardware and software of its users.
7.2 You acknowledge that access to the online payment system may be occasionally restricted for short periods of time to allow for repairs, maintenance or the introduction of new facilities or services.
The University will attempt to provide reasonable notice of any scheduled interruptions to such facility and shall endeavour to restore the facility as soon as reasonably possible.
7.3 Any links within this payment site to third party websites are not checked by the University and the University bears no responsibility for the content of external sites.
If you access external sites through this payment site you do so at your own risk.
7.4 The University shall endeavour to procure that Payments are processed in a timely manner but the University makes no representations or warranties regarding the amount of time needed to complete processing because such processing is dependent upon many factors outside of the University´s control, such as delays in the banking system or in card networks.
The Student will not be penalised for delays caused by factors outside the Student's control.
8.1 Unless We are at fault, We are not liable for any amount or kind of loss or damage that may result to you or a third party in connection with the use of this payment site in any way.
Nothing will limit the University's liability for death or personal injury caused by its negligence, fraud/fraudulent misrepresentation, or defective products.
8.2 Every effort is made to ensure downloadable content is free from viruses.
The University accepts no liability for damages resulting from virus infection as a result of a reason related to the Student.
9.1 The trade-marks and logos used and displayed on this website are registered and unregistered trade-marks of the University or those of others.
You may not use these trade-marks without Our prior written consent or that of the relevant owner.
10.1 Please see the University's Privacy Policy which governs the University's use of your personal information.
11.1 These terms of use are governed by English law.
Disputes arising in connection with them shall be subject to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts.
12.1 These terms of use are not intended to, nor shall they confer any benefit on a third party, whether under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 or otherwise.
12.2 No waiver by the University of any breach of these terms by You shall be considered as a waiver of any subsequent breach of the same or of any other provision.
12.3 Section headings have been included for convenience only and shall not be considered part of, or be used in interpreting, these terms.
12.4 If, at any time, any provision of these terms is or becomes invalid or illegal in any respect, such provision shall be deemed to be severed from the terms, but the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not be affected as a result.
© University of Winchester.
All rights reserved
The University of Winchester and its content is copyrighted, this covers and includes all original material published on the website by staff or students.
Terms of site use
Unless already outlined any other use of the University of Winchester site content is not allowed without our express permission.
If you have any queries about the use of the website and not covered above then please contact us .
The Publication Scheme lists information which is routinely published by the University of Winchester.
A Publication Scheme is a requirement of the Freedom of Information Act 2000.
The purpose of the Act is to promote greater openness by public authorities, including Universities and Colleges.
The University scheme follows the model produced by the Office of the Information Commissioner.
In most cases access will be via this website.
There may be a charge levied for the production of paper copies.
This will cover the cost of producing the copy and sending it.
The minimum charge will be £5.
Minutes of several committees are included in the scheme, and are marked with an asterisk (*).
For these publications, only the current year's minutes will be available on the web-page.
Closed committee minutes, dealing with confidential matters relating to individuals, are not published.
All requests for non-web based publications should be directed to: foi@winchester.ac.uk
Or by post to:
Data Protection Officer The University of Winchester Sparkford Road Winchester Hampshire S022 4NR
From January 2005, you will have the right to request any information from the University, which is not included in the Publication Scheme.
Requests will have to be made in writing, and we will have to respond within 20 working days.
We may charge a fee, based on Fee Regulations applying at the time.
We will be unable to release information which is exempted by the Act.
If you make Winchester your first choice and apply for on-campus housing by 31 March 2022 you will be entered into a draw to win your first year of accommodation for free.
The following terms and conditions apply:

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Corporate-Information/Gender-Pay-Gap-Report:
From 6 April 2017 organisations with more than 250 employees were required by the Government Equalities Office to publish annually gender pay data on the following basis:
It is important to state from the outset that a gender pay gap is not the same as equal pay.
A gender pay gap is a measure of the difference between the average salaries of male and female employees across an organisation, whereas equal pay refers to the legal requirement for employers to pay male and female employees the same for undertaking the same or similar work, Therefore, it is possible for an organisation to have a gender pay gap despite it being fully compliant with its equal pay responsibilities.
We are committed as an organisation to identifying and implementing practical steps to make a further reduction in our pay gap in the future.
Difference in mean hourly rate of pay:
9.3%
Difference in median hourly rate of pay:
5.7%
Difference in mean bonus pay:
-25.1%
Difference in median bonus pay:
0.0%
Female
Male
Proportion of employees receiving bonus pay:
4.8%
3.6%
Proportion of employees quartile pay bands:
Upper
52.3%
47.7%
Upper Middle
59.2%
40.8%
Lower Middle
58.4%
41.6%
Lower
68.7%
31.3%
Gender Pay Gap Reporting 2023 (year ending 31 March 2024)
The University of Winchester participates in national wage bargaining through the Universities and Colleges Employers Association (UCEA), adopting the single national pay spine and annual pay awards for academic and support staff.
This ensures consistency in pay and reward practices, aligning with the broader Higher Education Sector and across our organisation.
The University is also an accredited Living Wage employer, ensuring pay rates above the legal national minimum for all staff.
The University rightly pays men and women the same for work of equal value - equal pay is not the same thing as the gender pay gap.
Our recruitment, selection, and progression practices are designed to be transparent, fair, and equitable, with standard processes applicable to all colleagues.
We strengthen this with a sustained, multi-year focus on equality, diversity, and inclusion practices.
We are pleased to report very significant improvements in both our Median Gender Pay Gap and Mean Gender Pay Gap compared to previous years, and a zero Median Bonus Pay Gap.
Additionally, the Mean Bonus Pay Gap (which is made up of honorarium payments and long-service awards at the University) shows a significant lean towards female staff in this reporting year.
The Gender Pay Gap for the University of Winchester for the year ending 31 March 2024 was:
This also compares well to the sector, showing a sector average of 11.0% median pay gap (7.7% GuildHE group), and 12.0% mean pay gap (10.7% GuildHE group),
Our workforce has more female colleagues than males, which is reflected by the gender distribution in all Pay Quartiles.
Notably, we have a higher proportion of female colleagues in roles in the Lower Pay Quartile, contributing directly to our Gender Pay Gap.
We are rightly proud of our flexible working practices, which are often accessed to support family commitments and choices.
We have a high proportion of colleagues who benefit from working part-time, however, we recognise this also contributes to our Gender Pay Gap (given that many of our part-time roles are typically lower graded in nature).
For instance, when considering only full-time colleagues in the statutory Gender Pay Gap calculation, our mean hourly pay gap is 5% and our median gap is 2.9%.
Gender Bonus Pay Gap For the avoidance of doubt, the University does not operate bonus scheme(s) for roles at any grade, including management and leadership.
However, honorarium payments and long-service awards are reported for completeness in our Gender Pay Gap (per the statutory guidance).
Honorarium payments are made in recognition of extraordinary contributions, including colleagues who take on additional duties at a higher grade for a short period.
These payments, where made, are typically to colleagues below management and leadership grades.
The University also has a non-contractual voucher scheme for long-service awards that is also included in the calculation.
The University of Winchester reports the following Gender Bonus Pay Gap (honorarium and long-service awards) for the year ending 31 March 2024:
Despite the above improvements, we recognise the disadvantages female colleagues can experience in the workplace, and also acknowledge that any pay gap(s) should not exist.
As such, we remain committed to addressing these issues through our Gender Equality and Pay Gap Action Plan in partnership with our recognised Trade Unions, and through review under our Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion Committee.
11.9%
13.5%
32.3%
-33.6%
1.7%
2.2%
51.3%
48.7%
60.8%
39.2%
59.7%
40.3%
71.9%
28.1%
Gender Pay Gap Reporting 2023 (year ending 31 March 2023)
The University of Winchester participates in national wage bargaining through the The Universities and Colleges Employers Association (UCEA), adopting the single national pay spine and annual pay awards for academic and support staff.
This ensures consistency in terms of pay and reward practices, in line with the broader Higher Education Sector, and across our organisation.
Our recruitment, selection and progression practices are designed to be transparent, fair and equitable – with standard processes in place that are applicable to all colleagues.
We strengthen this with a sustained and ongoing focus on equality, diversity and inclusion, including mandatory training for all colleagues.
We recognise the disadvantage female colleagues can experience in the workplace and remain committed to acting on this.
We are pleased to report improved year-on-year figures for both our Median Gender Pay Gap and Median Bonus Gap.
However, the associated Mean figures have worsened and the fact that women, on average, are paid less than men at the University of Winchester remains unacceptable.
The Gender Pay Gap for the University of Winchester for the year ending 31 March 2023 was:
In absolute terms, in all Pay Quartiles, there is a higher percentage of female colleagues than male colleagues.
However, female colleagues remain proportionately underrepresented in the Upper Pay Quartile and overrepresented in the Lower Pay Quartile – a combination that contributes directly to our Gender Pay Gap.
Additionally, whilst we are rightfully proud of our flexible working practices and have a high proportion of colleagues working part time, this also contributes to our Gender Pay Gap.
Women are statistically more likely than men to work part-time, due to a variety of factors, including family and caring responsibilities.
The University does not operate a formal bonus scheme.
However, honorarium payments are reported for completeness for our Gender Pay Gap.
Honorarium payments are made in recognition of extraordinary contribution(s), including colleagues who take on additional duties at a higher grade for a short period of time.
These payments, where made, are typically to colleagues with roles that are subject to the national pay spine.
The University made a small number of such payments during 2022-23 and these are reflected in our published data:
The University remains committed to addressing our Gender Pay Gap and ensuring that our wider policies and practices are fair and equitable.
We will continue to work in partnership with our recognised Trade Unions on our wide-ranging Gender Pay Gap action plan, that is reviewed and refreshed regularly through our Equality, Diversity and inclusion Committee.
9.7%
14.9%
33.0%
29.8%
1.9%
2.3%
51.2%
48.8%
61.6%
38.4%
63.6%
36.4%
69.0%
31.0%
9.8%
13.7%
-11.7%
5.1%
3.1%
4.6%
60.0%
40.0%
63.2%
36.8%
69.3%
30.7%
10.9%
18.6%
-9.0%
0.8%
49.8%
50.2%
60.7%
39.3%
71.7%
28.3%
11.0%
16.2%
47.1%
53.3%
1.3%
0.5%
52.9%
59.4%
40.6%
62.1%
37.9%
69.4%
30.6%
11.7%
25.7%
1.4%
1.0%
47.6%
52.4%
60.6%
39.4%
65.0%
35.0%
68.2%
31.8%
13.8%
22.0%
50.7%
25.0%
1.5%
1.6%
46.5%
53.5%
61.2%
38.8%
67.7%
70.7%
29.3%
We are committed to taking steps to address any barriers we identify to female career progression which are within our ability to influence.
It remains the case that in the UK it is predominantly women who take primary responsibility for child care.
Unless and until this societal norm changes women will continue to be the dominant gender in part-time jobs, which tend to be lower-paid roles.
Therefore, to some extent it is the pace at which this societal norm weakens which will make the critical difference in our further efforts to narrow and ultimately eliminate the gender pay gap.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Alumni/Alumni-News-and-Stories:
Welcome to the latest news and stories from our alumni community.
Read about the incredible successes of Winchester alumni at the annual Winton Society Awards.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Alumni/Our-alumni-community:
The Winton Society is proudly one of the longest established alumni associations in the country.
The Winton Society is one of the oldest alumni associations in the country.
Formed in 1874 for the alumni of the then King Alfred’s College, its initial aims were:
Over the years as the institution has evolved from teacher training college to university the core of the initial aims of the Winton Society have remained.
All former students of the University of Winchester or its predecessor institutions, King Alfred’s College and University College Winchester are automatically members.
Former staff can also be members of the Winton Society in order to keep in touch with other Wintonians and the latest news from the University.
Today the Winton Society has approximately 30,000 members in 90 countries across the globe.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Alumni/Benefits-and-Replacement-Certificates:
There’s a world of benefits to being a Winton Society member.
Explore what you have access to as a Winchester alum.
We provide financial support to Masters students who have previously graduated from the University.*
For more information on the discount and eligibility visit Postgraduate Scholarships, bursaries and awards .
If you have any queries, please email alumnischolarships@winchester.ac.uk
*Terms and conditions apply.
The University is pleased to be able to provide discounts for members of the Winton Society wishing to stay in on-campus accommodation at certain points across the year depending on availability.
If you are considering visiting Winchester please get in touch with the Conferences office to find out about the current offer by phoning 01962 827322, or emailing conferences@winchester.ac.uk
You must have your alumni membership number available to book accommodation at this discounted rate; contact the Alumni Office on alumni@winchester.ac.uk if you need help with your alumni membership number.
Winchester Student Union offer all alumni half price venue hire.
With three venues to choose from there is plenty of choice when it comes to organising a party, awards evening, reunion and much more.
Rates start from just £21 per hour and bar prices are hard to beat in Winchester.
To enquire or book please contact su_ents@winchester.ac.uk or call 01962 827418 – you will need to quote your alumni number when booking at a discounted rate.
If you are unsure of this, please contact the Alumni Office on alumni@winchester.ac.uk or call 01962 827403.
The Winton Society now offers all alumni discounts off London Theatre in association with West End Theatre .
Westendtheatre.com is one of the UK's premiere websites for booking London theatre tickets and has large allocations of tickets to prem​ium shows, and discounts and special offers to a wealth of West End musicals and plays.
Current shows on offer include 42 nd Street , The Comedy About a Bank Robbery and The Ferryman .
Keep an eye on http://www.westendtheatre.com/club/winchester/ for the latest offers available to Winchester alumni.
All alumni - whenever you graduated - are now entitled to use the Careers and Opportunity Hub’s resources and services as part of our ‘Careers Advice for Life’ initiative.
Contact the Careers team to book an individual guidance appointment, or come onto campus to use the resources in the Careers and Opportunities Hub.
There’s lots of free information that you can take away.
All alumni can register for free and use CareerConnect to find jobs, volunteering opportunities, attend webinars, and book Careers Guidance Discussions with our Employability Advisers.
If your company has a job vacancy, internship or placement, why not get in touch to advertise on CareerConnect to attract a fellow Winchester graduate or student?
Open: every Monday - Friday, 9:30am to 4:30pm (excluding bank holidays and between Christmas and New Year).
careers@winchester.ac.uk
01962 827310
Careers and Opportunities Hub on Facebook
Careers and Opportunities Hub on Twitter
Careers and Opportunities Hub on Instagram
We usually allow our graduates free use of the library and its facilities and physical resources.
Unfortunately due to the Martial Rose Refurbishment we have to restrict access to external members of our community for the duration of the project.
We will continue to update the project information on the Library section of the external website.
Set up by the University of Winchester and based in the new Winchester Sport and Leisure Park at Bar End, our Clinic will provide high-quality physiotherapy assessment and treatment to staff, students, local alumni and the local community.
Local Winchester alumni get a 25% discount, so it’s just £30 per appointment.
When you book, you can choose whether you wish to see a qualified physiotherapist or a student supervised by an attending HCPC-accredited practitioner.
Book now at: www.winchester-health.co.uk
Do you need a replacement certificate or copies of your University transcripts?
If your award was made between 1978 and 1992, your award was conferred by the CNAA (now disbanded) and the Open University now issues CNAA replacement certificates.
Please refer to the Open University website for details of how to apply for a certificate.
For all other replacement certificates, please visit the Online Store and select ‘Replacement Certificate’.
For any queries, please contact graduation@winchester.ac.uk
If you require a certified copy of your original degree certificate, please visit the Online Store and select ‘Certified copies of degree certificate’.
Once you have completed your order, please send a scanned copy of your certificate to graduation@winchester.ac.uk This should be in colour and show the certificate in full.
This will then be stamped, signed and certified as a true and accurate copy before being sent to you via email or post (whichever you require).
Most students awarded from June 2015 onwards will have a HEAR (Higher Education Achievement Report) which contains an academic transcript.
This is in place of a paper transcript and can be shared securely with employers or institutions.
You can access your HEAR by logging into www.gradintel.com .
To purchase a transcript, please visit the Online Store and select ‘Additional Transcript’.
Please note that transcripts are not always available.
This is particularly likely if you finished your programme before 2005, as transcripts were not produced as a matter of course at this time and not all module results have been kept on record.
If we cannot provide a transcript for you, you will be given a full refund.
If you graduated before 2005 you might like to contact graduation@winchester.ac.uk before ordering to check if we can provide this for you.
If you require a letter confirming your studies and/or award, please email Registry.Enquiries@winchester.ac.uk with your name, date of birth and programme of study.
Email or give us a call to find out more information about our Alumni opportunities.
Tel: +44(0)1962 827600
Email: alumni@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Alumni/Update-Details-and-Alumni-Data-Privacy-Notice:
Registering as a member of the Winton Society Recent graduates are automatically members of the Winton Society alumni association unless we are otherwise notified at the time of your enrolment.
If you are not receiving alumni communications by post or email you may not be a current member of the Winton Society.
To join, please email us on alumni@winchester.ac.uk
Update details Have you moved house, got married, changed your email address or changed jobs?
Email us on alumni@winchester.ac.uk to give us your current information.
Alternatively, please download and complete the Alumni Communications Consent form .
The form can be scanned and sent by email to Alumni@winchester.ac.uk or posted to Alumni Office, University of Winchester, Sparkford Road, Winchester SO22 4NR.
Alumni Data Privacy Notice
The University of Winchester treats very seriously both the personal data and the sensitive personal data it processes on behalf of primarily its students and staff members, and also a wide range of other people who it works with and has contact with, including alumni.
The University collects some personal data from alumni of the University, where the ‘purposes of the processing’ range from:
In order to complete these fundraising purposes and activities, the University may gather information about alumni from publicly available sources – for example, Companies House, the Electoral Register, and other online resources – to help it understand more about them as individuals and their ability to support the University, including financially.
The intention is to always ensure we use our resources as effectively as possible to help us engage appropriately with our community of alumni.
In order to achieve this we may undertake wealth screening of our database.
Wealth screening (sometimes referred to as data enrichment and screening), is a process used by fundraising organisations to learn more about their constituents using trusted third-party providers, who will assimilate publicly available sources to provide information back to the University.
It supports planning for our fundraising and engagement campaigns – allowing us to prioritise the portfolio for fundraisers and senior leadership.
Wealth screening enables us to better target our conversations about fundraising and therefore generate funds cost-effectively.
When conducting screening, the University only uses vetted suppliers with the appropriate contracts in place.
For the University of Winchester, the third-party company employed to carry out the screening are Factary
If you would prefer the University to not use your data in this way, please email alumni@winchester.ac.uk or call the Alumni Office on 01962 827600.
The University’s full Privacy policy is visible here: https://www.winchester.ac.uk/about-us/leadership-and-governance/privacy-and-cookie-policy/
The data protection officer for the University is:
Stephen Dowell, Data Protection Officer,
The University of Winchester, Sparkford Road Winchester, Hampshire.
SO22 4NR, United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0) 1962 827217
Email: Stephen.Dowell@winchester.ac.uk
The name and contact details of our organisation are:
The University of Winchester,
Sparkford Road Winchester, Hampshire.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Alumni/Get-Involved:
Through the Winton Society you can maintain your connection with the University, fellow alumni and existing students.
Whenever you graduated, you are a welcome part of the alumni community for life, explore the different ways you can get be involved.
Find out more about any of the opportunities below, or have another idea for how to get involved, we’d love to hear from you!
Email us at alumni@winchester.ac.uk or give us a ring on +44(0)1962 827600.
Or follow us on social media to stay up-to-date with events and opportunities: Facebook , Instagram ,
Being an Alumni Ambassador provides the opportunity for University of Winchester alumni to stay connected with and give back to the University community.
There are plenty of ways to get involved depending on your interests, skills and the amount of time you would like to volunteer:
LIFE AFTER UNIVERSITY
Graduate support - life after university - University of Winchester
Interested?
Email alumni@winchester.ac.uk to tell us how you would like to be involved as an Alumni Ambassador and we will be in touch.
Through the Winton Society, there is a long tradition of alumni helping existing students through donations to the Winton Benevolent Fund.
The Winton Benevolent Fund gives students the opportunity for support for hardship or to enhancement development opportunities.
Remembering Winchester in your will by leaving a legacy to the University is a lasting gift to future students and to the continuing development of this unique place in years to come.
If you would like to include the University of Winchester in your Will, a solicitor will be able to advise you which type of legacy suits you best.
For further information or if you would like to advise us of your plans, please get in touch with the Alumni Office.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Donating-to-the-University:
The University is committed to helping not just our own students, but to enable people all over the world to have access to education and facilities that will play a part in making the world a better place for future generations.
Through the Winton Club, the University of Winchester's Alumni Association, there is a long tradition of former students helping existing students through donations.
We then give your money to students and schemes throughout the University that range from bursaries for students to help others through charity work to financial help for those in hardship, whether a student or alumni.
Bursaries and scholarships have been granted to deserving students in cases of emergency and hardship, and to cover the cost of travel and essentials for their work with children in developing parts of the world.
Psychology student Helen Crocker was awarded money from the Development Fund to travel to South Africa in July 2009 to help with the Kids in Africa programme run by Vivisto.
We have also invested in the University for future generations of students.
In 2008, Winchester Business School opened its doors at the West Downs Centre as part of the new Faculty of Business, Law and Sport.
Generous donations supported the School's start-up: sponsorship of the Hoare Chair in Business by the Bulldog Trust, funding for the Sargent Resources Room and a postgraduate study space with IT provision from the Kitnocks Trust.
More recently, we have taken the decision to invest more in our West Downs campus, creating new teaching spaces for our students and the wider community.
Learn more about our West Downs Development
There are many options for giving, and using Gift Aid means that you can increase the value of your gift to the University at no extra cost to yourself.
You can choose to make a gift annually, quarterly or monthly by standing order or you may wish to make a single gift by cheque, credit card or debit card.
Giving a small amount regularly by standing order is one of the best ways you can support the University as it allows us to plan for the future, assured of a regular income.
The Development Fund also welcome donations made via the Charities Aid Foundation.
You can also remember us in your will and leave a legacy which is a lasting gift to future students and to the continuing development of this unique community.
To make a donation to the University of Winchester, contact us:
Communications and Marketing Office University of Winchester Sparkford Road Winchester SO22 4NR
Tel:+44 (0)1962 826839
Email: Alumni@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Conferencing-and-Facilities/Conferences-and-Events:
​Whether you are planning a day or residential conference, we can help.
Get in touch with us at the Conference Office to discuss your hire requirements.
Viewings available prior to bookings upon arrangement.
Tel: +44 (0) 1962 827322
Email: Conferences@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Conferencing-and-Facilities/Accommodation-Services:
Stay at the University of Winchester, to be in the heart of Winchester - affordable and convenient accommodation.
With its excellent transport links, proximity to the city centre and flexible choice of event venues, the University of Winchester is a popular location for anniversaries, birthday parties, charity dinners and themed events.
Decorated in style, our function rooms can be transformed to create the ideal setting or theme for your event.
We can provide recommendations with regards to local suppliers who can help with flower arrangements, lighting, draping or chair covers.
With a maximum dining capacity of 110 in our Shakespeare Room and 250 in our Dining Room, the layout of the rooms is flexible and can be set up to include a top table, staging or dance floor area depending on your requirements.
We also have a range of accommodation available for those looking for private letting services:
There are 5 ensuite bedrooms within the Guest Accommodation block which all share a small kitchen area - there are also tea and coffee making facilities in the bedroom along with hairdryer and small television.
We have two single rooms and three double rooms (including one family room which contains a sofa bed suitable for three adults or two adults and two small children) within the guest accommodation block.
Parking is free and available on a first come first served basis - please collect a permit when you check in.
Rooms must be cancelled at least 48hrs before the arrival date if no longer required, otherwise full payment will be due.
Refunds will be issued for cancellations made before this time.
Room rates available upon request
Rooms must be cancelled at least 48hrs before the arrival date if no longer required, otherwise full payment will be due.
Refunds will be issued for cancellations made before this time.
During the Summer University holidays, our student halls of residence become available for group bookings with the option of either self-catered or catered accommodation.
Whether you are travelling on a tight budget or simply looking for clean, fully functional rooms in a central location, with over 1800 bedrooms on campus we have something to suit your needs.
All of our halls of residence comprise of single bedrooms and depending on the time of year, we can offer either ensuite or standard (shared bathroom between 4 - 5 bedrooms) accommodation.
All bed linen and towels are provided and subject to availability, we may be able to provide kitchen utensils for your group.
Our experienced Events Coordinators will be happy to discuss your requirements further in order to find accommodation to best suit your needs.
Please contact the conference team for prices.
During the Summer University holidays, we have a number of affordable single ensuite rooms which we let out to individuals for both short-term stays and long-term stays in one of our Student Villages.
During the summer months, we are able to accommodate a small number of Youth Groups and Language Schools.
Our excellent onsite facilities available to Youth Groups and Language Schools include the following:
If you would like to discuss your programme in more detail, or to check our availability, please do not hesitate in contacting the Conference Office.
We have a wide range of facilities available to our guests who are staying onsite outside of term time:
Free Wifi is available for the duration of your stay.
Logins can be arranged via the Conference Office or if you are a student or member of staff from another university, you can log in using your Eduroam details.
We have two laundrettes located onsite.
One laundrette is located in Block B Burma Road Accommodation, and another laundrette located in on the ground floor of St Edburga.
All machines cost £2.70 per wash, £1.70 per dry.
KKB Café is located in the Kenneth Kettle Building.
Parking at the University of Winchester is first come first serve with a RingGo fee payable along with a parking permit being displayed.
Parking permits are only issued to pre booked customers only (for accommodation, conferences, meetings).
If the above is not adhered to parking infringements will be issued.
The Student Shop is open weekdays during the summer months, and sells a wide range of food, drink, stationary, cards and University of Winchester merchandise.
Opening times vary - please contact the Conference Office for further information.
The University Gym is located on the ground floor of Block C, Burma Road Student Village.
Pay as you Go membership options are available - for further information, see our sport and gym section or speak to our Sports Staff at the University Gym reception.
Courtyard Cafe is located on Level 0 of the West Downs Centre.
The Conference Office University of Winchester Sparkford Road SO22 4NR
Tel: +44 (0)1962 827322
Available from June to September, our summer accommodation offers affordable and convenient stays for individuals, groups, and conferences.
All rooms are single occupancy with linen provided and select self-catering options available.
Enjoy well-located Winchester stay with on-site security, group discounts and exclusive alumni rates.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Events/Event-Items/Open-Day-Saturday-13-September-2025.php:
Our Open Day is a great way to get a feel for life in Winchester and see for yourself why people love it here.
You can take a tour of our beautiful campus and meet staff and students on the courses you are interested in.
You can also find out about how to become a student here and ask any questions you have about finances, scholarships or the support on offer to enhance your learning and welfare.
During the event, you will have the opportunity to:
If you have any questions, feel free to send the Open Days team an email on opendays@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Events/Event-Items/Open-Morning-Saturday-29-November-2025.php:
Our Open Morning is a great way to get a feel for life in Winchester and see for yourself why people love it here.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/On-Campus-Events/Campus-tours:
Come and view our beautiful university on one of our Campus Tours.
We have plenty of opportunities for you to visit us throughout the year, so we look forward to welcoming you soon.
We offer guided campus tours as an opportunity to see our beautiful campus and outstanding facilities.
We'll provide a quick talk about Winchester, then set you off with one of our student ambassadors who will show you around our King Alfred and West Downs Quarters and be on hand for any questions you might have about being a Winchester student.
To join us on a campus tour, please book onto the date you’d like to attend.
Please note, this is not an open day and no academic or professional services will be present.
Dates and times for tours will be added throughout the year.
Tours take approximately 1 hour, there is a hill separating our two Quarters.
Please make the student ambassador aware of any mobility issues.
Please see below for dates and times of our upcoming Campus Tours:
To book on to a Campus Tour, please email opendays@winchester.ac.uk and we will let you know when the next available tour is running.
If you would like to go on a self-guided Campus Tour, please head to Main Reception between 8am-5pm, Monday to Friday and pick up a map for the campus.
The map also includes a fascinating walking tour of the city, taking in some of the picturesque parts of Winchester along with a look at its history.
Please note, there is no parking on campus for visitors so you will need to use public car parks, public transport or the Park and Ride.
Take a look around our beautiful campus in our Virtual tour .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Press-Centre/Media-Articles/Remi-on-his-way-to-Winchester-to-study-Law-after-pioneering-gene-therapy-changes-his-life.php:
Remi Pereszczak, is preparing to start a law degree at the University of Winchester after being the first patient in the world to receive revolutionary gene therapy treatment at Great Ormond Street Hospital ( GOSH )  to reverse the effects of a life-threatening condition.
Remi, 19, received the pioneering treatment for the condition p47 Chronic Granulomatous Disease (CGD) which leaves patients vulnerable to severe infection and inflammation.
CGD is inherited disorder which affects just one in a million, impairing their immune system’s ability to fight off infections.
Remi undergoing treatment at GOSH with nurses Jinhua and Rima (Photo courtesy of GOSH)
Doctors at GOSH harvested stem cells from Remi’s bone marrow and employed a modified HIV virus – rendered harmless – to deliver healthy genetic code to his cells, correcting the defective genes responsible for CGD.
When Remi was born his parents had no idea that he had a serious disease, but their son would cry non-stop, suffer recurring fevers and had trouble eating.
He was eventually referred to Alder Hey Children’s Hospital in Liverpool where he was diagnosed with CGD in 2007 and referred to GOSH.
Remi’s childhood was dominated by recurrent infections and reliance on antibiotics.
In 2020 a severe infection caused one of his lungs to collapse.
Prior to embarking on the lifechanging treatment, Remi was unable to eat normally and was receiving nutrition intravenously.
“Having the gene therapy has completely changed my life,” said Remi (pictured top on a recent holiday to Wales).
“I can go out and about now without worrying, help my family out and I’m excited to start university and start the next stage of my life.”
Although Remi was able to take his GCSEs in school, his illness meant he studied for his A-levels online at home.
“I could study when and where I wanted to, but I wouldn’t recommend it – it involved sending a lot of emails back and forth,” said Remi.
“After three years I’m looking forward to coming back into a physical classroom.”
Remi chose Winchester after attending open days and sessions run by members of the faculty of Law Crime and Justice as part of the university’s Pathways Programme.
“Winchester really stood out for me, the campus and the city are beautiful,” said Remi.
“I attended two sessions on the pathways programme, which were every informative.
The Law department staff were very friendly and able to answer all the students’ questions.”
He’s following in the footsteps of his sister who has just complete in a law degree and his father who studied law in his native Poland.
“I’m really like to become a commercial or corporate lawyer but I’m also interested in medical law – which isn’t surprising given the time I’ve spent in hospital.”
Remi with his pass certificate after taking his driving test
Remi plans to commute to Winchester from his home in Denham on the outskirts of London.
“I looked at some universities in London and it will be just as quick for me to drive to Winchester as it will to travel into the centre of the city.”
Car fan Remi passed his driving test just before starting his gene therapy.
“That gave me the motivation to get my act together and get well.”
Bill Davies, Dean of the Faculty of Law Crime and Justice at the University of Winchester, said: “I am delighted to welcome Remi to Winchester for September.
He has demonstrated great determination and perseverance to get to this stage.
I am also really pleased to see that our pathways to Law, Crime and Justice programme helped him on his journey.”

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Press-Centre/Media-Articles/Academics-bring-Winchesters-hidden-history-to-life-for-Heritage-Open-Days.php:
Academics at the University of Winchester will be shedding light on some of the city’s darker corners and forgotten folk during Winchester Heritage Open Days (12-21 September).
Every September thousands of volunteers across England organise events to celebrate our history and culture.
It's a chance to see hidden places and try out new experiences for free.
Senior Lecturer in Medieval History, Dr Cindy Wood will be conducting two Walking Tours of Medieval Winchester
Her walk will consider which parts of the City remain from the earlier, medieval, period.
It will concentrate on the High Street and cathedral close, exploring the people who lived and worked in these areas, the lost parish churches and remains, often hidden in full view.
“The tour It looks at the city from a personal level - the names of leaseholders, their livelihoods and lifestyles,” said Cindy.
“Hopefully this tour will show participants another view of the City, and its long history.”
Cindy’s 90-minute tours take place on 13 September at 10am and 2pm from the West Gate at the top of the High Street.
Tickets are free but must be pre-booked before 10 September.
Although the route is over pavements and pedestrianised areas around the city centre, the organisers cannot guarantee all parts will be suitable for wheelchairs or buggies.
Dr Christina Welch, Reader in Religious Studies and Death Studies, will be telling the stories of some of the fascinating people buried at West Hill Cemetery (pictured top).
Christina has researched the history of the cemetery, opened in 1840, and has many extraordinary tales of its occupants including American bare-knuckled boxer Charles Freeman, famous for his bouts with William Perry, 'The Tipton Slasher'.
Other stories about the memorialised include the policeman that caught the first railway murderer, and a mother and her three children who died in the poorest parts of the city.
Christina will also point out the anchor where the Sexton’s dog was once tethered, and where the cemetery’s two chapels stood.
The cemetery tours take place on Saturday 20 September at 11am and Sunday 21 September at 2pm.
From West Hill Lodge, Saint James' Lane, Winchester SO22 4NY.
The aftermath of a violent rural uprising will be examined in 'Captain Swing Riots Bicentenary Commemoration: The Architecture of Crime and Punishment'.
The Captain Swing Riots of 1830 ended with 300 men from all over the country facing a variety of charges, including riotous assembly and machine breaking, at the Grand Assize in Winchester’s Great Hall.
Many of the rioters - who were protesting against poor pay and conditions and the rise of mechanisation which threatened their jobs – were sentenced to transportation to Australia.
Among the speakers at the event will be Christopher Mulvey, Professor Emeritus of English at the University, who will talk about prison lingo and the Swing folk song 'The Owslebury Lads', which the audience will be encouraged to sing.
The event is on Saturday, September 13, from 11am at the United Church in Jewry Street.
Find out more about these and other events taking place during Heritage Open Days at Winchester Heritage Open Days .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Press-Centre/Media-Articles/Breaking-the-silence-on-shippings-sexual-offences.php:
A groundbreaking study from the University of Winchester has gathered evidence indicating the extent of the maritime industry's problem with onboard sexual assault and harassment.
writes Amy Field of Nautilus International, the international trade union and professional organisation representing seafarers.
New research findings from the University are shedding light on the alarming reality of sexual offences experienced by seafarers.
Commissioned by the campaigning charity Safer Waves, the research is one of the first to explore the breadth of sexual offences onboard merchant vessels.
Dr Genevieve Waterhouse is co-author of the research report, Sexual Offences at Sea: Experiences of Victimisation, Witnessing and Reporting .
She and her University of Winchester colleagues, Dr Gary Lancaster and Dr Jordan Randell, used an anonymous online survey to gather responses from 276 participants, who were recruited with the help of maritime organisations including Nautilus International.
"The key reason for this kind of research is that we just have very little information about what is happening at sea in terms of sexual offences," Dr Waterhouse said.
"We were really looking to have.".'
The majority of respondents reported either witnessing or experiencing some form of sexual offence.
Gender discrimination and sexual harassment were the most reported, but offences such as sexual assault and coercive behaviour were also highlighted.
A concerning number of participants – 49 – said they had experienced sexual assault in the last five years.
Despite the scale of the issue, the study revealed how the majority of incidents are going unreported.
The survey defined 'reporting' broadly, including confiding in a colleague, but still found that most victims and witnesses had told no one.
Several barriers to reporting were identified, including limited access to communication channels at sea, fear of being disbelieved or labelled as a troublemaker, and concerns about the impact on their career.
The hierarchical nature of shipboard life often exacerbates the issue, especially if the alleged perpetrator holds a senior position.
'If you're at sea you might not have access to the internet, and even if you do, you might not feel that it's entirely private,' Dr Waterhouse said.
'There can be concerns about the professional outcomes; you might not then get the contracts that they would otherwise expect.'
The study also looked at how cases were handled when reported, revealing low satisfaction across the board.
In cases of sexual harassment, 44% said action was taken but this was not satisfactory, while only 33% found the action taken satisfactory.
For rape, 36% said the response was unsatisfactory, and 19% said no action was taken at all.
Coercive behaviour saw similarly poor outcomes, with a third reporting no further action.
While the findings are important, the authors are clear that this study is just the beginning.
The survey recruited participants through open access, using professional networks and social media channels.
This self-selection approach allowed seafarers with relevant experiences to participate voluntarily, rather than being randomly chosen.
While the approach helped extract valuable personal accounts, it may have introduced bias, those affected by sexual offences were more likely to take part.
A further challenge was the potential presence of non-human or automated responses, which, despite efforts to screen them out, may have impacted the accuracy of some findings.
Although the majority of seafarers are neither perpetrators nor victims, Dr Waterhouse emphasises that creating a safer environment at sea is a shared responsibility.
Everyone onboard has a role to play in fostering a culture of zero tolerance toward inappropriate behaviour, something that must be supported through strong leadership and effective training.
She highlights the role of Safer Waves in advancing this change, as it offers confidential support and legal guidance through trained volunteers with maritime experience.
The organisation also delivers targeted training for active bystanders and first responders, helping crew members recognise unacceptable conduct and respond appropriately when incidents occur.
Dr Waterhouse stresses the importance of unions in driving cultural change at sea, by supporting individual victims, publicly acknowledging the problem and promoting collective responsibility for creating a safer working environment.
She argues that unions like Nautilus can help set clear expectations for acceptable behaviour onboard, advocate for zero-tolerance policies, and work with employers to improve training and reporting frameworks.
This article first appeared on the Nautilus International website.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Press-Centre/Media-Articles/Chatbots-are-not-your-friends-warns-new-video-made-by-team-looking-at-our-emotional-interactions-with-AI.php:
Can a chatbot truly be your friend?
The answer is ‘No’ because the Bot doesn’t care about you.
That’s one of the messages of a new video produced by Project AEGIS (Automating Empathy – Globalising International Standards) which is seeking to develop guidance to ensure the responsible development of AI that emulates empathy to make sure ‘it augments, not replaces the social experience’.
Big tech has responded to humans’ capacity for empathy by creating systems programmed to encourage emotional connections and respond to our moods.
Alexander Laffer, a Lecturer in Media and Communication at the University of Winchester and member of AEGIS, warns that people who become too fond of or too reliant upon AI companions can be open to manipulation.
This manipulation could simply result in the user being made to part with their money but there is already evidence of far more serious consequences for vulnerable users.
In the USA, The Social Media Victims Law Center and the Tech Justice Law Project have filed a lawsuit against Character.AI, the company's two co-founders, and Google, on behalf of a parent whose 14-year-old son allegedly took his life after becoming dependent on role-playing with an AI "character".
In 2023 a UK court heard how a 21-year from Hampshire, who wanted to kill Queen Elizabeth II and broke into Windsor Castle armed with a crossbow, had exchanged more than 5,000 messages with an AI-companion.
“AI doesn’t care.
It can’t care.
Children, people with mental health conditions and even someone who’s just had a bad day are vulnerable,” said Alexander (pictured).
“There has to be a move in education to make people more AI-literate but the AI developers and operators must also have a responsibility to protect the public.”
These protections could include:
The new video, a primer to automated empathy, is a companion to AEGIS’s ambitious efforts to draft a set of global ethical standards in partnership with the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)  -  a worldwide network of more than 486,000 engineering and STEM professionals.
AEGIS have been keen to gain global perspectives on AI – most of which has been designed in the US and reflects American and European attitudes.
The programme team have run workshops in Tanzania, Japan and Indonesia, to broaden their understanding and inform the standard.
Alex was co-author of On manipulation by emotional AI: UK adults’ views and governance implications published by Frontiers of Sociology read it here
Aegis is an offshoot of the Emotional AI Lab , founded in 2017 to examine the social, cultural, legal and ethical impact of artificial intelligence on human emotions.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Press-Centre:
Welcome to our Press Centre – the home of our latest news releases, research blogs and announcements.
Journalists looking for expert comment or opinion on a story can search our online ‘Find an expert’ database .
Call us on + 44 (0) 1962 827678 or email us at press@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Disclaimer:
The information on the University of Winchester site is for general use only and we endeavour to keep the information as up-to-date and correct as possible.
However, we cannot accept any liability for errors or omissions or for loss or damage arising from accessing the website or using the content/ information contained within the site.
Any reliance you place on such information is therefore strictly at your own risk.
The University of Winchester is continuously reviewing course information on the website and reserves the right to make changes as necessary to:
The University of Winchester will not be held responsible or liable for any direct or indirect financial or other losses or damage arising from such changes.
The University of Winchester is not responsible for content on any other websites linked to from this site - the inclusion of any such links does not necessarily imply a recommendation or endorse the views expressed within them.
We have no control over the nature, content and availability of those sites and you view them strictly at your own risk.
Student Recruitment and Marketing (SRM) is responsible for the 'top level' content and structure of the website.
However, other pages and/or links appearing on the website may have been published by Academic Departments, Business Services, Professional Services and others not directly listed here, in their professional capacity on behalf of the University.
The University of Winchester will not be held liable for the content on any websites not directly under its control or for any consequences arising out of or in connection with accessing such websites.
The University of Winchester at its sole discretion reserves the right, to screen and remove any content it deems inappropriate.
This includes content that harasses, abuses, threatens, or in any other way violates the rights of others and of commercial purpose (product, service or other).
The University of Winchester is not responsible for content posted by other users, though we may screen and if viable remove content should it be inappropriate.
We comply with the Terms of Service by each social media channel provider.
The University of Winchester makes every effort to ensure the website is up and running.
However, should the site not be available, we accept no liability should the website be temporarily unavailable due to circumstances and issues beyond our control.
If you have any queries about the use of the website and not covered above then please contact us.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Privacy-and-cookie-policy:
We comply with the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and The Data Protection Act 2018 from 25 May 2018.
Please note that the examples given are not an exhaustive list and other data will apply to each category.
Biographical Data - name, preferred name, previous name, marital status, title, age, domicile, date of birth and gender
Contact Data – home address, email address, telephone number, term time address
Emergency contact data - emergency contacts, trusted individual details, GP information
Photographic proof of identity – passport, driving licence and where necessary visa information
Records of engagement – communication preferences, enquires, applications, attendance, enrolment,
Academic data – student ID number, academic history, assessments, academic progression and awards
Graduation data – confirmation of attendance, guest information, special requirements
CCTV images and video recordings – video submissions outside of academic purposes
Financial data – details of payments made to and from you including bank account, payment details, purchases of products and services, student fees, university funding, bursaries, alumni donations
Technical data – IP address, login data, other unique device identifiers, use of and access to university systems.
For more information about this data please refer to the ICT Acceptable Use Policy.
Demographic data – information relating to characteristics including age, sex, ethnicity, income, place of residence, socio-economic information, equality data
Feedback data – survey responses, written or recorded testimonials relating to university activities and services
Criminal conviction data – when necessary, DBS checks, personal declarations
Other Information – any other information which you choose to provide during your engagement with university services
Biographical Data - Name, preferred name, previous name, marital status, title, age, domicile, date of birth, gender, marital status, dependants, National insurance number
Contact Data – home address, email address, telephone number
Emergency contact data - emergency contacts, GP information
Photographic proof of identity – passport, driving licence and where necessary Visa information
Recruitment data – academic history, qualifications, application, references, right to work documentation
Employment records – annual leave, start date, location of employment, job title, contract, training records, professional memberships, work history, performance information, disciplinary and grievance information.
Visual media – photographs, CCTV images, video recordings
Financial data – bank account details, payroll records, tax status, salary, pension, benefits
Other Information – any other information you choose to provide during your engagement with university services
Biographical Data - Name, preferred name, title
Emergency contact data - emergency contacts
Records of engagement – communication preferences, enquires, communications with university staff
Site visit data – car registration number, reason for visit, organisation or employer, conference or event data
Widening Participation data – school details, outreach event, workshop participation and demographic data including age, sex, ethnicity, income, place of residence, socio-economic information, equality data
CCTV images
Financial data – details of payments made to and from you including bank account, payment details, purchases of products and services
Technical data – IP address, login data, use of and access to university systems such as guest Wi-Fi.
Feedback data – survey responses, written or recorded testimonials relating to university activities and services, complaints and grievances
Other Information – any other information you choose to provide during your engagement with the university
We collect information directly from you during our contact with you, or from third parties which you have directed us to, for instance, any referees cited in support of an application.
We will only use your personal data in accordance with the law.
We will use your personal data in the following circumstances:
Please note that any examples given are not an exhaustive list and other activities may apply to each purpose.
Administering enquiries, and converting applications
Marketing to potential students
Pre-enrolment activities and requirements
To meet UKVI requirements and obligations
Enrolment
Welcome Week activities
Provision of University Services - including Catering, Library, IT, Housing, and Careers
Provision of University Support Services – including wellbeing services such as counselling, mentoring, safeguarding, crisis support and intervention
Academic Provisions – including attendance monitoring, assessments, awards, work placements
Widening Participation and equal opportunity monitoring and reporting
Finance – including paying tuition and housing fees
Internal and external reporting – including reporting to the Office for Students, HESA
Estate and Accommodation Management
Compliance with University Policies
To monitor your use of our information and communication systems to ensure compliance with our IT policies
To ensure network and information security, including preventing unauthorised access to our computer and electronic communications systems and preventing malicious software distribution
Complying with Health and Safety and other legal obligations such as complying with court orders and the prevention of fraud
Disclosure and Barring Service checks and disclosures where required
Where necessary, gathering of evidence for possible grievances, Fitness to Practice investigations or disciplinary processes
Where necessary, to support third parties such as the Student Union and placement providers
Graduation administration
Alumni engagement activities – including Career support and fundraising activities
To meet any legal requirements the University is subject to under UK and international law
Making a decision about your recruitment
Determining your employment terms
To carry out right to work checks
Ensuring that you are paid correctly, including deducting tax and National Insurance contributions.
Providing multiple benefit packages to you as an employee’
Liaising with your pension provider.
Administering the contract we have entered into with you.
To conduct data analytics studies to review and better understand employee retention and attrition rates.
Equal opportunities monitoring.
Business management and planning, including accounting and auditing.
To prevent fraud.
To monitor your use of our information and communication systems to ensure compliance with our IT policies.
This is not routinely done.
To ensure network and information security, including the prevention of unauthorised access to our computer and electronic communications systems and preventing malicious software distribution.
Conducting performance reviews, managing performance and determining performance requirements.
Making decisions about salary reviews and compensation.
Assessing qualifications for a particular job or task, including decisions about promotions.
Making decisions about your training and development requirements.
Dealing with customers and other third parties to whom your identity and background information is important.
For example, if you are to work on their premises or because of a proposed merger, acquisition or joint venture.
Complying with health and safety obligations.
Dealing with legal disputes involving you, or other employees, workers and contractors, including accidents at work.
Managing sickness absence.
Ascertaining your fitness to work.
Complying with court orders.
Making decisions about your continued employment or engagement.
Gathering evidence for possible grievance or disciplinary hearings.
Making arrangements for the termination of our working relationship, mutual or otherwise.
Provision of University services – including guest Wi-Fi access
Event administration and management
Health and Safety obligations
Estate Management
Financial purposes – paying of invoices
Placement administration
Apprenticeship administration
University governance
External engagement and partnerships
Other legal obligations
Community engagement
Widening participation activities and reporting – including all school and college activities
You have the right to lodge a complaint with the UK Data Protection Authority, the Information Commissioners Office.
The ICO will ask you to address your complaint to the University in the first instance.
To submit a complaint about the use of your personal information please email DPO@winchester.ac.uk .
If you are unhappy with the University’s response, a complaint can be made to the ICO via their website here: Make a complaint | ICO
Our Cookies Policy explains what cookies are, how we use cookies, how third-parties we may partner with may use cookies on the Service, your choices regarding cookies and further information about cookies.
A cookie is a small text file that a website saves on your computer or mobile device when you visit the site.
It enables the website to remember your actions and preferences (such as login, language, font size and other display preferences) over a period of time, so you don’t have to keep re-entering them whenever you come back to the site or browse from one page to another.
The university webservers collect anonymous information, like the IP address of your computer, the browser software used, the operating system, access times and pages visited.
This information is used to monitor usage and to assess the effectiveness of the university website.
In some sections of the university website anonymous data such as browser type or IP address may be used to customise web page content.
This information is used in an anonymous form to ensure appropriate and effective delivery of content.
Overall, cookies help us provide you with a better website, by enabling us to monitor which pages you find useful and which you do not.
A cookie in no way gives us access to your computer or any information about you, other than the data you choose to share with us.
You can choose to accept or decline cookies.
Most web browsers automatically accept cookies, but you can usually modify your browser setting to decline cookies if you prefer.
You should be aware that this may prevent you from taking full advantage of our website.
If you are unsure how to do this, use your favourite search engine to look this up using the term 'declining cookies' with your browser name, or contact your local IT support for advice.
Google Analytics use traffic log cookies to gain information about the use that is made of pages on our website.
We use the information from cookies to generate reports on the usage of our website which are used for evaluation and analysis.
The purpose is to improve our website by tailoring it to the needs of users.
In all cases, no data specific to any identifiable user is retained.
As a user you can opt out of this process of collecting traffic log data.
To do so please visit Opt out of Google Analytics Information.
If you'd like to delete cookies or instruct your web browser to delete or refuse cookies, please visit the help pages of your web browser.
Please note, however, that if you delete cookies or refuse to accept them, you might not be able to use all of the features we offer, you may not be able to store your preferences, and some of our pages might not display properly.
We endeavour to keep the information we hold as up-to-date and as accurate as possible.
If you wish to see the data the University holds about you please contact the Data Protection Officer.
In line with the new General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) from 25 May 2018, the University will not charge a fee to deal with a request in most circumstances.
However, the University reserves the right to charge a fee in cases in line with ICO guidance .
Our Data Protection Officer is Stephen Dowell, he can be contacted via email Stephen.Dowell@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Freedom-of-information:
A Publication Scheme is a requirement of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 , with the purpose of promoting greater openness by public authorities, including Universities and Colleges.
The University scheme follows the model produced by the Information Commissioner’s Office and lists the information which is routinely published by the University of Winchester.
The University's Publication Scheme is currently under review.
Please submit all queries about the scheme and FOI requests for documents to FOI@winchester.ac.uk
In most cases, access will be via this website.
Minutes of University meetings including the Board of Governors and all governor committees are available upon request.
Please note all minutes will be reviewed for business sensitive and privacy related information prior to release.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Sustainable-Campus-and-Community/Modern-slavery:
The University's Financial Regulations, Procurement Policy and Procedures and Ethical Investment Policy state our commitments to the highest standards of ethical conduct in all our activities, along with making continuous improvements in this area.
Our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2024 is designed to satisfy the requirements of Part 6 Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act (2015).
The University does not engage in, or condone, the practices of human trafficking, slavery or forced labour.
As a values driven institution, our values underpin all that we do.
We promote a community where all individuals matter, where wellbeing is paramount and pastoral care is of the highest quality, where we are driven by our pursuit of social justice and the common good, and where people, the planet, and all living things are held in the highest regard.
We are committed to improving our business practices to combat modern slavery and human trafficking and to ensure that we are not complicit in any human rights violations.
We are committed to zero tolerance of slavery and human trafficking or child labour practices.
The University's supply chains predominantly fall within the following categories:
The University is a member of the Southern Universities Purchasing Consortium (SUPC) which has also published its own Modern Slavery Statement.
We channel in excess of 30% of the value of our addressable spend through SUPC and other agreements arranged by higher education and public sector purchasing consortia or frameworks.
The particular business and supply chains which may pose particular risks in terms of slavery are in IT and AV equipment, construction, and uniform/clothing supplies.
Our campus services are almost entirely in-sourced and the University has made a commitment to honouring the Living Wage for all our employees, full time or fractional.
The University is committed to making sure that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chain or in any part of the University’s business.
We continue to develop our policies and procedures to reflect our commitment to acting sustainably, ethically and with integrity in all our business relationships.
We continue to develop, implement and enforce effective procurement systems, processes and controls to make sure child labour, slavery and human trafficking is not taking place within our supply chains.
The University mitigates the risk of modern slavery occurring in its workforce by ensuring that directly employed staff are recruited by following robust HR recruitment policies.
There is a whistleblowing policy in place for members of staff to raise any concerns about wrongdoing by the University.
Staff employed on a temporary staff basis via agencies are only recruited through established sources who can provide assurance that they comply fully with the requirements of legislation relating to the rights and welfare of their candidates and employees.
Our Ethical Investment policy has been developed to reflect our commitment to ensuring that our investments are not complicit in any human rights violations, in so far as possible.
To this extent the University does not knowingly invest directly or indirectly in organisations that breach human or animal rights or that are in breach of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Our Modern Slavery Statement will be reviewed on an annual basis.
View our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2025

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/Accessibility:
We are committed to making our website accessible for all users through guidelines that support accessible pages and through accessibility tools provided by the ReciteMe toolbar.
This page contains a link to our accessibility statement and a link to our ReciteMe accessibility tools.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Freedom-of-Speech-and-Academic-Freedom:
The University of Winchester is committed to the love of learning and pursuit of knowledge.
This includes a commitment to protecting and promoting freedom of speech and academic freedom.
Freedom of Speech Statement
Freedom of speech means that everyone has the right within the law to impart ideas, opinions or information freely, without unwarranted interference.
Academic freedom relates to the right of academic staff employed by the University, acting within the law, to question and test received wisdom, and to put forward new ideas and controversial or unpopular opinions.
The University is committed to:
The University’s values underpin its belief that freedom of speech and academic freedom are best exercised reflectively, and with a generous spirit defined by intellectual curiosity.
Creating an environment conducive to free speech and academic freedom does not mean that the University endorses any perspective being shared, but it recognises the right of everyone to have their own views and opinions, and to express them, in accordance with the law.
The University will adopt a position of institutional neutrality and will avoid issuing official statements about public matters unless those matters directly affect the institution’s core function of teaching, research, and learning.
Coming to University is all about exploring and being curious about the world.
Students will be encouraged to seek to discover new ideas and understand new perspectives.
Sometimes students may encounter topics or discussions which they may find difficult, contentious or discomforting.
The University maintains a learning environment that encourages individuals to engage in constructive debate, listening to views which may differ from their own with interest and tolerance and defending their own positions with reasoned argument.
Freedom of Speech Code of Practice
The University is required under the Higher Education and Research Act 2017, as amended by the Higher Education Freedom of Speech Act 2023, to publish a Freedom of Speech Code of Practice.
The University’s Freedom of Speech Code of Practice explains how the University will protect and promote freedom of speech and academic freedom at the University.
A member of the University’s Executive Leadership Team has been appointed as the University’s Free Speech Officer.
If you have questions or a concern about the University’s Freedom of Speech Code of Practice, you can contact the Officer by email: freespeech@winchester.ac.uk.
To raise a complaint, please read below.
Raising a complaint
Complaints may be raised regarding the exercise of academic freedom or freedom of speech, or potential breaches of the University's Freedom of Speech Code of Practice.
To raise a complaint, please visit the University’s Report and Support website and select ‘Freedom of Speech or Academic Freedom’ from the list.
In order to avoid unnecessary intrusive investigations, the University will undertake a preliminary assessment to assess whether to commence an investigation.
The starting point of any such process should be that lawful speech will not be punished because of a viewpoint that it expresses.
The University will not progress complaints about lawful speech or expression because of a viewpoint it expresses.
The University will determine the most appropriate procedure to address the concern, making any necessary enquiries.
This may result in further investigation under the University’s disciplinary, grievance, or complaints procedures, as applicable, which may result in a range of sanctions detailed in the relevant policy.
Our complaints process will promptly reject vexatious, frivolous or obviously unmeritorious complaints relating to speech.
The University will not pursue vexatious complaints or trivial investigations into other matters against an individual solely because of their lawful expression of a viewpoint.
In practice, it may not always be possible to determine that a complaint is vexatious at the outset of any investigation.
Complaints will be concluded as rapidly as is reasonably practicable and compatible with fairness.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/news-and-events/press-centre/media-articles/outstanding-ofsted-for-teacher-training-at-university-of-winchester.php:
The quality of the University of Winchester's Initial Teacher Education (ITE) programmes has once again been recognised by Ofsted, confirming Winchester's position as one of the best providers of teacher education in the country.
In its latest report, which has just been released, the education inspectorate rates Winchester as a provider of 'outstanding' teacher training in England for its provision of both primary and secondary ITE.
Winchester's primary teacher training has been rated outstanding since 2010, but this is the first time that its secondary teacher training has also received the highest accolade.
"This is an excellent result for the University, underlining our reputation as a flagship provider of teacher training and it is testament to the dedication and hard work of staff, students and our partnership schools," said Dr Janice de Sousa, Dean of the Faculty of Education, Health and Social Care.
"We train some of the brightest young people in the country to teach in primary and secondary schools.
As a values-driven institution, it is especially pleasing that Ofsted highlighted that respecting values - including the promotion of equality and elimination of discrimination - are enshrined in the University's vision for teaching training and embedded throughout our programmes."
The Ofsted report states that the University of Winchester 'produces highly professional, confident, enthusiastic teachers who are welcomed into the profession and make a strong contribution from the start of their careers'.
Trainee teachers demonstrate exceptionally high levels of personal and professional conduct and have demanding expectations of themselves and of their pupils' learning and behaviour.
The personalised teaching that trainees receive and the close relationships trainees and their tutors build up are also highlighted in the report.
Trainee teachers at Winchester receive high levels of individual support and direction tailored to promote their learning and support their success
The inspectors also praise the 'passionate and enthusiastic' leaders and managers across the partnership who actively pursue excellence and seek to improve training provision and outcomes.
The University offers undergraduate and postgraduate programmes leading to the award of Qualified Teacher Status and is a major provider of trained primary teachers in Hampshire.
The University currently works in partnership with almost 400 schools to provide excellent work-based placements for its trainee teachers.
Read the Ofsted report: UoW Ofsted report 2017 .
Find out more about teacher training and development here .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Public-Events:
Join us on campus, online or in the community to engage with our academic experts, our students and our valued partners
We love opening our doors to welcome you to the University and our beautiful facilities, to exchange knowledge, collaborate, network and celebrate learning.
We hold events to suit all interests - from talks, seminars and lectures to book launches, webinars, workshops and exhibitions.
Find out more about Public Engagement at the University of Winchester
The University of Winchester is delighted to be partner and host for a Youth Forum on Climate Resilience, Mental Health and Sustainable Futures.
This 3-day event is designed to address critical global challenges through the lenses of harmony, climate resilience, mental health and sustainable development.
A collaboration between the Coalition for Training Research and Development, Youth’s UNESCO Club Nepal and Youth’s Club USA,it will serve as a platform for global leaders, young professionals, academics, activists and policymakers to exchange ideas, share best practices, and build strategies for achieving long-term global sustainability and harmony.
Through an inclusive and participatory approach, the event will enable diverse perspectives and experiences to contribute to innovative solutions that drive positive change.
The event will take place at the University's West Downs Quarter.
Take the virtual tour of our beautiful campus.
🌍 Global Exposure & Networking
🧠 Capacity Building
📜 Recognition & Certification
🤝 Collaborative Opportunities
1.
Fill out the Registration Form.
2.
Pay the Registration Fee via our online store
For international participants: £350, which includes 3 nights of single occupancy accommodation, daily breakfast, lunch and dinner.
For UK Nationals: £60 per day, which includes daily breakfast and lunch.
3.
Receive Confirmation
After completing the form and payment, please wait to receive your official invitation letter via email.
Please note, places are limited and a visa may be required so early registration is advised.
University of Winchester contact:
Dr Annabelle Boulay, Senior Lecturer in Human Geography - meet Annabelle
Our academics are working with numerous local and regional organisations, and they feature prominently in local annual festivals such as Winchester Heritage Open Days.
Winchester Heritage Open Days 2025 returns for its 10th year this September with a vibrant programme of events celebrating the rich architectural and cultural heritage of Winchester and the wider Hampshire region
Join our University experts for these engaging events:
10.00 - 14.00, from The Westgate, Upper High Street, Winchester SO23 9AP
Join Dr Cindy Wood on a fascinating tour to explore medieval Winchester.
If walls could talk, how much could they tell us about the people who lived in these properties and how they or their purpose has changed over time?
Dr Wood points out a few hidden gems that you may not have noticed before and helps you to explore the hidden nature of a medieval urban environment.
Back by popular demand - Dr Wood has held similar walking tours for previous HODs festivals which have all sold out.
Bookings open on 8 August.
BOOK HERE
Saturday 20 September at 11:00 and Sunday 21 September at 14:00.
West Hill Lodge, Saint James' Lane, Winchester SO22 4NY
West Hill Cemetery was established in 1840 and taken over by Winchester City Council in the 1950s.
Dr Christina Welch has carried out extensive research on the history of the site ( find out more about the project ) and will tell the stories some of the fascinating people buried in it, from paupers to pugilists.
The site is now closed for burials and instead sensitively managed as a space where chalk downland meadow is allowed to flourish each summer as a valuable habitat for insects as well as reptiles such as slow worms.
The path winding through it provides a scenic access route to the adjacent University.
Back by popular demand - Dr Welch has held similar guided tours for previous HODs festivals which have all sold out.
Find out what we did for Winchester Heritage Open Days 2024.
TEDx is a programme of local, self-organised events that bring people together to spark deep discussion and real connection.
The University has been the home of TEDxWinchester since 2020 and together we are going from strength to strength.
TEDxWinchester 2025 took place on 6 June and among the many inspirational speakers was University of Winchester criminologist Natasha Harding, Head of the Department of Policing, Criminology and Forensics.
Meet Natasha .
Find out more about TEDxWinchester.
The Modern History Research Centre is the platform for our modern historians and all those across the University and in the community with an interest in the recent past.
The centre runs a dynamic series of regular talks and seminars.
Find out more about the Modern History Research Centre and explore forthcoming events.
Winchester Action on the Climate Crisis is a community climate and sustainability action group, based at and supported by the University.
They run an active annual programme of events, from regular meet-ups to themed talks and workshops.
Find out more about Winchester Action on the Climate Crisis.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Alumni/Graduation:
Explore information about our Graduation ceremonies, held annually in Winchester Cathedral.
Here you'll find more information about our Graduation ceremonies.
We’re pleased to announce that our next graduation ceremonies will take place between 21-24 October 2025 in Winchester Cathedral.
You can find further information about our 2025 ceremonies below.
Please click on the heading to expand the section and find out more.
Here is the full graduation 2025 schedule: Graduation Schedule 2025
It is unfortunately not possible to change to a different ceremony.
If the date or time is not convenient for a graduating student, they will have to graduate in absentia (i.e., not attend).
In some exceptional circumstances, students may be able to defer their graduation for one year, although this is not guaranteed.
For students to be eligible to attend the October 2025 graduation ceremonies they must meet the following criterion:
Please note that Certificate of Higher Education and Diploma of Higher Education awardees are not eligible to attend graduation.
All eligible students will receive their official graduation invitation via email between 14 July and 1 September 2025.
The exact date the invitation is sent will depend on which Progression & Awards Board the student’s final award is being conferred at – these occur throughout the summer.
This invitation will include further details about how to register attendance, hire gowns and purchase guest tickets.
All communications will be sent to students Unimail and personal email addresses.
We recommend that graduating students add graduation@winchester.ac.uk onto their list of safe senders.
To help graduating students and their guests prepare for the ceremony, we have put together a handy Graduation Information Brochure.
It’s full of useful information, including details on what to wear and suggested timings.
You can find this information here: Graduation Information Brochure 2025
Any students awarded between September 2024 and May 2025, will have their degree certificate posted to their home address as shown on My Record.
Any students awarded from May 2025 onward, will receive their degree certificate at their graduation ceremony.
If they do not attend graduation, their certificate will be posted to their home address.
All degree certificates are printed with the student’s full name, as recorded on their student record.
This should match the student’s full legal name (i.e., the name on their passport, birth certificate, driving licence, etc) at the time of study.
If a student is changing their name due to gender identity, we encourage them to get in touch with us so we can make sure their record correctly reflects their new name.
It is students’ responsibility to make sure their full name is correct on My Record before they finish their studies.
If any students find their name is incorrect, they should email graduation@winchester.ac.uk with a copy of their official ID.
Please note that once a certificate has been printed, it will not be possible to change the name – except in exceptional circumstances.
All graduating students will be required to wear academic dress to take part in their ceremony.
This will cost between £45.00 and £55.00 to hire, dependent on level of study.
Once graduating students have completed graduation registration, a link will appear on My Record which will take them to the Graduation Attire booking portal to place their order.
Graduation Attire (part of the Evess Group) is the university’s preferred gown supplier.
You can find illustrations of all student gowns here: UoW - Official Gown Design 2025 There is further information about gown hire available in the Graduation Information Brochure, which is available to view under the ‘Updates & Communications’ tab on this webpage.
Any graduating students who would like friends or family to attend their ceremony will need to purchase guest tickets.
These will cost £20.00 each, and each student will initially have the opportunity to purchase up to 3 guest tickets.
Once graduating students have completed graduation registration, a link will appear on My Record which will take them to the Graduation Attire booking portal to purchase their e-tickets.
Graduation Attire (part of the Evess Group) are the university’s official ticket supplier.
Extra tickets: An email will be sent to all graduands during the week commencing 22nd September to confirm if any extra tickets are available and how these can be purchased, if applicable.
Please note that ceremonies are busy so it is unlikely that extra tickets will be available for all dates/times.
The University is pleased to be continuing the Graduation Assistance Fund for the 2025 ceremonies.
This fund is designed to provide financial support to students who might otherwise not be able to attend their graduation.
You can find further details about the fund, including eligibility criteria and application details here: Graduation Assistance Fund 2024-2025
Visa application letters: If either a graduating student or one of their guests requires a letter to support a visa application, the student should email graduation@winchester.ac.uk to request this.
Please note that we can only generate letters for those students who have already received their official graduation invitation.
Ceremony length: We anticipate that ceremonies will last between 60 and 75 minutes.
Live stream: We will be live streaming all ceremonies into the Guildhall and on the University website.
The link to view the live stream will appear on this webpage during the week of graduation.
Find out more about our postgraduate offering.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Alumni/Alumni-News-and-Stories/Alumni-Articles/90s-Reunion-Tickets-on-sale-now.php:
The 90’s reunion is coming back campus for a second year, and tickets are on sale now!
If you studied at King Alfred’s College between 1990 – 1999 and find yourself reminiscing about your time as a student days, this is your opportunity to relive them.
Organised by a team of fellow 90’s alumni, the event promises to take you back to your King Alfred days, complete with live music, food from The Hatch and even the opportunity to stay in University Hall’s.
But don’t just take our word for it… here is a message from your reunion organisers:
“The 90’s alumni Reunion was so successful last year we are having another one!
We had a love filled evening with so many smiles, hugs and laughter it felt like we were in our twenties again.
Rajun Horn delivered a “mint” set, full of songs to remind us of our younger years, and they had a number of guest singers too!
All the worries about being wrinkly, a little rounder or greyer disappeared as we remembered the life we had shared and how much we meant to each other during our formative years at KAC!
This year 'The Alfie’s' will be playing, a band formed especially for us, with 90s tunes and Bandeoke.
The ticket price £25 includes food from The Hatch and a donation to the Winton Society Foundation.”
Key details
Saturday 24 th June, 19:30 - 01:00
The Vault, Sparkford Road, Winchester, SO22 4NR
Buy your 90’s Reunion tickets here
Book your on-campus accommodation here
Join the King Alfred’s College 1990 – 1999 Facebook group here

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Alumni/Alumni-News-and-Stories/Alumni-Articles/The-Winton-Society-Newsletter-March-2023.php:
Welcome to the Spring Update
How time flies… another 3 months has rolled by since our last update, and the lighter Spring evenings are starting to make an appearance.
December marked the 1-year anniversary since the launch of the ‘Winton Society’, and last month we opened nominations for the Winton Society Awards following the success of last year’s inaugural event: we continue to welcome nominations that recognise and celebrate the achievements of the amazing people who have worked and studied at Winchester.
Nominations close on the 16 th April and we are looking forward to the awards ceremony in June.
We have been delighted to receive interest from a diverse range of alumni artists as we look to hold the Winton Society’s first open art exhibition in the beautiful West Downs Gallery this summer.
This month we have been talking to the next generation of alumni at the start of their career journey at the Business, Humanities and Creative Industries career fairs.
We have also enjoyed reading your stories and memories in the comments of our discussion posts on social media – join the conversation about dissertation topics or how the campus has changed.
Updates from the University
The University of Winchester are proud to have signed a new strategic partnership agreement with Play to the Crowd.
A vital charity within Winchester’s artistic landscape, responsible for the Theatre Royal Winchester, Hat Fair the outdoor international arts festival and the Playmakers Youth Theatre.
The professional theatre also hosts both our Acting and Musical Theatre students each year as they perform their final show, offering them invaluable professional experience.
In December, the University hosted naturalist, TV presenter, photographer and author Chris Packham in a special partnership event with Winchester Youth Counselling.
In this engaging lecture Chris revealed the connection between immersion in a natural environment and preserving or improving mental health, and presented a call to action for society to understand the true value of the natural world around us.
The University has recently been awarded funding from the Office for Students to update the Martial Rose Library.
This will be a significant investment in the learning resources and spaces we are able to offer our students and is set to begin from next month.
On the topic of all things literary the University are delighted to be the lead partner for this year’s Winchester Books Festival being held at locations around the city between 21-23rd April.
You can find out more by subscribing to updates on the website , where tickets will be available to buy for the author events from the end of this week.
Branded Merchandise is growing, have your say!
Over the last few weeks, we have been conducting a series of staff and student focus groups as we look to expand and develop the existing University merchandise offering.
In the five sessions we have listened to student and staff feedback on our existing product range, discussed ideas about potential future products, and key considerations to take into account as we look to grow our offering.
Feed into the discussion, and share your views in this short survey.
Calling graduates from 2010-2019 – we’re recruiting Facebook Admins!
Many alumni will be aware of the initiative taken by members to set up alumni decade Facebook Groups.
These Alumni-run groups are the backbone of the Winton Society’s online community and engage over 3,000 alumni.
They provide a safe informal space for Alumni to share memories, reconnect, support fundraising initiatives and plan reunions.
We are currently recruiting ‘Facebook Admins’ for our 2010-2019 cohort’s decade group.
Being an Admin is a voluntary role.
You and the other administrators will be responsible for adding new members, setting the group rules, and ensuring the groups is a welcoming space.
If you would be interested in learning more about this opportunity, please email Alumni@winchester.ac.uk with the subject: ‘2010-2019 Facebook Group Admin’.
Join your decade’s Facebook group
If you belong to another decade group, you can join your group via the links below:
King Alfred’s College, 1960 - 1969
King Alfred’s College, 1970 – 1979
King Alfred’s College, 1980 – 1989
King Alfred’s College, 1990 - 1999
King Alfred’s College/University of Winchester 2000 - 2009
In memory of
We have been notified of the death of the following members from the University of Winchester and Winton Society community and send condolences to their families.
Click here for the full list since the last publication in 2022 including written tributes about Canon Peter Seal, Robert 'Bob' Breach and Miranda Horstead.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Sustainable-Campus-and-Community/Green-campus/Travel-and-transport:
We are committed to reducing our environmental impact and improve sustainability across our campus.
We are passionate about our local environment at Winchester, so we ask our students, staff and visitors to travel as sustainably as possible when coming to campus.
The travel hierarchy should be used to determine the most carbon friendly mode of transport for each journey to help lower emissions and improve air quality.
By using active travel, public transport and lift sharing whenever possible you will also be helping to meet the targets of the University’s Travel Plan, which sets out our commitment to reduce single occupancy car use and encourage a modal shift.
To further support this, we work with local public transport operators and suppliers to offer a number of green transport initiatives and discounts for students and staff.
Visiting the University or travelling from overseas?
Take a look at our Contact page for travel information.
The information below is designed to help you plan your commute to the King Alfred and West Downs Quarters.
If you are visiting any other part of the University and would like help planning your journey please email environment@winchester.ac.uk
With benefits for both your physical and mental well-being, walking, running or cycling to the University are great ways to build some activity in to your day.
Whether used for your full journey or combined with another form of transport for a multi-mode commute, we have facilities to help you travel actively.
For those living within walking or running distance, the King Alfred Quarter is located on Sparkford Road whilst our West Downs Quarter is on Romsey Road.
If you’re travelling from further afield, the University is located close to key public transport links.
See the Public Transport section below for details.
We have extensive cycle facilities on campus - including cycle hoops, covered shelters, cycle lockers, and repair/maintenance stands - the locations of which are shown on our sustainability map.
In addition, we have a fleet of loan bikes and e-bikes available for students and staff who might want to try riding before they commit to buying their own bike.
Showers and changing facilities are available across our campus.
Winchester is well-served by regular bus and rail services making public transport a good choice for travelling to the University.
Most modern buses and trains have free Wi-Fi and charging points, meaning you can use your commute time to work or study, listen to podcasts or even watch your favourite show.
Winchester rail station is approximately 0.7 miles (15-minute walk / 10-minute cycle) from the King Alfred Quarter and 1 mile (20-minute walk / 15-minute cycle) from the West Downs Quarter.
Visit the National Rail website to check the frequency of trains from your local station.
Bluestar and Stagecoach both run bus services with stops close to the University.
If you’re travelling from Southampton or Chandler’s Ford, Bluestar Route 1 stops on Southgate Street.
Stagecoach also run numerous services into the city.
Details of their routes are shown on this map , the timetables for which can be found here .
If you are looking to drive to Winchester it is recommended that you use the Park & Ride (P&R) service.
There are four P&R car parks located on the outskirts of the city:
The Park and Ride website has more details, including the current bus timetable.
The University is well-served by the service and the nearest Park and Ride bus stop is outside the Royal Hampshire County Hospital on Romsey Road, less than a five-minute walk from both King Alfred and West Downs Quarters.
Up to 6 passengers can travel on one P&R ticket making it even better value if you for car share.
It is also possible to build some activity into your day by cycling to the University from South Winchester P&R or walking from Pitt P&R.
More details about cycle season tickets can be found here.
The University of Winchester is configured in a way that maximises space for teaching, support services and halls of residence which means parking is very limited.
We also have a commitment to reduce single-occupancy car use and encourage sustainable travel where possible.
To help minimise the need to drive to the University and make alternative modes more attractive we offer a range of discounts on other travel options, so it is still easy to reach campus while contributing to a greener world.
Click these links for details of current offers and incentives for students and staff.
Students - There is no general parking for students however we have a small number of spaces available for those requiring them for accessibility reasons.
Students eligible for permits include those with a disability or medical need requiring a vehicle on site and those who use a car to get to placements.
Please contact Student Support and Success in the first instance to discuss any needs for campus parking.
Staff – Parking for staff is by permit only.
Full details regarding parking and permits can be found on the parking intranet page .
We host a regular Bike Doctor outside the King Alfred Centre where students can bring their bikes for free safety checks and minor repairs carried out by qualified mechanics.
Dates for the current academic year can be found on the intranet.
Students can save 10% on cycles and accessories at 99 Cycles/ Hoops in Winchester.
Got a placement that is further afield and need help travelling there?
We have a fleet of 10 recently refurbished bikes available to help students with their placement travel.
Can't face climbing the hill up to West Downs?
Don't want to walk to Bar End?
Try out an electric hybrid bike!
There are two at St Swithun's Lodge for use in and around campus.
For further details on all things bike related, including how to access discounts please visit the cycling intranet page.
A Railcard could help you save on train travel and may be more cost effective if you are only on campus a couple of days each week (T&Cs and minimum fares may apply).
Over 31?
If you’re a full-time student you can still apply for a 16-25 railcard; you’ll just need to complete the mature student form and ask registry to provide a stamp to confirm that your course meets the requirements.
For full details on rail travel, including how to access discounts, please visit the train intranet page.
Students are eligible for a 20% discount on Bluestar bus 30-day and 90-day network tickets, covering all Bluestar services across Hampshire and Dorset.
This includes the Bluestar 1 to Winchester and the Unilink bus service in Southampton.
Studentrider tickets allow you to travel on any Stagecoach bus within the applicable zone all day, 7-days a week.
The zones and the areas they cover are Winchester, for services in the city centre and surrounding residential areas (including Kings Worthy), and South Gold, covering further afield locations such as Alresford, Andover, Romsey, Petersfield and more.
For full details on bus travel, including how to access discounts, please visit the bus intranet page.
There are discounts available to students using the Park and Ride as part of their commute to the university.
For full details on the park and ride, including how to access discounts, please visit the Park & Ride intranet page .
The University has both rapid and all-day charging points for electric vehicles installed at the West Downs Quarter.
The University hosts one of the city’s Enterprise Car Club self-service vehicles on campus.
The vehicle, a Renault Clio, is parked in a dedicated bay at Medecroft Quarter and is available to students, staff and members of the public.
It can be hired by the hour or day, either reserved in advance or at a moment’s notice.
Students can sign up to the Car Club at a discounted rate.
For further details please visit the Enterprise Car Club intranet page.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Press-Centre/Media-Articles/Latest-report-shows-undergraduates-at-University-of-Winchester-enjoy-very-high-quality-teaching-experience.php:
The University received an overall Silver Rating in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023 published today (Thursday) which means Winchester delivers “very high quality” student experience and outcomes for its undergraduates.
TEF ratings, introduced in 2017 by the government, are aimed at improving the quality of education in higher education at undergraduate level.
Vice-Chancellor of the University of Winchester Professor Sarah Greer said: “We are delighted to have retained our Silver rating which is a testament to the hard work of all our staff.
“This rating means that the TEF panel assessed our teaching, assessment, feedback and course content as being of very high quality.
“We are also pleased that they drew particular attention to the employability skills which we embed throughout our courses.
We always aim to give our students the skills and knowledge required by employers in a competitive jobs market and this report reinforces our position as one of the top 10 universities in the UK for graduates in employment or further study 15 months after graduation.”
There are four levels of attainment in the TEF:
An expert panel convened by the Office for Students awards institutions rankings for Student Experience and Student Outcomes which contribute towards an overall ranking.
Winchester achieved Silver (very high quality) across all three - but in some areas, the panel said the University reached an outstanding level of provision, including staff development.
With respect to Student Experience, the panel concluded Winchester’s “very high-quality teaching, assessment, feedback, course content and delivery inspire students to actively engage in and commit to their learning and stretch students to develop knowledge and skill.”
The report also pointed to comments from external examiners on “professional skills, employability and real-world practice, suggesting some evidence of contribution to a very high-quality academic experience”.
The TEF report panel is made up of academics, students and employer representatives and uses student data returned by providers to the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) Graduate Outcomes and National Student Survey (NSS)
TEF ratings are published on the OfS Register , Discover Uni and UCAS websites.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/Clearing/Clearing-advice-days:
Join us on campus over Clearing and learn more about studying at the University of Winchester.
Clearing Advice Days Want to know more about Clearing?
Book onto one of our Advice days below: Friday 15 August – August Advice Day 9:30am – 2pm
Monday 18 August – August Advice Day 9:30am – 2pm You will also be able to join one of our Campus Tours, giving you the opportunity to take a look around our outstanding learning and teaching facilities whilst exploring our attractive campus.
Discounted travel by train
We are happy to offer a discount on South Western Railway train tickets for Open Day attendees.
Get 34% off your SWR train ticket cost if if are attending an Open Day.
If you have a 16-25 Railcard, the discount is 40%.
This is available to the student and any guests travelling with the student to the Open Day (Clearing Advice Days) for further information and T&Cs.
Clearing Campus Tours
Join one of our Student Ambassadors for a guided tour around campus.
There will be the opportunity to attend small, guided tours, look around our Student Villages and speak to current students.
Book onto one of our campus tours below:
Campus Tour Afternoon - Thursday 14 August 12pm Campus Tour Afternoon - Thursday 14 August 2pm Campus Tour Afternoon - Thursday 14 August 4pm Campus Tour - Saturday 16 August 2025, 10am Campus Tour - Saturday 16 August 2025, 12pm Campus Tour - Saturday 16 August 2025, 2pm Campus Tour - Sunday 17 August 2025, 10am Campus Tour - Sunday 17 August 2025, 12pm Campus Tour - Sunday 17 August 2025, 2pm

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/UWin-Student-Blog/Blog-Posts/How-to-ace-clearing-with-these-ten-tips.php:
With results day just around the corner, you might be anxiously waiting to find out if you've achieved the grades you need to secure your place at your favourite university studying your dream course.
You might also be wondering what happens if you open your results and they're not quite what you were expecting.
But fear not, with our guidance, you’ll be sure to have a smooth and positive experience.
Here are our top tips on how to ace Clearing:
Keep breathing and try not to panic (note: this is crucial)
Let yourself react.
It's fine to cry, or laugh, or scream, jump up and down
Call the university that you wanted to go to.
Real people work at universities who are understanding, flexible and might still consider your application.
They will be able to walk you through your options
4.
Research some of the other universities you thought about at the time of your application and even have a look at some new ones!
It's important not to make any rash decisions at this stage and panic pick a university without having thoroughly considered where you could be spending the next three or four years of your life
5.
Think about the course, the campus, the city where you might like to be – lots of things go into your university experience.
Think about what you liked about your top choice universities and keep this in mind when looking for a place through Clearing
6.
Remember, you are not alone.
There's a reason why a whole room full of friendly people are there to answer the university phones – students are calling!
7.
Sometimes it helps to be a little flexible.
Maybe you didn't quite make the place on the Law course, but perhaps your university can offer you a place on the Criminology with Law course.
Maybe you didn't even know you could do Criminology with Law, but hey, Clearing could open up a whole new opportunity for you to really pick a course that is right for you
8.
Once you've narrowed down some universities you might like to study at, it's time to call them up!
You can find out what you'll need to have ready before you call on our Clearing page .
Remember, there is no such thing as a silly question
9.
Try to make notes when you're on the phone and write down any important information about the university or course so you don't get places muddled up later.
Having this information on hand will help you to make a clear decision when you are ready to secure your place
10.
Go along to a Clearing Advice Day if you can, to learn more about the course, the university and the vibe of the town.
It can be stressful looking for a university during Clearing, but it can also be a great opportunity to consider new courses or places
Whatever your path, you'll hopefully be off to university soon!
Before long it will be time to make sure your accommodation, finances and pictures of your dog to bring with you are all sorted out before you start.
Get ready for the best time of your life as a university student!
Once you have your results you can get in touch with someone on our friendly Clearing hotline on (+44) 0 1962 827234 until 18 October.
On Thursday 18 August our hotline will be open from 8am - 10pm, Friday 19 August - 8am-6pm and Saturday 20 August and Sunday 21 August - 10am-4pm.
You can also get in touch via the Live Chat on our website.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/UWin-Student-Blog/Blog-Posts/A-Clearing-Guide-for-Parents-and-Supporters.php:
Being as informed as possible and helping your young person to be well prepared will help everyone keep calm and positive on what can be a stressful day for some.
Before results day it's a good idea to encourage your young person to keep checking their application for updates and reply to any offers .
Make sure all their contact details are correct so they don't miss any communication.
Although you want to hope for the best, it's important to talk about a back up plan with your young person.
Check what grades they need to get into their first choice and discuss with them other options (universities, courses, colleges) that they would consider.
It's good to prepare a list of questions they might want to ask potential universities , so they're ready with these if the time comes.
Prior research will make it a far easier on the day.
Courses that might be available can be found via the UCAS Clearing search tool before the day.
It's worth taking a look at all their resources and guides to find out more.
Results day can cause a lot of heightened emotion, so it's important not to panic, stay calm, and don't rush into any decisions.
If they are collecting results, they will have been informed by their school or college the times and how to do this.
UCAS and their university choices won’t share exam results with them.
Once they have their results its also important to check their UCAS Hub to see the status of their offer, and if their place has been confirmed.
Potentially, their results might not be what they'd hoped for but finding a place through Clearing can open up a wide range of opportunities for them.
Clearing allows applicants to shop around for university places yet to be filled.
It’s available to anyone who's made a UCAS undergraduate application (or is about to) and has their qualification results, but doesn’t hold any offers.
Courses available aren’t just those left over, there can be a huge mix of opportunities and applicants are increasingly using the process to their advantage.
It opens on 5 July and remains open until mid-October , however many courses start teaching in September so applying by mid-September is recommended.
Most places will have information about Clearing on their website , including a specific Clearing number to call (this might not be published until results day) or a live chat function on their website to discuss options for your young person.
It has to be your young individual that has the conversation, however, not you.
You can support them by their side with pen and paper, researching on your laptop or phone, and offering advice.
Check they have their Clearing number, UCAS personal ID and a list of qualifications and exam results .
It's also vital you make sure you have good phone signal and internet connection.
You can find more details on Clearing on the UCAS website .
If your future student doesn’t gain the results they need, the obvious option might be Clearing.
However, keep other options in mind, whether this be a gap year, work experience, applying to complete further studies or considering degree apprenticeships.
The Clearing process can make you feel pressured to make decisions quickly.
It’s important that students take their time to consider the pros and cons of each choice .
As well as the course itself, highlight areas you think might be worth checking, e.g.
travel to the university, accommodation, student support, etc.
There are visits to the campus available after results day so you can explore together to check it’s the right place for them and ask any further questions.
Remind them that clearing call centres, including the Winchester team, are there to support students finding their ideal university place.
We will do everything we can to make that happen in a friendly and positive way.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/Clearing/Clearing-teachers-and-advisers:
Students will need to be prepared with the following items:
We also recommend that students are ready with:
Students who missed or exceeded their predicted grades, or have changed their plans, can use Clearing to find a university place.
Applicants are eligible for Clearing if they:
Students can contact us in two main ways, by calling us on 01962 827234 or using the ASK button on our homepage where we can discuss their options through live chat.
If you have questions or information about an applicant’s application, please contact Admissions on: admissions@winchester.ac.uk
We allocate on a first applied, first allocated basis so it is recommended that students get their application in early.
We also have brand new self-contained studio flats near the University.
Students can view all of our accommodation on our What’s on offer page.
As soon as students have received confirmation from UCAS of their place to study at Winchester they can apply for their university accommodation by submitting a housing application online.
To complete their online housing application, they will need their Student ID Number (Winchester Reference Number).
Students will need to call us on +44 (0)1962 827234 and we can provide this over the phone immediately.
If students have contacted us and we have been able to make them a verbal or online offer, this will be backed up with an email to the address they have provided us with to confirm.
Students are then able to visit UCAS to add their course option, our admissions team will then be able to confirm their place via UCAS.
Students can collect offers from a range of universities and each of these may have a different time limit by when students need to have added their choice to UCAS Track.
It is important that students check emails from universities as they will each have specific information.
Students should contact the admissions team by email if they are holding an offer and now wish to defer their place to 2025.
Emails should be sent to admissions@winchester.ac.uk including the students UCAS ID number, full name and course for which they are holding a place.
We can’t accept deferred applicants through Clearing please encourage students to contact us and we’ll be happy to discuss their options.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/subjects/Allied-Health:
You choose the opportunity to make an everlasting difference to people's lives.
We commit to offering you the platform to flourish into a professional who changes lives.
Allied Health at Winchester offers a diverse range of course for aspiring healthcare professionals.
Whichever specialism you choose, you will be prepared for a career in an always evolving industry and have the advanced knowledge and skills needed to excel.
You will be joining a passionate community dedicated to shaping the future of healthcare.
The network of mentors and friends you meet at Winchester will support you during your studies and as you take the first steps of your career.
Whether it’s experienced lecturers, cutting edge facilities, or valuable professional placements, all the tools you need to succeed are here.
*For full Terms and Conditions
The BSc (Hons) Midwifery programme aims to develop inclusive, compassionate midwives who can safely provide high quality midwifery care and are equipped with the skills to flourish within modern health care systems.
Following successful completion of this course you will be eligible to register as a midwife with the NMC.
Would you like to influence food and health policy across the spectrum, from government to local communities and individuals?
By training to be a registered dietitian, you will be able to apply the nutritional care process from developing a nutritional diagnosis to managing a wide range of nutrition-related healthcare problems found in today’s society.
From rehab to recovery.
Transform lives through expert, hands-on care with our accredited BSc (Hons) Physiotherapy degree.
Taught by passionate and experienced clinicians and educators from diverse fields in the profession, you'll build practical skills in our cutting-edge simulation facilities while developing professional values that today’s employers care about.
With 1,000+ clinical practice hours, graded placements that count towards your degree, and leadership training embedded throughout, you'll graduate as a confident, compassionate practitioner ready to make an immediate impact in healthcare.
Our MRes in Health Science will provide you with a challenging and stimulating programme of taught and independent study in a discipline of Health and/or Wellbeing of your choice.
Looking to build a successful career in sports performance or rehabilitation?
This hybrid MSc combines expert-led theory with hands-on experience, giving you the skills and confidence to work with athletes at any level.
With a strong focus on employability, the programme includes a placement module where you’ll gain valuable experience designing and delivering strength and conditioning programmes for athletes.
The flexible hybrid format allows you to fit your studies around work or other internships, combining online theoretical learning with in-person practical sessions in our excellent strength and conditioning lab and other specialist facilities.
Whether you’re a recent graduate or a professional looking to upskill, this programme prepares you to thrive in roles across strength and conditioning, sports therapy, physiotherapy and rehabilitation fields.
While also helping you prepare for Accreditation with the UKSCA.
Are you an experienced practitioner who is interested in supporting and developing learning in your professional workplace?
The Post Graduate Certificate in Practice Education provides multi-professional education for health and social care practitioners undertaking a practice educator role.
The programme is delivered flexibly, with significant opportunities for application, on-the-job learning, and research.
The Faculty of Health and Wellbeing aims to enrich the health and wellbeing of individuals, families, communities and society.
Study is undertaken at undergraduate and postgraduate level./p>
Welcome to our Press Centre.
Home to our latest news releases, research blogs and announcements.
Come and visit us at one of our lectures or other events open to the general public throughout the year.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/subjects/Business-and-Marketing:
Launch yourself into a successful career that is full of fast-paced changes, data-driven communication, and strategic thinking with our Business and Marketing courses.
Business and Marketing at Winchester looks to the future and the great potential of what you could become.
Within Business and Marketing we house a range of industry-focused courses to provide you with a solid understanding of the challenges of the professional world today.
From starting your own business, to working for a global brand, you will learn how to stand out from the crowd, communicate effectively with an audience, and forge a meaningful career path.
In your Foundation Year you will develop your academic skills and gain a thorough understanding of Accounting and related subjects within the faculty.
In a fast-moving and complex global economy, the role of management has never been more exciting and challenging.
Over 750,000 companies were founded in the UK in 2022, the second highest year on record.
At Winchester we are passionate about enhancing your digital capabilities and agile thinking to enable you to thrive in a rapidly evolving business world.
From business conferences to exhibitions and fundraisers to festivals – the events industry is varied, vibrant and booming.
Our vocationally orientated Event Management degree is recognised as one of the best in the country and will help you launch a career where you can really make an impact.
Do you dream of creating iconic campaigns for major brands, innovating new pathways into sustainable fashion or making your mark with your own independent fashion brand?
Our f uture-focused course has your digital skills development, analytics and problem solving embedded and has your employability and industry links integrated into every industry-focused module.
“Just Do It,” “ Have a break, have a….,” “I’m lovin’ it,” “Because I’m worth it,” “Maybe she’s born with it, maybe it’s….” These powerful marketing campaigns are imprinted into the psyche of consumers.
So how do you make a service or product stand out in a global economy where consumers have more choice than ever?
“Just Do It,” “ Have a break, have a….,” “I’m lovin’ it,” “Because I’m worth it,” “Maybe she’s born with it, maybe it’s….”
These powerful marketing campaigns are imprinted into the psyche of consumers.
From music festivals and business conferences to exhibitions, fundraisers and weddings – the events industry is varied, vibrant and consistently growing.
Develop your digital and problem solving skills, experience and knowledge on your industry-focused course.
From balance sheets to bold solutions.
Launch your finance career with a degree that looks beyond the spreadsheets.
We'll equip you with professional qualifications while developing the human skills that employers truly value.
Our award-nominated programme balances technical expertise with real-world application – giving you everything you need to thrive in a changing financial landscape.
This is an intensive, two-year degree programme provides an accelerated route to a professional accounting career.
From business theory to the boardroom.
Turn your passion for business into purpose-driven leadership.
In our BA (Hons) Business Management programme, you'll develop the knowledge, skills, and confidence to thrive in today's dynamic business world.
This innovative programme focuses on applied learning, where you'll solve real industry challenges and develop entrepreneurial thinking – all without the pressure of traditional exams.
With four specialisms and flexible final-year options, you can tailor your degree to match your ambitions, whether that's joining a national, global, or private corporation, managing projects, or launching your own venture.
Whether you envisage life at a FTSE 100 company, or want to run your own start-up, at Winchester we’ll equip you to be a confident, responsible and innovative leader of the future able to meet the shifting demands of the contemporary business world.
You will develop your digital capabilities and become an agile thinker ready to thrive in a rapidly evolving business world.
This top-up degree allows students who have completed relevant Level 4 and 5 qualifications elsewhere to join the final year of our BA (Hons) Business Management programme, enabling you to gain a full Bachelor's degree in just one academic year.
If you want to create the next gaming sensation, design an innovative advertising campaign or craft immersive virtual reality experiences, then this degree is for you.
You'll build a portfolio of digital skills to prepare you for the constantly evolving digital design industry.
“Just Do It,” “ Have a break, have a….” , “I’m lovin’ it,” “Because I’m worth it,” “Maybe she’s born with it, maybe it’s….” These powerful marketing campaigns are imprinted into the psyche of consumers.
So how do you make a product or service stand out in a global economy where consumers have more choice than ever?
“Just Do It,” “ Have a break, have a….” , “I’m lovin’ it,” “Because I’m worth it,” “Maybe she’s born with it, maybe it’s….”
The status of the global economy and financial trends are more dynamic than ever.
On your course, you'll develop the skills to be able to apply macroeconomic, microeconomic and finance theories and practices in the context of global social responsibility.
Are you ready to invest in your future?
Whether you’re looking to take the lead in your field or nurturing a business idea, the full-time MBA at Winchester is ideal for high achieving, ambitious graduates who want to develop the strategic knowledge and skills essential for successful careers in organisations with a sustainable outlook.
Digital Marketing and Analytics at Winchester advances your knowledge and skills in creating digital content, helping you to ensure your target audience sees and responds.
The course also refines your skills in using data analytics, equipping you to develop and use appropriate digital marketing strategies to reach consumers, clients and partners.
International Business Management at Winchester is a pre-experience course designed to offer you a broad management education, particularly if you have not previously studied business at undergraduate level, but are interested in developing a career in management.
The knowledge and skills you develop on the programme are also of value if you have some previous business experience and are looking to advance your career further.
Enthusiastic lecturers and a supportive learning environment in small classes make International Financial Management at Winchester a stimulating and enjoyable experience.
The course is designed to launch your career in the sector, and for those with existing professional experience and qualifications it provides opportunities to enhance and update your knowledge and skills.
Do you want to make a difference in this competitive sector as an innovative and sustainable marketing manager?
Our MSc Marketing programme will give you that edge along with the opportunity to learn about consumer behaviour, digital transformation, managerial strategies and communication approaches, which can be applied to responsible management practices through your future career as a marketing leader.
The MSc Project Management, accredited by the Association for Project Management for Pathway 2, is a recognised assessment on the route to Chartered Project Professional status.
The programme equips you with technical and interpersonal skills in both tactical and strategic approaches to portfolio, programme and project management.
With students coming from a wide range of Undergraduate degrees, embarking on this masters course will provide you with a competitive edge when searching for careers in your chosen area, as the course offers a range of focused skills in project management that are sought after by employers.
The inclusive, broad and diverse nature of the programme provides a unique opportunity for you to learn about various applications and contexts of project management through a variety of modules.
The Faculty of Business and Digital Technologies comprises of the University of Winchester Business School and the Department of Digital Technologies.
The Faculty is designed to bring together the core disciplines of a modern, forward thinking University and develop interdisciplinary linkages with the remaining four Faculties at Winchester./p>

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/subjects/Computing-and-Digital-Media-Design:
Shape the future.
Challenge what’s ordinary.
Start your digital career today.
Studying a course within Computing and Digital Media Design will make you an incredibly sought-after graduate.
If you are a problem solver and are enthused by the diverse digital age, then this is the subject area for you.
Discovering creative solutions in a rapidly growing digital world, understanding the nuances of fast developing areas such as virtual reality, and working on real commissions will set you apart in this competitive industry.
Our state-of-the-art facilities, from rapid prototyping machines, 3D printers and 3D laboratory, to CNC machines and VR headsets, will equip you with all the tools you need to level up your skills.
This programme offers a multidisciplinary perspective on the subject of Computer Science, providing you with an excellent basis for a future career in the field.
Your course is future-focused and has the development of your digital skills, analytics and problem solving at its core.
Employability and industry links are integrated into every module to support you in developing the skills you'll need in the workplace.
In the digital age, every company and individual with a digital footprint is at risk of being targeted by hackers and criminals.
At Winchester, we are passionate about developing your skills so that you have the analytical skills and agile thinking to enable you to make a difference in the online and offline world.
Are you passionate about solving global digital challenges and improving the efficiency of our everyday technologies?
Are you inspired by the opportunity to develop highly efficient products and systems that will transform a wide range of vital industries, from banking to healthcare?
Studying Media and Communication at the University of Winchester will help you to develop a strong understanding of the media industries and trends in media culture and communication, providing you with a critical perspective of how global media works and the impact of new digital and AI technologies.
We offer employability-led opportunities to develop professional skills and creative practices, including responding to live briefs, developing pitches and participating in client-facing projects.
Your programme provides a multidisciplinary perspective to the subject of Computer Science, giving you an excellent basis for a future career in the field.
The course is future-focused and has the development of your digital skills, analytics and problem solving at its core.
Employability and industry links are integrated into every module to support you in developing the skills you will need in the workplace.
This top-up degree allows students who have completed relevant Level 4 and 5 qualifications elsewhere to join the final year of our BSc (Hons) Computer Science programme, enabling you to gain a full Bachelor's degree in just one academic year.
This top-up degree allows students who have completed relevant Level 4 and 5 qualifications elsewhere to join the final year of our BSc (Hons) Cyber Security programme, enabling you to gain a full Bachelor's degree in just one academic year.
Studying Immersive Technologies at Winchester, you will become well-versed in industry game engines, Unity and Unreal, and 3D technologies and texture creation, giving you the knowledge and skills to create captivating digital experiences.
This top-up degree allows students who have completed relevant Level 4 and 5 qualifications elsewhere to join the final year of our BSc (Hons) Software Engineering programme, enabling you to gain a full Bachelor's degree in just one academic year.
This accredited programme offers a multi-disciplinary perspective to the subject of Cyber Security giving you an excellent basis for a future career in the field.
This is particularly crucial given the Government Cyber Security Strategy and the current skills shortage in the marketplace.
The Faculty of Business and Digital Technologies comprises of the University of Winchester Business School (which manages our Business and Finance-related programmes) and the Department of Digital Technologies.
The Faculty is designed to bring together the core disciplines of a modern, forward thinking University and develop interdisciplinary linkages with the remaining four Faculties in the University of Winchester./p>
Welcome to our press centre.
Come and visit us at one of our events at Winchester.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/subjects/English-Creative-Writing-and-Journalism:
Discover the craft of storytelling.
Whether you want to inspire or inform, we create graduates with the technical and creative toolkit to tell the stories that matter most to them.
By pursuing a degree in English, Creative Writing or Journalism, you will be joining a community of students and academics who are exploring the power of the written word and beyond.
If you wish to craft poetry, songs, or scripts, then the Creative Writing degree will appeal to you.
If you want to explore the real-world application of language and how it is used, our English Language degree will take you on this journey.
English Literature offers students almost 800 years' worth of the best writing, allowing you to think about literature creatively and critically and much more.
Perhaps you want to work beyond words with audio and video content, then our Journalism degrees will give you experience in all roles, in our industry standard newsroom.
We take a holistic approach aiming towards you not only becoming the best writer you can be, but ensuring you understand how you can use your writing in a professional capacity.
To help you achieve this, our department of passionate and supportive lecturers runs a practice-based programme with workshops designed to encourage your evolution as a writer.
If you are a passionate reader who enjoys a broad spectrum of literature, from Shakespeare to Postmodern fiction, and you also like the idea of tapping into your own creative energies to craft poetry, plays or prose, then this is the perfect course for you.
The study of English Literature is unique in that it introduces you to any and every aspect of Anglophone culture that interests you, so it does not tie you down to any particular career pathway.
To help set you up to do what you choose in the future, and to help you make the choice of what field you want to work in, we offer a wide range of literature from which you can learn.
From Renaissance to rap poetry, you will work with almost 500 years of the best writing in English on a course that fires your imagination, sharpens your own written and communication skills and allows you to think critically about literature.
If you are a fan of the types of novels and films that have stood the test of time and how the two relate, then this course is made for you.
In our English Literature and Film degree you consider the disciplinary differences of literature and film as well as their interdependence, as many films begin as screenplays and many novels have been adapted for the big screen.
Would you like to direct ITV News at Ten , report for The Times or present your own BBC radio show?
That’s exactly what our former students are doing now.
Come and join our award-winning BJTC accredited course which perfectly prepares you for the exciting and fast-paced world of digital journalism.
Would you like to produce Soccer Sunday , be the next F1 pit lane reporter, or direct coverage of Olympics?
That’s exactly what some of our former students are doing.
Our BJTC accredited course perfectly prepares you for the exciting and fast-paced world of sports journalism.
Creative Writing at Winchester offers you the opportunity to evaluate and improve your creative writing in a dynamic, supportive environment.
The programme is taught by professional writers and highly experienced practitioner-academics in Creative Writing, with a particular focus on fiction and literary non-fiction.
There are opportunities to meet editors and published writers and, as your knowledge of the publishing industry expands, find out where your work fits within the market.
The MA English Literature at Winchester is designed to develop your skills in analysing and reading texts and creating your own arguments as you work on closely focussed projects from all the main periods of English Literature.
Our course is focussed around four literary periods: Medieval to Renaissance (1473-1660), The Enlightenment (1660-1798), Romanticism and Victorian Literature (1798-1910), and The Modern Period (1910 – the present).
Our Faculty offers research-led teaching and outstanding support across undergraduate and postgraduate study in: Animal Welfare and Society; Anthropology; Archaeology; Classical Studies; Creative Writing; English; Geography; History; Liberal Arts; Philosophy; Politics and International Relations; Psychology; Religion and Theology, and Sociology./p>

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/subjects/Environment-and-Society:
Forging new pathways.
Alliance and debate.
Caring for the world.
Challenge your thinking around the local, national and global obstacles of the modern day.
If you’re compassionate for the world around you and want to expand your knowledge of the systems that instruct our human nature, Environment and Society is your ideal subject area.
At every turn we encourage our students to make a difference, something which our industry leading teaching staff are truly passionate about.
Whether it’s looking into new ways to protect our planet or developing a deeper understanding of international co-operation, the courses in this subject area are driven by a compelling need for good.
Sociology is an exciting and vibrant subject that explores the social issues impacting our fast-moving world.
Whether it’s tackling topics like gender and sexuality, crime, or inequalities, Sociology’s focus on people and cultures is key to understanding the challenges and opportunities of our current landscape.
Criminology has never been concerned solely with crime.
Criminologists have always wanted to define the nature of crime and explain its social causes.
Although you learn a lot about both criminology and sociology on our joint honours programme, the unique value of its interdisciplinary approach is that it provides deeper insights into the nature and origin of crime.
Understanding the past is crucial to facing the political challenges of the future.
Our History and Politics degree challenges you to interpret the history of societies and political cultures critically and imaginatively.
Studying these two complementary subjects together will not only help you understand how the world works, but why it works this way.
How on earth do we make sense of Brexit, Trump and terrorism?
Why do countries go to war?
And how can I actively participate in policy making?
Our compelling course and enthusiastic team of expert lecturers will help you answer these questions and get to grips with the complexity of domestic, regional and international political life.
From glaciers to megacities, Geography is the study of the earth’s processes, both natural and human.
As a subject it has the capacity to take you almost anywhere and field exploration is a major component of the course.
Our BSc explores some of the most pressing issues facing the planet in the 21st century: climate change, pressures on the natural world and society and how these can be mitigated and managed.
Politics and International Relations at Winchester examines government and society at the local, regional, and global level, enabling you to critically evaluate key issues in both contemporary and historical settings in a multidisciplinary approach from the economic, political, social and cultural from the perspective of state organisations, non-state bodies, and international institutions and groups.
Our Faculty offers research-led teaching and outstanding support across undergraduate and postgraduate study in: Animal Welfare and Society; Anthropology; Archaeology; Classical Studies; Creative Writing; English; Geography; History; Philosophy; Politics and International Relations; Psychology; Religion and Theology, and Sociology./p>

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/subjects/Film-and-Media:
If you want to develop your critical thinking, get hands on, and step out into the world of employment with the right skills to set you apart, this is the subject area for you.
Dive in to practical and theoretical projects grounded in real world experience.
Our lecturers work as practitioners in the field, which helps us to maintain relationships with local and national organisations.
Through these networks we give students networking and placement opportunities that make them informed, industry ready graduates.
Our courses are designed so that, however much previous experience you’ve had, your individual path will be laid out with clarity and support.
By studying one of the courses within Film and Media, you will learn to articulate your ideas and develop a host of transferable skills to make you a versatile and agile prospect.
Studying Film and Media at the University of Winchester offers you the opportunity to build an understanding of the historical and contemporary developments in this major global industry and to critically examine central elements of Film Studies – such as production, reception, and textual functions – within the context of wider media history and culture, including the latest developments surrounding digital production techniques, algorithmic cultures and the use of AI in the industry.
From concept to Cannes.
Step behind the lens and into a world where your creative vision becomes reality.
Our BA (Hons) Film Production programme puts equipment in your hands from day one, giving you unprecedented access to professional kit year-round – not just for assignments but for your own creative projects.
You'll collaborate with acting students, work in authentic production teams, and graduate with multiple films in your portfolio to showcase your skills.
With guidance from practicing lecturers and connections to prestigious festivals like Cannes, you'll develop both the creative and professional identity that have helped our graduates land roles on productions from Star Wars to Game of Thrones.
This top-up degree allows students who have completed relevant Level 4 and 5 qualifications elsewhere to join the final year of our BA (Hons) Film Production programme, enabling you to gain a full Bachelor's degree in just one academic year.
If you aspire to see your name in the rolling credits of a hard-hitting Netflix documentary or BAFTA-nominated feature film then our Film Production course will give you a solid foundation from which to build your portfolio and career.
Our cutting-edge course embraces all the key areas of film production, from development to post production, and will help you determine whether you’re destined to be a director, editor, screenwriter or one of many other vital roles in the thriving film industry.
Whether you’re passionate about zombie movies, Hollywood blockbusters, or art-house French classics, our Film Studies degree provides you with the intellectual rigour to analyse all types of film from a number of different perspectives.
This top-up degree allows students who have completed relevant Level 4 and 5 qualifications elsewhere to join the final year of our BA (Hons) Film Studies programme, enabling you to gain a full Bachelor's degree in just one academic year.
Does professional studio recording and sound design thrill you?
Are you seeking to push audio boundaries, discover emerging musical trends or forge new collaborations with musicians and creative artists?
You can achieve all this and more on our Music and Sound Production programme, which is designed to provide you with an in-depth exploration of music and sound’s role in the convergent media industries of today enabling you to become the professional you want to be.
This top-up degree allows students who have completed relevant Level 4 and 5 qualifications elsewhere to join the final year of our BA (Hons) Music and Sound Production, enabling you to gain a full Bachelor's degree in just one academic year Does professional studio recording and sound design thrill you?
This top-up degree allows students who have completed relevant Level 4 and 5 qualifications elsewhere to join the final year of our BA (Hons) Music and Sound Production, enabling you to gain a full Bachelor's degree in just one academic year
This top-up degree allows students who have completed relevant Level 4 and 5 qualifications elsewhere to join the final year of our BSc (Hons) Immersive Technologies, enabling you to gain a full Bachelor's degree in just one academic year.
We have a long and established history of being a major provider of high-quality programmes, partnerships and research opportunities in the fields of teaching, the academic study of education, media and communications, performing arts, film and journalism.
The Faculty is home to the Institute of Education, Department of Education and Childhood Studies, Department of Performing Arts, and School of Media and Film/p>

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/subjects/Health-and-Social-Care:
The start of a rewarding, varied and ever-evolving career.
Health and Social Care at the University of Winchester prepares students for a challenging yet immensely fulfilling career.
Our programmes provide a gateway to explore the inner workings of this vital sector and equip you with the necessary skills to make a meaningful difference for individuals, families and communities.
Through engaging coursework, practical experiences, and close interaction with expert teaching staff, you will have the confidence to succeed and a comprehensive understanding of the key issues within a sector where compassion, empathy and knowledge intertwine.
Whether you aspire to become a social care or healthcare professional, a social worker or work in educational services, our programmes provide a solid foundation for personal growth and professional development.
Working with vulnerable or marginalised adults and children, helping people reach their full potential and supporting healthy lifestyles adds up to a challenging and rewarding career.
With an ageing population and cuts to social care, there is a pressing need for qualified workers, particularly in the most deprived communities in the country.
Gain vital real-world skills on practical work placements, learning from staff, service users, carers and practitioners to be come the best social worker you can be.
On graduation you will be eligible to register with Social Work England and begin your Assessed and Supported Year in Employment as a social worker.
Are you keen to engage with contemporary challenges and opportunities in public health?
The field of public health is expanding globally, in the context of increased migration, conflict, natural disasters and pandemics.
The market therefore requires increased numbers of public health professionals.
Social Work at Winchester is a professional qualification covering the main knowledge, skills and values essential for practising as a newly qualified social worker.
Successful completion of this programme makes you eligible to register as a social worker with Social Work England.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/subjects/History-Anthropology-and-Archaeology:
Archaeology, Anthropology and History open up the human world past and present.
Learn from our experts in their fields, in a city steeped in two thousand years of history.
Archaeology aims to understand past societies by uncovering and analysing remains discovered in excavations – from tools to bones.
Through studies of human populations across the world and over time, Anthropology prompts us to ask questions about what it means to be human.
History at Winchester explores the past from a variety of perspectives, including social, cultural, political, post-colonial, gender, transnational and environmental history.
Our courses can be tailored to the period that fascinates you as our range of optional modules is wide and includes the Classical World (Greece and Rome), the Middle Ages, the Early Modern period in both Britain and Europe, and international history modules from Russia to Japan and America to India.
Our Anthropology programme is a fascinating exploration of human societies, looking at present-day western and non-western groups, the biological aspects of humanity, and social development through time as seen in material culture.
This four-year course enables you to get to grips with questions commonly posed by anthropologists: How has evolution shaped us?
What is culture?
Do any universals of human behaviour exist?
Archaeology examines the physical evidence of past societies to trace the evolution and cultural history of humanity.
Ancient landscapes, buildings, artefacts and the people themselves can all reveal a small part of a bigger picture.
Our BA in Archaeology takes you on an immersive and exciting journey through time — from our earliest human ancestors to the industrial age drawing from subjects within the humanities and the physical and biological sciences.
Classical studies is the ultimate humanities subject, drawing together insights from an exciting range of related disciplines and approaches.
Our BA in Classical Studies is designed with this variety in mind, encouraging you to develop deep appreciation for the history, politics, and culture of the ancient Greek and Roman worlds and their legacy.
History helps us to better understand the past and make sense of the world we live in.
Our BA in History is an immensely varied and rich course that gives you an in-depth view of the world and the contours and forces at play between politics, culture, economics, the environment, gender and religion.
Anthropology is a wide-ranging discipline that prompts us to ask questions about what it means to be human and how to value and understand human diversity.
Through studies of human populations across the world and over time, anthropologists aim to increase our understanding of ourselves and others.
Our Ancient, Classical and Medieval Studies degree takes you on a highly engaging and fascinating adventure through time.
From the Bronze Age to the Crusades and beyond, it’s an absorbing three-year journey exploring the archaeology and history of the British Isles, continental Europe and the Mediterranean.
The study of archaeology alongside anthropology deepens your understanding of the development of past societies and cultures.
Our BA in Archaeology takes you on an immersive and exciting journey through time — from our earliest human ancestors to the industrial age, drawing from subjects within the humanities and the physical and biological sciences.
From studying the past to shaping the future.
Explore history where it happened.
At Winchester, you’ll study the past in a global context, working closely with expert historians in a vibrant modern city rich in heritage.
This is a course designed to deepen your curiosity, develop your skills and give you real-world experience – preparing you for a range of careers in heritage, education, creative industries and beyond.
Do you want to dig deeper into the past to gain new groundbreaking insights?
On this fascinating hands-on degree, you combine the study of both historical documents and archaeological remains in a quest for missing pieces of the historical canvas.
History helps us to better understand the past to make sense of the world we live in.
Our BA in History with Year Abroad opens a world of opportunities through an immensely varied and rich range of modules and the chance of experiencing at first-hand learning and living within different cultures and societies to your own.
In Britain, we love our crumbling castles, noble cathedrals and bloody representations of the medieval age in popular culture.
If you have a passion for history with a special interest in the Middle Ages, then this course is perfect for you.
Our BA in Medieval History with Year Abroad opens a world of opportunities through an immensely varied and rich range of modules and the chance of experiencing at first-hand learning and living within different cultures and societies to your own.
Satisfy your curiosity and develop a deep understanding of the world in which we live through the study of the history that shaped it from the sixteenth century to the present.
Modern History at Winchester allows you to make your own discoveries with a range of innovative and stimulating courses.
Our BA in Modern History with Year Abroad opens a world of opportunities through an immensely varied and rich range of modules and the chance of experiencing at first-hand learning and living within different cultures and societies to your own.
Archaeology unearths the stories of our past.
It is the role of the archaeologist to discover and excavate sites and interpret the material recovered from them.
Our Archaeological Practice course is the original vocational archaeology degree, and is specifically designed to give you the practical and technical skills necessary for a successful career in archaeology.
Your rewarding placement year will boost your skills, experience and professional network.
If you are excited by the idea of using modern scientific techniques to explore how people lived in the past, our science-based Archaeology degree is for you.
Learn the latest methods and approaches and how they’re applied, then carry out your own original biological, physical and earth science research to solve problems of the human past.
Cultural Heritage and Resource Management considers the wider place of heritage management in contemporary society and offers you the chance to undertake your own projects on a range of different subjects.
You investigate the theory and practice of cultural heritage and resource management from both a British and a global approach.
History at Winchester concentrates on different geographical scales of history, including local and global perspectives.
It gives you the opportunity to engage with a range of approaches to the study of history, examining a range of historical subjects from ancient history to the present.
The University of Winchester has a long history in teacher education and is recognised by Ofsted as an ‘Outstanding’ provider.
The University offers a stimulating and supportive learning environment that challenges and inspires trainees.
Our passion is to provide a university experience that helps you reach your full potential and make a real difference to children’s lives.
The Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences is has research-led teaching and outstanding support across undergraduate and postgraduate study in: Animal Welfare and Society; Anthropology; Archaeology; Classical Studies; Creative Writing; English; Geography; History; Liberal Arts; Philosophy; Politics and International Relations; Psychology; Religion and Theology, and Sociology./p>

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/subjects/Law:
Law provides the framework for modern society, impacting on all our lives, so if you have an enquiring and analytical mind, a stimulating and thought-provoking Law course at Winchester could be for you.
Law at Winchester is taught through skills-based learning.
You will learn how to: master a negotiation, conduct a mediation, interview a client effectively and become proficient in legal research.
You will perfect your communication skills through mooting (presenting an argument to defeat your opponent in court) in our new moot courtroom, where you may find yourself discussing anything from third-party rights when downloading music, to workplace discrimination.
Our close links with the legal profession enrich your experience.
You will have the opportunity to undertake ‘pro bono’ legal advice work in our Legal Advice Centre and attend workshops run by practising solicitors and barristers.
Law graduates are also highly valued in many industries including management, finance, HR, education, local and central government and the voluntary sector.
BA (Hons) Law with Criminology explores the legal framework of modern society, whilst being underpinned by criminological theories and issues.
You will develop your legal knowledge and practical skills such as negotiating and client interviewing alongside an applied examination of the fascinating fundamentals of contemporary criminal justice.
On our dynamic three-year programme you engage with the key issues surrounding forensic detection methods.
Combining elements of criminology, psychology and archaeology you are introduced to a wide range of applied investigative techniques, grounded in both classic and contemporary theoretical perspectives.
From mooting to mandates.
When you study Law at Winchester, legal theory is just the start.
You’ll bring your learning to life through hands-on assessments designed to help you develop the skills that employers value most.
From mooting and cross-examinations to client interviews and negotiations, you’ll step into real legal scenarios that build your confidence, sharpen your communication skills, and prepare you for the courtroom, boardroom, and beyond.
The LLM in Law (Conversion) at Winchester is designed to cover the foundations of legal knowledge subjects of the law that will allow you to progress onto the next stage of training to become a Solicitor or Barrister in England or Wales.
If you wish to become a solicitor, you will also be able to take the Solicitors Legal Knowledge preparation module that will prepare you for your SQE1.
Are you interested in becoming a solicitor in England and Wales?
The LLM in Legal Practice at Winchester is designed to prepare you for employment as a trainee solicitor.
Whilst developing the legal knowledge and skills needed to pass the Solicitors Qualifying Examination required for practice as a solicitor, you will also enhance your specialist knowledge and research capability, and have the opportunity to extend your practical experience through a work placement.
/p>

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/subjects/Music-and-Performing-Arts:
Become a key driver of contemporary culture by joining our supportive creative community.
Our courses within Music and Performing Arts are employability focused.
We regularly work with professional organisations where students can engage with industry experts to deepen their understanding of this expanding sector.
Studying at the University of Winchester will give you access to incredible cutting-edge facilities, including six purpose built performing arts studios, black box theatres, professional standard recording studios, and 24-hour multimedia centre.
If you are looking to refine your unique skills, jump straight in, and become an articulate performer in an encouraging environment, then this is the place for you.
Join a lively community of like-minded people on our Spotlight accredited course, to explore a breadth of acting skills from voice and movement training practices through to how to approach script work; working as an ensemble; acting for screen; applied theatre/theatre in education; devising your own work; alongside performance and production opportunities across different drama/theatre genres at each level.
Learn by doing!
It’s a competitive industry so you’ll need to be up for the challenge, but over three years you will get to enrich your imagination, build resilience, a disciplined working ethos and consolidate your own working methodology.
You’ll develop the artistic skills to forge a successful career as an actor but your skillset will also serve you well across a range of creative employment routes in the arts industry and beyond.
Musical theatre dazzles, inspires and entertains us.
However, it’s not all about singalongs and dancing in the aisles, there is business behind the show.
Musicals exist as cultural artefacts that have been used to divert us from the pressures of the world and to confront social issues head-on using humour, passion and pathos.
Popular Music: Production & Performance provides you the opportunity to learn in industry-standard facilities and be taught by industry practitioners.
The programme embraces a practical approach to learning with a balance of practical workshops and lectures, promoting different learning styles.
This top-up degree allows students who have completed relevant Level 4 and 5 qualifications elsewhere to join the final year of our BA (Hons) Popular Music: Production and Performance, enabling you to gain a full Bachelor's degree in just one academic year Popular Music: Production & Performance provides you the opportunity to learn in industry-standard facilities and be taught by industry practitioners.
This top-up degree allows students who have completed relevant Level 4 and 5 qualifications elsewhere to join the final year of our BA (Hons) Popular Music: Production and Performance, enabling you to gain a full Bachelor's degree in just one academic year
The Faculty of Education and the Arts is home to the Institute of Education, Department of Education and Childhood Studies, Department of Performing Arts, and School of Media and Film.
These programmes are consistently rated highly in internal and national surveys of student satisfaction./p>

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/subjects/Nursing-and-Midwifery:
Our Nursing and Midwifery courses give you the support and real-world experience needed to become the kind, caring and compassionate professional that so many will rely on.
Based at our West Downs campus you will have access to state-of-the-art clinical skills training facilities, including two five-bed hospital simulation wards, hi-tech medical mannequins and an active living centre set up to recreate a flat.
These facilities will develop the clinical skills that are needed in real-life settings and are complemented with active learning on practice placements with our partner trusts.
Accessible and experienced lecturers will provide you with the insights and education to become the value driven, compassionate graduate we are proud to produce at Winchester.
If you are a caring and compassionate individual, our BN (Hons) Nursing (Adult) with Foundation Year degree will help you become a highly skilled and much sought-after graduate nurse, specialising in caring for adults across a variety of settings.
If you are a caring and compassionate individual, our BN (Hons) Nursing (Child) with Foundation Year degree will help you become a highly skilled and much sought-after graduate nurse, specialising in caring for children across a variety of settings.
If you are a caring and compassionate individual, our BN (Hons) Nursing (Mental Health) with Foundation Year degree will help you become a skilled and highly sought-after graduate nurse, specialising in caring for people of all ages with mental health needs.
From lectures to lifesaving care.
Begin your journey to becoming a compassionate, skilled, and confident adult nurse at Winchester.
Our BN (Hons) Nursing (Adult) programme combines theoretical knowledge with hands-on clinical experience in a supportive community environment.
You'll benefit from early clinical placements, state-of-the-art simulation facilities, and unique opportunities to explore your special interests.
With a strong focus on both technical skills and personal values, we'll prepare you to make a real difference in people's lives from day one.
If you are a caring and compassionate individual, our BN (Hons) Nursing (Child) degree will help you become a highly skilled and much sought-after graduate nurse, specialising in caring for children across a variety of settings.
If you are a caring and compassionate individual, our BN (Hons) Nursing (Mental Health) degree will help you become a skilled and highly sought-after graduate nurse, specialising in caring for people of all ages with mental health needs.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/subjects/Philosophy-and-Religions:
Are you curious and find yourself asking great questions of the world?
Do you want to make the world a better place and contribute to life in a meaningful way?
Are you interested in debating contentious issues and challenging established ideas?
If so, one of these courses could be for you.
These are courses which, through exploration of philosophical ideas in everyday life, will develop you as a close observer of society, an independent thinker and a collaborative problem solver who will not only make sense of the world, but find a role within it to enact positive change.
From critical thinking to gathering and analysing evidence, and from communication and digital skills to cultural awareness you will gain a wide range of impressive and transferrable skills highly valued by employers.
Philosophy is arguably the oldest university subject and has the widest field, with philosophers asking fundamental and important questions about values, culture, science, religion and society.
As such Philosophy sits at the heart of any university, engaging with and enriching other programmes.
In fact, at Winchester, Philosophy has a special role pledged to pioneering values-driven education and asking big questions about human existence.
Do life’s biggest questions stir a desire in you to delve deeper – to understand and debate, for example, the meaning of life, the existence of God and how we can protect the planet we live on?
Our course examines the different perspectives of great minds and thinking on such momentous issues and equips you to engage with these discussions in an informed and critical way.
Death, Religion and Culture at Winchester is a distance learning course that explores the universal reality of death.
You examine the ways in which death and dying are understood differently by various cultures and religious traditions, and how those understandings are played out in rituals of death, dying and bereavement.
We are driven by passionate inquiry into what makes us human.
Research-led teaching and outstanding support is offered across undergraduate and postgraduate study in: Animal Welfare and Society; Anthropology; Archaeology; Classical Studies; Creative Writing; English; Geography; History; Liberal Arts; Philosophy; Politics and International Relations; Psychology; Religion and Theology, and Sociology./p>

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/subjects/Policing-Criminology-and-Forensics:
There are few subjects more compelling than crime.
If you have an enquiring, analytical mind, come and develop a range of skills on our crime-related courses which include Criminology, Professional Policing and Forensic Investigation to set you up for an exciting and rewarding career.
Learn from academic staff who bring their own experience of working in their field to discover what leads someone to crime.
Work on real-life cold cases, analyse a crime scene in our live crime scene house, work on your fitness in our gymnasium to make sure you can pass the police fitness test, or present evidence in a mock courtroom.
At Winchester you will develop inter-disciplinary skills such as gathering data, interpreting evidence and assembling arguments to formulate findings and conclusions.
We invite external experts such as magistrates and former police officers to enrich your experience on your programme.
Step into a future-focused criminology degree that equips you with the skills to question, analyse, and shape the systems that respond to crime.
Our BA (Hons) Criminology programme explores the social, legal, and ideological forces behind criminal behaviour and justice responses, blending critical thinking with real-world engagement.
Learn from a diverse team of magistrates, former prison officers, police officers, and victim advocates, and choose from flexible pathways that will prepare you to lead, challenge, and innovate in the rapidly evolving justice landscape.
Criminologists have always wanted to define the nature of crime and understand the criminal mind.
Although you learn a lot about both criminology and psychology on our joint honours programme, the unique value of its interdisciplinary approach is that it provides deeper insights into criminal behaviour.
Forensic investigative psychologists bring evidence-based approaches to enhance police investigations and improve the wider criminal justice system.
Their work is about enhancing all aspects of the legal process, from interview techniques and line-up decisions, to detecting deception and juror decision making.
Studying Forensic Investigative Psychology at Winchester opens a broad range of career opportunities.
We focus on your future from the start and are committed to helping you find and work towards an exciting career.
Our approach to your employability is personalised, successful, and unique to us.
Join us to discover the science behind how we think, feel and behave, with an emphasis on how it applies to the criminal justice system.
You will work with experienced lecturers and forensic investigative psychologists in our supportive learning community that puts your future first.
Are you a keen scientist with an eye for detail?
The latest addition to the University of Winchester’s Forensics’ portfolio is a fascinating degree in the fast-evolving environment of Forensic Science.
It joins existing programmes in Forensic Investigation, and Cyber Crime and Forensic Investigation.
This programme is geared towards individuals who are caring, considerate and willing to help and protect those in need.
The lecturers on this course have extensive operational policing experience and bring the complex world of policing to life through role plays, problem-solving activities, and group discussions.
We are fascinated by crime.
It pervades our daily news stories and television dramas, but its impact extends beyond an entertainment genre.
Psychologists and criminologists work to understand the causes of crime, how it influences individuals, groups, and wider society, and provide evidence-based approaches to support those affected by crime.
Studying Psychology with Criminology at Winchester opens a broad range of career opportunities.
Join us to discover the science behind how we think, feel and behave, and its applications to criminal behaviour and the justice system.
You will work with experienced lecturers, applied psychologists and criminologists in our supportive learning community that puts your future first.
Does the criminal justice system and its practice spark curiosity in you?
Whichever aspect of criminal justice generates that interest, you will have the opportunity to delve in to the multi-faceted world of criminal justice, with a focus on developing your professional skills and curiosity.
With a global staff and student body, the Faculty provides an industry-ready experience, giving the opportunity to engage with the profess/p>

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/subjects/Psychology:
Are you curious about what drives behaviour?
Are you fascinated by the human mind?
A psychology degree at Winchester will satisfy your interests as you discover the science behind how we think, feel and behave.
We offer a range of specialist and joint psychology degree options allowing you the chance to pursue the area that interests you most.
Once you have chosen the area you wish to study, you can choose from an array of optional modules in the final year of study to personalise your learning experience further.
We provide an empowering learning environment, with a personal tutor and one-to-one support during your final project.
You will also benefit from our dedicated research facilities, including the Electro-encephalography and Neurostimulation lab, social interaction suite and Alcohol Research lab.
A Psychology degree at Winchester will satisfy your interest as you discover the science behind how we think, feel and behave.
Psychology shapes every aspect of our lives, from its influence on how we interact with the world, our health and relationships, to real world impact in society including education, work and justice.
Studying Psychology at Winchester opens a broad range of career opportunities.
Join us to discover the science behind how we think, feel and behave.
You will work with experienced lecturers and applied psychologists in our supportive learning community that puts your future first.
Developmental and educational psychology is essential to understanding how children learn, mature, and adapt, to ensure they can succeed in life.
It helps us to understand how children learn to navigate our social and cultural world, identify how technology can benefit and compromise healthy development, and support neurodiversity in development and education.
Studying Psychology and Child Development at Winchester opens a broad range of career opportunities.
Join us to discover the science behind how we think, feel and behave, with an emphasis on child development.
Sports psychologists work to help both team and individual sports men and women to fine tune their physical and mental capacities to maximise performance at critical times.
MSc Applied Sport Psychology provides you with the opportunity to extend your theoretical understanding of sport and exercise psychology in a supportive environment.
This programme draws on the strengths of a sport and exercise psychology team, who are actively conducting their own research, to provide you with an academic programme that supports your career aspirations of working as a sport and exercise psychologist.
Forensic Psychology at Winchester provides the academic component (Stage 1) of the route to becoming a Chartered Forensic Psychologist with the British Psychological Society’s Division of Forensic Psychology and Practitioner Forensic Psychologist status with the Health and Care Professions Council.
The programme also supports you with the transition towards Stage 2 of the chartership process by incorporating practice-based assessments.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/subjects/Sport:
Whether your interest in sport stems from coaching, development, psychology, management, sport and exercise sciences, or sports therapy, we have a range of degrees that will build your scientific knowledge and practical expertise in a friendly learning environment.
At Winchester, your passion for sports combines with our state-of-the-art facilities, expert academics and research informed syllabus, to give you the confidence and knowledge to forge a career dedicated to helping others reach their full potential.
Across this subject area you will find degrees that allow you to personalise your learning experience with optional modules.
We have cutting-edge laboratories that are excellently equipped for Biomechanics, Physiology, Strength & Conditioning and Sport Psychology.
Launch your career in the fast-evolving field of Sport and Exercise Science with our dynamic BSc (Hons) programme.
Whether your goal is to enhance elite athlete performance, create cutting-edge rehabilitation programmes, or promote healthier lifestyles, this degree equips you with the practical skills and scientific expertise to make a real difference.
By the time you graduate, you’ll be ready to lead in laboratory-based performance evaluation, helping individuals, teams, and communities thrive in both sport and health settings.
The process of coaching and teaching sport is highly complex.
Sport coaches and physical education teachers require a deep understanding of numerous topics, which include skill acquisition, communication, leadership, teamwork, and technology.
The sport industry is ever evolving, and our Sport Coaching and Physical Education course supports students to become expert practitioners who explore the science and art of coaching and teaching.
This dynamic degree prepares you for a career in the growing field of Sports Therapy where you will be enabled to empower athletes and sports people of all abilities to get the best out of their potential and performance.
Our aim is to shape confident learners by enabling you to develop the skills needed to excel in your studies here and as well as onto further studies or the employment market.
Sport and Exercise at Winchester equips you to develop your expertise in a specific aspect of sport and exercise.
It offers bespoke postgraduate provision from a wide range of sport and exercise-focused backgrounds, giving you the opportunity to tailor your programme of study to your own specific areas of interest.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/subjects/Teaching-Education-and-Childhood-Studies:
Ignite a spark.
Give back.
Create a better society.
If you’re a diligent and compassionate individual who wants to make a concrete difference, then this is right subject area for you.
We have a long-established history of being a major provider of high-quality programmes, partnerships, and research opportunities in the teaching and education field.
Gain a deep understanding of the education system and the fundamentals of how people learn.
Our courses provide the academic knowledge and practice-based learning that underpins a purposeful professional career.
You will learn how to strengthen your grasp of important issues, skills, and structures related to education, with each course designed to better our society.
Our BA (Hons) Education course enables you to graduate with one of three specialist awards: BA (Hons) Education; BA (Hons) Education (Early Childhood); and BA (Hons) Education (Special Educational Needs).
Educators make a lasting impact on people’s lives and our graduates go on to make a positive difference to the lives of the individuals they work with, their communities and to society as a whole.
Whether your degree leads you to become a teacher, or to another graduate career related to education or the wider economy, Education leads to challenging and rewarding careers.
Whatever your chosen specialism, you will develop the breadth and depth of knowledge and specialist skills necessary to become a critically minded, resilient, adaptable, reflective professional.
This programme offers you the opportunity to gain the Early Childhood Graduate Practitioner Competencies Qualification in addition to your academic award.
If you want to make a positive difference to the lives of young children, their families and the societies in which they grow up, this degree is for you.
Early childhood education and the wider issues related to the experiences, development and care of children plays a critical role in the cognitive, social and emotional development of individuals in ways which impact their formative years and later lives.
This degree takes a holistic approach to the study of early childhood focusing on education, care and development from conception to 8 years and you can gain the Early Childhood Graduate Practitioner Competencies Qualification at Level 6 in addition to your degree if you wish.
At our Ofsted 'Outstanding' Institute of Education here at Winchester, we know how important it is that teachers are autonomous, innovative, critical and reflective practitioners.
Our intent is to develop outstanding teachers with the knowledge, skills and confidence to respond to the reality of the classroom and enable all children to grow and learn.
Our exciting MA Education programme is designed for either undergraduate students seeking to progress the study of education at postgraduate level or professionals already working in the field as teachers, leaders or other professionals in a whole range of different educational contexts.
The philosophy of the programme is grounded in a view of professional development through research-based activity.
In each module, you are supported to engage with the theories which guide your educational practice in the situations you encounter in your role, and to test and develop these theories through research and reflection.
The teaching and learning approach of the course is founded on the principle that learning is an active, experiential and collaborative process.
At the Institute of Education at the University of Winchester, we know what you need to learn and understand to thrive in the classroom.
We know how important it is that teachers are autonomous, innovative, critical and reflective practitioners with the knowledge, skills and confidence to enable all children to grow and learn.
PGCE Primary is a postgraduate professional programme of Initial Teacher Education (ITE) leading to the academic awards of either a Postgraduate Certificate in Education or a Professional Graduate Certificate in Education.
Both awards include the recommendation of Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).
Your QTS Status allows you teach any age range, however this programme prepares you to teach particular age ranges.
The PGCE Primary School Led programme is a postgraduate professional programme of Initial Teacher Education (ITE) leading to the academic award of a Postgraduate Certificate in Education and the recommendation of Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).
Our passion is to provide a university experience that helps you reach your full potential and make a real difference to your pupil’s lives.
The PGCE Secondary School Led programme is a postgraduate professional programme of Initial Teacher Education (ITE) leading to the academic award of a Postgraduate Certificate in Education and the recommendation of Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Accounting-and-Finance-2025:
Open for Clearing – view our Clearing promise
Financial careers are evolving fast.
While AI can handle the routine tasks, today's finance professionals need to be communicators, problem solvers, strategic advisors, and ethical decision-makers.
Our programme prepares you for this reality.
From day one, you'll apply accounting principles to real scenarios from actual companies.
This hands-on approach means you'll graduate ready to hit the ground running, not just with theoretical knowledge but practical experience that employers seek.
You'll benefit from our close-knit learning environment where lecturers know you by name and provide tailored guidance on your journey toward professional status.
Many of our academics are qualified Chartered Accountants who bring current industry practices directly into the classroom, while our innovative teaching approaches – from Excel mastery to AI-powered accounting simulations – ensure you're equipped for the digital transformation reshaping the profession.
Our Programme Team has been nominated for the PQ Magazine 2025 award for 'Accountancy College of the Year' in the public sector – recognition of our commitment to excellence.
With hands-on learning, maximum professional exemptions, and personalised support, you'll develop into a well-rounded finance professional who can interpret data, communicate effectively, and adapt to an evolving industry.
Our degree offers exemptions from four professional accounting bodies, including the maximum exemption from up to nine papers from the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA).
This ensures your degree meets the highest professional standards and gives you a significant head start in your qualification journey.
With an optional placement year and varied final-year project options, you can tailor your experience to match your career aspirations, whether that's joining a top accounting firm, entering corporate finance, or launching your own practice.
The Pathways to Accounting, Economics and Finance programme runs for the first time from October 2024.
The pathway is an opportunity for prospective accounting, economics and finance students to engage in a series of practical and informative sessions delivered by academics and finance professionals at the Faculty of Business and Digital Technologies Participants in Pathways to Accounting, Economics and Finance are eligible to receive reduced contextual offers on the following University of Winchester courses: - BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance - BSc (Hons) Economics and Finance Eligibility for the programme The programme is open to all home/Channel Islands Year 12 and Year 13 students.
Programme activities include: •    Lectures and seminar activities based on a variety of accounting and finance topics •    Experience of practical problem solving, analytics, and analysis of financial information •    Career guidance and advice from accounting and finance professionals •    Optional interview experience with the Dean of Faculty or Head of Department
All activities are delivered live at the University of Winchester.
Some activities are also delivered virtually.
For more information on the Pathways to Accounting, Economics and Finance programme and how to apply
Access the Business and Digital Technologies Pathways programme - Privacy Notice
Our BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance programme is accredited by prestigious professional bodies known for their commitment to excellence and maintaining the highest standards.
This ensures that your experience at the University of Winchester is of the highest quality, aligned with industry best practices.
It also helps to boost your employability and can give you exemptions from some professional exams as follows:
CIMA Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) accreditation will exempt you from the certificate and operational level modules of its professional syllabus.
CIPFA Our programme allows you the opportunity to be recognised for exemption against specific examinations when studying for the Professional Chartered Public Finance Accountant (CIPFA) qualification after graduating.
September
Winchester campus
NN34
104-120 points
From £9,535 pa
At Winchester, we transform our students into finance professionals who are ready for the modern workplace.
Our approach balances academic rigour with practical skills in a supportive environment where your growth matters.
While traditional accounting programmes rely heavily on exams and theory, we embed real-world application throughout your learning.
You’ll master the technical requirements needed for professional exemptions (with most accredited modules requiring 70% exam assessment), but we also offer project-based alternatives like Digital Finance, Data Analysis, and Financial Modelling for students who thrive with practical work.
You are taught primarily through a combination of lectures, seminars, and workshops, allowing opportunities to discuss and develop your understanding of topics in smaller groups and become a confident learner.
While your class contact hours, independent learning and assessment activity may vary depending on the optional modules you select, here’s what you can expect from your Accounting and Finance course:
Your overall workload consists of class contact hours, independent learning and assessment activity.
While your actual contact hours may depend on the optional modules you select, the following information gives an indication of how much time you will need to allocate to different activities at each level of the course.
Year 1 (Level 4): Building Foundations* Your first year establishes core accounting principles and business context.
You'll study Financial Accounting and Management Accounting, whilst gaining essential knowledge of The Business Environment including business economics, law, and ethics.
The innovative "Discovering Your Subject" module develops key professional skills beyond technical accounting.
Teaching, learning and assessment: 288 hours Independent learning: 912 hours
Year 2 (Level 5): Developing Expertise* Deepen your knowledge with more specialised subjects including International Financial Reporting, , and Financial Management, with options to study Taxation, Data Analysis and Financial Modelling.
You'll also develop research capabilities and consultancy skills that prepare you for your final year project.
Year 3 (Level 6): Professional Application* Apply your learning at an advanced level through modules like Advanced Financial Reporting and Analysis and  Investments and Financial Risk Strategy.
You'll complete your Capstone Project – choosing from a dissertation, consultancy project, work placement, or starting your own business – and select optional modules that align with your career aspirations.
Teaching, learning and assessment: 240 hours Independent learning: 960 hours
All class based teaching takes places between 9am – 6pm, Monday to Friday during term time.
Wednesday afternoons are kept free from timetabled teaching for personal study time and for sports clubs and societies to train, meet and play matches.
There may be some occasional learning opportunities (for example, an evening guest lecturer or performance) that take places outside of these hours for which you will be given forewarning.
Our validated courses may adopt a range of means of assessing your learning.
An indicative, and not necessarily comprehensive, list of assessment types you might encounter includes essays, portfolios, supervised independent work, presentations, written exams, or practical performances.
We ensure all students have an equal opportunity to achieve module learning outcomes.
As such, where appropriate and necessary, students with recognised disabilities may have alternative assignments set that continue to test how successfully they have met the module's learning outcomes.
Further details on assessment types used on the course you are interested in can be found on the course page, by attending an Open Day or Open Evening, or contacting our teaching staff.
The assessment balance between examination and coursework depends to some extent on the optional modules you choose.
The approximate percentage of the course assessed by different assessment modes is as follows:
29% coursework 60% written exams 11% practical assessment
47% coursework 42% written exams 11% practical assessment
36% coursework 53% written exams 11% practical assessment
*Please note these are indicative percentages and modes for the programme.
This module aims to develop the fundamental concepts and practices of financial accounting and the application of this knowledge to different forms of business organisations.
With a focus on using the IASB’s Conceptual Framework and accounting for transactions and events from first principles, you will develop your conceptual understanding of accounting, your knowledge of the main accounting terminology and your awareness of the nature and purpose of financial reporting.
You will acquire the techniques of double entry accounting and how to apply its principles in recording transactions, adjusting financial records and preparing non-complex financial statements.
The module introduces management accounting as a specialised service function primarily involving the collection, storage and recording of financial data, its conversion to useful information and the effective communication of this information for decision making.
It prepares you for more advanced aspects of management accounting and finance encountered later in the programme.
This module provides you with a holistic view of how an entity’s performance can be affected by both its own internal operating environment and the external environment.
It develops your knowledge and skills in understanding and applying the legal principles in the context of the business environment and to educate students on lawful and ethical behaviours for professional accountants.
You will study various aspects of management theory, external environment mapping and uses of technology by businesses and finance professionals.
Whatever your future career, there are certain professional skills that are required in the workplace.
This module provides opportunities to acquire and apply essential skills for academic success, while also developing digital skills that are a prerequisite for a successful career.
You will practice, and build confidence in wide ranging skills, as part of your transition into higher education.
By establishing and pursuing a personal development plan, you will develop a set of personal qualities such as self-awareness, confidence and resilience; and professional skills such as communication, teamwork, risk management, coaching and feedback.
Whilst you learn to construct outstanding CVs and professional LinkedIn profiles, this module also aims to raise your digital skills competencies.
The module will cover the general Microsoft Office suite and specific digital skills of particular relevance to the discipline that the you are studying.
This module is taught as a mix of lectures, practitioner guest lectures, hands-on skills seminars and computer lab sessions.
This module builds on the knowledge of financial accounting from year 1 by requiring you to extend your understanding of double entry bookkeeping to the application of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).
The approach to teaching the IFRS will be Framework-based, an approach recommended by the IASB.
The Framework-based approach develops a critical understanding of the well-established principles around corporate reporting.
You will be taught from exercises and case studies to illustrate key aspects of technical knowledge and to facilitate skills development.
Cases are a very effective and enjoyable way to learn because they recount real life or lifelike business situations that present managers with a dilemma or uncertain outcome.
This allows you to evaluate critically the appropriateness of certain accounting treatments and consider these within an ethical context.
Cases come from a range of situations and organisations, so you can quickly and efficiently gain a breadth of experience and an appreciation of the limits to your knowledge.
This module enables you to develop your understanding and competence in using diverse research methods for academic and professional purposes.
You will explore a variety of research approaches and will develop practical qualitative and quantitative research skills including defining and scoping a project; designing an effective and manageable research protocol; collecting data and using appropriate analysis methods.
In addition, you will develop an appreciation of ethical implications of the research process to facilitate responsible research practice.
Secondly this module aims to introduce you to the key stages required to complete an applied project from concept to delivery.
You will be taught how to manage a project and contribute effectively as a member of a project team, using ideas generation techniques and problem-solving skills to develop innovative solutions to business problems.
This module contributes to your continued professional development as you gain key insights into how to perform technical process improvement tasks in a range of environments to solve business problems.
This module introduces the core concepts and key topic areas of business finance and the financial environment.
It will enable you to develop knowledge and understanding of how the financial markets operate, evaluate alternative sources of finance available to a business, calculate the cost of different sources of finance and the weighted average cost of capital of a business.
You will undertake and critique techniques for capital investment appraisals, and business and financial asset valuation, and analyse critically the efficient market hypothesis, capital structure theories and dividend policies.
By completing this module, you will be prepared to study more advanced finance, i.e.
financial risk management, in your final year of study.
Pick two of the following modules:
This module aims to develop your knowledge and understanding of the overall function and purpose of UK taxation in a modern economic context.
You will learn how to calculate income tax payable by individuals and NICs payable by employees, employers and the self-employed.
In addition, you will learn about, and critically evaluate and analyse, the objectives of the UK tax systems for individuals, with an emphasis on income tax and NICs.
Finally, on completion of this module, you will be able to recognise the professional standards and ethical issues in relation to a tax practice.
An understanding of data and an appreciation of the key tools needed to analyse business data is becoming an essential skill for finance professionals.
This module introduces you to the topic of data analytics and demonstrates how to apply it effectively in a business context.
On this module, you will learn how to select and use tools to extract, validate and analyse data.
Communication and visualisation of data, for example by using pie charts or cluster diagrams, will also be covered, allowing you to communicate your findings to both accounting and finance specialists and non-specialists.
This module aims to provide you with an understanding of Excel and its application in financial modelling.
you will develop proficiency in using Excel, covering the basic Excel tools and advanced functions.
By taking this module, you have the opportunity to gain the skills and knowledge that are required in the creation of financial models that accurately reflect a company’s financial performance, such as the financial statements, valuation, sensitivity analysis, etc.
You will learn how to calculate corporation tax, value added tax (VAT) and capital gains tax liabilities.
In addition, you will learn about, and critically evaluate and analyse, the scope and objectives of UK tax system for business entities, including analysis of the implications of non-compliance and tax avoidance.
This optional industrial placement year can be taken between second and third year.
The aim of this module is to offer you the opportunity to undertake meaningful and relevant employment experience.
The employment experience will take the form of a 30 week long work placement and you will be required to demonstrate the relevance of the work practice to the named route of study.
The employment experience will involve demonstrating competency in key skills, such as communication and team working, and tasks relevant to your field of study.
This will necessarily require the you to apply learning from your studies to the workplace, thus providing the opportunity to fully integrate your academic study with meaningful employment experience.
You must choose ONE of the four Capstone Project Options:
Capstone Project - Placement for Good This module provides an exciting opportunity for you to make a real difference to the community in which you live.
The purpose of this module is to enable you to work in partnership with host organisations in the private or public sectors, via a work placement opportunity, in an area cognate to the discipline studied.
By successfully completing this module you will have gained valuable work experience and carried out a strategic review of relevant CSR issues within the work placement, relevant to the discipline studied.
The placement has the specific aim of improving the alignment of the host organisations activities to the UN 17 SDGs.
Capstone Project - Consultancy Project This module provides an exciting opportunity for you to draw on your learning across programmes and immerse yourself in a small-scale independent consultancy project in a relevant field.
The purpose of this module is to enable you to operate as a trainee management consultant for an external organisation or internal client.
By successfully completing a consultancy project you will gain a deeper understanding of what constitutes a credible and ethical business consultancy project and a have a broader insight into consultancy within the discipline.
Capstone Project – Start Up For Good
This module provides an exciting opportunity for you to draw on your learning across programmes, and work towards turning your pre commercial idea into a successful, sustainable, business enterprise, supported by a nine-month tenure within the Winchester Hatchery Incubator Programme.
The purpose of this module is to enable you to work with our team of enterprise and innovation experts to develop a viable start up business that has sustainability values at its’ core.
The aim is to register the company within the period and launch the business.
By successfully completing this module you will gain a deeper understanding of what constitutes credible and ethical innovation research and have an invaluable insight into entrepreneurship.
This module aims to extend student knowledge and application of IFRS to more detailed and complex areas of reporting.
The technical content is mapped to professional qualification requirements and students will need to pass this module in order to gain full exemptions.
An inquiry guided approach to learning will be adopted with students drawing on the conceptual framework and accounting standards introduced in level 5 to solve the challenges of reporting in other areas.
Inquiry is an active approach to learning which is designed to support students in analysing technical issues, creating valid approaches to reporting and critically evaluating the current IFRS.
Students will be exposed to technical articles and scholarly reviews and will be expected to draw on these to make informed judgements and sustain arguments on the reporting of financial transactions.
Students will employ analytical skills to interpret financial statement information and develop an appreciation of the uncertainty and subjective nature of financial reporting.
This module develops an understanding of the key concepts of investments and financial risk management.
It introduces the core investment principles and techniques which will enable students to make informed investment decisions.
Students will also gain knowledge in sustainable investing, which is an essential area of study within the field of investment in today’s world.
In addition, it will develop students’ knowledge and understanding of the various types and nature of financial risk.
It covers the main frameworks and techniques concerning the practical aspects of financial risk management.
Students must pick two of the following modules:
This module aims to equip students with the skills to exercise professional judgement in decision making and performance management in different business contexts.
It builds on knowledge and skills developed in previous modules and introduces the concepts of contemporary management accounting for strategic business decisions.
This module introduces the concepts of audit and assurance and highlights the nature, role and purpose of the external audit function.
Students’ knowledge and understanding of the principles and processes of the statutory audit are developed together with a critical understanding of the regulatory framework.
The differences between internal and external audit are considered, and the processes involved in internal control are examined.
This module also introduces students to the audit of financial statements and considers audit planning and risk assessment, consideration of materiality.
the evaluation of internal controls, obtaining audit evidence, the review of financial statements and the statutory audit reporting process.
The contribution that audit makes to corporate governance is also explored.
Strategic leadership and good governance are integral components of a successful organisation.
Hence, this module provides an opportunity for students to explore the principles of strategic leadership and forms of governance and develop an in-depth understanding of their significance and impact.
This module also provides a critical insight into the challenges, theory and practice of corporate governance.
Students will be challenged to critically consider best practice in corporate governance in the appropriate theoretical, ethical and regulatory context, and the importance of corporate governance to the accountant.
This module covers the growing trend toward digitalisation in the financial sector.
It concerns both digital banking and non-bank financial services providers and addresses the challenges and opportunities that digitalisation may bring.
Topics covered include blockchain technology, fintech, digital peer-to-peer funding platforms, distributed ledger business models and cryptocurrencies, as well as the response of the banking system and central banks to these developments.
Our offers are typically made using UCAS tariff points to allow you to include a range of level 3 qualifications and as a guide, the requirements for this course are equivalent to:
Additionally, we accept tariff points achieved for many other qualifications, such as the Access to Higher Education Diploma, Scottish Highers, UAL Diploma/Extended Diploma and WJEC Applied Certificate/Diploma, to name a few.
We also accept tariff points from smaller level 3 qualifications, up to a maximum of 32, from qualifications like the Extended Project (EP/EPQ), music or dance qualifications.
To find out more about UCAS tariff points, including what your qualifications are worth, please visit UCAS .
In addition to level 3 study, the following GCSE’s are required:
GCSEs in Mathematics and English Language at grade 4 or C, or higher.
Functional Skills at level 2 is accepted as an alternative, however Key Skills qualifications are not.
If you hold another qualification, please get in touch and we will advise further.
If you will be over the age of 21 years of age at the beginning of your undergraduate study, you will be considered as a mature student.
This means our offer may be different and any work or life experiences you have will be considered together with any qualifications you hold.
UCAS have further information about studying as a mature student on their website which may be of interest.
If English is not your first language, a formal English language test will most likely be required and you will need to achieve the following:
If you are living outside of the UK or Europe, you can find out more about how to join this course by contacting our International Recruitment Team via our International Apply Pages .
International
*(UK / Channel Islands / Isle of Man / Republic of Ireland) £9,535 for the 25/26 academic year.
Fees for future academic years will be determined in line with our Terms and Conditions.
The fee is currently subject to a governmental fee cap for each academic year.
It is our policy to charge tuition fees at the level of the cap set by the Government.
If the cap set by the Government changes, then we may increase our Fees in line with governmental policy.
*(International) £16,700 for the 25/26 academic year.
We decide the annual level of increase of our Tuition Fees by taking into account a range of factors including the cost of delivering the course and change in governmental funding.
Remember, you don’t have to pay any of this upfront if you are able to get a tuition fee loan from the UK Government to cover the full cost of your fees each year.
UK Part-Time fees are calculated on a pro rata basis of the full-time fee for a 120 credit course.
The fee for a single credit is £79.45 and a 15 credit module is £1,191.
Part-time students can take up to a maximum 90 credits per year, so the maximum fee in a given year will be the government permitted maximum fee of £7,145
International part-time fees are calculated on a pro rata basis of the full-time fee for a 120 credit course.
The fee for a single credit is £139.14 and a 15 credit module is £2,087.
As one of our students all of your teaching and assessments are included in your tuition fees, including, lectures/guest lectures and tutorials, seminars, laboratory sessions and specialist teaching facilities.
You will also have access to a wide range of student support and IT services.
There might be additional costs you may encounter whilst studying.
The following highlights optional costs for this course:
Core Text: it is recommended that you purchase the latest editions of all of the core textbooks.
Many of these texts relate to extensive online material for which you require an access code supplied with the textbook.
It is possible for students to purchase second-hand copies where applicable.
Indicative cost is £50-£200 per year.
Volunteering and Placements: you may incur travel costs on optional volunteering placements in the second or third year of study.
Indicative cost is £5-£30 per day.
Smart Clothing: you may be expected to dress formally for oral assessments.
Costs will vary depending on the students existing wardrobe.
Indicative cost is £0-£50.
We have a variety of scholarship and bursaries available to support you financially with the cost of your course.
To see if you’re eligible, please see our Scholarships and Awards .
A degree in Accounting and Finance from Winchester opens doors to diverse and rewarding career paths.
Our graduates are sought after for their combination of technical expertise, professional exemptions, and well-developed interpersonal skills.
Many of our alumni have secured positions at prestigious organisations including the "Big Four" accounting firms, major corporations like Next and Tesco, and public sector bodies such as HMRC.
The roles they take on are equally varied – from audit trainees and tax specialists to financial analysts, management accountants, and general business managers.
The flexibility of our degree prepares you for multiple career directions:
From your first year, we focus on building your employability with targeted support, including regular workshops on professional applications and interview techniques, career guidance from academics with industry connections, opportunities to network with employers at our finance-focused careers events, personalised advice on navigating competitive graduate schemes and optional placement experiences that build your professional network.
The accounting profession is evolving rapidly with technological advancement, but this creates opportunities rather than threats for well-prepared graduates.
Our programme's emphasis on developing both technical and human skills ensures you'll be positioned to add value in ways that technology cannot – through analysis, interpretation, ethical judgement, and strategic thinking.
Today's finance sector needs professionals who can adapt quickly, make sound judgements, and communicate complex information clearly to non-specialists.
Our "Discovering Your Subject" module develops these crucial skills alongside your technical knowledge.
You'll learn to see accounting as more than calculations – it's about telling the financial story of a business and helping shape its future.
This comprehensive approach produces graduates who aren't just exam-ready but workplace-ready.
You'll emerge with the confidence to apply your knowledge flexibly, the ability to work with diverse teams, and the adaptability to thrive as the profession continues to evolve.
That's the Winchester difference – an education that prepares you not just for your first job, but for a fulfilling career.
If you study a Bachelor Honours Degree with us, you will be pre-approved to start a Masters degree at Winchester.
To be eligible, you will need to apply by the end of March in the final year of your degree and meet the entry requirements of your chosen Masters degree.
Find out everything you need to know about the application process, how to apply, your offer and how to secure your place.
Jayne Little qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Deloitte and has a degree in Mathematics from the University of Liverpool.
Her career has included roles as a Finance Manager in both the education and charity sectors.
Take a look at all our courses within the subject areas of Business and Marketing

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Archaeology-2025:
Winchester is home to experienced archaeologists who provide stimulating and engaging teaching materials.
In a supportive environment, you learn key fieldwork techniques and undertake rigorous academic training.
T o make sure you make the most of fieldwork, we have excellent field equipment, including ground penetrating radar, magnetometers, magnetic susceptibility meters, differential GPS instruments, total stations, and an X-ray fluorescence analyser.
You will learn how to use industry-standard computer software such as ArcGIS and Geoplot.
Further, our department has a geoarchaeological consultancy (ARCA), whose staff will teach you.
The consultancy offers valuable laboratory work experience – an opportunity to combine your academic expertise with delivering high-quality commercial solutions.
Year 1 provides a sound foundation in the theory and practice of archaeology and considers the history of humanity from our earliest ape ancestors to the twentieth century.
The year finishes with a four-week excavation in the summer.
During Years 2 and 3, you focus on the archaeology of specific periods and/or places while you undertake a dissertation, for which you are prepared by modules on theory and method, and consider the public role of archaeology.
Core Year 2 modules include Fieldwork Techniques and the Archaeology of Britain and optional modules include GIS and Geomatics; the Making of Classical and Hellenistic Greece and Death, Burials and Bioarchaeology.
You will undertake four weeks of archaeological fieldwork.
In Year 3 you will consolidate all of your learning up to this point by undertaking your final-year dissertation.
You can also choose optional modules which include topics such as Archaeological Project Management, Themes in European Prehistory and the Archaeology of Conflict.
As we become more attuned to how the past is able to help shape our future, archaeologists are increasingly playing key roles in policy development and decision making.
Graduates go on to enter the archaeological profession and work in museums, heritage organisations, commercial archaeology and local authorities.
Other graduates find careers within applied science, for example in environmental management, geomatics and remote sensing.
Archaeology is part of the School of Humanities .
F400
Our aim is to shape 'confident learners' by enabling you to develop the skills needed to excel in your studies here and as well as onto further studies or the employment market.
You are taught primarily through a combination of lectures, practicals (field- and class-based) and seminars, the latter in small groups and affording the opportunity to discuss and develop your understanding of topics covered in lectures.
In addition to the formally scheduled contact time such as lectures and seminars etc., you are encouraged to access academic support from staff within the course team and the wide range of services available to you within the University.
Over the duration of your course, you will be expected to develop independent and critical learning, progressively building confidence and expertise through independent and collaborative research, problem-solving and analysis with the support of staff.
You take responsibility for your own learning and are encouraged to make use of the wide range of available learning resources available.
Teaching, learning and assessment: 216 hours Independent learning: 984 hours
Teaching, learning and assessment: 336 hours Independent learning: 864 hours
Teaching, learning and assessment: 264 hours Independent learning: 936 hours
*Please note these are indicative hours for the course.
All class based teaching takes places between 9am – 6pm, Monday to Friday during term time.
Further details on assessment types used on the course you are interested in can be found on the course page, by attending an Open Day or Open Evening, or contacting our teaching staff.
87% coursework 0% written exams 13% practical assessment
68% coursework 16% written exams 16% practical assessment
58% coursework 17% written exams 25% practical assessment
We are committed to providing timely and appropriate feedback to you on your academic progress and achievement in order to enable you to reflect on your progress and plan your academic and skills development effectively.
You are also encouraged to seek additional feedback from your course tutors.
This module provides a brief conspectus of the prehistoric and historical periods from the emergence of humans, the later development of complex societies and civilizations through to the present day.
The world context is emphasised and the major developments in each period will be explored.
The module is illustrated throughout by case studies through which students can appreciate how ideas about these cultures have developed from the beginnings of antiquarian archaeology to the application of modern theory.
Key conceptual issues, such as exchange/trade, colonisation, political, religious and social developments, will be explained and discussed in relation to specific examples.
This module forms an introduction to the principles and methods upon which the study of archaeology is based and explores a history of the development of the discipline, alongside a detailed background to the main categories of material culture that you might encounter on archaeological sites, including stone tools, pottery, coins, metalwork etc.
No prior knowledge of the subject is assumed or expected.
You will learn about the historical emergence of archaeology as a distinct discipline from earlier antiquarian studies, alongside the development of excavation methodologies from rudimentary early work to modern, stratigraphic approaches.
You will also learn about archaeological audiences, and our discipline’s engagement with the public.
These thematic lectures are buttressed by the use of sessions looking at case studies of recent research projects within the Department in order to help draw together and assist understanding of the key themes.
From a material culture perspective, you will learn about the technology behind these artefacts, and crucially how things that we make do not just have a simple function, but also encode important symbolic information as well.
As the majority of archaeological material seen by the public is displayed within museums, you will also consider how material culture is displayed and presented within museums, and the choices made by curators about this.
By the end of this course you will understand the purpose and process behind archaeological excavation and the recovery of material culture, as well as the way humans make and give meaning to even the most mundane and everyday items.
This module provides an introduction to approaches and methods of survey, excavation, geophysics, dating, palaeoenvironmental and chronological study as employed in archaeology.
The module is divided into five parts comprising: a: site survey, b.
age estimation (i.e.
relative and absolute), c: palaeoenvironmental and palaeoeconomic reconstruction (e.g.
of past vegetation and animals), d: locating archaeological sites (geophysics), and e.
sub-surface archaeological works (test pitting, boreholes and excavation).
Each theme is explored by first discussing the theoretical basis of approaches that are used, then examining the range of techniques available and exploring in detail those most frequently used, and finally discussing how data are interpreted and problems that might result.
Tuition is in the classroom and in a field setting.
This module aims to instil key academic skills required for undergraduate study and research.
Students will be introduced to personal development planning and continuing professional development.
Students will be introduced to local sources of archaeological and historical information used to explore, evaluate and manage the historic environment.
In addition, an introduction to online resources such as the Archaeological Data Service, Historic Environment Records and EDINA will provide students with a sound guide to their use.
These resources will be used to review the archaeological potential of specific archaeological sites.
The module comprises four weeks of archaeological fieldwork, to be undertaken on one of the field projects run by the Archaeology Department, within which the student might be involved in excavation or other field-based tasks.
Students can expect to learn a variety of essential archaeological field skills, depending on the nature of the project they are participating in.
These will most commonly include: heavy and light excavation; finds and environmental processing; archaeological recording (written and drawn records); and basic surveying.
Students will also learn how archaeological projects are organised in the field and the procedure by which they take place.
This will be followed by a post-excavation course that will explore methods of archive collation, analysis and dissemination.
This mandatory module develops and supports students in attaining important skillsets in critical thinking, analysis and academic writing for their extended dissertation project in year 3.
The first section of the course concentrates on developing a critical awareness of key theoretical standpoints and positions in the humanities with special reference to archaeology and anthropology.
The second section of the course leads students through the process of research design and the skills required to deliver their dissertation project.
This module will provide a broad introduction to the archaeology of Britain from prehistory to the contemporary period.
Overall, it will consider the discipline of archaeology with reference to the material evidence including monuments, landscapes, buried remains, art and artefacts.
Current issues, thematic and theoretical approaches, case-studies and field trips will comprise a central element of the module.
This module will include local field trips and conclude with a residential field school.
Students can pick one of the following options.
GIS & Geomatics - 30 credits
Geographic Information Systems (sometimes known as Geographic Information Science), or GIS, and geomatics use digital and spatial technologies to investigate the Earth’s surface and sub-surface.
Knowledge of GIS is a necessary precursor to the use of the techniques of geomatics, hence the division of the module into two parts (Parts 1 and Part 2).
Part 1 (GIS) runs in Term 1, during which GIS theory and concepts are considered and evaluated, while students gain intermediate level knowledge of the use of one industry standard GIS in practical classes.
Part 2 (geomatics) takes place in Term 2 and follows a trajectory from GIS-based examination of remote-sensed data to the collection of field data using geophysics and measured survey equipment.
In addition to field and computer laboratory tasks, the key concepts of aerial and satellite remote sensing are introduced, while students are also reminded (from ARCH4003) of the theory underpinning relevant geophysical and measured survey techniques.
From Homer to Alexander - 30 credits Through a combination of historical and archaeological material, this module will look at the development of Greece and its culture from the end of the Dark Ages to the coming of the Romans.
Death, Burials and Bioarchaeology - 30 credits This module examines a range of approaches, methods and themes within archaeology and anthropology relating to the study of death, burial and funerary customs in the past.
The module will also have a practical component which will introduce students to working with human remains from archaeological sites to gain an understanding of how bioarchaeologists determine age-at-death, biological sex, and evidence for pathology from skeletal remains.
The module is an Extended Independent Study in archaeology for students studying on all Archaeology programmes.
Students select a topic in consultation with tutors and carry out preliminary research in ARCH5002.
In ARCH6002 students then apply their knowledge of archaeological theory and practice, and carry out original research in order to produce a c.
10,000 word dissertation, the latter showing clarity of expression, logical argument and creative thought.
The dissertation content/subject matter reflects the particular Archaeology pathway (e.g.
a project using scientific method and/or data for BSc Archaeology) and the student’s interest.
This module examines three themes.
In the first global organisation and protection of cultural heritage (i.e.
through international agreements) is examined.
A number of national and state case studies of cultural heritage law and practice are considered (e.g.
USA, France, Germany and particularly the UK).
The second theme introduces students to careers, both in the cultural resource management ‘industry’ and in other areas where skills acquired during an Archaeology degrees are relevant.
The third theme, together with the final year project, is the culmination of the Archaeology degree.
It provides students the opportunity to consider the multiplicity of archaeological interpretation on the basis of differing lines of evidence and varied approaches of study.
A series of archaeological ‘problems’ are discussed with the aim of examining how data can be interpreted in various ways, each one of which might be equally valid.
Case studies will depend upon staff availability but might include the diffusion models to explain the change from Mesolithic to Neolithic society in Europe; colonisation (of for example the Americas and Australia, and of Europe by early forms of Homo and Homo sapiens ); origins, causes and effects of diseases in the archaeological and historical record and dating the eruption of Thera and the end of the Minoan civilisation and mid-Holocene vegetation change.
Students can pick two of the following modules.
Archaeological Project Management and Fieldwork - 30 credits This module explores current approaches to project management used in modern commercial (i.e.
developer-led) archaeology.
The complete project management cycle from production of research designs, budgeting of projects, production of desk-based assessments, management of fieldwork projects and production of reports is considered.
Themes are developed in conjunction with further on-site fieldwork experience that is designed to explore the implementation and delivery of archaeological projects.
Themes in European Prehistory - 30 credits
This module will involve an in-depth exploration of themes in prehistoric Europe.
The study may cover the prehistory of Europe from the Palaeolithic period through the development of an agricultural economy across the continent in the Neolithic, and the end of the Iron Age and the spread of the Roman Empire, in line with available lecturing staff’s research expertise.
Within this time period, key concepts, controversies and problems will be considered and methodologies analysed.
Themes and topics of relevance may include art, trade and exchange, settlement, monuments, religion, and burial practices, and the module will be structured around the integration of different materials: archaeological, linguistic, anthropological, genetic and sociological evidence will all be considered.
Rites, Religions and Ritual - 30 credits
This module examines the archaeological evidence for religion, ritual and belief, drawing on case-studies from a range of religious and spiritual traditions.
Attention in particular will be paid to the links and contrasts between different classes of evidence from different periods and places, such as surviving monuments, artefacts, art, architecture and iconography.
A field trip to relevant archaeological site, monument or museum will form part of this module.
The Archaeology of Conflict - 30 credits
The module examines the origins and development of human conflict.
Based on archaeological evidence, alternative approaches to conflict such as evolutionary psychology, or military history will be explored.
Intra-group and inter-group conflict will be considered, as well as domestic violence, state-inflicted violence and war.
The legacy of conflict will be explored through an examination of physical and cultural heritage, memorialisation and current approaches to dark heritage and via the practice of battlefield archaeology.
The ethics of archaeological engagement with conflicts and their associated cultural heritage will also be considered, particularly in relation to their contribution to helping establish stable and secure societies.
As part of the module, the students will also participate and contribute to a mini-conference on the archaeology of conflict.
GCSE English Language at grade 4 or C, or higher.
The following highlights the mandatory and optional costs for this course:
Excavation Students are required to undertake four weeks' compulsory fieldwork which takes place over the summer after Year 1, normally at one of the Department's local research/training projects.
These local projects have no direct costs for student participants, but students may need to pay for their travel.
To see if you’re eligible, please see our Scholarships and Awards section.
Graduates from the programme are well equipped to enter the archaeological or heritage profession via a career in museums, heritage organisations, commercial archaeology or local authorities.
The University of Winchester ranks in the top 10 in the UK for graduates in employment or further study according to the Graduate Outcomes Survey 2023, HESA.
If you study a Bachelor Honours degrees with us, you will be pre-approved to start a Masters degree at Winchester.
Dr Phil Marter's research and teaching focus is on the archaeology of the recent past, conflict archaeology and in particular, WWII aviation archaeology.
He works with both amateur and professional archaeologists to research, excavate and record crashed aircraft from the 1939-45 air war and is currently helping to promote standards and guidance on best practice in this field.
Take a look at all our courses within the subject areas of History, Anthropology and Archaeology

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BSc-Hons-Archaeology-2025:
The course covers a broad range of methods and techniques.
In our well-equipped laboratories you can learn how to analyse the chemical composition of human and animal bones and discover what they reveal about past diets.
In the field you can choose to work on sites in both Britain and overseas, and in the library, you can study archaeological periods ranging from the Palaeolithic (Old Stone Age), through Classical Greece to the medieval and post-medieval periods.
During your fieldwork you will use equipment including a ground penetrating radar, magnetometers, magnetic susceptibility meters, differential GPS instruments and total stations.
You will learn how to use industry-standard computer software such as ArcGIS, Geoplot and AutoCAD.
Our department has a geoarchaeological consultancy (ARCA), whose staff will also teach you.
The consultancy offers valuable laboratory work experience and an opportunity to see how archaeological science is used in professional archaeology.
In Year 1 you explore the theory and practice of archaeology, while covering the story of humanity.
You explore the methods, theories and approaches that underpin archaeological science, as well as considering the importance of fieldwork and material culture.
In Year 2, you will undertake four weeks of fieldwork in the Archaeological Fieldwork and Post-fieldwork Techniques module where you will learn essential field skills and explore methods of archive collation and analysis.
You will also study Climate and Landscape Change, Theory and Research in Archaeology and have the choice of an optional module.
During Year 3, you will complete an Extended Independent Study in Archaeology on a topic or theme of your interest.
You will also study Archaeology and Heritage: Process and Interpretation, considering the role of archaeology and heritage in the public conversation.
You will also have a range of optional modules to choose between.
Many graduates pursue careers in professional archaeology, for example with an archaeological unit.
Others work in the applied sciences, including in various types of laboratories, in environmental management and geomatics.
And with desirable key skills in areas such as time and project management, problem solving, teamwork, cultural awareness and the ability to express ideas clearly to a wide range of audiences, you are well placed to explore a non-vocational career.
Archaeology us part of the School of Humanities.
Graduates proceed directly into a career in professional archaeology, for example with an archaeological trust or unit.
Others enter careers within applied science, for example environmental management, geomatics and remote sensing.
The University of Winchester ranks in the top 25 in the UK for graduates in employment and further study according to the Graduate Outcomes Survey 2024, HESA.
This programme has been accredited by the The Chartered Institute for Archaeologists (CIfA) and University Archaeology UK (UAUK) .
V402
Teaching, learning and assessment: 348 hours Independent learning: 852 hours
Taught elements of the course take place on campus in Winchester.
87% coursework 13% written exams 0% practical assessment
72% coursework 9% written exams 19% practical assessment
For more information about our regulations for this course, please see our Academic Regulations, Policies and Procedures.
This module examines climate and landscape change over long time scales.
It explores evolving tectonic and orbital configurations, and the resultant climate, environmental and landscape changes since the Late Palaeozoic (c 500 million years ago [Ma]), but with a particular focus on the Quaternary (2.6 Ma to the present).
The module explores the ways in which climate change has shaped the biosphere and the landscape.
In order to do the latter, the approaches and methods of geomorphology are considered, and glacial, periglacial, aeolian, fluvial and coastal environments studied in a classroom, field and laboratory setting.
Option A: GIS & Geomatics
Option B: Death, Burials and Bioarchaeology
This module examines the themes of death, burial and bioarchaeology through an anthropological and archaeological lens.
It will explore the development of funerary practice from prehistory to the ethnographic present.
Burial sites from various locations, temporally and geographically, will be examined, together with the importance of grave goods.
The analysis of human remains is a key specialism across the disciplines of archaeology and biological anthropology.
This module introduces students to the key theories and methods needed for the analysis and interpretation of skeletal remains.
Current debates include the ethics of the treatment of the dead and the interpretation of burials in relation to gender and inequality.
This module will have a practical approach where students will work in small groups to learn the skills of human remains analysis, it is therefore paramount that practical sessions are attended to enable the assigned component of this module to be completed.
Archaeological Project Management and Fieldwork
This module is designed to develop your knowledge of archaeological fieldwork practice within a professional context.
It is divided into two parts; the first comprising of four weeks practical experience during the summer prior to Term 1 on a University of Winchester fieldwork project, or an external project (subject to approval by the module leader).
The second part of the module explores the role of archaeological fieldwork within professional practice by examining current approaches to project management used in modern commercial (i.e.
The impact and constraints imposed by planning and health and safety law on archaeological projects are then assessed and methods for fulfilling the legislative requirements explored.
Teaching by Departmental staff is supplemented by guest lecturers, from for example a local commercial archaeological organisation, a local authority etc.
These practitioners will provide a ‘real world’ insight into project management from their perspective.
Visits to a commercial archaeological site will also help students appreciate the context within which this subject operates in professional archaeology.
Themes in European Prehistory
Rites Religions and Ritual
A fieldtrip to relevant archaeological site, monument or museum will form part of this module.
The Archaeology of Conflict
GCSEs English Language at grade 4 or C, or higher.
Field trips Students will have the option to participate in a four day-long Archaeology field trip module in their second year of study.
Indicative cost: £150.
Excavation Students are required to undertake four weeks compulsory fieldwork which takes place over the summer after Year 1, with a further four weeks' compulsory fieldwork in the summer after Year 2 (or the summer following completion of the professional placement in Year 3).
Students opt to do the fieldwork at one of the Department's research/ training projects.
Local projects have no direct costs for student participants, but students may need to pay for their travel.
Students who opt to join non-local projects may have to cover project-specific costs.
At the highest end of this spectrum are the projects in Barbados (indicative cost is £1,200 for two weeks); and Georgia (indicative cost is £1,500 for four weeks) where the costs include flights, food and accommodation for the duration of the project.
Indicative cost: £1,500
The University of Winchester ranks in the top 25 in the UK for graduates in employment or further study according to the Graduate Outcomes Survey 2024, HESA.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Acting-2025:
This is a highly vocational programme with a conservatoire-style intensity of focus.
It is delivered by our talented teaching staff who have worked around the world as actors, directors, stage managers, and technicians.
The course combines elements of traditional actor training with specialist content in community and theatre-in-education work alongside outdoor and site-specific performance.
As well as mastering body, voice and movement skills you may find yourself performing in schools or at summer festivals.
You will work in a variety of genres and repertoires, from classical to contemporary, and take part in regular performances so that you graduate ready for professional life on the stage, screen and radio.
On campus, Winchester
W410
96-112 points
We integrate voice and movement training into project work from the outset on the course and you will learn by doing performance projects in every semester.
On the BA Acting programme we are dedicated to developing your own creative voice alongside the training work that we do.
Across the degree you will explore a range of different performance forms and genres alongside voice and acting skills.
These include staging scripted work in classical and contemporary theatre forms; devising around a text; devising from a concept; screen acting; TIE/Applied theatre work and student-led company and individual projects in your third year alongside directed theatre projects.
You will leave knowing how to work with a director; make and develop your own solo and/or company work and have a strong sense of yourself as an artist.
You will evolve your reflective written and presentation skills alongside your practice so you are able to evaluate, represent and promote your work effectively.
There are excellent studio and training facilities on campus, including purpose-built rehearsal, movement and performance spaces.
You’ll also have access to two HD TV studios with green screens, a computerised radio studio and film-making equipment.
You will receive comprehensive career development and support during your study, including preparation for agents, casting directors and auditions.
Make the most of our extra-curricular opportunities that may include fight training/stage combat; puppetry; performing in student films; consent and intimacy co-ordination workshops; dance classes through the Performing Arts Winchester SU society and theatre visits.
Our existing relationships with ‘Play to the Crowd’ (Theatre Royal Winchester/Hat Fair), The Point Eastleigh, Anvil Arts and The Mayflower offer you a variety of production and professional engagement opportunities to enrich and enhance your experience.
Work Placements
Students have the opportunity to work in local venues or with graduate and associate companies.
Student placements are also available in the fields of drama, theatre in education, and applied and community contexts.
Field Trips
We organise incursions and excursions to see performances; some tickets are free, other ticket costs are kept to a minimum.
Sometimes travel costs to travel to theatre will need to be paid by the student.
Learning and Teaching
Our aim is to shape 'confident learners' by enabling you to develop the skills needed to excel in your performance work here and to give you the subject-based knowledge that will leave you ready for the employment market or for further study.
This is a highly practical course and you are taught primarily through practical skills classes, workshops and rehearsals but we also offer a combination of lectures, seminars and rehearsal ‘table work’, allowing opportunities to discuss and develop your understanding of topics covered in lectures in smaller groups and to explore research materials connected to your performance work.
In addition to the formally scheduled contact time (such as practical classes, lectures etc.) you are encouraged to access academic support from staff within the course team and the wide range of services available to you within the University.
Independent learning
Overall workload
YEAR 1 (LEVEL 4): TIMETABLED TEACHING AND LEARNING ACTIVITY*
Teaching, learning and assessment: 384 hours Independent learning: 816 hours
YEAR 2 (LEVEL 5): TIMETABLED TEACHING AND LEARNING ACTIVITY*
YEAR 3 (LEVEL 6): TIMETABLED TEACHING AND LEARNING ACTIVITY*
Location
Teaching hours
Assessment
Percentage of the course assessed by coursework
YEAR 1 (LEVEL 4)*:
29% coursework 0% written exams 71% practical assessment
YEAR 2 (LEVEL 5)*:
30% coursework 0% written exams 70% practical assessment
YEAR 3 (LEVEL 6)*:
27% coursework 0% written exams 73% practical assessment
Feedback
This module will introduce students to a range of twentieth/twenty-first century ensemble and solo theatre forms of actor-training, through physical and vocal explorations of action and composition.
Sessions will consist of a combination of workshops and occasional viewings of performance work.
Students will be expected to engage with a range of set readings which offer context and critical analysis of the practices with which they will be engaging across various forms of actor training that will be undertaken in the workshops on the module.
The workshops will take the form of different voice and body training practices, such as ensemble and solo forms of movement improvisation, usually aligned with the work of particular practitioners and will explore what is the practical research of the actor.
Assessment for this module is primarily practical but will also involve a short reflective written piece.
This module aims to offer students the opportunity to explore and develop their vocal and physical apparatus and practice in order to develop a free, flexible, and healthy voice, capable of responding to the different demands of text and performance.
Through an exploration of the relationship between Posture, Body, Breath and Voice, you will develop an understanding of the difference between the ‘developed’ voice and the ‘habitual’ voice.
Students will explore the physiology of the voice, alignment, breath support, resonance, pitch and placement.
Students will explore the ‘need’ for speech, impulse, and its relationship to our imagination and language.
You will begin to explore the relationship between voice and text.
Assessment for this module is primarily practical: at the end of the module there will be a short performance, and students will be expected to submit a reflective journal in which they demonstrate and contextualise an understanding of their evolving vocal practice.
This module will introduce students to ways of exploring classical and/or Early Modern drama texts in processes of rehearsal and performance.
Students will engage in a series of workshops and practical classes that will cover the following according to the needs of the project in a given Term: ensemble movement/improvisation; vocal work; improvisatory and devising strategies; character work.
Students will also have lecture/seminar input on the plays being explored (which may be drawn from Ancient Greek Drama; Shakespearean Drama; Renaissance/Early Modern Tragedy in a given Term) and will be introduced to ways of reading/engaging with the plays in ways that are designed to support the actor in practical research and exploration processes in preparation for contemporary performance.
Students will be given regular tasks to offer opportunities for creative problem solving in the rehearsal room and will be assessed through a group performance and process-portfolio of contextual and reflective materials.
This will introduce students to ways of exploring a range of Modern(ist) Drama texts in a range of related production contexts, and then in processes of rehearsal and performance.
Students will engage in a series of workshops and practical classes that will cover the following according to the needs of the project in a given Term: movement; vocal work; improvisatory and devising strategies; character work.
Students will also have lecture/seminar input on the plays being explored (which may include contemporary adaptations of Modern Drama classics) and will be introduced to ways of reading/engaging with the plays in ways that are designed to support the actor in practical research and exploration processes in preparation for contemporary performance.
In this module students will extend their range of experience of solo and ensemble theatre practices experienced at Level 4, with a further set of practical trainings for the actor to be applied to a scene study and to screen acting.
Through extended physical and vocal explorations of action and composition, practices might include object work; spatial dynamics; stillness; mask work; states of tension; character improvisation, for example.
In the second Term, students will study acting for camera, specifically processes for self-taping.
Sessions will consist primarily of taught workshops.
Students will be expected to engage with a range of set readings which offer context and critical analysis of the practices they will be exploring across various forms of performer training that will be undertaken in the workshops on the module.
Building on the Level 4 Voice module, this module aims to deepen students’ awareness of vocal and physical practice.
You will continue to develop a healthy, free and flexible voice, and deepen your awareness of your own apparatus, exploring vocal physiology, alignment, breath support, centring, pitch and placement.
Students will further extend their ability to respond to various more complex and demanding texts, exploring the use of rhetoric, sentence structure, and the use of both poetic and epic language.
Students will explore the demands of differing roles and characters, texts, exploring the relationship between breath and language, including contemporary and rhetorical speeches and monologues, and continue their work on accents and received pronunciation.
Students will be assessed through performance work but will also be expected to keep a reflective journal throughout both Terms.
At the end of the module, they will be expected to submit a reflective journal that summarises their personal development throughout each Term and demonstrates an evolved understanding of their embodied vocal practice.
This module will introduce students to performance and production in theatre-in-education and/or applied contexts, developing an area of acting that embraces these concerns.
It will consider the ways in which a range of performance companies in the UK and beyond have extended the parameters of acting in performance through making participatory or educative work which attempts to reflect and engage with the concerns of a specific community of interest.
Drawing upon the practices of contemporary performance makers in these related fields, this module will see students stage a short-length production and take part in a facilitated devising process for audiences with particular concerns.
For instance, the module may involve developing a performance piece designed to tour schools, and delivering a performance and workshop that address the concerns of an identified community.
This module will introduce students to Contemporary Devised Performance, developing an area of acting that includes immersive and digital performance.
It will consider the ways in which a range of performance companies in the UK and beyond have extended the parameters of acting in performance through making site-based work which attempts to immerse the spectator in the performance, and which draws on other artistic practice such as installation art as well as considering the opportunities that working with digital technologies can bring.
Students may devise around established texts and/or create their own work drawing on the breadth of content covered across the two Terms.
Assessment is via performances and a portfolio.
This module is intended to provide students with the opportunity to plan and implement an individual piece of practice-research.
Students will be required to submit a formative research proposal for consideration before moving to supervised learning.
The outcomes of this individual research project will be either a practice-research output (e.g.
performance; series of workshops; playtext; performative presentation) with a negotiated artistic statement and short critical reflection, OR a 4,000-5,000 word written document combined with a practice-research outcome, OR an 8000w dissertation.
By arrangement the student may also undertake work-based learning.
The module is supported by a short series of lectures covering practice-research methodologies, and theoretical methods in drama, theatre and performance and by individual supervision.
Performance skills alone are insufficient to pass this module.
This is an Extended Independent Study module.
This module prepares students for the demands of a career in a variety of media such as Theatre, Film, TV and Radio/Audio and offers the opportunity to develop a ‘scratch’ company show that students can potentially take to festivals beyond their time at university.
The module introduces essential elements of working as a freelance professional enabling students to prepare for workshops and auditions across these media.
It explores the needs of potential employers, casting-directors and agents, in preparation for work in recorded media.
The module assists students in planning for future employment and individual self-promotion but also in forming a company and pitching your own work (Term 1).
In Term 2, students create the student-led Company Project performance that they have ‘pitched’ in Term 1 and explore ways to 'perform' the directorial function as part of their collaborative process.
Where possible, companies will have the opportunity to perform in a local venue.
Workshop input covers group dynamics/collaboration; improvisation and devising/writing strategies and students are tasked with exploring form, content and structural choices in the dramaturgy of their chosen project.
Assessment for this module comprises an individual portfolio that includes recorded media performance elements, and a Company Project collaborative performance.
This performance project is designed to engage students in an in-depth exploration of recent/contemporary British plays, in processes of rehearsal and performance.
Students will have 10 hours per week of scheduled classes on this module, and over the course of the Term will engage in a series of workshops and practical classes that will cover the following according to the needs of the project in a given Term: movement; vocal work; improvisatory and devising strategies; character work.
Students will also have lecture/seminar input on the plays being explored – at least some of which will consider post-dramatic forms - and will engage in contextual research and dramaturgical analysis of the forms/styles/content of works in ways that are designed to support the actor in practical research and exploration processes in preparation for performance.
Students will work, with a Director/Directors and will develop a performance intended for public audiences, for this final year project.
This module is designed to enable students to work, as closely as possible, in a manner commensurate with professional employment in the theatre industry.
Students will work as collaborators in the rehearsal and production process in ways designed to enable them to synthesise and demonstrate the full range of practice-research, performance and evaluative practices studied/practised throughout their 3 years of study.
Assessment comprises of a performance (including process) and a portfolio.
Additionally, we accept tariff points achieved for many other qualifications, such as the Access to Higher Education Diploma, Scottish Highers, UAL   Diploma/Extended Diploma and WJEC Applied Certificate/Diploma, to name a few.
We also accept tariff points from smaller level 3 qualifications, up to a maximum of 32,   from qualifications like the Extended Project (EP/EPQ), music or dance qualifications.
UCAS have further information about studying as a mature student on the UCAS website which may be of interest.
Suitable applicants will be invited to attend a group workshop, audition and interview.
Upcoming audition dates:
Optional Trips: We organise incursions and excursions to see performances; some tickets are free, other ticket costs are kept to a minimum.
Indicative cost is £30.
Headshots: We will be able to organise a photographer for professional headshots in your third year for those ready to pursue professional practice.
Indicative cost £100.
Study abroad: Students have the option to study a semester abroad in the USA in their second year of study.
Indicative costs for flights is £900-£1,200.
Actual costs will be more.
Stage Combat Training: Contribution to our heavily-subsidised Advanced Stage Combat training (swords) with industry-recognised certification.
This can be undertaken as a curriculum-enhancement opportunity and is an optional extra where there is enough demand.
The indicative cost is £25.
Yoga Mat : These are also available to borrow from the University if needed.
To purchase, they are £10-£30.
Graduate Spotlight Membership (UK’s professional casting directory): Joining this is optional but recommended for those wanting to work in the industry after graduating.
The direct debit option is new and was brought in to make this more affordable for final year students.
Indicative prices are £129.60 per year or £11.70 per month.
Students would typically pay for this from January in their final year.
Headshot Photography: We offer to bring in a photographer in the 3 rd year at a reduced group rate should you wish to take advantage of this.
Indicative cost is £70-£80.
Mandatory Core Texts for productions will need to be purchased by students, and can be bought second hand which can often reduce this cost.
Indicative cost £20 per year.
Disclosure and Barring Service: Students will need to pay for the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) fee if they chose an optional module where they carry out work in a school or other community context.
This will either be in the second or third year of study.
Indicative costs is £49.50 per check.
To see if you’re eligible, please see our Scholarships and Awards.
Graduates from BA (Hons) Acting will be suitably prepared to begin a career as a performer.
They will also be able to work more broadly in theatre and educational contexts given the skills they will have acquired.
Jobs such a learning and participation officers in local venues would also be appropriate.
Graduates may choose to start their own theatre companies or work as practitioners, work in Theatre in Education (TIE), community drama, applied contexts.
Graduates could also go on to work in arts development, teaching and the media.
Students can progress to a wider variety of career destinations building on their core skills in communication and team-building.
The programme also provides a firm foundation for further training.
The University of Winchester ranks in the top 25 in the UK for graduates in employment and/or further study according to the Graduate Outcomes Survey 2024, HESA.
Dr Marianne Sharp is Senior Lecturer in Drama.
Prior to working in academia, she worked as an actor primarily in touring theatre in the UK and continental Europe, and as a director of youth theatre and applied theatre projects (including 3 years directing/devising/writing theatre pieces with young people at Theatre Royal Winchester; and directing Timberlake Wertenbaker's 'Our Country's Good' for Playing for Time Theatre in Winchester Prison).
Take a look at all our courses within the subject areas of Music and Performing Arts
We have therefore provided a list of some of the countries we work in with specific information included on entry requirements, funding opportunities, visas and other useful information.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Ancient-Classical-and-Medieval-Studies-2025:
The course has a multidisciplinary approach to the human past, and is led by expert staff from one of Winchester’s leading teaching and research units, the School of Humanities .
You can study subjects in Archaeology, Classical Studies and History that cover the Bronze Age to the medieval period, using stimulating and engaging teaching materials.
VV14
If you decide to complete an optional History Work/Volunteering Placement it may incur travel costs, which are dependent upon where you undertake the placement (if local it may be minimal, but costs go up when public transport is used to travel).
You will have a say in where your placement is located.
You will have the option to participate in either a four day-long Archaeology or History field trip module in your second year of study.
You can also take the Classical Studies summer school in either Greece or Rome between your second and third year (additional costs apply).
Our BA (Hons) Ancient, Classical and Medieval Studies course provides an opportunity for you to study abroad in the United States of America or Canada.
For more information see our Study Abroad section.
You are taught primarily through a combination of lectures and seminars, allowing opportunities to discuss and develop your understanding of topics covered in lectures in smaller groups.
In addition to the formally scheduled contact time such as lectures and seminars etc.), you are encouraged to access academic support from staff within the course team and the wide range of services available to you within the University.
Teaching, learning and assessment: 252 hours
Independent learning: 948 hours
Teaching, learning and assessment: 276 hours
Independent learning: 924 hours
Teaching, learning and assessment: 228 hours
Independent learning: 972 hours
All class based teaching takes places between 9am – 6pm, Monday to Friday during term time .
The University library is open seven days a week, 24 hours a day.
75% coursework 25% written exams 0% practical assessment
80% coursework 20% written exams 0% practical assessment
62% coursework 15% written exams 23% practical assessment
This module introduces students to the core skills required to study history successfully at degree level.
History makes sense of the past by analysing surviving evidence.
Such evidence is either secondary, which requires in-depth critical reading, or primary or original, which demands critical contextualisation and analysis.
All such evidence has uses to the historian, not necessarily obvious, and all contains partiality, which historians are trained to overcome.
Working in small groups with one staff member per group each Term, there will be a balance between developing awareness of these overarching core skills (such as conducting research and mastering referencing conventions) and a case study in which students work on academic reading connected to a particular topic.
This intensive small group environment will help students adjust to degree-level historical study in the university environment and provide a venue for delivering other transitional and transferable skills.
From the echoes of Rome to an era of kings and queens, the Middle Ages spanned a thousand years between the ancient and early modern worlds.
This was a period of momentous change across Britain and Ireland, Europe and the wider world featuring the rise and fracture of multiple empires including Rome, Sassanid Persia, the Umayyad and Abbasid Caliphates, the Carolingians, the Angevins, the Seljuks and the Byzantines.
It was often a period of warfare, but also one of closer diplomatic and economic links.
Old imperial legacies and ideologies were repurposed and adapted to the circumstances of the era creating new systems of kingship and queenship.
Shifting religions in this period could often lead to conflict, but also created new political entities and often supported cultural and intellectual expression.
The period saw ecological disasters and pandemics, alongside experiments with popular power and representative institutions.
This module will include local fieldtrips and conclude with a residential field school.
The study of history, and the understanding of a historical period and society, is dependent on the surviving remnants of the past that become the historian’s primary sources.
This module introduces students to a range of source material, from traditional textual sources to visual and material culture.
Students will work with a lecturer within their area of expertise to develop skills of source analysis and evaluation, examining the authorship and meaning of historical texts.
Sources in History covers topics such as al-Andalus, Norman Sicily, English monasticism, the reign of King John, female historical writing, late medieval England, Papal-Imperial relations, the Global Middle Ages, the Early Modern period and the Golden Age of Spain, Early Tudor England, Early Modern London, Victorian and Edwardian societies, Imperial Japan, the British Raj, the Soviet Union, Nazism and the Holocaust, the American South, the Global Hispanic World, the social experience of war since the 18th century, Immigration Histories of Britain, and Post-War culture and society.
From Homer to Alexander: The Making of Classical & Hellenistic Greece
This course runs from the end of the Late Bronze Age palace societies, the subsequent collapse of many aspects of material culture (‘The Dark Age’), through the gradual redevelopment of the city states during the Archaic period and the height of their power in the Classical period.
It concludes with the cultural changes in the Hellenistic kingdoms, the legacy of the redrawn map of the Greek world following the conquests of Alexander the Great.
The module is broadly chronological with themed topics of relevance (which may include city planning and public buildings, burial, trade, warfare, gender, slavery, religion, mythology and art), and seeks to connect the different parts of life (political, social and cultural) during this fascinating period through close analysis of both the material remains and the contemporary literary sources (including archaeological sites, art, architecture, historical events, historiography, and major literary works in poetry and drama).
Themes in History
The study of history demands the rigorous consideration of change over time or the continuity of key factors and forces.
Understanding and analysing the social, cultural, economic, and political causes of transformation within and across periods is a vital historical skill and is fundamentally important across the study of the subject.
This module provides an opportunity to examine changes to societies across a historical time.
This may include medieval themes such as the Viking Age, Anglo-French warfare, the crusades, post-Carolingian rulership, feuds and justice, or food and drink.
Early modern themes may incorporate the Renaissance court, English culture and society, or food and drink.
Modern themes could include American slavery, high speed society, feminism in Britain, political violence in Europe, post-War Japan and America, British relations with Europe, the Soviet Union, and photography and society.
This independent study module culminates in a c.
10,000 word dissertation for students studying on the BA Ancient, Classical and Medieval Studies programme.
It enables students to apply their knowledge of archaeological and historical theory and practice, in order to produce a piece of independent interdisciplinary research which shows clarity of expression, logical argument and creative thought.
The dissertation content/subject matter must reflect their pathway.
Depth Study is the most detailed and exacting part of the taught programme where students are given the opportunity to work in depth with one tutor on a single specialist topic.
Exploring the rich primary and secondary source material of a specialist area consolidates the skills and competencies of a historian developed throughout the duration of the degree.
A variety of topic areas are offered for study each year, examples of which include: Pax Romana; modern reception of the classical world; the Wars of the Roses; civil war, revolution and republic in the British Isles; the United States and the Cold War; Japan at war and under occupation; the Italian Wars 1494-1516 and 1521-1559; genocide in history and memory; ruling England in the second Viking Age; the age of Napoleon; the post-war teenager in Britain; colonialism and its aftermath in north Africa and France; and the Anglo-Norman Civil War 1135-1154.
Rites, Religions and Ritual
Comparative Studies in History
Comparative perspectives are vital for understanding the past.
They prevent one society’s experiences of historical developments from being seen as typical.
Comparisons highlight the various ways in which people have experienced historical change.
In this module, students will explore historical issues across various countries, communities or cultures showing the numerous ways societies react to a broad range of issues.
In doing so, students will develop a more rounded picture of continuity and change in different contexts.
Comparative topics covered may include: popular protest throughout medieval Europe; the middle ages in computer games; chivalry and knighthood across medieval Europe; early modern witchcraft and supernatural beliefs in the British Isles, continental Europe and America; war crimes in Germany and Japan; memory of the Holocaust; ideologies in British and French colonial empires; and fascism in Italy and Spain.
Popular Culture in the Classical World: Leisure, Culture and Entertainment
This module will focus on aspects of Greek and Roman cultural history including sports and games, pastimes, entertainment, comedy theatre, and other aspects of daily life from the point of the contemporary spectator and participant, contemporary commentary, and, where relevant, later reception and comparison.
‘Fun and games’ in antiquity tended to involve much more than ‘bread and circuses’ (panem et circes), one’s leisure activities were also indicative of social class and moral character.
Themes explored might include the ritual origins of sport, festivals, and cultural activities as aspects of religious ritual and civic life; the political use of public sport or theatre as propaganda; and leisure and cultural activities as indicators of status, social/economic class, and moral character.
Students may be tasked to compare and contrast traditions and attitudes across Greek and Roman contexts, review contemporary sources (both written and material), and to consider later reception of these activities, as well as engage with current scholarly approach and debate on the topic.
Books Some modules require students to have access to books with an approximate cost of £100 if bought new over the course of a year (but texts can often be purchased at considerably reduced rates second hand).
Mandatory modules might also require some core texts.
Indicative cost: £150 per academic year.
Field trip Students will have the option to participate in a three day-long residential archaeological field trip module in their second year of study.
For the week-long History Fieldtrip in Year 2 - costs vary depending on location and number of students going on the trip.
Indicative costs: £300-£700 .
Dissertation work Students working on dissertations in Year 3 may incur costs (mainly travel) of visiting archives, dependent upon the specific nature of the dissertation and availability of online resources for a specific subject.
This would typically involve either travel to a local archive (e.g.
Southampton, Portsmouth or further afield if the student chooses to study a locality away from Winchester) or a national archive, usually in London (the National Archive, the British Library, Women's Library).
If the dissertation work is based in Winchester then costs will be far less.
Placement If students decide to complete an optional History Work/Volunteering Placement, this may incur travel costs, which are dependent upon where the student undertakes the placement (if local it may be minimal, but costs go up when public transport is used to travel).
Students will have a say in where their placement is located.
Indicative costs: £0 - £300 dependent on location of placement and number of visits required.
To find out if you are eligible, see our Scholarships and Awards page.
Graduates have entered fulfilling historical and archaeological careers as teachers, in museums, heritage sites, archives and local authorities.
However, the programme also provides a wide range of skills that are highly relevant to a number of other careers, such as conservation, education and the civil service.
Our graduates are sought after by employers in all industries, who value their deep theoretical and cultural knowledge.
If you study a Bachelor Honours degree with us, you will be pre-approved to start a Masters degree at Winchester.
To be eligible, you will need to apply by the end of March in the final year of your degree and meet the entry requirements of your chosen Masters degree.
Dr Katy Soar is Senior Lecturer in Classical Archaeology.
She specialises in the Greek Bronze Age as well as the history and reception of archaeology, having published on archaeology and comics, archaeology and the supernatural, and archaeological approaches to dance and performance.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Anthropology-2025:
At Winchester we take a broad approach to the discipline of anthropology.
Through modules in social anthropology, biological anthropology and archaeology, you will embark on a fascinating exploration of human cultures and behaviours across the past and present.
Classes draw on archaeological evidence, the long-term perspective of human evolution, and present-day examples from societies around the world.
You will learn from experts in the field with interests in diverse areas such as human osteology, religion and society, art and cultural heritage, or migration and transnationalism.
Through external visits and opportunities to work with archaeological materials, including an important collection of human skeletal remains, the course provides a balance between academic learning and practical experience.
As an anthropology student, you learn how to understand, interpret and respond to human behaviour.
Alongside such specialist skills, you also develop valuable transferable skills highly prized by employers, including the ability to think critically, communicate your ideas and opinions clearly and work both independently and collaboratively.
Anthropology is part of the School of Humanities .
Pre-approved for a Masters
If you study a Bachelor Honours degree with us, you will be pre-approved to start a Masters degree at Winchester.
To be eligible, you will need to apply by the end of March in the final year of your degree and meet the entry requirements of your chosen Masters degree.
LL60
You have the option to undertake a work placement in Year 3 instead of a dissertation.
Study Abroad
Our BA (Hons) Anthropology course provides an opportunity for you to study in the United States or Canada.
While your actual contact hours may depend on the optional modules you select, the following information gives an indication of how much time you will need to allocate to different activities at each level of the course
Teaching, learning and assessment: 228 hours Independent learning: 972 hours
Teaching, learning and assessment: 192 hours Independent learning: 1008 hours
50% coursework 25% written exams 25% practical assessment
70% coursework 15% written exams 15% practical assessment
70% coursework 8% written exams 22% practical assessment
This module introduces the research methods and approaches that make social anthropology distinctive and explores key themes in the study of human cultures and societies from a social anthropological perspective.
A comparison of the subject with other sub-fields of anthropology and with other disciplines in the humanities and social sciences is outlined.
The importance of ethnographic research and writing is emphasised through a focus on contemporary ethnographic practice.
Other approaches to social anthropology (e.g.
museum anthropology, applied anthropology, visual anthropology) are also considered.
Major themes are then explored from the point of view of recent ethnographic research.
These may include: kinship, gender, age, material culture, art, the environment, ritual, belief, magic, language, the body, space, politics, or decolonisation.
The emphasis is placed on the relevance of anthropology to the contemporary world.
Parallel academic skills sessions support the development of the key skills needed in a Higher Education environment.
This module introduces students to the discipline of biological anthropology and provides an overview of the key principles and approaches to the study of humans from a biological and evolutionary perspective.
We will explore primates and primate behaviour, natural selection and elementary genetics, human adaptation to different environmental stresses, including human development and nutritional requirements, and the evolution of infectious diseases.
The anatomy of various primate and hominid species is considered from the perspective of reconstructing both primate and human evolutionary history and there will be discussion of key fossil finds that cover the period from the earliest primate ancestors in the Palaeocene 65 MYA to the appearance of Homo sapiens in Pleistocene Africa.
We will consider fossil evidence from across Africa to Asia, Europe and the Americas and hominin Genera such as Sahelanthropus, Australopithecus and Homo.
This module connects the three ‘strands’ of Anthropology (biological anthropology, social anthropology, and archaeology/material culture studies) by investigating important historical developments in the discipline as well as looking at how anthropological research is carried out today.
It provides a solid grounding in the three ‘strands’ by investigating key themes from these different perspectives.
This allows students to compare and contrast these approaches to the study of humanity, and to explore larger questions around what makes us human, and how human lives are shaped by biological, social, environmental and material factors.
The module also explores the history of anthropology from its origins to the present day, covering both biological and social anthropology and highlighting key figures and schools of thought in the development of the discipline.
Throughout the module there is a focus on key debates and controversies, and developing an awareness of the contested nature of anthropological knowledge.
This module explores identity categories such as gender, sexualities, race, ethnicity, language, age and disability from both a biological and social point of view.
It will evaluate theories related to the evolution of human behaviour, and include discussion of how identity categories are constructed and contested in relation to specific cultures or geographic areas.
There will be some practical demonstration on how we can determine aspects of the identity of past populations from their skeletons, such as age and sex determination and how pathological lesions can aid in interpretations of disability and care in the past.
Focused exploration of identity categories in contemporary society will allow students to develop knowledge of the values, ethics and traditions of the specific cultural and geographic area under consideration.
This module investigates art and visual culture from an archaeological and anthropological perspective to explore Western and non-Western approaches to art in the present and the past.
It includes a focus on the role of museums in the production of knowledge about global art worlds, as well as a series of geographically-focused case studies that provide wide exposure to the art and material culture of small-scale and indigenous societies.
The module also explores the production and use of visual culture like photography, film and television by both anthropologists and the communities they work with.
The module critically explores the relationship between anthropology and the ethnographic museum in the present and the past and provides practical experience in researching and writing about cultural objects.
Students may pick one of the following.
Death, Burials and Bioarchaeology - 30 credits
Global Religions: Spaces and Places - 30 credits
This module will explore a range of religions and spiritual traditions through the lens of material and visual culture in public (non-overtly religious) spaces such as museums, art galleries and in exhibitions and shops, and also examine how religions ‘work’ when in diaspora.
The main religions explored across the module are Asian-originating religions, and the Abrahamic traditions, but traditional/indigenous religions feature strongly in the first part, and the development of new religious sub-traditions of global religions and Zoroastrianism, feature in the second part.
Utilising a range of approaches this module will allow students to examine the various spaces and places where global religions can be found, and the other religions that can be found in them.
This module will include two day trips, the first to a museum/art gallery and the second to a place where a religion in its diaspora context can be seen.
Students choose one of two tracks for this final-year module: 1.
A 10,000 word dissertation on a topic or theme in social anthropology, biological anthropology or archaeology developed through independent research under the supervision of a member of staff; or 2.
a project based alternative involving a period of prolonged practical experience of working within an external organisation.
The dissertation track allows students to apply themselves to an anthropological or archaeological study of their choice in depth over a year, using the sources and methodologies of social anthropology,  biological anthropology or archaeology.
The placement track is for those students who wish to gain prolonged practical experience of working within an external organisation.
Students work with staff and the university Placements team to identify a placement with an external host organisation, ideally one with a specific interest to them and a connection to the disciplines of anthropology or archaeology, broadly defined.
This module will focus on the importance of migration and movement throughout human evolution and up to the present day from both biological and social perspectives.
From the first hominins to move out of Africa we will explore the archaeological evidence for the migration of past populations, with a particular focus on scientific techniques such as ancient DNA, proteomics, and isotope analysis as aids in interpretations of migration, both on the population scale and for Individual skeletal remains.
Through a focus on migration as a topic of study within social anthropology we will also develop in-depth ethnographic understanding of the issues surrounding migration and transnationalism in specific contexts.
This will allow us to explore the contribution of an ethnographic approach to debates on migration in contemporary society.
This final-year module links social anthropology, biological anthropology and archaeology.
It brings together three broad themes: the public role of anthropology and its applications to real-world issues; how anthropological topics are communicated in a variety of public media; and in the second Term the multiplicity of archaeological interpretation on the basis of differing lines of evidence and varied approaches of study.
Students will examine the wide range of contemporary issues to which anthropologists might contribute their expertise, and will explore the public communication of anthropological topics in a variety of media including, for example, newspapers, research blogs or television programmes.
They will also explore the diversity of interpretation that can be applied to archaeological data from different perspectives and using different types of evidence.
Throughout the module students will be encouraged to critically analyse the interpretations provided for anthropological and archaeological data in a variety of forms.
Students can pick one of the following.
Rites, Religions and Rituals - 30 credits
Alternative Spiritualities: New and Indigenous Religions - 30 credits This module introduces students to a range of indigenous spiritual lifeways and to the study of new religions, encouraging them to critically consider, through the anthropological and sociological study of religions, how the study of religions and religious people has developed over time, and consider the historical events that have helped shaped the discipline.
To see if you’re eligible, please see our Scholarships and Awards page.
Anthropology graduates may go on to roles in international development, the cultural heritage sector, government and business sectors as equality and diversity officers, teaching, commercial archaeology, or forensic anthropology alongside other graduate-level opportunities.
I hold a BA in Near Eastern Studies (Princeton University), an MA in Social Anthropology (Harvard University) and a PhD in Social Anthropology and Middle Eastern Studies (Harvard University).
I joined the University of Winchester in June 2017 as a Lecturer in Social Anthropology and I am the Programme Leader for the BA Anthropology and the BA Anthropology and Archaeology.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Anthropology-and-Archaeology-2025:
This course combines our broad approach to the discipline of anthropology with more in-depth study of archaeological approaches and time periods.
You will learn from experts in the field with interests in diverse areas such as human osteology, art and cultural heritage, religion and ritual, migration and transnationalism, conflict archaeology, or funerary practice.
The course draws on approaches in the humanities and the sciences to understand past cultures and their modern-day heritage.
Through modules in social anthropology and biological anthropology you will embark on a fascinating exploration of human cultures and behaviours across the past and present.
These classes draw on the long-term perspective of human evolution and present-day examples from societies around the world.
In your archaeology modules you will explore the human past in more depth, in classes that cover the range of human experience from prehistoric times to the present day.
You will also gain valuable hands-on training in archaeological fieldwork techniques.
Through excavation experience, external visits, and opportunities to work with archaeological materials, including an important collection of human skeletal remains, the course provides a balance between academic learning and practical experience.
Find out more about the School of Humanities , home of Anthropology and Archaeology alongside a range of other cognate subjects.
L6V4
Fieldwork
Students are required to undertake a period of compulsory fieldwork which takes place over the summer after Year 1.
Students do the fieldwork at one of the School's local research/training projects.
Local projects have no direct costs for student participants.
Our BA (Hons) Anthropology and Archaeology course provides an opportunity for you to study abroad in the United States or Canada.
For more information see our Study Abroad section.
Independent Learning
Overall Workload
Year 1 (Level 4): Timetabled teaching and learning activity*
Year 2 (Level 5): Timetabled teaching and learning activity*
Teaching, learning and assessment: 300 hours Independent learning: 900 hours
Year 3 (Level 6): Timetabled teaching and learning activity*
Teaching Hours
Year 1 (Level 4)*:
62% coursework 25% written exams 13% practical assessment
Year 2 (Level 5)*:
70% coursework 13% written exams 17% practical assessment
Year 3 (Level 6)*:
70% coursework 22% written exams 8% practical assessment
This mandatory module develops and supports students in attaining important skillsets in critical thinking, data collection, analysis and academic writing for their extended independent study project (dissertation) in year 3.
The first section of the course concentrates on developing a critical awareness of key theoretical standpoints and positions in the humanities and social sciences with special reference to archaeology and anthropology.
Alongside this focused training in anthropological fieldwork and data collection techniques is provided.
Exploring Art and Visual Culture - 30 credits
Alternative Spiritualities: New and Indigenous Religions - 30 credits
The first part of this module explores Indigenous religions where students explore the world of other-than-human people, deities and spirit(s), kinship and ancestors, appropriation, gender, place and environment, ceremonies, and language/terminology.
With a focus on living traditions rather than just on their history we will examine the ways in which Indigenous peoples adapt and respond to the changed situation of the contemporary world, including the effects of colonisation.
The second part of the module will explore issues connected with the study of New and Alternative Religions, including topics such as the role of the development of these religions, gender, leaders and followers, converts and those born into these religions, and abuse.
We will examine terminology in depth and delve into some case studies including neo-paganism, and neo-tribalism.
During the module a new religion will be developed by the class (or developed in small groups) so be prepared for lots of discussion.
Anthropology and Archaeology graduates may go on to roles in commercial archaeology, the cultural heritage sector, teaching, or forensic anthropology alongside other graduate-level opportunities.
My PhD research focused on the collection, exhibition and circulation of North African art and material culture in state museums and North African-run cultural sites in Paris.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BSc-Hons-Archaeological-Practice-2025:
The degree focuses on the current practice of archaeology, including the methods used for prospecting new sites, excavation techniques, analysis of finds and the preparation of reports and publications.
Our three-year programme places emphasis on skills acquisition - partly during  fieldwork undertaken both during term time and in the summer vacation - but also includes the academic study of different periods and cultures, from the earliest humans to the start of the twentieth century.
Year 1 provides an introduction to different sub-disciplines of archaeology, including fieldwork, resources, material culture and archaeological science.
Y ou will receive training on state-of-the-art field equipment including ground penetrating radar, magnetometers, magnetic susceptibility meters, differential GPS instruments and total stations.
In addition, you will learn how to use industry-standard computer software such as ArcGIS and Geoplot.
The department has a geoarchaeological consultancy, ARCA, whose staff will also teach you.
The consultancy offers valuable laboratory work experience and an opportunity to combine your academic expertise with reporting for a professional audience.
In Year 2, you will study geographic information systems, methods of measured survey and a variety of approaches to remote sensing.
You are prepared by modules on theory and method for your final year dissertation.
There is also a range of optional modules that explore the entire human story from Early Prehistoric Europe, through Ancient Greece to Medieval, post-Medieval and Modern Eurasia, as well as Human Bioarchaeology, the Archaeology and Anthropology of Death and Burial, and a multi-day field trip module in which you visit sites in another region of Britain.
In Year 3, you write a dissertation based on applied research that you have carried out, usually in a field setting or the laboratory, as well as undertaking more fieldwork.
There is an option to do a short industry placement instead of the dissertation, many of which have led to employment with the archaeological company providing the placement.
Archaeological Project Management is tailored to those students wanting to work in commercial archaeology.
You can also choose from optional modules which include examining the archaeology of Europe Prehistory and further afield from a range of perspectives, including religion, society and conflict.
You may choose to pursue the four-year BSc (Hons) Archaeological Practice with Professional Placement pathway which includes an industry placement year, where you will build an invaluable portfolio of work.
V400
You are taught primarily through a combination of lectures, practicals (field and class-based) and seminars, the latter in small groups and affording the opportunity to discuss and develop your understanding of topics covered in lectures.
Teaching, learning and assessment: 228 hours Independent learning: 888 hours Placement: 84 hours
64% coursework 14% written exams 21% practical assessment
*Please note these are indicative percentages and modes for the programme
For more information about our regulations for this course, please see our Academic Regulations, Policies and Procedures.
Option A: The Archaeology of Britain
Extended Project
Professional Placement
In line with the emphasis placed on experiential learning by the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists (CIfA), this module is a ‘real world’ alternative to the dissertation for BSc Archaeological Practice students.
This is a placement-based module intended for those students who wish to gain prolonged practical experience (20 days/4 weeks) of working within an external archaeological organisation.
With support from the archaeological placement coordinator in the School, the students and coordinator will identify and organise the placement with an external host organisation, ideally one of direct interest to the student, e.g.
with expertise in excavation; survey; curation; archives; finds; museology.
At the start of the module, in Term One, students will be actively planning their proposed project, potential host, the nature of the work to be carried out, health and safety issues, travel and other practical considerations.
The placement report, the culmination of the module, provides a detailed background to the placement, an introduction to the host organisation, a daily diary of the experience, outlining skills learned and developed, and concludes with a reflective account of the strengths and weaknesses of the placement, how well it delivered on planned outcomes, and whether there were any outcomes that were not foreseen – for example discovering new areas of interest, making new contacts etc.
As one of our students, all of your teaching and assessments are included in your tuition fees, including, lectures, guest lectures and tutorials, seminars, laboratory sessions and specialist teaching facilities.
Excavation Students are required to undertake four weeks of compulsory excavation which takes place over the summer after Year 1, normally at one of the Department's local research/training projects, with a further four weeks of compulsory archaeological fieldwork in the summer after Year 2.
At the highest end of this spectrum is the project in Georgia (indicative cost is £1,500 for four weeks) where the costs include flights, food and accommodation for the duration of the project.
Field Trip Module
Students will have the option to participate in a three-day long residential field trip module in their second year of study.
Graduates have multiple career options available to them and can proceed directly into a career in professional archaeology, for example with a commercial archaeological organisation undertaking developer-funded excavation and survey.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BSc-Hons-Archaeological-Practice-with-Professional-Placement-2025:
In our hands-on programme, you will use cutting-edge scientific techniques to explore the past.
You will go out into the field to work on sites of historic importance, as well as studying a wide range of themes from Prehistoric Europe to death and burial.
Then you will make good use of your knowledge in a year-long placement within the industry and come away with a professional portfolio to impress future employers.
Our department also has a commercial research consultancy (ARCA), where you can learn from highly-trained specialist staff.
During fieldwork in the UK and abroad you will use state of the art field equipment - including ground penetrating radar, magnetometers, magnetic susceptibility meters, differential GPS instruments and total stations.
In addition, you will learn how to use industry standard computer software such as ArcGIS and Geoplot.
In Year 1, you learn all the basics for a solid foundation in Archaeology, from prehistory to the historic period and cover topics like Archaeological Science and Fieldwork.
This is topped off with an exciting four weeks of fieldwork on a research excavation.
You cement your knowledge in Year 2 by acquiring practical and applied skills including in Geographic Information Systems, remote sensing and measured survey, and post-excavation analysis.
You prepare for a dissertation with modules on theory and research method.
Delve into what it’s really like to work as a professional archaeologist in Year 3 with a full year’s placement at an archaeological organisation and develop a portfolio of professional practice to demonstrate your experience to future employers.
In Year 4, you engage in more vocational learning during classes on project management and cultural heritage practice, and a module features archaeological debates.
You write a dissertation, generally on a practical topic, such as a site survey.
With the course’s focus on vocational archaeology, it’s no surprise that many of our graduates proceed directly into a career in professional archaeology, often with commercial archaeological organisations undertaking developer funded excavation, survey work and research work.
Archaeology is part of the School of Humanities.
V401
UK, EU, World
In addition to the mandatory four-week training excavation during the first summer vacation, there are additional fieldwork opportunities throughout the year within the UK and abroad.
BSc (Hons) Archaeological Practice with Professional Placement includes a year in industry.
Students will have the option to participate in a week-long Archaeology field trip module in their second year of study.
Placement: 1,200 hours
100% coursework 0% written exams 0% practical assessment
67% coursework 8% written exams 25% practical assessment
Undertake a 40-week placement with one or two archaeological companies or organisations to gain professional experience with potential employers.
This year will boost your portfolio, professional network and CV.
Students are required to undertake four weeks compulsory excavation which takes place over the summer after Year 1, normally at one of the Department's local research/training projects, with a further four weeks of compulsory archaeological fieldwork in the summer after Year 2.
Indicative cost: £0-£1,500.
Students will have the option to participate in a three day-long residential field trip module in their second year of study.
Graduates may proceed directly into a career in professional archaeology, for example with a commercial archaeological organisation undertaking developer-funded work.
If you study a Bachelor Honours degrees with us, you will be pre-approved to start a Masters degree at Winchester.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Business-Management-2025:
At Winchester, we believe business education should mirror the real business world: dynamic, practical, and focused on solving actual challenges.
Our recently redesigned Business Management degree (launched September 2024) moves beyond traditional theory-heavy approaches to place you at the centre of real industry scenarios, from day one.
With 92% of our graduates in employment or further study, placing us in the Top 20 among English institutions (5-year aggregate), the real-world focus of our approach delivers tangible career outcomes.
Rather than simply studying what makes a business successful, you'll experience it first-hand.
You'll learn through transformative educational approaches, working on live briefs with local organisations like Winchester Cathedral to test your business decisions in risk-free simulation environments, and build the professional capabilities employers are actively seeking – all in a supportive environment where your personal growth is just as important as your academic achievement.
Our graduates go on to work with prestigious organisations including Deloitte, PwC, Santander, Monzo, Quilter Investments, and BDO, demonstrating the real-world value and recognition of a Winchester business education.
Our unique position as a Business School that shares a faculty with Computer Science allows us to integrate valuable digital skills throughout your learning journey, preparing you for the increasingly tech-driven business landscape.
With guidance from our diverse, international teaching team, you’ll also have the chance to develop a global business mindset and connect with potential employers through our annual placement events and business symposiums.
Take your work experience even further with an optional year-long placement between your second and third year of study.
Students who complete our BA (Hons) Business Management are also automatically pre-approved to start their MBA at Winchester.
To be eligible, you will need to apply by the end of March in your final year and meet the entry requirements.
The Pathways to Business and Management programme runs for the first time from October 2024.
The pathway is an opportunity for prospective business and management students to engage in a series of practical and informative sessions delivered by academics and business professionals at the Faculty of Business and Digital Technologies Participants in Pathways to Business and Management are eligible to receive reduced contextual offers on the following University of Winchester courses: - BA (Hons) Business and Management Eligibility for the programme The programme is open to all home/Channel Islands Year 12 and Year 13 students.
Programme activities include: •    Lectures and seminar activities based on a variety of business and management topics •    Experience of practical business activities such as innovation, marketing, leadership and strategy •    Career guidance and advice from successful business professionals •    Optional interview experience with the Dean of Faculty or Head of Department
For more information on the Pathways to Business and Management programme and how to apply
Please click here for the Business and Digital Technologies Pathways programme - Privacy Notice
On campus
NP29
Your journey through our Business Management degree is designed to turn you from a curious student into a confident, capable business professional.
You will be taught primarily through a combination of lectures and seminars in small groups and expected to develop your own learning through independent and collaborative research and study.
While your class contact hours, independent learning and assessment activity may vary depending on the optional modules you select, here’s what you can expect from your Business Management course:
Year 1 (Level 4): Building Foundations* Develop core business knowledge while experiencing our applied approach from day one.
You'll work in teams on real business challenges, master essential business software, and begin exploring entrepreneurial thinking and sustainable business practices.
Year 2 (Level 5): Developing Expertise* Deepen your knowledge and begin exploring your chosen specialism.
You’ll complete our innovative Consultancy & Research module, developing idea generation and research skills through a twelve-week intensive program where you'll work on briefs for real clients.
You'll also have the option of a 15-credit volunteering module to undertake a placement in a voluntary sector organisation.
Teaching, learning and assessment: 276 hours Independent learning: 912 hours Placement: 12 hours
Year 3 (Level 6): Professional Application* Bring everything together and prepare for your next steps into employment with your choice of final year Capstone project.
Teaching, learning and assessment: 252 hours Independent learning: 948 hours
74% coursework 0% written exams 26% practical assessment
62% coursework 12% written exams 26% practical assessment
62% coursework 10% written exams 28% practical assessment
Whatever a student’s future career, there are certain professional skills that are required in the workplace.
This module provides opportunities to acquire and apply essential skills for academic success, while also developing digital skills that are a prerequisite for a successful career.
Students will practice, and build confidence in wide ranging skills, as part of their transition into higher education.
By establishing and pursuing a personal development plan, students develop a set of personal qualities such as self-awareness, confidence and resilience; and professional skills such as communication, teamwork, risk management, coaching and feedback.
Whilst students learn to construct outstanding CVs and professional LinkedIn profiles, this module also aims to raise students’ digital skills competencies.
The module will cover the general Microsoft Office suite and specific digital skills of particular relevance to the discipline that the student is studying.
This module is taught as a mix of lectures, practitioner guest lectures, hands-on skills seminars and computer lab sessions.
An important aspect for a contemporary business is to adhere to the requirements of responsible and ethical management.
Due to the rapid changes and current dynamics in the environmental and social arenas, shareholder demands develop swiftly.
This module prepares the students as future managers and business owners to react to these demands in a prompt, agile and responsible manner.
Even in a world of AI and technological advancement, work is not possible without human planning and interaction.
Much what is at stake in business organisations depends on the behaviour of groups and their individual members.
Late developments in the disciplines of psychology and organisational behaviour help us to understand the significance of considering human behaviour in recruiting and retaining skilled workforce and talent.
Apart from the above, the module provides practical insights into the foundations of the entire process of human resource management by addressing major contemporary issues such as diversity, inclusion and equality of opportunity at the workplace.
This module equips non-accounting students with the basic financial skills and understanding of economics at both personal and macro levels.
This will support their learning through their management-related degree studies, and also the management of their own finances.
The module introduces principles and concepts of economics and this sets the scene on markets and the motivations of human beings and their decisions in becoming ‘better off’: the module will examine how the economics relates to and can determine a person and a country’s well-being.
Fundamental financial processes will include analysis of financial statements, knowledge of cost behaviours and forecasting, financial decision making such as how to price a product or service.
The module allows students to bring together their financial skills by preparing extracts from a business plan as part of an application for finance.
This module introduces the concepts, theories, and practices of marketing.
It explores the meaning and scope of modern marketing as both a management philosophy and a business function.
The module contains three components.
MARKETING PRINCIPLES
Marketing concepts are examined in depth, emphasising the importance of aligning marketing strategies with market demands.
Students are encouraged to develop a critical marketing perspective, considering the broader impact of marketing on the economy, society, and the environment.
MARKETING RESEARCH
Students will learn the fundamental methodologies and techniques collecting, analysing, and interpreting data.
It equips them with the necessary skills to conduct valuable research and contribute to evidence-based marketing practices in today's fast-paced business environment.
Students will gain a deep understanding of how marketing research offers valuable insights into consumer behaviour, market trends, and competition.
CONSUMER BEHAVIOUR
Students will explore contemporary consumer behaviour theory and its relevance in marketing management, decision-making, and societal contexts.
Various disciplinary perspectives, including economics, psychology, sociology, and cultural anthropology, are examined to reveal the motivations underlying consumer behaviour.
You will develop an appreciation of ethical implications of the research process to facilitate responsible research practice and will be introduced to the key stages required to complete an applied project from concept to delivery.
You will learn how to manage a project and contribute effectively as a member of a project team, using ideas generation techniques and problem-solving skills to develop innovative solutions to business problems.
This module contributes to your continuing professional development as you will gain key insights into how to perform technical process improvement tasks in a range of environments to solve real-world business problems.
The ongoing success, and sustainability, of established organisations often depends on their ability to generate innovative products and services.
New and early-stage ventures typically rely upon radically different ideas to gain a critically important foothold in the market.
Furthermore, it is also essential for business success, that an organisation is then able to leverage the global business opportunities that creativity can provide.
Thus, the ability to communicate and work with others in a multicultural, diverse, and ever-changing environment is key.
The module will challenge students to develop their creative and critical thinking skills, to engage in design-thinking processes and to employ a user-centred approach to innovation.
It will also provide students with the key skills and knowledge to allow them to apply international business management communications principles to complex scenarios in an International organisational context.
Excellent project management, efficient day to day operations, and a reliable, sustainable supply chain are at the heart of a successful businesses.
This module explores the role and purpose of each, with a focus on project initiation, the principles of Sustainable Operations and Supply Chain Management and the opportunity to gain a professional Lean Foundation qualification.
This module provides a holistic overview of strategic management from a global perspective and aims to develop informed, critical, and responsible managers who can lead others in an effective and ethical way, aligned with their values.
Drawing upon traditional academic theories and current debates, the module evaluates the relationship between strategic analysis, strategic formulation, strategic implementation, and business performance in the global arena.
Furthermore, students will develop a systematic understanding of the key issues and concepts in the leadership, change [including formulating and executing change as well as overcoming resistance to change], and crises with a critical perspective.
The module examines how external and internal factors influence strategic decisions and how strategic choices contribute to an organisation’s performance in an increasingly dynamic and hyper-competitive environment.
In the module
On completion of the module, students will be able to apply different strategic management tools to analyse and evaluate the strategic position of firms, develop a set of alternative strategies that will enable a firm to become or remain competitive in the national and global marketplace and recommend how organisational systems should be aligned to support a firm’s national and international strategic direction.
In addition, students should be able to critically evaluate why and how ethical leadership is important and how it guides organisations through change and crises from a practical, ethical and international perspective.
In addition to level 3 study, the following GCSE is required:
GCSEs in Mathematics at grade 4 or C, or higher.
Multiple copies of core text are held within the library and e-books are identified where possible, however due to limited availability students are recommended to purchase a copy for their own use.
It is possible for students to purchase second-hand copies.
Indicative cost: £50 - £300 per year.
Students may incur travel costs on optional volunteering placements in the second and third year of study.
Indicative cost: £5 - £30 per day.
There may be an additional contribution for optional school trips.
Indicative cost £5 - £30 per day.
Students may be expected to dress formally for oral assessments.
Indicative cost: £0 - £50.
A Business Management degree from the University of Winchester opens doors to diverse and rewarding career paths.
Our exceptional 92% employment or further study rate (placing us in the Top 20 among English institutions based on a 5-year aggregate) demonstrates the effectiveness of our applied approach to business education.
Our graduates succeed across multiple sectors, taking their applied knowledge and skills into different areas such as business development, project management, marketing, operations, human resources, finance, product development and strategic planning.
Our recently opened Hatchery space gives you a place to develop your business ideas with expert guidance, and our upcoming business maker space will soon allow you to prototype and test concepts before launching them into the world.
Many of our alumni are now running their own businesses, developing successful startups, working for major corporations including Deloitte, PwC, Santander, Monzo, Lush, Maserati, Wincanton, Channel 4, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise, or making an impact in the public sector.
The flexible nature of our degree, with its emphasis on practical skills and entrepreneurial thinking, prepares you for the changing nature of work in the 21st century – and beyond it.
From your first year, we focus on building your employability through:
- Regular career development workshops
- CV and interview skills training
- Assessment centre preparation
- Networking events with industry professionals and successful alumni
- Optional placement opportunities
- 3-4 annual employability events, including placements and presentations from employers
Our close relationships with local and regional businesses create pathways to employment, while our growing placement programme offers valuable work experience opportunities, including a sandwich year in industry.
The skills you develop – from critical thinking and problem-solving to digital literacy and holistic project management – are exactly what today's employers are seeking.
If you study a Bachelor Honours degrees with us, you will be pre-approved to start a Masters degree at Winchester.
To be eligible, you will need to apply by the end of March in the final year of your degree and meet the entry requirements of your chosen Masters degree.
Dr Maria Emmanouilidou was appointed as a Senior Lecturer in Management and International Academic Liaison Officer at the University of Winchester Business School in April 2018.
Maria has extensive experience within the UK Higher Education and in educational institutions in Greece.
Our international students come from all over the world and we understand that some things are a little different when applying and then arriving at the university.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/How-to-apply-Undergraduate:
We are delighted that you are looking to study an undergraduate course at Winchester.
On this page you can find out everything you need to know about the application process, your offer and how to secure your place.
When Applying to Winchester we want your application process to be as simple as possible.
If you are an EU (excluding Republic of Ireland) or non-EU national, please see the How to apply (International) page for step-by-step instructions.
If you are a UK national, hold settled status to be in the UK or are from the Republic of Ireland, please follow the instructions below.
As soon as you make Winchester your first choice, you become part of our vibrant community and you will gain access to a whole range of benefits, such as:
Make sure you pick a subject that really interests you and that will help you with your future career path.
Order a prospectus , attend an Open Day , and research your course or courses on the Find your course page.
Each course page has its own entry requirements.
We use UCAS Tariff points for most of our undergraduate courses, and you will be able to see the range we usually make our offers from, ie.
between 104-120 UCAS points.
Each application is considered individually, and we consider a wide range of qualifications, so please contact us if your qualifications do not match the typical UCAS points.
If you have any questions about entry requirements, please get in touch with our Admissions Team .
All full-time undergraduate applications should be made online on the UCAS website .
Our institution code is W76 .
We are on one campus, therefore there isn’t a campus code to select.
Course codes are listed on the individual course pages .
Try to ensure your application is completed by 6pm GMT on 14 January .
As long as your course remains open, we will still receive applications from UCAS after this date, but we cannot guarantee they will be considered in the same way as on-time applications.
You will receive an acknowledgement from UCAS once you have submitted an application, and we will also let you know by email that we have received it.
Applications usually take between one to four weeks to process, depending on the course and time of year you apply.
The busiest period for applications is December-February when processing times might be longer.
If you are worried and have not heard from us, please do contact our Admissions Team as they may have been trying to get in contact with you for further information.
Some of our courses require you to attend an interview or audition – this is indicated on individual course pages in the entry requirements section.
Most of our interviews take place from November to May on Wednesdays, although some courses do interview on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
Further information will be emailed to you once you have been selected for interview.
Applicants who wish to apply for advanced standing (exemption from part of a programme) based on previous study and/or experiential learning may apply for RPL.
Please note that any credits or marks gained from previous study shall not be counted in your final result as your award is calculated solely on the credits and marks accumulated while registered at the University of Winchester.
If applicants wish to apply for advanced entry, they must provide:
This information is reviewed by the programme team to assess whether advanced entry is possible.
We are unable to consider advanced entries without this information.
If we are able to consider an advanced entry application, the Admissions Team will advise you to apply.
Your UCAS Hub will be updated to show the outcome of your application.
If you have received an offer, you will also receive an email from the University, and get an offer letter in the post within a week if you live in the UK.
Do contact the Admissions Team if you don’t receive this or need a new one sent out.
The letter contains your student number (also known as applicant ID) which you will need when you apply for housing.
Your offer will either be conditional or unconditional .
Conditional means that you need to complete various qualifications, or provide evidence or a reference.
The conditions will be shown on your UCAS Track.
Unconditional means that you have already met our entry requirements and you have a confirmed place if you want it.
If you have been unsuccessful at an interview or audition, in most cases we will be able to offer an alternative course of study at the University.
If we are unable to make you an offer on any course, your application will be unsuccessful – usually this is because you do not have high enough qualifications to meet our minimum entry requirements.
UCAS will let you know the date by which you need to make your firm (first) and insurance (second) choices by, which is usually at the beginning of May.
However, you don’t have to wait until this date – you can choose your first choice university as soon as you have received all of your decisions.
To help you make your decision, you may like to attend one of our Experience Winchester Days which take place in February and March, or Taster Lectures to give you a real feel of what it would be like to study here.
If you are unable to attend an Open Day, you can book on to a Campus Tour .
If you have any questions or concerns about your offer, please contact the Admissions Team .
You can also discuss deferring your place , or changing your course from the one you originally applied for.
Once you have chosen Winchester as your first choice you can apply for accommodation .
Applications open in January, and we guarantee you a place in University-managed accommodation if you apply by the published deadline*.
You can only apply for accommodation if Winchester is your Firm choice university, not if we are your Insurance choice.
To make an application, you will need your Winchester student ID number, your surname and date of birth.
You can find your student ID number on your offer letter or from emails sent to you by the University.
If you are applying for a student loan, Student Finance England opens for applications in the spring (March/April).
Now is also the time to check out any awards and bursaries that you might be eligible for.
* Terms and Conditions apply.
To use Extra , you must have already used all of your five original choices, and not be holding any offers.
Extra opens at UCAS at the end of February and runs until the beginning of July.
If you didn’t use all five of your original choices, you may be able to add an additional choice to your application via your UCAS Track.
If you have any issues with adding choices or making changes to your Track, please contact UCAS directly rather than the University, on 0371 468 0 468.
Clearing opens at the beginning of July, and can be used if you do not have any offers, or if you want to make a late application.
Do check at UCAS to make sure we are still open for the course you want.
In August – once all the exam results are out – we will have a dedicated Clearing helpline for you to ring if you did not get your place confirmed elsewhere and want to see if we have a space for you.
Find out more about the Clearing process.
If you are holding an unconditional place with us, you should receive enrolment information during the summer.
If your place is conditional on results, your enrolment information will come to you later in August.
This will give you all the information you will need to know in preparation for joining us in September.
It’s very important to complete enrolment by the dates specified, and access your student record so that you can see any messages about your course and also your Welcome Week schedule.
This schedule will include the times you need to be in university for your enrolment and induction sessions.
Your enrolment takes place in person at the university, after which you will be able to access your full timetable.
If you have any questions about applying to Winchester, please get in touch with our Admissions Team by calling +44 (0) 1962 827234 or sending us a message.
If you have any questions about applying to Winchester, please get in touch with our Admissions Team.
Tel: +44 (0) 1962 827234

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/How-to-apply-Postgraduate:
The method of applying to Winchester depends on whether you wish to study full-time or part-time and which programme you are interested in.
If you are an EU (excluding Republic of Ireland) or non-EU national, please see the ‘How to Apply (International)’ [https://www.winchester.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/How-to-apply-International/] page for step-by-step instructions.
All applications for postgraduate study, except to those programmes listed below, should be made using our online application form .
The only programmes that use different application routes are:
The first step in the process is to create an account that will enable you to save your application and come back to it later if you wish.
Please ensure you use an email address that you will have access to until the course start date.
Once you start your application, use the left-hand navigation to move through each of the sections of the application, being sure to complete all mandatory sections that are shown with an asterisk.
For some questions there is additional help you can view by selecting the question mark at the end of the question.
For most courses you will be required to provide:
Please ensure you start your application with enough time to complete the process ahead of the published application deadline.
Follow the button below to begin the online application process, you'll find instructions and help throughout the form.
Winchester offers a range of postgraduate study options at various levels of award that can result in different qualifications.
Fields of study are within the academic fields of the Business, Education, Health and Wellbeing, Humanities, Law, and Social Sciences.
Awards comprise Masters degrees (MA/MSc/MBA), PGCEs and research degrees (MPhil and PhD), designed to enhance skills in the workplace.
Please see the course pages for further information.
Masters degrees are designed to take the skills and knowledge of graduates and other professionals to the levels of critical awareness associated with postgraduate study.
The programmes offered at Winchester cover a variety of study fields.
They are self-contained and provide the foundations for further training or study such as a Research degree.
Each Masters programme is organised into modules which are offered within our academic year.
All offer taught modules for the first two-thirds of the programme.
The final third is based on self-directed learning concentrating extended critical awareness and research skills.
It culminates with the production of the dissertation, consultancy or other projects.
The University of Winchester has an excellent reputation for teacher training and offers Postgraduate Certificates in Education (PGCE), providing teacher training for both Primary and Secondary Schools.
Both programmes offer innovative and flexible learning.
The University of Winchester offers a supportive and focused community to undertake research study and we provide excellent support and expertise.
Whether your ultimate aim is further exploration of an area of interest or employment, postgraduate research study at Winchester allows you to delve deep to broaden your knowledge and be challenged and enriched.
Find out more about studying for a research degree at Winchester.
Once you have applied, we aim to make a decision and let you know within two to three weeks.
To confirm your place with us, please follow the instructions contained within your official offer letter.
We recommend you :
Countdown to starting at Winchester!
We will contact you in the summer with all the information you’ll need on how to enrol and we look forward to welcoming you to our postgraduate community.
If you have any questions, please contact our helpful team at admissions@winchester.ac.uk or call +44 (0) 1962 827234

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/How-to-apply-International:
Applications for most of our undergraduate and postgraduate programmes can be made via Oxford International .
The Oxford International team have all the information you need and can guide you through the application process.
If you have any questions, please email uowadmissions@oxfordinternational.com or telephone 02083128078.
For the courses below, please email admissions@winchester.ac.uk to find out how to make an application:
All applications for the IFP should be made using our online application system.
Please note that we no longer use the Direct Entry Form.
If you are interested in studying abroad at the University of Winchester please see our Study Abroad pages.
You will find all the information that you need to apply for a research degree on our How to Apply page .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/how-to-apply-research:
Everything you need to know to apply for a research degree.
All research degree applications are handled by the Doctoral School.
To find out more about research degrees at Winchester, explore the Research Degrees webpages.
Whilst we accept applications all year round, we currently only have one start date, in September.
The application deadline for this is 30 April.
Please note:
Before anything else, you will need to make sure that we can supervise your proposed research project.
There are various ways to find a potential supervisor:
Once you have identified two potential supervisors, please email them your thesis proposal details to ascertain if they are interested in your project.
Once you have identified potentially interested supervisors you can proceed to applying by completing the application form (below).
Please note that there is no guarantee that we will have the capacity to supervise a project or that the supervisors you have nominated will be allocated if you are offered a place.
Upon receipt of your application the Doctoral School will liaise with the relevant faculty to consider your application.
Please email the Doctoral School if you are transferring from another institution.
Your application will include a proposal for your research.
The proposal is an opportunity for you to communicate your passion for the subject area and to make a persuasive argument about what your project can accomplish.
Make sure that your passion for the subject shines through in your application.
Some applicants who would like to study for a research degree (MPhil/PhD) may need some help in preparing their research proposal.
For these students, we offer a Preparation for Research Pathway.
For a one-off fee (not eligible for any bursary), students may register as a Preparation for Research student.
Information on fees and other financial information can be found on the Postgraduate Financial Information page .
Download Form A Application Form Research Degree March 2025
Return your completed form, electronically , to the Doctoral School .
Applicants must ensure they meet the following entry requirements:
Applicants for entry to postgraduate research programmes should have at least one of the following qualifications:
An application for RPL to exempt the postgraduate research student from part of the research skills programme, or from a module on the pre-thesis stage of a professional doctorate programme, should normally be submitted at the application stage.
Please note RPL cannot be used in relation to the thesis for a Professional Doctorate, MPhil or PhD qualifications.
Please read the RPL Policy or email us for further details.
Applicants whose first language is not English shall be required, in addition to satisfying the general entry requirements, to have achieved an average score of 6.5 Academic IELTS, with a minimum of 7.0 for written English.
Digital literacy contributes greatly to the confidence with which students engage in learning and teaching towards their degree.
This includes general university processes and communications, the virtual learning environment (including assignment submission), online library access and presentation of work.
Potential students are strongly advised to anticipate and address their needs before starting and, once enrolled, to take advantage of the support available.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply/How-to-apply-Short-courses:
Find out how to apply for a short course at Winchester.
Definition of a credit bearing short course: a named programme of study made up of one module with academic credit.
All applications for Short Course study should be made using our online application form .
It is in the best interests of all applicants to apply as soon as possible and before the deadline.
While late applications can be accepted throughout the remainder of the application year, the University reserves the right not to consider applications received after the deadline if the course has already reached capacity.
If there are insufficient acceptances at the published closing date to make a course viable, the University reserves the right to close the course.
If applicants have received an offer for any course described in this prospectus, but the University discontinues the course prior to registration, the University will notify offer holders.
Please note that some courses may have unique deadlines, and these are specified on each of the course pages.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/On-Campus-Events/Postgraduate-Events:
Ideal for those taking their first step into university, these events are designed to give you a great introduction to Winchester.
If you can't get to our next Open Day and visit us on person, why not explore our campus on our Virtual Campus Tour.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Make-a-change/Commuting:
If commuting to the University of Winchester is the right option for you, we have a range of travel options and benefits on offer.
Located in the Southern centre of the UK, Winchester has great transport links for commuting students.
We've also ensured our cohort have access to sustainable travel initiatives and discounts to make journeys as cost effective as possible.
If you choose to commute, you will still be able to enjoy the full university experience.
All social events and clubs are open to you, you have access to all our support services and there are plenty of study spaces and social spaces across campus.
If suitable, we also have short term guest rooms available and delicious breakfast options on campus.
Each year we enrol students travelling in from both the local area (Southampton, Fareham, Portsmouth) and further afield (Warwick, Swansea, the Isle of Wight).
Take a look at our commuter map at a handful of the locations:
Walking: you save a lot of money on transport by coming to Winchester as everywhere is so walkable.
Our on campus accommodation is around a 5-10 minute walk from lecture halls, seminar rooms, food halls etc.
The city centre is a 10-15 minute walk from campus and with road crossings dotted throughout the routes, it's an extremely easy way for students to commute.
Watch the journey from campus to the city centre here .
Cycling: w e have extensive cycling facilities on campus - including cycle hoops, covered shelters, cycle lockers, and repair/maintenance stands.
In addition, we have loan bikes and e-bikes available for students who might want to try riding before they commit to buying their own bike.
We have also secured discounts at local bike stores.
Shower and changing facilities are available across our campus.
Bus: Winchester benefits from an excellent Park and Ride Scheme and we have some brilliant deals with local bus companies to ensure you have discounted travel.
Train: Travelling by train is also super easy, as the university is only a 10 minute walk from the station.
Watch the route on this TikTok .
Below are some of train journey times to Winchester.
Students who join the Commuting Students Network have the chance to connect with other students who share similar circumstances.
There are monthly get-together events held on different days and times to try and make them accessible to as many people as possible.
Whether students are commuting from within Hampshire or further afield, our Commuting Students Network brings people together and makes them a part of the Winchester community.
Created and hosted by our Students' Union, the Commuting Students Network Lounge has been created with homely facilities designed to give commuting students a 'home from home'.
Complete with comfy sofas, a microwave and fridge, a shower, lockers, and PCs and a printer, our commuting students have the chance to meet face-to-face and build up friendships all across the university.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BSc-Hons-Computer-Science-2025:
Our course provides in-depth knowledge and skills in computer science, networks and applications, enabling you to progress into any area of the computing industry.
You will learn the necessary skills to develop cutting edge, state-of-the-art innovative applications.
You will benefit from links to professional and industry bodies, including Cisco Networking Academy and the BCS, the Chartered Institute for IT.
Develop your knowledge in computer systems and networks, programming, secure systems, computer system architecture, database systems, and modelling.
You will graduate with an understanding of emerging trends in computer science, such as those in software development, artificial intelligence and distributed computing.
During your course you will have the opportunity to attend occasional field trips.
A Personal Development Plan (PDP) is embedded into each year of study and will enhance your academic, personal and professional growth.
Your PDP will set your agreed goals which could be developing your soft skills such as communication, teamwork and leadership; creating a roadmap to support your career aspirations, for example identifying internships and work experience; or planning out your opportunities for networking.
Your PDP ensures you will receive continuous support tailored to your individual needs to enhance both your academic performance and career readiness.
There’s also a choice of fascinating optional modules so you can tailor the course to your career ambitions.
Depending on the optional modules you choose, you may graduate with a specialism in Artificial Intelligence or Cloud Technologies.
An optional placement year between Year 2 and 3 provides you with the opportunity to enhance your employability, business understanding and professional skills.
The Pathways to to Computer Science programme runs for the first time from October 2024.
The pathway is an opportunity for prospective computing students to engage in a series of practical and informative sessions delivered by academics and tech professionals at the Faculty of Business and Digital Technologies.
Participants in Pathways to Computer Science are eligible to receive reduced contextual offers on the following University of Winchester courses: - BSc.
(Hons) Computer Science - BSc.
(Hons) Cyber Security - BSc.
(Hons) Software Engineering Eligibility for the programme The programme is open to all home/ Channel Islands Year 12 and Year 13 students.
Programme activities include:
For more information on the Pathways to to Computer Science programme and how to apply
I100
YEAR 1 (LEVEL 4): Teaching, learning and assessment: 288 hours.
Independent learning: 912 hours
YEAR 2 (LEVEL 5): Teaching, learning and assessment: 288 hours.
YEAR 3 (LEVEL 6): Teaching, learning and assessment: 240 hours.
Independent learning: 960 hours
Further details on assessment types used on the course you are interested in can be found on this page, by attending an Open Day or Open Evening, or contacting our teaching staff.
YEAR 1 (LEVEL 4)*: 64% coursework.
36% practical assessment.
YEAR 2 (LEVEL 5)*: 93% coursework.
7% practical assessment.
YEAR 3 (LEVEL 6)*: 93% coursework.
For more information about our regulations for this course, please see our Academic Regulations, Policies and Procedures .
The module will cover the general Microsoft Office suite and specific digital skills of particular relevance to the discipline that the student is studying.
This module aims to provide you with a thorough underpinning in the Science of Computational Thinking.
You will learn about core mathematical concepts and their application, abstraction, decomposition, pattern recognition, algorithms, and data structures.
As part of this module, you will be encouraged to consider the impact that you are having on the environment, especially in terms of the efficiency of your algorithms and consumption of computing resources.
You will be engaged in activities which allow you to practice and apply your computational thinking skills.
You will be encouraged to consider a variety of different problems and how they can be “solved” using computation.
The aim of this module is to introduce concepts of system and software design within an organisational environment.
This module develops your skills in analysing business and technical requirements to select and specify appropriate technology solutions, capturing client requirements, and producing the solutions architecture and software design.
Additionally, you will investigate the use of infrastructure to support business needs and design systems which will consider these requirements.
You will develop an understanding of the OSI model, networking devices, and routing protocols.
You will explore and understand the security threats to an IT system and the operational impact of these threats on an organisation.
This module will introduce topical case studies of attacks on organisational information systems, highlighting the business consequences.
Within this module, you will be encouraged to think about the design, security, and networking aspects of Computer Science using industry-led case studies.
Within this module, you will be supported to develop the practical skills required to implement software solutions using programming techniques.
You will develop the necessary understanding of how the fundamentals of coding languages (such as variables, functions, input-output, control structures) are implemented together with exploring the use of databases within systems.
Throughout this module, you will engage in problem solving activities, designed to build your confidence with both software development activities and the tools, techniques, and technologies used by Software Engineers in industry.
You will be supported to engage with practical application of programming principles, with industry-led examples.
Initially, you will focus on smaller programmes, gradually building to more difficult ones by the end of the module.
This module will allow you to become a more confident programmer by introducing advanced programming techniques and systematically reviewing the principles behind the core components of programming languages.
Interleaving theory and hands-on activities, you will gain the necessary skills to effectively solve complex algorithmic tasks.
This will be complemented by developing your practical skills on essential programming tools and techniques, such as version control, documentation, and testing.
Additionally, you will gain an in-depth understanding of databases, and their roles in modern information systems.
You will learn to analyse databases using the most comprehensive and widely used theories.
You will use this awareness of the properties of databases to understand and compare alternative (NoSQL) data models, their applications, and the reasons behind their recent increase in popularity.
Practical activities inspired by real-world examples will allow you to develop the necessary skills to select and implement suitable database systems for a wide variety of applications.
During this module, you will explore selected quantitative models and theories that have a widespread use in Computer Science, and that are necessary to understand fundamental concepts such as computational complexity, tractability, and data models.
This will include elements of discrete mathematics, calculus, and statistics.
Additionally, you will learn how computer hardware and intermediate abstraction layers support the operating systems and high-level programming languages that are commonly used.
This includes the main components of computer hardware and their functions, how information is stored and processed, and how high-level programming languages are translated into basic instructions that machines can readily execute.
Throughout this module you will experiment with the practical applications of this knowledge, such as the optimisation and debugging of software systems.
Lastly, you will explore recent trends in these areas, where you will also consider the potential implications of the future of Computer Science.
You can choose to take this optional industry placement between second and third year.
The employment experience will involve you demonstrating your competency in key skills, such as communication and team working, and tasks relevant to your field of study.
This will necessarily require you to apply learning from your studies to the workplace, thus providing the opportunity to fully integrate your academic study with meaningful employment experience.
This module provides an in-depth examination of distributed systems focusing on the fundamental concepts, principles, and practical aspects of designing, developing, and managing such systems.
You will review the applications of distributed systems, with a particular focus on the Internet of Things (IoT).
You will learn about the architecture and characteristics of IoT systems, and how they enable the connection between the physical and digital world through sensors and actuators.
This module will combine theoretical study and hands-on projects, which will provide you with the necessary skills in designing, analysing, and developing distributed and IoT systems.
This module explains and provides practical experience in how important real world problems can be modelled and simulated by computers.
A selection of mathematical modelling and simulation techniques are explored in detail.
You will apply software development and programming techniques to study a scientific or a real-world problem, and discuss the findings of your simulation.
Additionally, you will explore development using parallel programming techniques together with the use of clustering of computers to compute complex calculations.
You will be required to develop an application which uses one of these techniques, and demonstrate the outcome.
GCSE in English Language at grade 4 or C, or higher.
Laptop Students are expected to have their own laptop to use on this course.
Indicative cost is £200-£1,000.
Core texts Core texts are available from the University Library.
However some students prefer to purchase their own copies.
Some core texts can be bought second-hand or as an ebook which can often reduce this cost.
Indicative cost is £150 for whole course.
Students will be equipped to enter a variety of computer science graduate roles including software developer, information systems engineer , database administrator, and application analyst.
Dr Claire Ancient is a Senior Lecturer in Computer Science in the Department of Digital Technologies, having joined the University in 2018.
She is currently the programme leader for BSc (Hons) Software Engineering and BSc (Hons) Cyber Security with Law and has previous experience of leading the undergraduate Degree Apprenticeship programmes.
Take a look at all our courses within the subject areas of Computing

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BSc-Hons-Cyber-Security-2025:
Our Cyber Security course emphasises the industry's practical side, ensuring you are well-prepared for the real world.
We want you to be an imaginative and technically skilled practitioner who can efficiently face the challenges of the future.
Through this course, you will enhance your knowledge of information security management, programming, secure systems, digital forensic investigation, and penetration testing.
We tend to favour workshop-style sessions over lectures and you will have the opportunity to apply cutting-edge knowledge and skills to real life scenarios.
Live briefs, simulations, role play and live case studies will be used to recreate workplace conditions.
You will also have the opportunity to attend occasional field trips during your studies.
You will gain a thorough understanding of the structure and operation of computer systems and networks and the impact of cyber security, plus knowledge of the legal system, legal processes, relevant laws and the regulatory environment related to the handling of digital evidence and forensic investigations.
You will also gain the ability to undertake digital forensic examinations, collecting and analysing digital evidence to support or oppose an investigative case.
Our students benefit from links to professional and industry bodies including Cisco Networking Academy and the BCS, the Chartered Institute for IT.
You will have access to a wide variety of databases for research purposes, in addition to training within data analysis software such as SPSS, Qualtrics and InVivo.
You will also be provided with hands-on use of cutting-edge specialist software, for example Kali Linux.
Before moving on to your final year, you may choose to spend a year on a paid work placement in a business relevant to your ambitions, increasing your professional confidence and employability.
I200
64% coursework 36% practical assessment
85% coursework 10% written exams 5% practical assessment
95% coursework 5% practical assessment
The module will cover the general Microsoft Office suite and specific digital skills of particular relevance to the discipline that you are studying.
As part of this module, you will be encouraged to consider the impact that you have on the environment, especially in terms of the efficiency of your algorithms and consumption of computing resources.
Within this module, You will be encouraged to think about the design, security, and networking aspects of Computer Science using industry-led case studies.
This module explores protection mechanisms appropriate to various information technology systems and architectures.
Mechanisms and cryptographic protocols that help to provide confidentiality and integrity of data together with authentication and authorisation are explored in detail.
The principles and fundamentals of system-level security are considered together with a contextual overview of the law and regulations relating to the use of security mechanisms.
The practical application of these mechanisms in typical IT systems and architectures are incorporated.
This module explores the expertise to combat cyber threats effectively with secure networking and applied cryptography.
This module demonstrates various cyber threats, including malware, hacking, social engineering, and phishing attacks, gaining insights to mitigate their impact on information systems.
It explores the principles and techniques of applied cryptography, mastering encryption, decryption, digital signatures, and key management.
This knowledge empowers you to implement secure communication and safeguard sensitive data across diverse applications.
This module focuses on practical exercises, scenarios, and simulations, gaining hands-on experience in understanding and countering cyber threats using cryptographic techniques.
By combining theoretical foundations with practical skills, students will develop a comprehensive understanding of cyber threats and applied cryptograph.
In this module, you will explore the four phases of digital forensic investigation including seizure, imaging, analysis and reporting.
You will develop technical knowledge and practical skills using industry standard forensic software.
You will also explore legal and regulatory processes in detailed together with mobile forensic techniques.
This module will examine the emerging trends that signify the formation of the information society and also its relationship with law, technology, and public policy.
You will explore UK and European Union law along with a variety of international regulatory perspectives that seek to harmonise law.
You will analyse the many legal and regulatory challenges that the information society generates for society, particularly with regard to privacy, the creation of products, the media.
Particular focus will be upon whether these challenges can be best resolved by law or some other means, for example, technology, education or simple market forces.
Additionally, you will be introduced the skills required and methodology used to perform penetration testing.
You will simulate cyber-attacks to find security weaknesses in networks, operating systems, and applications.
You will acquire hands-on experience using different tools and techniques for penetration testing.
If you are living outside of the UK or Europe, you can find out more about how to join this course by emailing our International Recruitment Team at International@winchester.ac.uk or calling +44 (0)1962 827023.
Graduates of this course will be equipped to enter a variety of cyber security graduate roles and programs, including cyber security analyst, malware analyst and cyber security software engineer.
Dr Pireh Pirazada in a Lecturer in the Department of Digital Technologies.
She joined the University in 2022.
Take a look at all our courses within the subject areas of Computing and Digital Media Design.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BSc-Hons-Economics-and-Finance-2025:
Our fascinating Economics and Finance course aims to develop your knowledge and skills in economic and financial concepts, theories, ideas, methods and tools.
Throughout the course, you will explore large-scale general economic drivers and their influences on wealth creation at national and international levels (macroeconomics) and how economic units make decisions and distribute goods and services (microeconomics).
You will study a range of interesting topics including economics, management accounting, financial management, investments and financial risk management.
This will equip you to be able to extract, analyse, interpret and critically assess economic and financial information, systems and phenomena.
You will also hone your mathematical skills, including the ability to manipulate, model, interpret and evaluate numerical data.
It’s not solely about stats and figures.
Our versatile course enables you to develop your abilities in communication, critical and agile thinking, and problem solving.
These skills are highly sought-after in today’s challenging economic environment, as organisations strive to solve increasingly complex business problems.
We adopt ethical and values-oriented approaches to political, social, welfare and environmental challenges in the context of responsible management.
Before moving on to your final year, you may choose to spend a year on a paid work placement in a business relevant to your ambitions, increasing your professional confidence and employability.
In your final year, you have the option to complete a dissertation, undertake a consultancy project or work placement, or launch a start-up.
The pathway is an opportunity for prospective prospective accounting, economics and finance students to engage in a series of practical and informative sessions delivered by academics and finance professionals at the Faculty of Business and Digital Technologies Participants in Pathways to Accounting, Economics and Finance are eligible to receive reduced contextual offers on the following University of Winchester courses: - BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance - BSc (Hons) Economics and Finance Eligibility for the programme The programme is open to all home/ Channel Islands Year 12 and Year 13 students.
For more information on the Pathways to Pathways to Accounting, Economics and Finance programme and how to apply
Our BSc (Hons) Economics and Finance programme is accredited by prestigious professional bodies known for their commitment to excellence and maintaining the highest standards.
ICAEW
The University of Winchester is recognised as an Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) Partner in Learning, working with ICAEW in the professional development of students.
This allows you to apply for exemption from some modules when studying for the professional chartered accountant (ACA) qualification after graduating.
On Campus
L1N3
Further detail on the learning and teaching methods employed:
Lectures provide a framework for discussion of key concepts, research, theories and models relating to the field of economics and finance, and explore relationships between these and their application in practice.
Seminars and workshops provide students the opportunity to work in small groups on activities which are designed to apply theory to practice and analyse and evaluate implications.
Case studies, stimulated business exercises, problem-based learning and real time problems are incorporated into seminar activities.
Presentations from guest speakers including professionals from industry and academic researchers.
45% coursework 40% written exams 15% practical assessment
46% coursework 22% written exams 32% practical assessment
60% coursework 25% written exams 15% practical assessment
For more information about our regulations for this course, please see our Academic Regulations, Policies and Procedures
This module introduces students to the principles of microeconomics and macroeconomics.
Microeconomics is the branch of economic science that studies the behaviour of individuals in making decisions as buyers, sellers, business owners and government.
Macroeconomics studies issues and problems at the level of the national and international economy.
In Microeconomics, topics covered include the utilization and distribution of limited or scarce resources in the creation, production, supply and consumption of goods and services to meet demands.
Macroeconomic topics covered include economic growth, sustainability, balance of payments, imports, national income (GDP), unemployment, inflation, consumption, money markets, the financial system and macroeconomic policy.
Where relevant, alternative economic approaches such as pluralism will be identified and considered.
Students will learn the key fundamental ideas, technical language, concepts and fundamental methodologies.
Real-world data, case studies and problem sets will be used to develop learning and insight.
Students will also be supported to build numeric competency through exercises using economics and mathematics.
This module combines fundamental economic principles, mathematical and statistical techniques, and data interpretation to evaluate pertinent contemporary economic matters.
Consequently, it will acquaint you with crucial mathematical tools necessary for comprehending economics and business effectively.
Teaching on quantitative methods is combined with numerous practical applications to economics, developing your analytical and quantitative competencies in key subjects in the study of economics.
Students will practice, and build confidence in wide ranging skills, as part of their transition into higher education.
By establishing and pursuing a personal development plan, students develop a set of personal qualities such as self-awareness, confidence and resilience; and professional skills such as communication, teamwork, risk management, coaching and feedback.
Whilst students learn to construct outstanding CVs and professional LinkedIn profiles, this module also aims to raise students’ digital skills competencies.
It prepares students for more advanced aspects of management accounting and finance encountered later in the programme.
The module builds on the concepts and models developed in the Level 4 Macroeconomics module.
Students continue to build competency in macroeconomics using empirical data, statistics, policy analysis and macroeconomic theory.
The module will encourage students to understand monetary and fiscal policy, economic growth and growth models, business cycles, Sustainable Development Goals and economic policy, global financial markets, technology and employment, game-theory, currency index and foreign exchange markets, digital economies, stock exchanges and the role of money and liquidity in the world economy.
This module introduces students to microeconomic perspectives on human behaviour, with an emphasis on individual decision-making and strategic interactions.
It delves into the behaviour of individuals and households across a variety of consumption environments, including the purchasing of goods and services, labour supply, and saving for the future.
Additionally, the module explores concepts such as risk and time preferences, producer behaviour, and market dynamics and failures.
The primary objective of this module is to equip students with the mathematical tools of economics, enabling them to construct and test empirically sound models, such as optimisation by individuals and firms.
This module aims to foster the development of economic thinking among students while also providing insights into the strengths and weaknesses of different economic approaches to social policy.
It revisits several themes that may be familiar from the content covered in EF1002.
Although the approach of this module is more mathematically intensive, it aims to offer a deeper psychological understanding and a keen awareness of the realities of incomplete/imperfect information and imperfect markets.
It will enable students to develop knowledge and understanding of how the financial markets operate, evaluate alternative sources of finance available to a business, calculate the cost of different sources of finance and the weighted average cost of capital of a business.
They will undertake and critique techniques for capital investment appraisals, and business and financial asset valuation, and analyse critically the efficient market hypothesis, capital structure theories and dividend policies.
By completing this module, students will be prepared to study more advanced finance, i.e.
financial risk management, in their final year of study.
This module presents a wide range of topics about economic development and sustainable economics.
This will include conceptual questions, such as the different theories of economic growth, but also the key empirical issues that are relevant to the reality of developing countries, such as the role of institutions, agriculture, finance and trade in promoting economic progress.
The module will explore these issues with a range of theoretical perspectives, as well as highlight the key policy debates.
This module also addresses global issues, ranging from resource scarcity to ecological and institutional economics.
Students will explore economic theories in the context of sustainability and delve into the diverse schools of economic thought prevalent in the sustainable development literature: degrowth, green growth, and sustainable growth.
They will develop the skills to analyse and evaluate these schools of thought, providing accurate assessments of their merits and limitations.
Furthermore, they will learn to apply essential economic concepts and tools to assess sustainability policies and practices, enabling them to make informed judgments regarding their effectiveness.
The overall goal is for students to engage critically with the field of sustainable development economics to enable a thorough assessment of the role of sustainable growth in developing countries and its wider impact on the world economy.
The module requires a degree of familiarity with basic economic concepts.
Student can pick two of the following modules:
Students must pick one of the following modules:
It is recommended that students purchase the latest editions of all of the core textbooks.
Some of these texts relate to extensive online material for which you require an access code supplied with a textbook.
Indicative cost: £50 - £200 per year
Students may incur travel costs on optional volunteering placements in the second or third year of study.
Indicative cost: £5 - £30 per day
Indicatice cost: £0 - £50
Our Economics and Finance graduates can expect excellent employment prospects in central banks, international organizations, government, commercial/investment banks, investment companies, education and research, and industry.
Dr Paul Sheeran is Senior Lecturer in International Business and Economics.
He teaches Macro Economics , International Relations, Corporate Global Governance, Corporate Diplomacy, and Global Political Economy.
Higher Education Teaching Qualification: Higher Education Academy Fellowship (FHEA).
Take a look at all our courses within the subject areas of Business and Marketing.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Event-Management-2025:
At Winchester you will learn how to combine creativity with careful planning to deliver memorable and well-managed events.
Our future-focused course puts digital skills and problem-solving at the core and in every module, employability and industry links are integrated to support you to develop your skills.
You will also have the opportunity to attend occasional field trips as part of your course.
You will acquire a thorough grounding in the strategic and managerial skills needed to function in any business environment and can complete a work placement offered by local employers who make regular contributions to the programme.
There is an excellent range of practical modules and the University works closely with professional practitioners and expert speakers who can help to build up your industry network.
You will receive support from staff and have direct access to expert knowledge throughout the course.
In Year 1, you are introduced to academic and professional studies and pursue a number of core modules which include business and event-specific modules.
In Years 2 and 3, you further develop theoretical and practical skills and explore some of the specialist areas of event management such as sponsorship and mega events.
Optional modules include Volunteering, Creativity, Design and Innovation and Media Relations.
During Year 3, you will undertake an extended independent study module and may choose from a consultancy project, a part-time work placement or a dissertation.
Key modules include studying festivals and their environmental impact and optional modules include Social Media Management and Communications Management.
Graduates go on to careers with event management companies, venues, leisure departments, festival and tourist organisations, publishing, PR and in the sport and entertainment industries.
The Pathways to Marketing, Fashion Business and Marketing and Event Management programmes run for the first time from October 2024.
The pathway is an opportunity for prospective business and management students to engage in a series of practical and informative sessions delivered by academics and business professionals at the Faculty of Business and Digital Technologies Participants in Pathways to Marketing, Fashion Business and Marketing and Event Management programmes are eligible to receive reduced contextual offers on the following University of Winchester courses: - BA (Hons) Marketing - BA (Hons) Fashion Business and Marketing - BA (Hons) Event Management Eligibility for the programme The programme is open to all Home/ Channel Islands Year 12 and Year 13 students.
Programme activities include: •    Lectures and seminar activities based on a variety of business and management topics •    Experience of practical activities such as event ideation, marketing strategy, fashion business and brand •    Career guidance and advice from industry experts •    Optional interview experience with the Dean of Faculty or Head of Department
N820
Independent Learning.
Overall Workload.
Percentage of the Coursework Assessed
This module aims to provide a foundation for students to develop their understanding of the relationship between the global tourism, hospitality and events industries and potential impacts at international level.
Global Challenges Students will discuss and develop and understanding of current research on the changing world of the events, hospitality, and tourism industries.
looking at worldwide positive and negative impacts of event types such as sport, music, weddings and business events and how current and historical trends have adapted to current crisis and moving economic awareness and pressures.
Students will also understand key events worldwide and how this shapes the event industry today.
Events, Hospitality and Events Students will learn about the vital relationships between the event, hospitality, and tourism industries and how they work together to produce a successful event.
This module will also introduce students to the characteristics and key players of each industry, with a view on how they create success together and challenges they face both individually and collaboratively, with a focus on ethical decision making in the event world and awareness around moral considerations in world of tourism.
Responsible Consumption and Stakeholder Analysis Study of these closely connected industries will enable students to demonstrate a critical understanding of the effect the multi stakeholder perspective of a sustainable event management industry.
This module will provide an awareness of global impact from an environmental, economic, and socio-economic perspective and an awareness of creative and digital solutions will be researched and practiced.
This module will begin to equip students with the practical skills and knowledge needed to deliver creative, innovative successful events on a global scale, alongside understanding how it ensure the safety and well- being of its employees as well as its attendees.
Creative Design The module will explore the creative process of designing events, from event production techniques and audio-visual equipment to site design and digital software.
Students will explore international approaches to event design and will compare best practice in terms of delivering successful events aligned to a real life customer brief.
Risk Analysis Students will identify common event hazards and UK legislation, which affects a variety of planned events alongside international awareness of risk management in the world of events and hospitality.
Students will research various risk management methods, health and safety directives and sustainability guidelines will be investigated so that they begin to develop the skills and knowledge required to deliver live events safely.
Event Delivery Students will deliver a live event to a real life brief, through this process students will develop an understanding of the expectations of the customer and all relevant stakeholders, overcome challenges faced with budget control, restrictions, marketing and expectation management before, during and after the event.
It explores the meaning and scope of modern marketing as both a management philosophy and a business function.
The module contains three components:
Each event category has specific characteristics and tremendous local and global significance alongside impact and legacy.
These themes will form the basis for this module where we will discover the different categories of event types and how they contribute within the event industry.
Sponsorship and Mega Events Students will critically analyse the bidding process for mega events, how major events are funded and marketed and how this contributes to event success for all stakeholders.
Students will discuss relevant income streams and assess how these can affect business growth and impact of event reputation as well as marketing success.
Operational Planning and Responsible Management In preparation of the forthcoming live event, students will discover and debate what the sustainable challenges will be for the event and secondary research carried out.
They will also analyse what their chosen event and destination are doing to promote sustainable practice and responsible management and planning.
Legacy, corporate and sport tourism will be discussed in further detail and students will investigate large scale event operations including the complexities of crowd management.
Event Management and Media Relations Students will discover the relationship between corporate, sporting, music and personal events and various media / PR platforms.
Varied and diverse marketing strategies will be discussed, and students will run a live event that allows them to display their research and share their knowledge of event categories and the promotion of these within an international setting.
This module introduces students to the broader context of events and analyses how the event industry, professions, education, and related industries such as hospitality, tourism have evolved through a sustainable and responsible lens.
Key aspects of the module include investigating the political, economic, and social environment that impacts on events and the impact that events can have on a local, national and global scale.
Political, Social and Economic Event Context Students will evaluate current research around the political challenges for major and mega events, the impact of a changing governmental approach to event legislation and how the SDG’s can form part of a growing trend within large scale events.
The module will also discuss the social and economic challenges facing the event, hospitality and tourism industries and students will learn how these industries work together to produce events that focus on a more sustainable approach and reduce negative impact.
Event Impact on a Global Scale This module will analyse key events worldwide whilst evaluating their approaches to positive and negative impacts on the community and environment.
Students will learn how the event industry can reduce consumption and environmental strain by implementing digital platforms to enhance events and user experiences.
A focus on future trends and design challenges will also be discussed through experiential learning and current research.
Sustainable Event Practice The role of event management will be located within the broader debate concerning responsible management, sustainability, climate crisis impact, corporate social responsibility and ethics.
Students will research current event policy and look to evaluate best practice at leading international events, discuss event legacy and future focused sustainable approaches to tourism and hospitality.
This practical module will enable students to advance their digital and client relationship skills, as well as live event planning and delivery on behalf of an industry partner.
This module will include exploration of modern management practices within the industry and the findings from client-based research.
This module will also enable students to investigate a specific career path within the industry and begin preparation for their next step into employment within the industry or onto further study.
Event Planning Today In this module students will work alongside industry professionals and clients with a view to resolving current industry challenges, discuss climate impact and develop digitally sustainable business practice.
Students will explore current career opportunities and through a series of workshops, embed these skills into their daily lives as they work with clients on live event briefs and present solution-based ideas in the context of event design.
Event Design and Delivery Students will scrutinise the event planning process using a series of relevant and justified event and business management tools to design, plan and deliver a live event aligned with their clients' requirements.
They will present results to the client for feedback and de-briefing, whilst analysing the contemporary issues the client has faced and how their event has assisted in developing this positively.
Digital Trends Event management uses many varied and wide-ranging skills, tools and platforms to design, plan and deliver outstanding events.
Students will be responsible for carrying out research that allows them to develop a deeper understanding of these with a focus on digital enhancements available to the event industry.
Students will also explore through debates and exploration any challenges these have produced.
This module will enable students to discover and evaluate the concept of how festivals and cultural events enhance or impact local communities and contribute to society.
At the heart of this module is how the evolution of festivals & cultural events influence event planning, and as such, it will be analyzed and critically evaluated with reference to key theories and international case studies.
The Origins of Festivals and Cultural Events Festivals are an essential part of events and tourism, connected with ceremonies and rituals in various forms.
Students will analyze the origins and evolution of festivals and cultural events, showing a critical understanding of the importance of these events both in a local and global context.
Communities and culture will be discussed, and students will investigate the impact this continues to have on events.
Tourism and Cultural Event Impact The socially constructed concept of culture will be explored in relation to the arts, heritage and tourism.
Students will examine the social, economic and political significance of cultural events and discuss how this may shape event design, event operations and determine post event evaluation.
The relationship between cultural events and tourism will be critically analyzed using case studies and academic theory.
Ethical Festival Awareness Students will research ethical approaches to producing events of socio-cultural significance.
Using academic theory and contemporary issues, students will consider global topics such as human rights, the climate emergency and economic inequality to critically evaluate how these impact festivals and cultural events now and in the future.
Core Text: multiple copies of core text are held within the library and e-books are identified where possible, however due to limited availability students are recommended to purchase a copy for their own use.
Indicative cost: £50 - £300 per year
Trip: students may have the option to attend one trip per year of study.
Indicative cost: £30 - £40
The buoyant and growing events management sector is currently estimated to be worth £42 billion in the UK and £2 trillion globally.
Graduates find jobs in event management companies, venues, leisure departments, festival and tourist organisations, publishing, PR, sport and entertainment.
Matt Bunday is a senior event management lecturer and technical production specialist who has taught at a number of universities and drama schools over the last 13 years

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Fashion-Business-and-Marketing-2025:
Our Fashion Business and Marketing course produces industry-ready graduates with the practical skills, ethical awareness and digital acumen needed to thrive in a rapidly evolving fashion landscape.
1 st in the UK for graduate prospects (Art and Design subject rankings, Complete University Guide 2025) (CUG,2024)
As part of the Department of Marketing, Design and Immersive Technologies within the University of Winchester Business School, you will focus on fashion business management, fashion marketing and communications and brand innovation.
You will gain a comprehensive understanding of the fashion industry, its key components, the marketing strategies employed within it, plus emerging trends, all of which prepare you to become industry experts and thought leaders.
Our modules foster a deep appreciation for sustainability and ethical practices within the fashion industry ensuring you are well-prepared to contribute to the growing movement of regenerative fashion and conscious consumption.
In recognition of the ever-evolving digital landscape, we place a significant focus on digital marketing and emerging trends in the fashion industry.
Navigate the digital world, harnessing its potential for effective marketing and communication strategies, thereby staying ahead in the dynamic fashion landscape.
With an emphasis on employability, we provide students with real-world experiences and opportunities to connect with industry professionals.
Our programme has links with a range of current industry specialists who deliver guest lectures in areas such as fashion buying and trend forecasting, writing for fashion and how to create a successful online campaign.
Before moving on to the final year, you may choose to spend a year on a placement in a business relevant to your ambitions.
N590
Modules are correct at the time of publishing but may be subject to change.
Key features of the Fashion Media and Marketing programme are our active links with a range of leading industry specialists running sessions with our students in areas such as visual merchandising, fashion designing, fashion buying and trend forecasting; opportunities for international study; encouraging work placements including during London Fashion Week and Winchester Fashion Week; and field trips to museums, exhibitions and enterprises in the vicinity and region.
The Fashion Principles module offers a comprehensive exploration of the fundamental aspects of fashion.
It encompasses three components: Fashion Fundamentals, Fashion Industry and Global Markets, and Trend Forecasting.
FASHION FUNDAMENTALS This module provides a comprehensive exploration of fashion fundamentals, covering the evolution of fashion from ancient civilisations to modern times.
Students will examine the changing face of the fashion business from the 1940s onwards, including key historical milestones.
They will explore the influence of art and design movements on fashion, understanding how creative expressions shape trends.
Ethnographic studies will showcase diverse cultural perspectives, highlighting fashion's role in cultural identity.
Students will also delve into the fascinating history of fashion icons and influencers, explore gender dynamics in
fashion, analyse the impact of fashion photography, and investigate subcultures' influence on style.
The module concludes with an exploration of revival and nostalgia in fashion, examining retro and vintage trends.
A fashion dictionary will be provided to familiarise students with industry-specific terminology.
FASHION INDUSTRY AND GLOBAL MARKETS In this component, students will gain a comprehensive understanding of the fashion industry, its key players, and the dynamics of global markets.
Various business models, marketing strategies, and consumer behaviour within the fashion industry will be explored.
Students will also examine the impact of globalisation on fashion markets, including emerging trends and challenges fashion businesses face in a rapidly changing global landscape.
TREND FORECASTING This component equips students with the skills to anticipate and interpret fashion trends.
Through an exploration of methodologies, tools, and sources, students will gain an understanding of the factors that shape trend forecasting.
They will learn to communicate trend insights effectively and integrate them into product development and marketing strategies.
Topics covered will include consumer behaviour, cultural and societal trends, colour and material trends, research methods, trend reports, communication techniques, implementation in product development, digital tools, and the future of fashion trends.
Marketing Principles Marketing concepts are examined in depth, emphasising the importance of aligning marketing strategies with market demands.
Marketing Research Students will learn the fundamental methodologies and techniques collecting, analysing, and interpreting data.
Consumer Behaviour Students will explore contemporary consumer behaviour theory and its relevance in marketing management, decision-making, and societal contexts.
This module provides students with a comprehensive understanding of digital marketing concepts, digital content creation, and emerging trends in the industry.
DIGITAL MARKETING CONCEPTS Students will be introduced to the fundamental concepts and principles of digital marketing, exploring topics such as the digital marketing environment, consumer behaviour in the digital space, digital marketing tools and channels, digital marketing strategy and planning, and metrics and analytics for measuring digital marketing effectiveness.
Students will develop a solid foundation in digital marketing principles and strategies through case studies and practical exercises.
DIGITAL CONTENT Students will learn the art of creating compelling and engaging digital content, studying key concepts in content strategy, audience analysis, content planning, content creation and development, content optimisation for search engines (SEO), content promotion and amplification, content measurement and analytics, and content management systems (CMS).
By applying these concepts, students will gain practical skills in crafting effective digital content across various platforms and formats.
EMERGING TRENDS and TECHNOLOGY Students will explore the latest emerging trends and technologies shaping the digital marketing landscape, delving into topics such as artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning, virtual and augmented reality (VR/AR), voice search and voice assistants, Internet of Things (IoT) and connected devices, blockchain technology in marketing, fashion tech and wearable technology, and data privacy and GDPR compliance.
Through case studies and interactive discussions, students will analyse the implications of these emerging trends and technologies on marketing strategies and consumer experiences.
Essential for fashion business and marketing students, this module delves into sustainable and ethical fashion.
It highlights the interconnectedness of fashion with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and addresses environmental challenges, ethical labour practices, and regenerative fashion.
Students gain crucial knowledge to drive positive change and navigate the evolving demands of responsible fashion in their future careers.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS This component introduces students to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs 9 & 12) and their relevance to the fashion industry.
Students learn about the interconnectedness between fashion and global goals such as poverty eradication, gender equality, and responsible consumption.
Through engaging discussions and activities, students explore how fashion can contribute to achieving a more sustainable and equitable future.
SUSTAINABLE FASHION This component focuses on the environmental challenges faced by the fashion industry.
Students examine the impact of climate change, global warming, and overconsumption.
They explore sustainable fibres and materials, along with ethical labour practices and fair trade.
Students delve into sustainable design strategies, circular economy principles, and responsible consumption habits to mitigate environmental impacts to promote a more sustainable fashion industry.
REGENERATIVE FASHION In this component, students explore the transformative potential of regenerative fashion.
They learn about regenerative agriculture, which restores ecosystems and promotes sustainable fibre production.
Students examine regenerative materials, holistic design approaches, and the integration of social sustainability.
Through hands-on activities and case studies, students discover the power of regenerative fashion to combat climate change, restore biodiversity, and empower communities, fostering a regenerative mindset for a more sustainable and thriving fashion industry.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
This component introduces students to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs 9 & 12) and their relevance to the fashion industry.
Industry Placement - 120 credits
The aim of this module is to offer students to opportunity to undertake meaningful and relevant employment experience.
The employment experience will take the form of a 30 weeklong work placement and the student will be required to demonstrate the relevance of the work practice to the named route of study.
The employment experience will involve students’ demonstrating competency in key skills, such as communication and team working, and tasks relevant to their field of study.
This will necessarily require the student to apply learning from their studies to the workplace, thus providing the opportunity to fully integrate their academic study with meaningful employment experience.
Optional Modules - 30 Credits
The Brand Innovation and Management module is designed to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of the principles, strategies, and techniques involved in building and managing successful brands in today's dynamic business environment.
The module encompasses three major components: brand identity, strategy, and positioning; brand innovation; and experiential marketing.
BRAND IDENTITY, STRATEGY AND POSITIONING This component focuses on the fundamental concepts and techniques involved in building a strong brand identity, developing effective brand strategies, and positioning brands in the market.
Students will explore the elements of brand identity, including brand name, logo, tagline, colours, and visual identity.
They will gain an understanding of different brand architecture models and their application in managing brand portfolios.
The module will cover brand positioning, teaching students how to create a unique and compelling brand position in consumers' minds.
Students will examine brand equity and its impact on brand value, customer loyalty, and market performance.
The role of brand personality and values in shaping brand perception and consumer relationships will be explored.
BRAND INNOVATION Brand Innovation focuses on cultivating an innovation-centric culture within brand management practices, emphasising the strategies needed to drive continuous brand innovation.
Students will explore the concept of brand innovation and its significance in maintaining competitiveness in dynamic markets.
They will learn to harness consumer insights and engage in co-creation processes to generate innovative brand solutions.
The application of design thinking principles will foster creative problem-solving and idea generation for brand innovation.
The module will also delve into brand extensions and innovations, exploring different approaches to meet evolving consumer needs.
Students will examine the impact of technology and digital disruption on brand innovation, identifying opportunities in the digital space.
EXPERIENTIAL MARKETING This component focuses on the creation of immersive brand experiences that deeply engage and connect with consumers on multiple sensory levels, driving brand loyalty and advocacy.
Students will gain an understanding of the core principles and objectives of experiential marketing, which aims to build meaningful brand experiences.
They will learn how to map the customer journey to identify touchpoints and opportunities for creating memorable brand experiences.
The module covers event marketing and activation strategies, including planning and executing effective brand events and experiential activations.
Students will explore the power of brand storytelling, leveraging narratives that resonate with consumers to enhance brand experiences.
The role of sensory elements such as sound, scent, and touch in creating immersive brand experiences will be examined.
The module also examines the importance of retail environments and designing impactful in-store experiences to enhance brand engagement.
Students will explore innovative ways to create immersive digital brand experiences.
This module explores the key visual principles used in social media within a commercial context.
The module explores the role of communication planning and how best to deliver a timely message, to a specified target audience using appropriate social media channels.
In addition, the module will explore key theories and concepts surrounding the social media marketing zones and the social media marketing campaign planning process.
The Communication Management module is designed to provide undergraduate students with a comprehensive understanding of various aspects of marketing communication.
It aims to equip students with the necessary skills and knowledge to effectively communicate marketing messages to target audiences in today's dynamic business environment.
The module will cover three major components: Advertising, Sales and Negotiation, Public Relations (PR), and Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC).
ADVERTISING, SALES AND NEGOTIATION This component delves into the fundamental principles and strategies of advertising, sales, and negotiation.
Students will acquire the skills to develop persuasive advertising campaigns, enhance sales techniques, and excel in business negotiations.
The module emphasises practical abilities like copywriting, media planning, sales presentations, and negotiation tactics.
Key topics covered include advertising strategies, creative advertising, media planning and buying, sales techniques, sales management, negotiation skills, and sales promotion.
PUBLIC RELATIONS (PR) This component explores the essential principles and practices that shape a company's image and reputation.
Students will gain the skills to effectively manage relationships with the public, media, and stakeholders through strategic communication efforts.
Key topics covered include PR principles and ethics, media relations, crisis communication, corporate social responsibility (CSR), internal communication, event management, online reputation management, and influencer marketing.
This module equips students with the knowledge and techniques to excel in building a positive brand image and managing communication challenges in the dynamic PR landscape.
INTEGRATED MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS This component delves into the ever-evolving landscape of communications, technology, and emerging trends.
Students will explore the seamless integration and coordination of diverse marketing communication tools and channels to create compelling and impactful campaigns.
Topics covered include developing IMC strategies in the digital era, branding and positioning in the digital age, leveraging digital marketing channels and strategies, utilising data-driven marketing insights, understanding consumer behaviour in the digital world, navigating cross-cultural communication, measuring success through metrics, and executing integrated campaigns.
Students will gain the skills to effectively reach and engage target audiences using innovative technologies and emerging trends.
Core Text: Multiple copies of core text are held within the library and e-books are identified where possible, however due to limited availability students are recommended to purchase a copy for their own use.
Exhibitions: It is recommended that students attend exhibitions for which approximate cost of travel and admission is £180 in total across the three year duration of the course.
Indicative cost: £180
Our well-prepared and skilled graduates go on to enjoy a wide range of careers within the fashion industry in marketing, media, brand management, advertising, public relations, trend forecasting, consumer research, buying, merchandising and visual merchandising.
Graduates have gone on to work at Burberry, Harrods, WGSN, New Look and ASOS.
The University of Winchester ranks in the top 10 in the UK for graduates in employment and/or further study according to the Graduate Outcomes Survey 2023, HESA.
University of Winchester students studying Bachelor Honours degrees are pre-approved to start a Masters degree at Winchester.
To be eligible students must apply by the end of March in their final year and meet the entry requirements of their chosen Masters degree.
Find out everything you need to know about the application process, how to apply, your offer and how to secure your place
Marina Brkljac is a Lecturer in Fashion Marketing.
She joined the University of Winchester Business School in 2020 and is currently Programme Leader for the BA (Hons) Fashion and Business Marketing.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Marketing-2025:
Sophisticated and strategic marketing is at the heart of any successful business, but marketing is not just a field of study; it’s a dynamic force that drives businesses, shapes brands and influences consumer behaviour.
Over the duration of your degree, you will complete a carefully structured suite of modules that will arm you with highly sought after skills and knowledge to increase your employability within the dynamic and vibrant marketing industry.
Aiming to become a marketing professional who is able to adapt to changing trends and technologies, we encourage the development of specific skillsets in increasingly important areas such as marketing communication management, relationship marketing, social media management, and the international marketing environment.
You’ll also develop a critical understanding of the subject within different business contexts, coupled with the problem-defining skills to help you interpret and translate data to inform marketing decisions.
The modules you cover, from digital marketing to e-commerce and omni-channel marketing, from performance marketing to brand innovation and management, are all highly relevant and aligned to real-life practice.
You will also have the opportunity to attend occasional field trips during your course.
Our academic staff bring an extensive range of professional and research interests to the programme, ensuring it is full of stimulating, relevant, topical and engaging content.
Throughout your degree there are many opportunities to focus on industries and brands that resonate with you.
We encourage, foster and champion ties with industry, including inviting guest speakers from various backgrounds and organisations to engage with you to impart their knowledge and experience.
3R93
112-120 points
In addition to the formally scheduled contact time such as lectures and seminars etc.), you are encouraged to access academic support from staff within the course team, your personal tutor and the wide range of services available to you within the University.
Taught elements of the course take place on campus in Winchester
Module components include:
Digital Marketing Concepts Students will be introduced to the fundamental concepts and principles of digital marketing, exploring topics such as the digital marketing environment, consumer behaviour in the digital space, digital marketing tools and channels, digital marketing strategy and planning, and metrics and analytics for measuring digital marketing effectiveness.
Digital Content Students will learn the art of creating compelling and engaging digital content, studying key concepts in content strategy, audience analysis, content planning, content creation and development, content optimization for search engines (SEO), content promotion and amplification, content measurement and analytics, and content management systems (CMS).
By applying these concepts students will gain practical skills in crafting effective digital content across various platforms and formats.
Emerging Trends and Technology Students will explore the latest emerging trends and technologies shaping the digital marketing landscape, delving into topics such as artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning, virtual and augmented reality (VR/AR), voice search and voice assistants, Internet of Things (IoT) and connected devices, blockchain technology in marketing, fashion tech and wearable technology, and data privacy and GDPR compliance.
This module provides students with a comprehensive understanding of e-commerce, m-commerce, omni channel marketing, product and service marketing and customer experience (CX) design.
Students will develop theoretical knowledge and practical skills necessary to navigate the dynamic digital landscape and effectively engage customers across multiple channels.
E/M commerce and Omnichannel Marketing This component focuses on the fundamentals of e-commerce, including the concept, evolution and significance of e-commerce in modern business.
Students will explore different e-commerce business models, infrastructure requirements, and the technological components essential for successful omnichannel implementation.
Product and Service Marketing In this component students will gain a comprehensive understanding of product and services marketing.
Students will learn about product and service development, life cycle differentiation techniques, pricing concepts, objectives and strategies.
Students will explore market analysis and segmentation, targeting specific market segments that align with organisational objectives and capabilities.
CX Design The CX design component focuses on the creation of exceptional customer experiences.
Students will understand the concept and significance of customer experience, differentiating it from customer service.
Students will learn to map the customer journey and identify pain points and opportunities for improvement.
Students will develop customer centric experiences by adopting a customer centric mindset applying UX/UI design principles.
This module introduces the concepts theories and practises of marketing.
The module contains 3 components:
Introduction to Marketing Research Students will learn the fundamental methodologies and techniques of collecting, analysing, and interpreting data.
It equips them with the necessary skills to conduct valuable research and contribute to evidence-based marketing practises in today's fast-paced business environment.
Consumer Behaviour Students will explore contemporary consumer behaviour theory and its relevance in marketing management, decision making, and societal contexts.
Various disciplinary perspectives including economics, psychology, sociology, and cultural anthropology, are examined to reveal the motivations underlying consumer behaviour.
The international marketing module equips students with the essential knowledge and skills to navigate the dynamic and complex landscape of global markets.
With a focus on cultural behavioural analysis, market entry strategies, and marketing planning and strategic development.
Components include:
Cultural Behaviour Analysis This component focuses on understanding the impact of culture on consumer behaviour and marketing strategies in international markets.
It explores cultural dimensions, values, beliefs, and norms that influence consumer decision making and marketing practises.
Market Entry Strategies This component focuses on different strategies and approaches for entering and expanding into international markets.
It covers market analysis, entry modes, strategic alliances, and the challenges associated with global expansion.
Global Marketing Mix This component explores the development and implementation of marketing mix strategies in international markets.
It covers product, price, distribution, and promotion decisions, taking into account global factors such as cultural diversity, legal regulations, and competitive dynamics.
This module provides essential concepts and skills that students should learn in the performance marketing module.
It provides a solid foundation in data analysis, data visualisation, and strategic marketing planning, enabling students to apply data-driven decision-making techniques and develop effective marketing strategies.
Data Analysis This component provides students with a solid foundation in data analysis techniques and specifically tailored to the marketing field.
It equips them with the skills necessary to extract meaningful insights from data, make data-driven marketing decisions, and contribute effectively to the strategic planning and execution of marketing campaigns.
Data Visualisation and Data- driven Decision Making This component introduces students to various data visualisation techniques and emphasises the importance of data-driven decision-making in marketing strategies.
The data visualisation and data-driven decision making will equip students with the skills to effectively analyse, visualise and interpret data to make informed marketing decisions.
Students will gain the ability to transform data into actionable insights.
Marketing Planning and Strategic Development This component will provide the knowledge and skills necessary to develop comprehensive marketing plans and strategies.
Students will explore the key elements of strategic marketing including market analysis, target audience segmentation, positioning, and the formulation of effective marketing strategies.
Students will gain a practical understanding of how to align their marketing objectives with organisational goals and develop strategic plans that drive business success.
The relationship marketing module provides a comprehensive understanding of relationship marketing and it's important in modern business.
Students will learn to effectively manage customer relationships, enhance customer satisfaction, and drive long term customer loyalty.
This module contains three components:
Insight Management Insight management explores the classification of relationships within the modern business and highlights the significance of managing stakeholder insights effectively.
Students will understand the importance of comprehending customer behaviour, preferences, and needs in building successful relationships.
Topics covered include an introduction to relationship marketing, customer centricity, customer experience management, data analytics and customer insights, market segmentation and targeting, emotional intelligence in relationship marketing, relationship marketing metrics, and ethical considerations.
Through this module students will develop the skills to utilise data analytics, measure relationship marketing effectiveness, and navigate ethical considerations in relationship marketing strategies.
Loyalty and Retention This component emphasises the importance of customer loyalty in achieving business success and explores various loyalty programmes and initiatives employed by organisations.
Students will delve into critical aspects of building and maintaining stakeholder loyalty within the context of relationship marketing.
They will learn strategies and techniques to foster long term relationships, enhance satisfaction, and maximise retention of customers and other business stakeholders.
Topics include loyalty programmes, customer satisfaction, churn management, customer service excellence, personalization, B2B relationship marketing, emotional branding, co-creation, complaint management, and continuous relationship development.
Customer Relationship Management (CRM) The CRM module explores the strategic importance of managing customer relationships to drive business success.
Students will learn the fundamentals of CRM, including technology, tools, and data analytics to enhance customer interactions and satisfaction.
Topics covered include CRM objectives, technology and tools, customer data management, implementation considerations, performance measurement, multi-channel marketing integration, CRM in sales and customer service, cross selling and up selling, and CRM analytics and predictive modelling.
Through this module students will develop the skills to effectively implement CRM strategies, leverage customer data, and optimise relationship marketing efforts.
The brand innovation and management module is designed to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of the principles, strategies, and techniques involved in building and managing successful brands in today's dynamic business environment.
The module encompasses three major components; brand identity, strategy, and positioning, brand innovation, and experiential marketing.
Brand Identity, Strategy and Positioning This component focuses on the fundamental concepts and techniques involved in building a strong brand identity, developing effective brand strategies, and positioning brands in the market.
Students will explore the elements of brand identity including brand name, logo, tagline, colours, and visual identity.
The model will cover brand positioning, teaching students how to create a unique and compelling brand position in consumers’ minds.
Brand Innovation Brand innovation focuses on cultivating an innovation centric culture within brand management practises, emphasising the strategies needed to drive continuous brand innovation.
The application of design thinking principles will foster creative problem solving and idea generation for brand innovation.
The module will also delve into brand extensions and innovations, exploring different approaches to meet evolving customer needs.
Experiential Marketing This component focuses on the creation of immersive brand experiences that deeply engage and connect with consumers on multiple sensory levels, driving brand loyalty and advocacy.
The role of sensory elements such as sound, scent, and touch, in creating immersive brand experiences will be examined.
The communication management module is designed to provide undergraduate students with a comprehensive understanding of various aspects of marketing communication.
The module will cover three major components: advertising, sales and negotiation, public relations (PR), and integrated marketing communications (IMC).
Advertising, Sales and Negotiation This component delves into the fundamental principles and strategies of advertising, sales, and negotiation.
Public Relations (PR) This component explores the essential principles and practises that shape a company's image and reputation.
Key topics covered include PR principles and ethics, media relations, crisis communication, corporate social responsibility CSR, internal communication, event management, online reputation management, and influencer marketing.
Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC) This component delves into the ever-evolving landscape of communications, technology, and emerging trends.
Topics covered include developing IMC strategies in the digital era, branding and positioning in the digital age, leveraging digital marketing channels and strategies, utilising data-driven marketing insights, understanding consumer behaviour in the digital world, navigating cross cultural communication, measuring success through metrics, and executing integrated campaigns.
The social media marketing and management module is designed to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of social media campaign strategy, design, and management.
The module emphasises both theoretical knowledge and practical skills to enable students to develop effective social media campaigns.
Upon completion students will have the opportunity to earn digital badges for mastering the essential platforms in the field.
Campaign Strategy and Planning In this component students will delve into the fundamental aspects of planning and strategizing effective social media campaigns.
They will gain a comprehensive understanding of social media marketing, exploring its concepts, trends, and the wide-ranging benefits it offers.
Students will learn to define campaign objectives, focusing on setting measurable goals that align with the overall marketing objectives.
They will delve into the art of identifying target audiences within the social media landscape, employing segmentation and persona development techniques.
Additionally, students will learn about social media advertising, understanding the nuances of paid campaigns and targeting options available across various platforms, as well as budgeting, resource allocation and maximising campaign effectiveness by effectively allocating resources.
Campaign Design The creative and visual aspects component of the social media module immerses students in the realm of captivating content creation and visually appealing designs for social media campaigns.
Students will learn the art of crafting compelling narratives and creating a consistent brand identity through visual branding and storytelling techniques.
They will gain hands on experience with graphic design tools and techniques tailored to social media platforms.
Additionally, students will explore the realm of video marketing, mastering the skills of scripting, shooting, and editing engaging videos that resonate with the target audience.
The module will also delve into the into the power of user generated content, teaching students how to encourage and leverage user generated content to enhance campaign impact.
Students will gain insights into optimising content for different platforms and tailoring their creations to suit the unique requirements of each platform.
If you are living outside of the UK or Europe, you can find out more about how to join this course by contacting our International Recruitment Team via our International Apply Pages.
Formal wear: Students may be expected to dress formally for oral assessments.
Indicative cost is £0 - £50.
Volunteering and placements: Students may incur travel costs on optional volunteering placements or part time work placements in the third year of study.
Indicative cost is £5 - £30 per day.
Certified associate examinations: Students may undertake a range of media design training whilst at University.
To become a certified Associate students must sit an exam.
Costs will vary depending on the number of exams the student selects.
Certification is optional students can engage in the training without taking the examination.
Indicative cost is £30 per examination.
Core texts: Students should budget to cover the purchasing of core textbooks across the three years of study, the majority of this cost is associated with the 2nd year of study.
Core Texts can be bought second hand, or as an ebook which can often reduce this cost.
Indicative cost is £400 across 3 years of study.
Career options are as diverse, broad and exciting as the course itself.
Potential roles include marketing manager, brand manager/strategist, digital marketer, public relations specialist, social media marketer, market researcher, and communications manager.
Our graduates go onto work in a variety of different organisations, from small and medium-sized enterprises to large multinational corporations, and in private, public and charitable sectors, with some realising their entrepreneurial ambitions, and starting their own business.
In today’s challenging, demanding, and ever-evolving business landscape, studying for a degree in marketing at the University of Winchester can be the catalyst for an exciting career that combines creativity, analytical skills and strategic thinking.
What are you waiting for….let’s get started!
Our international students come from all over the world and we understand that some things are a little different when applying and then arriving at the University.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BSc-Hons-Software-Engineering-2025:
Our Software Engineering degree enables you to develop the skills needed to implement solutions to complex software problems.
It is designed to offer both a fundamental understanding of computer science, as well as specialist professional skills in secure software development.
Through a unique programme of modules, you will develop the advanced technical expertise, collaboration and communication skills to turbo charge your employability and agility in a rapidly evolving industry.
Your modules cover a combination of key practical and technical skills in software engineering principles.
You will study in a learning environment with research-informed teaching, providing accessible and tailored support for all aspects of academic and personal skills development.
You will also benefit from access to interdisciplinary cross-department specialists within the University of Winchester Business School and links to the British Computer Society.
Throughout your journey, you will develop core knowledge in programming, secure systems, applications development, UX design and cross platform mobile development.
There are also a range of fascinating optional modules so you can tailor your learning to your career aspirations.
Depending on the optional modules you choose, you may graduate with a specialism in Cloud Technologies or DevOps.
Before moving on to the final year, you may choose to spend a year on a paid work placement in a business relevant to your ambitions.
The pathway is an opportunity for prospective computing students to engage in a series of practical and informative sessions delivered by academics and technology professionals in our Faculty of Business and Digital Technologies.
Participants in Pathways to Computer Science are eligible to receive reduced contextual offers on the following University of Winchester courses: - BSc (Hons) Computer Science - BSc (Hons) Cyber Security - BSc (Hons) Software Engineering Eligibility for the programme The programme is open to all home and Channel Islands Year 12 and Year 13 students.
Activities are delivered live at the University of Winchester with some activities delivered virtually.
I300
In addition to the formally scheduled contact time such as lectures and seminars etc., you are encouraged to access academic support from staff within the course team, your personal tutor and the wide range of services available to you within the University.
Whichever career pathway you choose to follow, there are certain professional skills that you will need in the workplace.
This module provides opportunities to acquire and apply essential skills for academic success, while also developing digital skills that are a prerequisite for your successful career.
You will practice and build confidence in a wide-ranging set of skills, as part of your transition into Higher Education.
By establishing and pursuing a personal development plan, you develop a set of personal qualities such as self-awareness, confidence and resilience; and professional skills such as communication, teamwork, risk management, coaching and feedback.
Whilst you learn to construct an outstanding CV and professional LinkedIn profile, this module also raises your digital skills competencies.
The module covers the Microsoft Office suite and specific digital skills of particular relevance to the discipline that you are studying.
You will learn about core mathematical concepts and their application, abstraction, decomposition, pattern recognition, algorithms and data structures.
You will be encouraged to consider the impact that you have on the environment, especially in terms of the efficiency of your algorithms and consumption of computing resources.
You will engage in activities which allow you to practice and apply your computational thinking skills and you will be encouraged to consider a variety of different problems and how they can be solved using computation.
This module develops your skills in analysing business and technical requirements to select and specify appropriate technology solutions, capturing client requirements, and producing the solutions, architecture and software design.
You will investigate the use of infrastructure to support business needs and design systems which will consider these requirements.
You will develop an understanding of the OSI model, networking devices and routing protocols and will explore and understand the security threats to an IT system and the operational impact of these threats on an organisation.
This module introduces topical case studies of attacks on organisational information systems, highlighting the business consequences.
Within this module, you will be supported develop the practical skills required to implement software solutions using programming techniques.
Throughout the module, you will be engaging in problem solving activities, designed to build your confidence with both software development activities and the tools, techniques, and technologies used by software engineers in industry.
You will be supported to engage with the practical application of programming principles, with industry-led examples.
Initially, you will focus on smaller programmes, gradually building to more complex ones by the end of the module.
You will build on the knowledge you gained during your first year to develop larger, more complex applications.
You will explore how applications can be used to solve (or mitigate) challenges which are experienced by end-users.
You will propose an application to overcome an issue, before using industry-standard tools and techniques to design the system.
Finally, you will implement a system using a specified programming language and a provided design.
The module develops both your theoretical and practical skills for software engineering including (but not limited to) object-oriented design and development, data persistence, abstraction, encapsulation, aggregation and inheritance.
This module presents a systematic approach to systems testing as an extension to Systems Design and a core element of all software development methodologies.
It considers the Seven Principles of Software Testing and their integration within testing processes.
You  will be introduced to various methods for planning and conducting tests and as part of the testing process, you will be required to use your plans and previous development activities to implement your tests.
You will reflect on how the systems testing techniques you encounter can support the development of resilient infrastructure and systems.
Mobile devices are ubiquitous within the modern world.
However, the diversity of devices often results in the need to develop multiple versions of applications to meet the needs of users.
In recent times, cross-platform development has become increasingly popular.
On this module you will develop the skills you need to design, implement and test applications which work on a host of different devices from a single codebase.
You will design an application, develop the code, then test the outcome on a range of devices.
Since the seminal text The Cathedral and the Bazaar was written, open-source development is becoming increasingly popular within Software Engineering.
On this module, you will explore the history, values and use of open-source software development within the technology field.
You will participate in social development, through engaging with open-source projects, such as those available on GitHub and other websites.
You will learn how to get started with open-source development, choose projects for your skillset, understand projects, participate in social development, and document your code.
A-Levels : BCC-BBB from 3 A Levels or equivalent grade combinations (e.g.
BBB is comparable to ABC in terms of tariff points)
BTEC/CTEC : DMM from BTEC or Cambridge Technical (CTEC) qualifications
International Baccalaureate : To include a minimum of 2 Higher Level certificates at grade H4
T Level : Merit in a T Level
To find out more about UCAS tariff points, including what your qualifications are worth, please visit UCAS.
If you hold another qualification, please get in touch and we will advise further
Students are expected to have their own laptop to use on this course.
Core texts are available from the University Library.
Graduates enter careers in systems engineer web development, computer programming, software engineering, analyst programming and firmware development .
Computer science, software engineering, and cyber security graduates are in demand by employers, due to the recognised need in the public, private and third sectors for their expertise .
She is currently the programme leader for BSc (Hons) Software Engineering and BSc (Hons) Cyber Security with Law
Take a look at all our courses within the subject areas of Computing and Digital Media Design

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BSc-Hons-Sport-and-Exercise-Psychology-2025:
The Pathways to Sport and Exercise Psychology programme is an annual event that takes place in December.
The event is an opportunity for prospective students to engage in a series of taster sessions delivered by academics from our BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Psychology course.
Participants who complete the Pathways to Sport and Exercise Psychology programme are eligible to recieve a reduced contextual offer of 96 UCAS Tariff Points* for entry to our BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Psychology course.
The programme is open to all home / Islands Year 12 and 13 students but is capped at 25 students per year.
For more information on the Pathways to Sport and Exercise Psychology and how to apply .
*This offer is based on firm acceptance
C680
You have the opportunity to undertake a professional practice experience as part of an employability module in the third year of your study.
This module provides students with the opportunity to gain vocationally relevant experience in a sport and/or exercise-related organisation that aligns with the student’s specific career interests.
Students will be expected to critically reflect on the individual skills, knowledge and ability required to fulfil specific professional roles within the context of their chosen experience.
Teaching, learning and assessment: 252 hours Independent learning: 912 hours Placement: 36 hours
62% coursework 13% written exams 25% practical assessment
66% coursework 8% written exams 26% practical assessment
55% coursework 8% written exams 37% practical assessment
This module will introduce the importance of research and explore different philosophies underpinning scientific research in sport and exercise, alongside specific qualitative and quantitative methods for interdisciplinary study.
Key concepts such as validity, reliability, and ethics will be considered.
Additionally, the module aims to raise student awareness about the importance of developing academic and employability skills.
For instance, students will explore potential graduate careers and identify the skills needed in such careers, before reflecting on current competencies to bridge gaps (which will be further supplemented by students working with personal academic tutors).
While focusing on the sport, exercise, and health industries, students will also be encouraged to consider the transferability of these skills to other professions, such as teaching.
This module will introduce students to key topics in sport psychology and the psychological aspects of physical activity and exercise participation.
It will cover psychological concepts, models and theories that describe and explain experiences in sport and exercise.
The module will cover topics regarding psychological phenomena that determine athletic success, the initiation and adherence of physical activity, and psychological responses to exercise.
Students will also discuss key readings related to these topics, and gain initial insight into how sport and exercise psychologists might enhance athletic experiences and exercise participation.
This module establishes a foundational knowledge base that connects to sport and/or exercise psychology modules at levels five and six.
This module offers an introduction to the study of sport from a socio-cultural perspective.
Specifically, this module will engage students in contemporary discussions about what matters in sport, culture, and life.
Using examples from across the globe, students will also be encouraged to reflect on their basic assumptions with regards to sport, and how these might impact sport psychology practice.
Following this, students will be asked to consider the use of psychology by sport coaches, with a particular focus on how sport coaches might help their athletes to learn mental skills (e.g., relaxation) and life skills (e.g., assertiveness).
This module introduces students to teams and groups, key aspects of sporting involvement and performance.
It explores team formation and the challenges of maintaining such teams, including cohesion and interpersonal relationships.
The module examines current knowledge of sport group productivity and strategies for enhancing group effectiveness.
Additionally, the module covers the development of sporting and motor skills, focusing on learning environments that impact skill acquisition.
A notable feature is the consistent collection of data through laboratory activities, providing a hands-on approach that aids in understanding the laboratory report process.
This module will examine both quantitative and qualitative approaches to research in sport, emphasising practical research skills such as data collection, management, analysis, and interpretation.
It will also focus on critical skills, including evaluating research papers, methods, designs, and methodologies.
Students will explore social processes like leadership, team communication, and conflict within sport research, gaining a broad awareness of ethical issues in both quantitative and qualitative methods.
The goal is to develop a comprehensive understanding of diverse research techniques and their applications in sport, alongside an awareness of the ethical considerations involved in conducting sport research
This module examines key approaches and topics in social psychology, covering conceptual and historical issues and debates in areas such as social identity, social cognition, prejudice, social constructivism, and discursive psychology.
This module also considers individual differences by examining personality, motivation, emotion, well-being, and health through various theoretical lenses, with applications focused on sporting and exercise contexts.
Additionally, the module considers developmental psychology, examining theoretical and methodological perspectives on development within social, biological, and cultural contexts, highlighting both historical and contemporary viewpoints.
Here, topics such as play, intelligence, relationships, and gendered and sexual identities will all be examined.
This module examines the knowledge and skills required for a career in sport and exercise psychology, focusing on core communication skills for building effective professional relationships.
Students will examine various factors impacting approaches to consultation and develop the ability to communicate with clients from diverse backgrounds.
Additionally, this module will consider discussions around mental health, and how to manage such conversations.
Finally, this module will further develop research skills in students, such as idea generation, selecting methods of data collection and analysis, considering research ethics, and more.
By doing so, this module will seek to prepare students for the research dissertation in their final year of study.
This module introduces students to a range of psychological skills techniques that have been used to enhance performance in sport settings.
These techniques are designed to enhance psychological skills such as emotional regulation, focus and concentration, imagery, and stress management for athletes.
Students will see how theories and concepts covered at Level 4 provide the basis for the psychological skills introduced here.
Moreover, students will develop an understanding and appreciation of new theories and research designed to explain the function and efficacy of specific skills.
Students will also experiment with these skills, design appropriate interventions, and consider how these can impact upon athletes’ experiences in performance environments.
This module will examine those psychological factors that affect physical activity and exercise behaviour.
Specifically, this module will use theories (e.g., Self-Determination Theory) and behavioural models (e.g., Transtheoretical Model) to examine the possible barriers related to the adoption and maintenance of a physically active lifestyle in an environment where sedentary living is becoming ever more prevalent.
The psychological processes that underpin the physical activity and exercise motivation literature will also be used to appraise the specific intervention programmes that practitioners may undertake.
At the same time, students will design their own interventions when working with individuals and groups within a physical activity context.
This module aims to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of planning, executing, and presenting an in-depth, independent research project focused on a specific area within sport and exercise.
Students will select their project focus through consultation with tutors, ensuring alignment with their interests and the curriculum.
Students will also develop a strong awareness of appropriate research methodologies for empirical studies, emphasising analytical and evaluative approaches.
Throughout the module, students will receive guidance on research design, data collection, and analysis techniques.
This hands-on project offers a valuable opportunity for students to critically examine a topic of personal and academic significance, contributing to their professional and academic development.
This module will critically examine various philosophical and theoretical approaches to delivering applied sport psychology services, requiring students to explore their own potential approaches and understand different delivery perspectives.
Building on foundational knowledge of practitioner processes such as assessment, intervention, and evaluation, students will also examine diverse environments where psychological knowledge related to performance can be applied and evaluated.
This exploration will enhance students' critical understanding of the possibilities in sport, exercise, and performance psychology, aiding in the development of their own approaches to service delivery across various contexts.
This module will critically examine the biological basis of human and non-human behaviour, including comparative and evolutionary psychology, typical and atypical neuropsychology, neuroscience, behavioural genetics, and the effect of hormones on behaviour.
This module also critically examines fundamental topics in cognitive psychology, such as sensation and perception, attention, language, learning, memory, thinking, problem solving, decision making, metacognition, consciousness, and cognitive neuropsychology.
Conceptual and historical issues relevant to biological and cognitive psychology are also critically discussed.
Further, students will critically examine the research methods used by cognitive and biological psychologists.
This module offers students vocationally relevant experience in sport, exercise, and psychology- related organisations.
By engaging with professional roles within the industry, students can enhance their employability by applying theoretical knowledge and reflecting on the skills required for specific roles.
Additionally, the module encourages students to critically reflect on their graduate employability skills, working with tutors to address skill gaps and explore postgraduate study and employment options in related fields.
Students will also examine job application processes and learn from the experiences of others, further preparing them for careers in sport, exercise, and psychology.
This module will critically examine the impact of injury on performers from several perspectives.
First, it will critically examine the challenges of short-term injury for the athlete and how successful return to play is influenced by several psychological, cultural, and social variables including the rehabilitation process.
Next, it will critically examine the impact of career-ending injury and retirement from sport.
Theories and models adapted and designed to explain this psychologically challenging process will be critically appraised alongside alternative approaches to understanding the athlete in transition.
Consideration will also be given to how governing bodies might better prepare athletes for and support them post sport.
A-Levels: BCC-BBB from 3 A Levels or equivalent grade combinations (e.g.
BTEC/CTEC: DMM from BTEC or Cambridge Technical (CTEC) qualifications International Baccalaureate: To include a minimum of 2 Higher Level certificates at grade H4
T Level: Merit in a T Level
Additionally, we accept tariff points achieved for many other qualifications, such as the Access to Higher Education Diploma, Scottish Highers, UAL Diploma/Extended Diploma and WJEC Applied Certificate/Diploma, to name a few.We also accept tariff points from smaller level 3 qualifications, up to a maximum of 32, from qualifications like the Extended Project (EP/EPQ), music or dance qualifications.
To find out more about UCAS tariff points, including what your qualifications are worth, please visit UCAS.
Kit
Students are expected to wear appropriate attire for practical sessions.
Students can buy branded kit from us or wear their own.
Students can buy as little or as much they like.
Indicative cost is £15-£50 per item.
Core Texts
These are available from the University Library; however, some students prefer to purchase their own copies.
Some Core Texts can be bought second hand, or as an eBook which can often reduce this cost.
Indicative cost is £50-£200 per academic year.
Professional Courses
We deliver several professional courses (e.g., coaching courses, Combined Level 3 Gym Instructor and Personal Training, etc.) either as part of or alongside the taught curriculum.
However, any course that is mandatory is delivered free of charge, with optional courses often heavily subsidised.
Indicative cost is £10-£600 per course.
Volunteering or Placement
Students may incur travel costs on volunteering and/or placement modules.
However, we will consider each individual students’ circumstances when undertaking these experiences and seek to minimise any such costs as appropriate.
Indicative cost is £10-£30 per day for travel.
It is recommended that students purchase their own hard-drive storage at the beginning of the course.
Indicative cost: 2TB devices cost £80.
A Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance check may be required if you undertake a placement, volunteering, research or other course related activity where you will have contact with children or vulnerable adults.
The requirement for a DBS check will be confirmed by staff as part of the process to approve your placement, research or other activity.
The indicative cost is £49.50.
Graduates work as practitioner psychologists; sport and exercise scientists; teachers/lecturers; researchers/scientists; health promotion workers; and in management roles in sport.
The University of Winchester ranks in the top 10 in the UK for graduate employability and further study according to the Graduate Outcomes Survey 2023, HESA.
Learn more about our MSc Applied Sport Psychology programme.
John has been an academic at the University of Winchester since January 2008.
He is currently a Senior Lecturer in Sport and Exercise Psychology and the Subject Group Lead Sport and Exercise Sciences in the Department Sport, Exercise and Health.
Take a look at all our courses within the subject areas of Sport

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BSc-Hons-Sport-and-Exercise-Science-2025:
At the heart of our state-of-the-art sport and exercise facilities on the King Alfred Campus, this innovative, science-based programme immerses you in the core disciplines of sport and exercise science: psychology, physiology, biomechanics, and research methods.
Expert teaching, paired with cutting-edge laboratories in biomechanics, physiology, and psychology, ensures you gain a deep understanding of how to critically evaluate contemporary research and apply your knowledge in real-world contexts.
You will also develop the essential skills to conduct scientific projects with athletes, teams, and agencies from across the wider spectrum of sport and exercise.
This hands-on experience ensures you graduate with the practical skills needed to excel in a variety of careers—from elite performance support to clinical rehabilitation.
The course is built around four core strands that provide a well-rounded understanding of the scientific principles behind sport and exercise:
Sport and Exercise Psychology
Explore the psychological factors that drive performance and participation in sport and exercise.
You’ll study how elite athletes manage pressure, how motivation shapes performance at all levels, and how mental skills can boost well-being in athletes and everyday exercisers.
Sport and Exercise Physiology
Delve into the physiological processes that shape athletic performance and general fitness.
From metabolism and nutrition to hormonal and cardiovascular responses, you’ll learn how the body adapts to training and how to optimize performance through evidence-based methods.
Sports and Exercise Biomechanics
Focus on the mechanics of human movement to reduce injury risk and enhance performance.
You’ll explore kinematics and kinetics, develop anatomical insights, and gain hands-on experience with biomechanical testing to apply your knowledge in both sport and exercise settings.
Research Methods in Sport and Exercise
Gain a solid foundation in both quantitative and qualitative research methods, enabling you to investigate a wide range of sport and exercise phenomena.
Your final dissertation will allow you to explore a specific area of interest in depth, preparing you for postgraduate study or research-based roles.
Unlock Your Future in Sport – Reduced UCAS Entry!
The Pathways to Sport programme is a one-day immersive experience designed to give you a hands-on introduction to university life and sport-related degrees at the University of Winchester .
Complete the programme and gain exclusive access to reduced entry requirements — 96 UCAS points *.
- BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science - BSc (Hons) Sport Coaching and Physical Education - BSc (Hons) Sports Management
Join us on December 7 th for a day packed with hands-on learning, expert guidance, and insight into your future career—while experiencing life at Winchester.
Why Attend?
How It Works:
Spaces are limited to 25 students —secure your spot today!
For more information and to apply
*Offer based on firm acceptance.
SS34
In addition to the formally scheduled contact time such as lectures and seminars, you are encouraged to access academic support from staff within the course team and the wide range of services available to you within the University.
You have the opportunity to undertake a professional practice experience as part of our optional module in the third year of your study.
This module introduces academic, employability, and research skills that underpin studying at university and pursuing various graduate careers in sport and exercise.
This module aims to introduce the basic concepts of biomechanics and relate these to human movement and sport performance.
A particular emphasis will be placed on practical skills and the awareness of the importance of valid and reliable measurement techniques.
Students undertaking this module will extend and add to their knowledge of biomechanics and will gain the foundation of knowledge required for sport and exercise biomechanics modules at levels five and six.
This module provides a foundational understanding of human anatomy and physiology, emphasising the structure and function of major body systems, including the skeletal, muscular, cardiovascular, and respiratory systems.
Students will explore these systems individually and as integrated units, gaining essential knowledge to support further study in exercise science.
Practical sessions will focus on developing a detailed understanding of anatomical and physiological concepts, preparing students for more applied exploration in Level 5.
This module considers key topics in sport psychology (e.g., mental skills) and exercise psychology (e.g., how physical activity can improve mental health).
This module examines both qualitative and quantitative research methods and prepares students for the dissertation module in Year 3.
This module aims to extend students’ knowledge into the application of biomechanical assessment in sport and exercise activities.
There will be an emphasis on the evaluation of technique through the practical assessment of movement.
Allied to this, students will develop additional proficiencies related to the use of biomechanical laboratory equipment and the collection, collation, analysis and presentation of data.
The biomechanical principles underpinning performance in a range of sport and exercise settings will also be considered, compared, contrasted and evaluated and particular attention will be paid to the academic skills needed to succeed within an applied biomechanics research setting.
This module explores physiological responses to exercise and the principles of physiological assessment, integrating theory with practical application throughout.
Students will investigate how key physiological systems, including the cardiovascular, respiratory, metabolic, and musculoskeletal systems, respond acutely to exercise and adapt to long-term training.
Practical sessions in this area focus on conducting experiments to analyse these responses in depth.
Students will develop the skills required to assess physiological attributes critical for performance.
Activities include conducting and interpreting assessments such as VO2max, body composition analysis, and anaerobic fitness.
By linking experimental analysis and performance-based assessments, students will gain hands-on experience, apply evidence-based techniques, and develop critical thinking and communication skills necessary for advanced study in sport and exercise physiology.
In semester one, students can choose one of the following.
Control and Co-ordination - 15 credits This module will aim to give students an understanding of a number of theoretical models concerned with the development and control of human movement patterns.
Students will explore quantitative approaches to analysing these movements with a particular focus on the student’s ability to accurately analyse the data collected and provide scientifically underpinned reasons for their findings.
There will be a range of topics covered from single joint skill performance to whole body co-ordination tasks as well as the role of movement variability in skilled performance.
Psychological Skills - 15 credits This module examines psychological skills techniques (e.g., emotional regulation, focus and concentration, confidence) that sport psychologists might use to enhance performance.
In semester two, students can choose one of the following.
Clinical Physiology - 15 credits This module provides a comprehensive understanding of how clinical conditions such as cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases, neurological disorders, obesity, diabetes, and metabolic syndrome impact human physiology.
Through practical sessions, students will develop skills in clinical assessment techniques, including 12-lead ECG and arterial stiffness measurements, to analyse physiological changes associated with these conditions.
Emphasising evidence-based approaches, the module integrates theoretical knowledge with hands-on practice to prepare students for roles requiring critical analysis, practical expertise, and the ability to identify exercise interventions.
Students will also cultivate professional competencies and clinical knowledge aligned with the responsibilities of clinical physiologists in healthcare settings.
Designing Exercise Interventions - 15 credits This module considers how an exercise psychologist might help individuals and groups to adopt and maintain a physically active lifestyle.
This module provides students with the opportunity to plan and execute an independent research project that critically addresses a specific issue within sport and exercise contexts.
This module aims to use and combine the knowledge gained at levels 4 and 5 to critically examine current research and approaches used in sport and exercise science.
In particular, there will be a focus on inter- and intra-disciplinary perspectives and hence, how subject areas might combine to investigate or provide support in a given situation.
This will allow flexibility in content but there will be consistent themes around areas such as technology, peak performance, and injuries.
The “current” nature of the module also offers the opportunity for invited guest speakers where appropriate.
Students can choose one of the following 30 credit modules.
Advanced Biomechanics - 30 credits This module will critically evaluate contemporary methods of biomechanical assessment used with specific populations.
Students will be encouraged to investigate the unique challenges that come with working within applied settings, and be critical of the role that biomechanics can play in supporting people in each environment.
Students will also consider experimental and theoretical approaches in biomechanics, comparing and contrasting the approaches, and how to make the most of each.
Advanced Physiology - 30 credits This module explores advanced assessment and exercise prescription for both athletes and clinical populations.
In Semester 1, students focus on physiological assessment and prescription for optimising athletic performance, with practical activities such as VO 2 max testing, lactate threshold analysis, and critical power.
Semester 2 shifts to exercise prescription for clinical populations, emphasising safety, individualisation, and evidence-based recommendations for managing chronic conditions.
By separating these focus areas while linking common principles, the module equips students with versatile skills applicable to both high-performance and healthcare settings.
Rehabilitation Biomechanics - 15 credits This module will aim to encourage students to draw on their understanding of the concepts learnt at levels four and five to critically evaluate literature and raise an awareness of the contemporary biomechanical and professional techniques used in the rehabilitation of injuries and disabilities.
Students will be encouraged to use practical knowledge and their understanding of the ethical implications of working with injured individuals to evaluate current practice and be critical of the role that biomechanics can play in the treatment and support of injured individuals.
Professional Placement - 15 credits This module gives the opportunity to apply subject specific knowledge in a professional practice environment such as an applied placement or research assistant scenario.
Nutrition in Sport and Exercise - 15 credits This module aims to critically evaluate the physiological and biochemical principles of sport and exercise within a nutritional context.
Detailed consideration will be focused towards macronutrients and their role for individuals within a range of sport and exercise contexts.
The module will provide students with skills surrounding the assessment and analysis of nutritional intake.
The use of nutritional and supplement strategies will be critically evaluated in terms of performance enhancement and health.
Psychology of Injury - 15 credits This module critically examines the challenges associated with short-term and career-ending injury in sport from a psychological, cultural, and social perspective.
Optional
Some work placements may require you to undergo a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check.
If this is the case, you will need to pay a £49.50 fee.
Graduates work in sport and exercise science support or performance sport support.
Others enter careers in teaching, leisure, tourism, education, research and health.
Over the duration of the course, students develop a wide range of transferable employability skills including the ability to communicate effectively and work both independently and collaboratively.
These skills are valued in a range of graduate careers, including those not directly related to sport and exercise.
Many students also continue on to study for postgraduate qualifications to further enhance their employability.
A number of our students will undertake the MRes Sport and Exercise and MSc Applied Sport Psychology at the University.
The University of Winchester ranks in the top 10 in the UK for graduates in employment or further study according to the Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021, HESA.
Accreditation
The programme is accredited by the British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (BASES) through the BASES Undergraduate Endorsement Scheme (BUES).
Dr Hannah holds a PhD in Exercise Physiology from Ulster University, an MSc in Exercise Physiology from Middlesex University, and a BSc (Hons) in Sport and Exercise Science from the University of Suffolk.
His PhD research explored the effects of exercise on calcium and bone metabolism, and his work has been presented at international conferences and published in journals, contributing novel insights into the intersection of exercise, metabolism, and environmental stressors such as hypoxia.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BSc-Hons-Sport-Coaching-and-Physical-Education-2025:
From the minute you start your degree journey with us you won’t be short of inspiration.
Our lecturers are highly experienced practitioners and the facilities available to you are industry-standard, which include our own stadium complete with an eight-lane athletics track, an on-campus sports hall and laboratories kitted out with the latest analysis equipment.
You also benefit from the professional input of a range of interesting motivational speakers.
In the past, these have included coaches from the Welsh national football team and Premier League clubs, international rugby union players, and expert teachers from state and private specialist schools.
Central to the Sport Coaching and Physical Education course at Winchester is the belief that theory and knowledge are best learned through practice.
When you study the underpinning theories of Sport Coaching Practice, you will do so within a practical framework contextualised within sport coaching physical education.
Students will have many opportunities to explore coaching and teaching practices in the industry and local community through placements, which are great for networking and enhancing employment prospects.
Students will be introduced to both scientific and sociological coaching principles.
Aspects of applied sport science that are critical to coaching and teaching are studied, such as biomechanics, physiology and psychology.
You also focus on how inequality affects coaching, sports participation, and physical activity in local communities.
You take a deeper look at training methodology and use the latest technology in sport, such as using industry standard performance analysis software.
You also focus on educational theory and how it can help structure learning.
Students will learn how to apply the scientific method through qualitative and quantitative approaches to the exploration and creation of knowledge to create practitioners who will continually seek to improve and develop themselves.
Our degree equips you with the coaching and teaching expertise to join a growing industry where standards have risen dramatically in recent years.
Our graduates usually enter careers in professional sport coaching, PE teaching, sports development, performance management, and community development leadership.
You will graduate with a wide range of transferable communication, analysis and research skills that are valued in a variety of careers.
CX61
Make the most of excellent sports facilities, including a sport and exercise laboratories and industry-standard sport performance analysis technologies
Receive first aid and safeguarding training as part of the course
Experience our discovery and ecological learning approach that places you at the heart of the learning process where we guide you to explore within sporting environments
You take responsibility for your own learning and are encouraged to make use of the wide range of available learning resources available
Teaching, learning and assessment: 264 hours Independent learning: 900 hours Placement: 36 hours
Teaching, learning and assessment: 240 hours Independent learning: 936 hours Placement: 24 hours
50% coursework 50% practical assessment
52% coursework 48% practical assessment
60% coursework 40% practical assessment
Further information
This module introduces academic, employability, and research skills that underpin studying at university and pursuing various graduate careers in sport and education.
This module introduces the fundamental principles of coaching, focusing on learning, teaching, leadership, and developing a coaching philosophy.
Students will reflect on coaching practices and analyse case studies to understand and apply these principles.
In addition, the module explores the diverse influences on coaching practice, emphasising the integration of various disciplines and learning sources.
Students will examine the coaching process as a central concept, using it to evaluate and apply knowledge from multiple information sources.
The learning approach will be centred on the context of sport and physical education settings from a general and specific view.
This module introduces students to understand coaching through recognition of key aspects of the coaching process as applied to a variety of sport and physical education contexts.
The aim of the module is to ensure that students are aware of the fundamental principles of providing an effective learning environment to underpin their coaching.
The principles of Teaching Games for Understanding (TGfU) will allow students to focus on developing tactical awareness, decision-making, and game-related skills through modified games.
Instead of teaching isolated technical skills first, students will engage in methods that teach participants through invasion games and individual sports using small-sided or adapted games to introduce players to the tactics and strategies of a sport, helping them learn in context.
This module will examine the theories and models for how sporting skills are acquired, developed and practiced.
Features of learning environments that impact on the skill acquisition process will be explored.
A particular feature of the module will be the consistent application of theory to practice that enables a ‘hands on’ understanding to be developed.
Students will be introduced to the major scientific principles that underpin coaching practice and the importance of applying sport and exercise physiology in the coaching domain.
Key scientific aspects of human and performance physiology to be explored will include the biochemistry of exercise and physiological responses and adaptations to sport-specific training.
Physiology knowledge for coaching and teaching sport will be underpinned by the competitive demands of sport.
This module provides students with qualitative and quantitative research skills in preparation for dissertation and further research activity.
This module enables students to engage with and reflect on coaching and teaching practice, particularly in supporting individuals—such as young children—in developing fundamental movement skills.
Students will explore athlete development models to understand how coaching and teaching approaches should be adapted for different learning stages.
Emphasis will be placed on the role of fun, game-based activities in creating effective learning environments for skill development.
As part of the module, students will apply their learning in a sport coaching or PE teaching placement and critically reflect on their experiences to enhance their coaching and teaching practice.
This module teaches students how to assess the performance of individual athletes and the dynamics of teams within the sport coaching context.
This module quantifies the biomechanical aspects of individual athletic performance and aids students to develop the ability to undertake biomechanical measurements and present these in a way coaches and athletes can use effectively.
This module will also teach students how to use industry standard software to undertake performance analysis in sport.
Students will apply taught skills to develop, measure and disseminate key performance indicators to enhance team/individual sport performance.
Findings from performance analysis will be evaluated against contemporary research and commercial data to provide coaches and players with key tactical and technical suggestions for enhancing future performance.
This module will also highlight the necessary technical (e.g.
tagging, data analysis, presentation, data sharing, etc.) and critical thinking skills to undertake a performance analyst role within the sport industry.
Sport Pedagogy is the joining of education and sport.
Students will explore a range of pedagogic practices in relation to teaching and coaching contexts, which include differences in the teaching/coaching setting, participant group demographic, skill and experience.
Students will be introduced to the importance of creating learning outcomes linked to assessment strategies, based on the learning context and the learners themselves.
Differences in individual learners will be examined, especially focusing on individuals with learning difficulties and disabilities, which will support coaches and teachers to be fully inclusive in their practice.
This module provides students with the experiences of planning and executing an in-depth and independent research project that investigates a specific area within sport and education.
This module provides students with an understanding of the real-world testing and training approaches professional teams undertake with performance athletes.
The module is divided into 2 parts: athlete performance assessment (semester 1) and athletic training (semester 2).
Students will explore different forms of performance testing within the laboratory and field settings, as used by sport physiologists.
Students will learn sound methods of data collection and analysis to enable the interpretation and critiquing of results.
Following the gathering and analysis of results from testing, students will learn how to apply physical training techniques, as used by strength and conditioning coaches.
Students will learn how to periodise athletic training and apply appropriate training methods to enhance performance based on the specific movement actions of the sport.
This module will allow students to identify and respond to critical and contemporary issues in sport coaching or physical education teaching.
Students will be encouraged to focus on issues that are currently prominent in sport and physical education, such as female coaching, disability sport, talent identification and the on-going importance of continued professional development.
The module will also focus on the development of teaching and coaching skills through a work-based placement opportunity.
The placement will support students in developing critical skills further.
A strong emphasis on employability enhancement will guide this module.
Students choose either option A or option B for Semester 1.
Option A: Advanced Technologies and Innovation in Sport
This module aims to equip students with advanced knowledge of the latest technologies used in the analysis of sport performance.
Students will investigate the practical skills required to utilise specialist software, hardware, and tools for in-depth motion tracking and performance analytics.
Analytics will include an array of performance indicators, such as physiological and psychological.
Students will foster a critical understanding of how technology integrates into sport coaching, athlete development, and team performance, as well as how to handle large amount of data.
Students will be encouraged to reflect on the acceptance of new technologies by athletes, coaches and sport science support staff and how they might go about developing their own concepts and ideas.
This module will prepare students for professional roles in sporting environments by simulating real-world industry scenarios.
Option B: Sport Psychology for Coaches
This module will take an evidence-based approach to the use of psychology by sports coaches to enhance athlete performance and wellbeing.
Focus will be given toward helping coaches understand theories of motivation (e.g., Self-Determination Theory) and how they might help their athletes to learn mental skills (e.g., relaxation) and life skills (e.g., assertiveness).
Team dynamics will also be explored, which will include the psychological and motivational climates created by teams, and how coaches can develop effective relationships with athletes.
Students choose either option C or option D for Semester 2.
Option C: Psychology of Injury
This module critically examines the challenges associated with short-term and career-ending injury in sport from a psychological, cultural, and social perspective.
Option D: Outdoor Education
In this module, students will take part in outdoor challenges, with a particular focus on group journeying situations.
During the journey planning stages, students will be encouraged to make choices about the nature of the learning experience and the level of challenge involved, fostering a cooperative approach.
Students will begin to develop an awareness and understanding of the principles underpinning experiential education and outdoor learning.
Engagement with research literature will explore the instrumental use of outdoor education to achieve desirable outcomes, such as improving student attainment, enhancing young people’s self-esteem, or reducing anti-social behaviour.
Additionally, students will examine research on the relationship between mental health and engagement with nature, as well as the role of outdoor education in supporting young people’s recovery from traumatic life events, such as parental bereavement.
Mandatory
Disclosure and Barring Service
The indicative cost is £40.
Graduates enter sports related professions such as sports development officer, performance manager and community development leader, within private health clubs, coaching organisations and community coaching schemes.
Students develop a wide range of transferable employability skills including the ability to communicate effectively and work both independently and collaboratively.
These skills are valued in a range of graduate careers, which is why we focus on providing a range of external courses and exciting placements including those not directly related to sport and fitness.
Our degree provides students with excellent future employment opportunities, Many students also continue on to study for postgraduate qualifications to further enhance their employability.
New innovative master's level programmes are constantly reviewed to ensure that they are at the forefront of contemporary study.
If you study a Bachelor Honours degrees with us, you will be pre-approved to start a Masters degree at Winchester.
Dr Steve Smith's research focus centres on sport performance psychology, specifically within the environments of deliberate practice where coaches have a key role to support and develop athletes.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BSc-Hons-Sports-Therapy-2025:
Over the duration of your course, you will gradually, and progressively, build your knowledge, practical and clinical skills, confidence and expertise under the tuition of our expert staff.
By the end of the programme, through independent and collaborative research, problem-solving and analysis and the guidance of staff, you will become independent and critical Sports Therapy professionals.
On graduation, you will be able to employ the principles of sport and exercise science to the prevention of injuries, and to evaluate and rehabilitate injured athletes, both at professional and amateur levels.
Centred around our industry-standard sport and exercise facilities at the King Alfred campus, this innovative programme allows you to blend science and hands-on practice along with placements in sports clinics and clubs to inspire you further.
Expert teaching combined with bespoke amenities, such as biomechanics, physiology and psychology laboratories, ensure you have the knowledge base to critically evaluate, and engage with, contemporary sport and exercise research and practice.
On your way to becoming an injury, rehabilitation and fitness specialist you will learn how to use sport and exercise principles to optimise performance, preparation and injury prevention programmes; provide the immediate care of injuries and basic life support in a recreational, training, occupational and competitive environment; assess, treat, rehabilitate and, where and if appropriate, refer on for specialist advice and intervention; provide appropriate soft-tissue and manual therapy interventions in a sport and exercise context; and plan and implement appropriate rehabilitation and return to training/work programmes.
You are taught primarily through a combination of lectures, seminars and practical workshops allowing opportunities to discuss and develop your understanding of topics covered in lectures in smaller groups.
In addition to the formally scheduled contact time, you are encouraged to access academic support from staff within the course team, and the wide range of services available to you within the University.
It is a requirement that 200 hours of work placement must be undertaken between the end of the second year and the end of the third year of study.
This placement may take place post semester 2 study period.
Upon successful completion of the programme will enable you to be eligible to apply for membership the Society of Sport Therapists (SST).
While studying you will have student membership which provides you with access to the online British Journal of Sports Medicine Schemes, and eligibility to attend the AGM and associated seminars.
Student members also have access to restricted membership areas on the SST website as well as the society’s jobs board where current professional vacancies and volunteering opportunities are posted regularly.
As support the library electronic resources supply access to a large number of sport and rehabilitation journals and books.
This degree is taught alongside our various sports degrees as well as physiotherapy, nursing and dietetics, providing opportunities for interprofessional learning and practice.
B180
Teaching, learning and assessment: 288 hours Independent learning: 912 hours
Teaching, learning and assessment: 204 hours Independent learning: 852 hours Placement: 144 hours
25% coursework 30% written exams 45% practical assessment
48% coursework 13% written exams 39% practical assessment
62% coursework 0% written exams 38% practical assessment
The aim of the module is to cover the normal human anatomy and physiology across the lifespan and will include the physiological, structural, behavioural and functional changes associated with selected pathology and disease progression in the musculoskeletal and neurological systems.
The module will cover pathology as well so that students are able to appreciate normal anatomy and the causes and effects on anatomy through disease and injury.
The module will cover control of movement, as it relates to function, key psychosocial theories and the specific applications to from Sports Therapy interventions and management.
The module will include a practical element to put anatomy into practice by identifying and locating different soft tissue structures and bony points.
The module will utilise the basic research skills such as literature searching, information processing and critiquing, evidence-based practice and using evidence where appropriate.
This module helps students understand the issues inherent in working as a professional within the sport and health settings.
The focus is on the individual, how to situate themselves within the professional working environment and conduct themselves as a professional.
Students will understand how to maintain a Personal Development Portfolio, how to reflect on activities and experiences and develop a personal analysis, setting goals and personal objectives.
The module will include professionalism, codes of conduct, performance and ethics, values-based practice, information governance, confidentiality and the legal and policy frameworks that underpin Sports Therapy practice.
The module will adopt a macro to micro view of sport and health settings involving sector structures, organisations, roles of national/ international bodies that run sport and Sports Therapy.
Reference will be made to relevant models and frameworks for delivery, and different emphases internationally, and how this translates down to local and individual professional practice.
This module will introduce the importance of research and explore the different philosophies that underpin scientific research in sport and exercise.
It will also introduce a variety of specific qualitative and quantitative methods appropriate for the interdisciplinary study of sport and exercise.
Consideration will also be given to key concepts such as validity, reliability and ethics.
The aim of the module is to cover the normal human anatomy and physiology across the lifespan and will include the physiological, structural, behavioural and functional changes associated with selected pathology and disease progression in the cardiovascular, respiratory, endocrine, renal and digestive systems.
The module will also cover pain theory as it relates to function, and the relationship to Sports Therapy interventions and management.
The aim of this module is to provide an introduction to sports Therapy practice as context for their studies over the 3 years of the programme and provide the requisite first aid necessary to support practice.
The module will cover first aid principles, analysis of normal movement and gait as a foundation for moving onto exercise principles, design and principles of exercise prescription [health and safety, planning, designing, supporting, instructing].
An introduction to anthropometric and ergonomic principles will also be explored in the context of sport and sports therapy.
The module will utilise the basic research skills such as literature searching, information processing and critiquing, evidence based practice and using evidence where appropriate.
This module will cover the basics subjective and objective assessment of clients, the clinical reasoning and decision making process, to plan, select and apply safe and effective soft tissue and massage techniques.
This module will examine quantitative approaches to research in sport.
An emphasis will be placed on practical research skills (e.g., key methods of data collection, management, analysis) and critical skills (e.g., evaluating research papers and methods), alongside a broad awareness of ethical issues in sport research.
The aims of this module are to further progress the clinical reasoning and organisation of musculoskeletal knowledge gained in level 4.
The module will use a case based approach to develop students’ knowledge into specific pathologies affecting the peripheral joints.
There is a strong focus on clinical reasoning and the module will explore a variety of common peripheral musculoskeletal conditions and sporting injuries.
This module will cover the evidence based integrated assessment and management of the different common conditions using case studies with selected behavioural, psychosocial and physical elements.
The module will cover the safe and effective application of Sport Therapy assessment (including commonly used special tests), manual therapy, physiological and accessory techniques, electrotherapy and other modalities of management of peripheral joint problems as well as the relevant moving and handling, legislation and risk assessment procedures.
Specifically, this module will use theories and behavioural models to examine the possible barriers related to the adoption and maintenance of a physically active lifestyle in an environment where sedentary living is becoming ever more prevalent.
The psychological processes that underpin the physical activity and exercise motivation literature will then be used to appraise the specific intervention programmes that practitioners may undertake.
This module offers an introduction to the study of communication skills and supports students to develop their skills and theoretical knowledge to be effective communicators and build more effective professional working relationships with clients regardless of age, intellect or social group.
This module will engage students in contemporary discussions about the need for ongoing continuous professional development in relation to communication skills and examine a range of factors and their potential impact upon the approach adopted by the Sports Therapist.
This module will help students to understand difficult concepts and explore some of the fundamental questions and challenges in communication skills training today.
Using examples from across the globe, students will be encouraged to reflect on their basic assumptions with regards to communication skills, emphasising effective communication within the model and process of sports therapy practice and the development of transferable academic skills and critical thinking.
The module will use a case based approach to develop students’ knowledge into specific pathologies affecting the spinal joints.
There is a strong focus on clinical reasoning and the module will explore a variety of common spinal musculoskeletal conditions and sporting injuries.
The module will cover the safe and effective application of Sport Therapy assessment (including commonly used special tests), manual therapy, physiological and accessory techniques and modalities of management of spinal joint problems as well as the relevant moving and handling, legislation and risk assessment procedures.
This module aims to provide students with the physiological knowledge that underpins the effect of various clinical and discuss the scientific principles, concepts, theories and practice of sports performance and the factors that influence it.
The module will explore areas of screening, fitness assessment and testing and body measurements.
There will be some focus on specific conditions of the cardiovascular and cerebrovascular system, neurological conditions, diabetes and obesity.
Students will develop an applied understanding pertaining to the purpose and characteristics of ‘effective training’, and recognition of related limitations and special considerations.
The module develops students’ knowledge of rehabilitation principles, from pre-habilitation to return to sport.
Students will be able to recognise, describe and apply rehabilitation interventions to different tissues and injuries, different stages of the recovery process, progress a client from injury to full functional fitness and show effective reasoning.
You will understand the application of tissue loading and its influence on a range of common musculoskeletal sporting injuries and the impact of the presence of other common conditions (including asthma, diabetes, epilepsy and life threating allergic reactions).
This includes the formulation of safe and effective sports specific rehabilitation programmes for both individual clients and group-based rehabilitation and how to progress, regress, modify and integrate other rehabilitation modalities e.g electrotherapy and equipment, according to clients' needs.
Case scenarios will be used to enhance learning and the practical application of skills and application of anatomy, pathology, psychology alongside current research.
This module aims to critically evaluate the physiological and biochemical principles of sport and exercise within a nutritional context.
This module aims to provide students with the experiences of planning and executing an in-depth and independent research project that investigates a specific area within sport/exercise.
Students will negotiate the focus of the project with tutorial guidance and will be expected to show an awareness of research methodology appropriate for an empirical research project.
Emphasis will be placed on topics that are analytical, interdisciplinary and/or evaluative in nature.
This is the opportunity for students to produce a research project in a particular area of interest that relates to the curriculum being studied.
This module will cover the management of complex conditions, including management of trauma, using more complex case studies with potential multi-pathology.
This module provides an opportunity to draw together key aspects of sports therapy and build on the knowledge, understanding and applied sports therapy practice you have gained across your degree to demonstrate synthesis of learning.
The focus will be on assessment of signs and symptoms and management of sports trauma and complex sporting injuries and the practice guidelines, evidence and clinical reasoning and decision making that underpins it.
Alongside this, students will learn more practical elements of safe and advanced treatment and management within trauma and complex sporting injury.
This module progresses Personal and Professional Development 1 and expands students’ knowledge and understanding of working as a professional with an emphasis on professional conduct and working most effectively within the wider sport management team.
Part of the module explores running a private practice business and the health and safety and quality assurance measures required to both review and enhance practice.
The formation and management of a small business presents a unique challenge for Sports Therapists as entrepreneurs so the module will explore the macro to micro view of sport and health sectors and its personal and professional impacts.
The module will address the self-management skills needed to develop in terms of workload, resources, maintaining their own health.
The module adopts a coaching approach to individual development to help students progress their Personal Development Portfolio, their personal analysis and reflections on activities and experiences.
Placement provides an opportunity to put Sports Therapy knowledge and skills into practice.
Students will actively participate in the assessment and management of a client caseload within an area of practice under guidance of a placement educator.
Placements are an opportunity for self-development and integrating theory with practice-based work.
Students will work alongside a variety of sports and healthcare professionals and demonstrate the professional values commensurate with Sports Therapy.
A member of the Faculty’s team will provide a link to the academic programme and visit at least once during the placement.
The formal Placement allocation of 200 hours will form the module assessment.
Up to 50 other placement hours may be gained via an accumulator model outside of the formal placement allocation in the form of observational experience, working with sports teams and other work experience activities.
This is not assessed but still be monitored by the placement and programme team.
This extended study module provides an opportunity for students to focus on a Sports Therapy clinical area of interest and study this in depth.
The area of interest may be an extension of what has been taught within the programme in level 5 or 6 or it may be a new topic area that has relevance to, and link with, what has been taught within the programme in level 5 or 6.
The chosen area of interest must be appropriate and be able to be taken to level 6 to show criticality and engagement with the literature and evidence base so as to satisfy the module learning outcomes.
Consequently, the area of interest will be negotiated and agreed with the mentor/tutor/supervisor prior to study being undertaken.
Depending on the area of interest there may be some additional ‘masterclass’ style practical teaching that is appropriate.
This module takes an evidence-based and critical approach to strength and conditioning coaching, with a specialist focus on teaching students a practical and theoretical understanding of weightlifting skills (i.e., clean, jerk, snatch, as well as weightlifting assistance exercises such as the front squat).
Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance is required prior to enrolment if you are offered a place on this course.
Unfortunately, we are unable to sponsor international students who require a Student Visa on this course.
However, if you are an international student that does not require Student Visa sponsorship, you are welcome to apply.
Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS)
All students who accept an offer for this course are required to obtain an Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance check.
Please note, the cost of the check is £49.50 and covering the cost is the responsibility of the student.
In addition to the check, all students are strongly encouraged to sign up to use the DBS Update Service [https://www.gov.uk/dbs-update-service] for the duration of their course.
Students who fail to sign up to the Update Service may be required to complete and pay for an additional check during their course which may affect their ability to engage successfully with placements.
Uniform
Uniform for placements will be supplied; one jacket, one polo shirt and one pair of shorts.
If students would like additional uniform, this can be purchased at an additional cost.
Optional kit can be purchased from the University for practical sessions.
Indicative cost is £20-£50 per item.
Core texts are available from the University Library; however some students prefer to purchase their own copies.
These can be bought second hand or as an e-book, which can often reduce this cost.
Indicative cost is £70-£299 per academic year.
Placement Expenses
There are placements in the final year of the programme that are organised by the University with regional providers.
Insurance for students on placement and the necessary immunisation/vaccination is provided by the University.
Students will need to travel to placements/arrange accommodation.
In some cases there may be costs incurred here for travel and accommodation but this depends upon where your placement is located.
Graduates can find employment as Sports Therapists in a range of areas including working in a sports therapy clinic, with all levels of sports teams in injury prevention and rehabilitation, in the health and fitness/leisure industry, and in health services.
Graduates may also choose to go on to study a Masters degree and enter research careers.
This course is accredited by the Society of Sport Therapists.
Jordan Sahota is a lecturer in Sport Therapy

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Criminology-2025:
At Winchester, we believe that understanding crime means critically engaging with the wider social, legal, and ideological forces that shape it.
We go beyond the textbook to explore real cases, real issues, and real solutions.
You will challenge your assumptions, examine the causes of crime, confront its consequences, and investigate how justice can be made fairer, smarter, and more effective.
What makes Winchester different is our authentic approach to learning.
Your lecturers aren't just academics – they're experts in their field with lived experience and contemporary real-world insight which they bring into every seminar.
In our close-knit criminology community, you'll be known by name, supported by the same personal tutor for all three years, and challenged to think critically about justice, ethics, and social change.
Our contemporary curriculum tackles the issues that matter most right now, including digital and organised crime, culture and diversity, escalating violence, criminological psychology, and issues around addiction and sport.
You'll develop skills in professional software, examine real-world cases, and explore how inequality shapes criminal behaviour.
Every module prepares you for the rapidly evolving world of crime, criminal justice and rehabilitation where digital literacy and ethical reasoning are essential.
You'll learn through interactive workshops that mirror real professional practice, embedding you at the centre of your learning experience: building and enhancing crucial analytical, communicative, and problem-solving approaches to crime, justice and social change.
Our department facilities include a Crime House and a moot courtroom, used in selected modules and student events to develop practical skills.
Throughout your journey, you'll be supported by our innovative Speed Passport system – unique to Winchester – which tracks your personal, academic, and professional development.
You'll build the skills, experience, and confidence to make a real difference in crime, justice and social sectors.
The Pathways to Law, Crime & Justice programme is an opportunity for prospective law , criminology, forensics and policing students to engage in a series of practical and informative sessions delivered by academics and practitioners at the Faculty of Law, Crime and Justice.
Participants in the Pathways to Law, Crime & Justice  are eligible to receive reduced contextual offers on the following University of Winchester courses: - LLB (Hons) Law - BA (Hons) Law with Criminology - BA (Hons) Criminology - BA (Hons) Criminology with Law - BA (Hons) Criminology with Psychology - BA (Hons) Criminology and Sociology - BSc (Hons) Forensic Investigation - BSc (Hons) Forensic Science - BSc (Hons) Professional Policing Eligibility for the programme The programme is open to all home/ Islands Year 12 and Year 13 students.
Programme activities include: •    Lectures and seminar activities based on a variety of legal topics •    Experience of practical legal exercises including mooting, client interviewing and negotiation •    Career guidance and advice from legal and criminal justice and policing professionals •    Optional interview experience with the Dean of Faculty or Head of Department
For more information on the pathways programme and how to apply, register your interest here
Please click here for the Pathways to Law, Crime & Justice - Privacy Notice
L370
Your Winchester criminology journey builds from foundational understanding to specialised expertise through carefully structured progression that emphasises both contemporary issues and future-focused skills.
With a strong emphasis on interactive learning, you'll develop the analytical thinking and practical skills that today's criminal justice sector demands.
Your learning combines traditional seminars with hands-on workshops, real case analysis, and field experiences.
What makes our approach distinctive is how we integrate theory with practice – you'll sentence real offenders and compare your decisions to actual outcomes, work through jury deliberations on live cases, and use professional crime mapping software to analyse patterns and trends.
Study abroad
Our BA (Hons) Criminology course provides an opportunity for you to study abroad in the United States of America (USA).
Learning and teaching
Year 1 (Level Four): Foundation Your first year establishes the core knowledge you need while immediately engaging you in practical applications.
You'll explore the multifaceted nature of crime and criminal justice, examining how crime is constructed and represented in society.
You'll study criminological theory and victimisation, learning from leading thinkers in the discipline, and explore how identity and media intersect with crime, justice and society.
Teaching, learning and assessment: 228 hours Independent learning: 912 hours
Year 2 (Level Five): Exploration As you progress, you'll develop advanced research skills, learning to conduct primary research and data analysis in preparation for your final year project.
You'll explore contemporary issues including violent crime, examining everything from individual violence to international conflicts, and study policing and broader crime prevention, focusing on key debates and strategies linked to managing and tackling crime.
Optional specialist areas include digital crime investigation, youth crime and deviance, crime mapping, and comparative criminal justice systems.
Teaching, learning and assessment: 276 hours Independent learning: 924 hours
Year 3 (Level Six): Expansion Your final year brings together everything you've learned through either independent research on a topic of your choice or a placement with a criminal or social justice organisation.
You'll study the effectiveness of prison as punishment and rehabilitation, exploring critical issues around desistance and reintegration.
Optional specialist areas include organised crime and modern slavery, criminological psychology, identity and equality in crime, addiction and crime control, and sport and crime – allowing you to focus on areas that align with your career interests.
Teaching, learning and assessment: 180 hours Independent learning: 948 hours Placement: 72 hours
Throughout all three years, you'll benefit from Winchester's distinctive approach: small group teaching where lecturers know your name, personal tutors who support you for the full three years, and a collaborative learning environment where curiosity is encouraged and different perspectives are valued.
Our assessment methods mirror real-world practice – you might create a board game to explain the criminal justice system, present expert witness testimony, or conduct primary research that contributes new knowledge to the field.
The programme is designed for students who ask "why?" and want to understand criminal justice from every angle – what happens, why it happens, and how it could be better.
Whether you're passionate about social justice, fascinated by criminal psychology, or driven to tackle emerging digital crimes, Winchester provides the foundation and flexibility to pursue your interests while building skills that employers value.
The approximate percentage of the course assessed by different assessment modes is as follows: Year 1 (Level 4)*:
• 91% coursework • 9% written exams • 0% practical assessment Year 2 (Level 5)*:
• 77% coursework • 10% written exams • 13% practical assessment Year 3 (Level 6)*:
• 82% coursework • 10% written exams • 8% practical assessment
This module explores the range and scope of issues and topics examined by the specialist discipline of Criminology including the nature of crime and the mechanisms and processes of the criminal justice system.
The module aims to enhance students understanding of the multifaceted nature of crime and criminal justice through an examination of the social, political, and economic context of crime, criminal behaviour and the criminal justice system in England and Wales.
Students will explore, evaluate, and analyse crime alongside the policies, practices, and reforms of criminal justice, including rights and protections afforded to individuals and society.
Utilising interactive delivery styles, guest speakers and authentic case studies students will gain an authentic understanding of the complex nature of crime and the criminal justice system.
This module will introduce students to the historical and contemporary development of Criminology and victimology through the lens of leading thinkers in the discipline alongside social, political, and legal influences on criminality and victim status.
Through an interactive delivery style students will identify, explain, and apply criminological theory to contemporary constructions of crime, criminality, and ‘victimhood’.
Students will become familiar with a range of key themes that run through the array of Criminological theory and Victimology, developing a core understanding of how these varied views complement and contradict one another.
Historically crime has always been a theme for popular media and critics suggest it is having an important role in the construction of discourses or ideologies of crime and punishment today.
This module critically evaluates and explores the inter-relationship between criminological narratives, storytelling of popular culture, morality, deviant behaviour through crime, culture and media.
The inter-play between different narratives and popular culture representations of societal concerns will be examined, with a focus on a conceptual and theoretical criminological framework, audio, written, visual and social media.
Underpinning these will be further analysis of public understanding and opinions, personal lived experiences and exploring the role of ‘crime’ within a range of popular culture artefacts through the three dimensions of (non-) fiction, ‘reality’, and theory, with a focus on public understanding and opinions coupled with personal/lived experiences.
This module explores the concepts of identity underpinned and influenced by differing socio-economic, cultural, and environmental factors and their interplay with crime.
This module aims to introduce students to different theories of identity within criminology, conceptions of multiple identities as well as experiences regarding crime and victimisation drawing on real-world examples.
This examination will develop knowledge and analytical skills relating to how subcultural as well as labelling concepts effect criminological identities, alongside demonstrating the importance and place of volunteering within the context of criminal identities and influences on crime.
The module will introduce students to the tradition, principles, philosophies, and ethical considerations of conducting research within social sciences with a specific focus on criminological research.
The aim is to equip students with the knowledge, understanding and skills needed to conduct primary research.
They will experience the initial stages of the research process by identifying suitable topics and knowledge gaps, examining issues, considering methodological and analytical approaches to design and development a research proposal for their independent project/placement in their final year.
They will engage with quantitative and qualitative data management, analysis and interpretation through fieldwork, workshops, and an employer provided dataset.
Overall, students will develop a working knowledge of the relevant research skills they will need to complete their Independent Project/Placement and employment post-graduation.
Violent crime often triggers social outcry and political response when targeted towards particular vulnerable groups within society.
However, the notion of violent crime moves beyond the obvious offending into areas such as chastisement of children, violence in social disorder and domestic abuse.
The module will move from violence between individuals, to state sanctioned violence and onto international violence.
Not only will the criminal aspects of violence be considered, but also the acceptable forms of violence in terms of sports and fictional representations.
Drawing on theoretical considerations from sociological, penological and psychological fields of knowledge alongside political, social and media reactions, the module offers a multi-disciplinary view on this particular form of behaviour in all its forms.
This module introduces students to the police and policing in England and Wales, focusing on key debates on the role of the police with respect to the rest of society.
The module examines topics such as policing by consent, legitimacy and public confidence, alongside contemporary issues such as stop and search, public protection, community policing and criminal investigations.
Concepts such as police accountability and culture are examined to understand the influence of practice on public perception and future policing, alongside an exploration of the pluralisation of policing and crime prevention in recent decades.
A range of agencies including the probation service, voluntary and arts organisations, the private sector and communities, and their multiple roles in policing and crime prevention are reviewed.
Finally, the module critically examines the political contexts and ideologies that have underpinned this pluralisation of policing and crime prevention, with specific reference to the UK since the 1980s.
This module offers students a choice of two options for their final year project.
The first is to develop further study into an area or topic of their own choice and interest, and to undertake a piece of independent research.
The student will identify a topic of interest, provide a rationale for the research, plan and conduct a piece of research, and write up and present the project and main findings following the appropriate scholarly conventions.
The second is to undertake an unpaid placement with an approved organisation to apply their theoretical skills, learning from previous modules of study, and gain new skills and knowledge of working practices to improve their employability skills.
The option enables students to operate within a working environment for 120 hours minimum.
The student will present a placement report in an appropriate academic manner and format.
This module explores theoretical and practical issues surrounding the effectiveness of prison as punishment, focussing upon current penal conditions in England and Wales and prison officers as ‘caretakers’ in the distribution/legitimacy of punishment.
Through real-life case materials and experiences students will be able to contextualise carceral landscapes and apply critical penological perspectives to understand competing ideologies around control/security, care, and hope/possibility in carceral settings.
Examination and critical discussion of prison reports will facilitate a critical discussion on the effectiveness of benchmarking criteria alongside ethical and moral issues around incarceration/sentencing and how non-custodial sentences might better support desistance, rehabilitation, reintegration and reduce recidivism.
Finally, this module will debate the importance of paradigm shifts within criminal justice to support effective offender reintegration; underpinned by left and right critical realist approaches (penal populism) giving students an insight into real world/lived experience to take forward into future employment within the Criminal Justice sector.
Additional Costs
Optional Textbooks
For some modules, students are strongly recommended that they purchase one or two books (usually a general textbook or a sourcebook that is used weekly across a module).
Indicative cost is £150 per academic year.
Field trips
Some optional criminology modules may involve a field trip.
Indicative cost is £500 for each trip.
A Winchester criminology degree prepares you to lead and shape the future of justice.
Rooted in critical analysis and real-world application, our programme develops the intellectual agility, ethical awareness, and transferable skills demanded across a wide and evolving sector – from traditional justice roles to emerging opportunities in digital innovation and policy reform.
Employers increasingly seek graduates who can think critically, analyse complex issues, communicate clearly, and adapt to change.
Through your experience at Winchester, you will not only encounter authentic criminal and social justice environments but also develop the confidence and insight to challenge norms, design solutions, and contribute meaningfully to justice reform.
Our graduates succeed because they've engaged with authentic criminal and social justice resources and experiences before graduation.
The Speed Passport system ensures you can articulate your skills clearly to future employers, while our continually evolving industry connections provide pathways into diverse career areas.
Winchester criminology alumni have built successful careers across multiple sectors.
Many have moved into traditional criminal justice roles within policing and intelligence, the prison and probation service, the Crown Prosecution Service, court and tribunal service, and advocacy work.
Others have applied their analytical and research skills in intelligence and data analysis roles, working in financial fraud divisions, business intelligence, cybersecurity, and digital intelligence.
Our training in research methods, specialist software and enhanced digital proficiency provides the foundation these roles demand.
Alumni passionate about driving social change have found opportunities with local councils, third sector organisations, youth justice teams, victim support services, and policy research organisations.
Dr Michelle Jolley is Senior Lecturer in Criminology.
She joined the University of Winchester in August 2020 and is currently Programme Leader for the Criminology pathways.
Take a look at all our courses within the subject areas Policing, Criminology and Forensics

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Criminology-with-Law-2025:
Our fascinating Criminology with Law programme allows you to explore a wide range of criminal justice and penological concepts and issues.
While focusing on a criminological approach to such topics, the legal learning offers additional depth to your studies.
By bringing together political, social, cultural and philosophical perspectives on law and order, the programme offers an applied consideration of the contemporary justice issues faced in society.
This popular course has been designed to include the methodological, academic and practical skills essential to enhance your professional development and career opportunities.
As such, you engage with crime related professionals, agencies and organisations to develop your understanding of how they work and apply newly-learnt theories.
During the course you also acquire skills of gathering data using quantitative and qualitative methods, synthesising and interpreting evidence and assembling arguments, presenting evidence and formulating findings and conclusions.
You have the opportunity, too, to become a member of The British Society of Criminology, which has been in existence for 50 years, and is the society for criminologists, both academic and professional, within the United Kingdom.
L375
In Year 1, you gain an awareness of the key principles and concepts underpinning the study of crime.
You also study modules on Crime Through Time, Police and Police Work, Victimology and Public Law.
In Year 2, you develop your understanding of contemporary criminological theory and study Penology.
Optional modules may include Comparative Criminal Justice, Writings on Crime, Morality and Deviance, and Violent Crime.
You also develop your ability to approach research in criminology.
In Year 3, you broaden your knowledge of topics in the field and put into practice your independent research skills by specialising in a topic of your own choice for your final year project.
You can choose from a wide range of special interests from both fields, including Organised Crime, the Politics of Crime, Human Rights, and Media Law.
Teaching, learning and assessment: 288 Independent learning: 912
Teaching, learning and assessment: 276 Independent learning: 924
Teaching, learning and assessment: 192 Independent learning: 936 Placement: 72
91% coursework 9% written exams 0% practical assessment
77% coursework 10% written exams 13% practical assessment
74% coursework 10% written exams 16% practical assessment
This module introduces students to the structure and operation of the institutions and processes of the English legal system, including a broad appreciation of human rights and their application.
It will consider the sources of English law and how the law is interpreted.
It will provide a detailed overview of the civil and criminal justice systems in England and Wales and provides an insight into the role of judges, the legal professions and lay participation in the legal system.
The module will allow students to develop their understanding of a range of relevant foundation academic legal skills used in the study and practice of law.
In addition, the module will allow students to begin considering their career aspirations, and the skills required to pursue that career.
This module introduces legal and political sources of the British constitution, the relationship of the State towards its citizens and to other States, and to the scope of the courts to review government action.
It also considers the legal and political sources of the constitution and the role of judicial review in monitoring and constraining executive actions.
We also consider the role of EU law in regulating the actions of member states of the European Union.
A ‘tort’ is a civil wrong against protected interests such as the physical integrity of the person, land and property, reputation and economic interests.
This module explores foundations of the law of torts.
It considers key principles of selected torts and considers their historical development.
This module will examine the interactions between law and public policy, as well as the social and historical foundations of the law of torts more broadly.
The criminal law provides citizens with a framework set of rules for conducting day to day activities.
Under the criminal law, those people who have been found to fail to comply to these rules are punished.
The state – through legislation and common law – uses its power to uphold these rules and award punishments to those who offend.
The criminal law covers a wide range of behaviours that vary in severity and regularity.
This module focuses on the fundamental principles of criminal law, including how crimes are committed and the use of defences.
It also explores key offences against the person and property, including offences relating to homicide, sexual offences, theft (and related offences) and non-fatal personal offences.
The Law of Contract deals with multi-million pound deals such as ship building down to the purchase of a cup of tea.
It concerns how agreements become binding, what obligations are created and what remedies there are for breach.
The module is an introduction to the law and its socio-economic context.
This module provides an overview of the complex and dynamic area of international criminal law.
It examines its historical origins, such as Nuremberg IMT, as well as the modern institutions such as the permanent International Criminal Court.
It explores the core crimes, such as a genocide and war crimes.
This module actively encourages students to critically analyse how the international criminal courts and tribunals operate in practice, and whether they are capable of making a lasting contribution to peace and justice.
Evidence is the information used in courts which assists decision-makers in proving matters.
This module studies the role of evidence in the courtroom and the rules and procedures surrounding the use of evidence.
It examines what types of evidence enter court, how evidence is considered, and how fact-finders (including juries) may interpret such evidence.
Within this, the module examines issues relating to the presentation of evidence, how evidence is evaluated and the principles governing its use as a tool in legal proceedings.
The rules of evidence will be explored, alongside different types of evidence.
The module will evaluate their limitations and identify the potential risks associated with this evidence.
Different types of evidence will be explored, breaking down their benefits, limitations and identifying additional concerns (such as adverse inferences, potential infringement of ECHR rights, and following “bad” science).
The Independent Law Project/Work Placement module affords students the opportunity to choose to undertake EITHER (i) an extended independent study on an area of law which is of particular interest to them OR (ii) a work placement.
Students undertaking option (i) will be assigned a supervisor who will support them to produce a coherent and detailed dissertation (10,000 words, maximum) which critically analyses a particular legal issue.
These students are expected to formulate their own research question, conduct research (ie.
find and critically analyse relevant primary and secondary legal sources), and appropriately structure an extended piece of writing that clearly expresses a central argument.
Students undertaking option (ii) will work within a professional legal environment for a minimum of 120 hours.
This is an opportunity for students to develop their employability skills and career identity, improve their understanding of legal practice, and gain tangible experience in the workplace.
The work placement hours for this module are to take place within semester dates and will normally be on one chosen day per week.
Additionally, we accept tariff points achieved for many other qualifications, such as the Access to Higher Education Diploma, Scottish Highers, UAL  Diploma/Extended Diploma and WJEC Applied Certificate/Diploma, to name a few.
Textbooks For some modules, students are strongly recommended that they purchase one or two books (usually a general textbook or a sourcebook that is used weekly across a module).
Field trips Some optional criminology modules may involve a field trip.
Graduates are equipped for a wide range of criminal justice careers including the police service, youth and probation work, and the prison service.
The Home Office, HM Revenue and Customs, legal firms and other relevant support roles in crime-related work are also potential employment routes.
Take a look at all our courses within the subject areas of Policing, Criminology and Forensics

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Criminology-with-Psychology-2025:
Our hugely rewarding and highly useful Criminology with Psychology programme explores a wide range of criminal justice and penological concepts and issues faced by contemporary society.
The programme has been designed to include the methodological, academic and practical skills essential to enhance your professional development and career opportunities.
The Home Office, HM Revenue and Customs and other relevant support roles in crime-related work are also potential employment routes.
Roles such as psychological wellbeing practitioner and assistant psychologist are open to graduates and are an excellent way to gain experience before taking the next step towards a career as a psychologist.
L315
You also study modules on Crime Through Time, Police and Police Work, Victimology and Foundations in Psychology.
In Year 2, you develop your understanding of contemporary criminological theory and study modules on Penology, and Society and the Individual.
You can choose from a wide range of special interests from both fields, including Forensic Criminology, Crime and Humanity, Media Psychology and Eyewitness Psychology.
*Please note these are indicative hours for the course
79% coursework 21% written exams 0% practical assessment
79% coursework 18% written exams 3% practical assessment
82% coursework 10% written exams 8% practical assessment
Criminology is considered as a ‘rendezvous’ but specialist discipline; a study of crime and criminal activity that serves as a meeting point for Social Science disciplines.
This module introduces and explores the various disciplinary approaches to the study of crime.
However, it will have as its starting point an exploration of common-sense and everyday perceptions and the social construction of crime, as well as the representation of crime and the criminal justice system.
The module will also begin to introduce and explore the range and scope of issues and topics examined by the specialist discipline of Criminology.
This module aims to support students in the transition from previous studies or employment into university level study.
The module is practical and linked to the other modules that students will be studying throughout their first year at Winchester.
Students will explore the start of their professional development also through talks from Careers and engagement with practitioners and voluntary organisations.
Alongside the skills development sessions, students will develop independent research skills in a group format.
They will design, execute and analyse a small research project through workshops throughout the semester.
Law, Government and Policy offers a foundation approach to the legal and political processes for criminology students.
To be able analyse and critically assess crime, law and order approaches within the wider studies of criminology, it is essential for students to have an appreciation of the processes through which legislation is created and the political influences on them.
This module aims to take both a practical and theoretical look at the legal system through the analysis of existing policy and legislation along with experiencing the criminal justice system through court visits.
The aim is to bring in guest speakers who are legal practitioners to offer an authentic and realistic element to the programme of teaching.
The module will be delivered through interactive lectures making use of case studies, practical applications and policy/legislation analysis.
The police are one of the most important parts of the criminal justice system and also one of the most scrutinised.
This module will introduce students to the work conducted by the police in England and Wales and focus on key debates on the role of the police with respect to the rest of society.
The module will also examine and explore issues such as policing by consent, the arming of police and contemporary issues such as community policing and the policing of terrorism.
Other issues will include the policing approaches to protests and demonstrations.
Challenges around police and youth groups and policing culture will be further considered.
There will also be some comparisons with police forces outside the United Kingdom.
In this module you will have an opportunity to explore the mediation of crime and ‘deviant’ behaviour.
Crime has always been a theme for popular media but in the contemporary world new and old media have become tools for policing and social control.
At the same time, critics suggest that that the popular media have an important role in the construction of particular discourses or ideologies of crime and punishment.
This module explores these themes using a range of contemporary and established theoretical approaches.
The module itself is divided into two related parts.
Part One is aimed to introduce to the main theoretical concepts of ‘crime’, ‘media’ and ‘culture’ in order that you have strong theoretical knowledge and are better able to produce informed academic arguments.
Part Two uses case studies of various aspects of crime, media and culture, to encourage you to examine and critically reflect on the inter-related nature of crime, culture and media representations.
Victims play a vital role within the criminal justice system with the ‘state’ often taking the role of representative of the victim within formal justice processes.
Victims hold a number of different statuses within society – from the ‘ideal victim’ to the victim who ‘asked’ for what has happened to them.
Social, legal and political motivations underpin how victims are both treated and portrayed.
This module seeks to explore, appreciate and understand what role victims have within justice systems, how they are represented by both themselves and stakeholders and what challenges and issues are involved with such roles.
Through engagement with academic literature, media reporting and political documentation, students will explore the many facets of ‘victimhood’.
This module introduces students to the main sub-disciplines of psychology: biological psychology, cognitive psychology, developmental psychology, individual differences, and social psychology, as outlined in the British Psychological Society’s required curriculum.
Students will look at core topics within each of these sub-discipline areas, gaining an understanding of how psychology (and its sub-disciplines) developed over time and an understanding of key conceptual and historical issues that are relevant to the discipline as a whole.
Seminars will further develop this understanding by fostering discussion and debate on key concepts and studies, helping students to better understand the relationship between theory and research.
This module will introduce students to the range of ways by which crime has been conceptualised within Criminology and to critically explore the wide range of theoretical perspectives that those researching crime and criminality view the key issues and challenges from.
You will become familiar with a range of key themes that run through the array of Criminological theory and develop a core understanding of how these varied views complement and contradict one another.
The module will be delivered through two sessions per week with a focus on exploring the range of Criminological theories and understanding the role that such positions have in practice, the construction of understanding of the criminal justice and their role in pushing forward reform and change.
The early stages of this module will seek to explore some of the traditions, principles and philosophies of conducting research within social sciences and with a specific focus on criminological research.
It will aim to challenge the fundamental understanding of the nature and purpose of criminological research.
The teaching will enable students to develop understanding of contextualised, considered and critical application of research within criminological settings.
The later stages of the module will focus on the design and proposal for the student’s own Extended Independent Study in their final year.
They will experience the initial stages of the research process through deciding on topics, issues, methodological and analytical approaches that they will use.
Underpinning the whole module will be exposure to real life research projects, how they were executed and the decisions and challenges faced.
This forms part of the critical understanding of the ‘realities’ and ‘practicalities’ of conducting research.
Overall, students will develop a working knowledge of the relevant research skills they will need to complete their Extended Independent Study as well employment post-graduation.
What constitutes ‘justice’ and how is this ‘delivered’?
How did we come to contemporary concepts of “just punishment”?
You will be introduced to the most important philosophical interpretations of the concept of punishment, and will discover the birth, evolution and socio-criminological characteristics of the main form of punishment (prison) and its alternatives.
Finally, contemporary penological approaches to the punishment of offenders will be analysed, from community penalties to restorative justice.
You will be invited to practice and maintain a critical approach to the subject, in order to understand that theory and reality in criminal justice practice may be two different things, and to identify where some change in the policies could be needed.
This module aims to build on the coverage of social psychology at Level 4 by exploring some of the key approaches and topics in Social Psychology in greater depth.
Students will be introduced to key conceptual and historical issues and debates in social psychology, as well as some of the traditional areas of the discipline such as social identity, the self, social cognition and prejudice.
The module will examine both ‘classic’ studies and theories, as well as contemporary treatments of these topics.
The module will also cover critical approaches to social psychology and traditions emerging from these, such as social constructionism and discursive psychology.
This module aims to extend students understanding of the spectrum of individual differences and draws on content from a range of areas of psychology.
This module covers key issues of contemporary significance using core areas of individual difference psychology such as personality, motivation, emotion & well-being.
Topics are focused on in-depth within the module by examining different theoretical approaches to these concepts which allows students to understand how conceptual and historical issues inform our understanding and application of individual differences.
The application of individual difference theory and research will be considered within the module in a number of contexts, for example clinical, educational or organisational contexts.
Following two years of criminological study, the Extended Independent Study (EIS) provides an opportunity for students to develop further study into an area or topic of their own choice and interest, and to undertake a piece of independent research.
The student will identify a topic of interest, provide a rationale for the research, devise and submit a research proposal, conduct a piece of research and write up and present the project and main findings following the appropriate scholarly conventions.
There can be a range of approaches and associated outputs from this independent research.
For example, students can opt for the traditional inquiry module with a 10,000 word dissertation report.
Alternatively, a student can complete an industry problem led project where there is partnership working with an organisation to address a particular issue in their operations.
There will be flexibility in the output created to allow for students to make the most out of the research process.
The EIS is a double module which spans Semesters 1 and 2 and provides the student with an opportunity to develop their interests in a specific aspect of Criminology as well as developing their research and communication skills.
Additionally we accept tariff points achieved for many other qualifications, such as the Access to Higher Education Diploma, Scottish Highers, UAL  Diploma/Extended Diploma and WJEC Applied Certificate/Diploma, to name a few.
Graduates find careers in health and social care, education, marketing and PR, management and human resources, as well as the public sector, including agencies within the criminal justice system.
Dr Deborah Crossland is a Lecturer in Psychology and graduated with a first class BA (Hons) Psychology with Education Studies degree from the University of Winchester in 2008.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BSc-Hons-Forensic-Investigation-2025:
With opportunities to get kitted out in full crime suit and gloves, at Winchester you can contribute to and experience real-world criminology in action through the Justice Project, working on cases where the appeals system has been exhausted.
Throughout the programme expert teaching and a range of assessment methods encourages you to develop research and analytical skills, excellent written and oral communication skills and to gain experience of building and presenting arguments.
In Year 1, you are introduced to the broad scope of forensic science practice and the core conceptual, theoretical, ethical and practical debates within forensic studies.
On campus, Winchetser
F410
Independent Learning:
Overall Workload:
Students on the Forensic Investigation programme undertake many different learning and teaching activities including lectures, practical classes, seminar discussions, group discussions and debates, guided study exercises, independent learning, problem solving exercises, guest speakers, individual tutorials, and project supervision.
Teaching activities are designed to help students relate theory to practice and draw relevant connections with the contemporary context of forensic science.
Teaching hours:
All class based teaching takes places between 9am – 6pm, Monday to Friday during term time.
Assessment:
Year 1 (Level 4)*: 82% coursework.
0% written exams.
18% practical assessment
Year 2 (Level 5)*: 84% coursework.
16% practical assessment
Year 3 (Level 6)*: 74% coursework.
26% practical assessment
Feedback:
Further information:
This module introduces the fundamental skills essential for their journey in this exciting field.
Throughout the module, students will learn how to access and analyse literature, present information in a professional and academically-sound manner and communicate effectively using various methods.
Students will also explore the crucial role of imaging techniques in forensic investigations, focusing on the continuity of photographic evidence and its courtroom applications – a key skill for aspiring forensic practitioners.
The module provides hands-on experience in safe laboratory practices and the use of routine scientific equipment for forensic investigations preparing students for the practical aspects of their future careers.
By completing this module, students will establish a strong foundation for their forensic science education and future professional roles.
Fundamentals of Forensic Investigation introduces students to the principles and practices of forensics within the UK Criminal Justice System.
This module explores the interdisciplinary nature of forensic investigations, examining the roles of various professionals and the legal context of forensic evidence.
Students will evaluate the legal obligations, ethical responsibilities, and challenges faced by forensic scientists and practitioners in both criminal and civil courts.
Through theoretical study and practical exercises, students will develop critical thinking and ethical decision-making skills essential for forensic practitioners.
The module also emphasizes personal academic development, encouraging students to evaluate their performance and set measurable goals in key investigative skills.
By the end of this module, students will have gained a solid foundation in forensic investigation fundamentals, including historical development, current practices and   future challenges.
This knowledge prepares them for advanced study in forensic science and provides insights into potential career paths.
Students will gain a deep understanding of various types of trace evidence and their evidential significance in the context of crime scene analysis.
Through a combination of theoretical and practical learning experiences, students will develop the skills necessary to recover, package, and analyse non-biological evidence while critically examining the limitations and challenges associated with these processes.
The module also introduces the methodological approaches used in identifying, analysing, and interpreting biological evidence, with a focus on the analysis of bloodstain patterns and other biological materials.
By completing this module, students will be well-equipped with the practical skills and knowledge needed to effectively collect, preserve, and analyse physical evidence, making evidence valuable assets in the field of forensic science and criminal investigations.
Students will trace the origins and development of scientific knowledge in legal proceedings and examine how forensic science disciplines gain acceptance in courts.
The module provides a critical analysis of the open market for police forensic science provision in England and Wales and delves into pressing issues facing the forensic sector, such as the impact of high-profile scandals on public trust.
Students will also explore the role of forensic regulation in addressing ethical concerns and identifying ongoing challenges.
By completing this module, students will develop a deep understanding of the complex interplay between science, law, and society, and gain the knowledge and skills needed to navigate the ever-evolving landscape of forensic science and contribute to the ongoing discourse on strengthening the CJS.
This module provides a thorough exploration of crime scene investigation with a focus on preventing miscarriages of justice and wrongful convictions.
Students will critically assess the main considerations relating to wrongful convictions and the role of forensic evidence.
The module also covers the purpose and function of the Crown Prosecution Service, the Criminal Cases Review Commission, and the Justice Project at the University of Winchester.
Students will learn to organize, manage, and assess evidence objectively and ethically, preparing for roles as professional practitioners or voluntary participants in forensic science and justice initiatives.
This module ensures a comprehensive understanding of the interplay between forensic investigation and the criminal justice system within the United Kingdom.
Students will gain an in-depth understanding of the research process, including planning, designing and implementing a small project.
They will critically examine various research methods, exploring strengths and limitations.
Emphasis is placed on hypothesis-building, methodology, data analysis, and research ethics.
Students will develop skills in formulating clear research questions, reviewing literature, justifying chosen methodologies, and addressing ethical considerations.
They will learn to create comprehensive research plans, addressing timelines, resources, and potential challenges.
The module culminates in practicing effective communication by presenting well-structured project proposals.
Successful completion equips students with the necessary knowledge and skills to design and prepare a research project proposal, enabling them to undertake independent research at Level 6 and beyond.
This module provides an in-depth exploration of crime scene investigation, emphasizing the critical role of crime scene investigators in the collection, preservation, and documentation of forensic evidence.
Students will engage in practical examinations of mock crime scenes, applying systematic evidence collection and preservation techniques.
The module addresses the complexities and challenges of evidence collection, chain of custody, and ensuring evidence is court admissible.
Additionally, students will develop a thorough understanding of both photographic and non-photographic forensic imaging techniques, applying photographic principles to forensic evidence and analysing the continuity and evidential value of these techniques.
By the end of the module, students will be equipped with the skills and knowledge necessary to effectively investigate crime scenes and present forensic evidence as a professional witness in a legal context
This module requires guided independent study by the student.
A small number of group seminars will be held to cover the main areas of project design, ethics review, analysis of results, formatting of the thesis, and poster design.
In addition, all students will be allocated a project supervisor to guide them through their research.
Individual tutorials will be held between the student and supervisor throughout both semesters.
Students can ask their supervisor to review and give feedback on up to three chapters of the thesis, prior to final submission.
This module seeks to build upon foundational principles, students will develop advanced skills in evidence preservation, documentation, and analysis within management of crime scene/s to ensure admissibility in court proceedings.
Through immersive learning experiences, students will cultivate essential leadership, communication, and collaboration abilities, enabling them to manage multidisciplinary teams and liaise with diverse stakeholders.
The module emphasizes reflective practice and ongoing professional development, preparing students for successful careers in various roles within the Criminal Justice System.
Students will gain the adaptability and transferable skills necessary to practice in crime scene investigation, forensic science, law enforcement, and the legal system.
Students will cultivate an in-depth understanding of analytical methods and develop the skills to interpret complex scientific data meaningfully and reliably.
Through a focus on expert witness testimony, students will learn to prepare comprehensive, scientifically rigorous reports that meet the stringent requirements of the court system.
They will develop the ability to critically evaluate forensic science evidence, identifying potential issues and anticipating challenges that may arise during legal proceedings.
Students will also refine their oral communication and critical thinking skills, enabling them to present evidence effectively and confidently in court, even under cross-examination.
This module is ideal for aspiring forensic scientists, legal professionals, and those seeking to make a significant impact in the field of criminal justice through the application of advanced scientific expertise.
IELTS Academic at 6.0 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in all four components (for year 1 entry)
There will be costs involved for optional trips (no extra costs for compulsory trips).
Indicative cost is £20 per academic year.
Multiple copies of core text are held within the library and e-books are identified where possible, however some students prefer to purchase their own copies.
Core texts can be bought second hand, or as ebook which can often reduce the cost.
Indicative cost is £100 per academic year.
Costs will vary.
Whilst equipment is included for all taught modules additional costs may be incurred by the student during the dissertation in the third year.
The cost depends on the research topic designed by the student.
Equipment is included for scheduled lab activities.
Costs will vary according to student choice.
Longwearing crime scene suit overalls: Students may choose to wear a non-disposable scene suit.
The students undertake practical work across all years of study.
Indicative cost up to £40.
One crime scene suit is provided per student.
Students may need to buy additional crime scene suits.
Indicative cost between £3 - £8.
For one module in the third year of study, students will be expected to dress smartly for their final oral assessment.
Indicative cost £0 - £50 depending on their existing wardrobe.
A third year module requires students to travel to a work placement of their choice (15 hours).
Cost dependent on location, indicative cost £0-£50.
Graduates find work in a variety of Criminal Justice agencies and related employment fields.
These include the police service, the prison service, youth and probation work and Government research units, such as the Home Office.
If you study a Bachelors Honours degree with us, you will be pre-approved to start a Masters degree at Winchester.
In 2015 Selina joined Hampshire Constabulary as a Counter-Terrorism Prevent Officer in Special Branch, and then trained to become a Crime Scene Investigator (CSI) within the Scientific Services Department, passing her Level 1 & 2 courses (deployable to volume and all major crimes).
She was involved in and led several high-profile cases in Hampshire before joining us to teach Forensic Investigation

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BSc-Hons-Forensic-Science-2025:
Like the other programmes, the Forensic Science degree will offer modules that give you a firm grounding in the theoretical and practical aspects of crime scene investigation, evidence analysis and expert witness skills.
But in addition, you will be offered specific modules in chemistry, molecular biology and toxicology.
The multidisciplinary nature of the subject is further explored through aspects of physics, mathematics and statistics, and you will be exposed to a number of specialist topics, such as anthropology, archaeology, entomology and linguistics.
During your three years studying Forensic Science, you will have the opportunity to attend mock crime scenes, to recover and analyse forensic evidence, and to present your results in a variety of ways, such as expert witness reports and oral and poster presentations.
You will encounter a large variety of evidence types and learn from real forensic practitioners how to examine and interpret the evidence.
The programme will include a significant amount of laboratory work in order to ensure you gain competence in the selection and use of a range of methods used in the location, identification, recovery, examination, comparison, extraction and scientific analysis of commonly encountered physical, chemical and biological materials.
Teaching takes place through a variety of methods, including small group seminars, field work and laboratory practicals.
You will gain valuable practical skills and develop your independent thinking by working under crime scene conditions and undertaking evidence collection using the universities facilities such as new laboratory, taphonomic facility and a dedicated crime scene house.
In Year 1, you study key issues in forensic investigation and begin to develop your own research and analytical skills.
Core modules include History of Forensic Science, Introduction to Forensic Evidence, Non-Biological Evidence, Biological Evidence, Contemporary Issues, Introduction to Analytical Chemistry, Biochemistry, and Academic and Employment Skills.
In Year 2, you explore modules on Forensic Medicine, Research Methods, Practical Skills, Forensic DNA Evidence, Forensic Ecology, Geoforensics and Forensic Toxicology.
In your final year, you will study modules in Crime Scene Investigation and Court Room Skills, and carry out an extended research project of your own design.
This enables you to specialise in your chosen field of research, under the guidance of your supervisor.
Some optional modules are available in Years 2 and 3, depending on your own interests.
These may include Case Investigation and Review, Fakes and Forgeries, Volunteering, Document Analysis, Forensic Linguistics and Advanced Forensic Examination.
Key transferable skills are gained throughout the course, which are important for employability and those entering further education.
These include the ability to communicate findings through oral and poster presentations, to write detailed and clear laboratory logs and expert witness reports, and to present evidence orally under cross-examination.
This is a versatile degree that gives you an excellent basis for a future career in the field.
As a strategic thinking graduate equipped with valuable transferable skills you will be prepared for employment in a wide variety of fields, such as governmental agencies, forensic investigation, policing, quality assurance in food and pharmaceutical manufacturing, laboratory analysis and chemical and biological research.
This programme is currently seeking recognition from The Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences.
F430
You are taught through a combination of practical sessions in labs and other settings, lectures and seminars, allowing opportunities to discuss and develop your understanding of topics covered in lectures in smaller groups.
In addition to the formally scheduled contact time such as lab practicals, lectures and seminars etc.), you are encouraged to access academic support from staff within the course team and the wide range of services available to you within the University.
68% coursework 0% written exams 32% practical assessment
78% coursework 0% written exams 22% practical assessment
70% coursework 0% written exams 30% practical assessment
By the end of this module, students will have gained a solid foundation in forensic investigation fundamentals, including historical development, current practices and future challenges.
Students will gain a thorough knowledge of pH, metabolism, cellular biochemistry, and the composition of body fluids.
They will explore the structure and function of biological molecules, atomic and molecular interactions, and the mechanisms of biochemical reactions.
Additionally, the module covers chromatographic separation techniques, including retardation factor, retention times, and their applications in sample analysis.
Practical laboratory sessions will equip students with essential analytical chemistry skills, emphasising safe practices, accurate data collection, critical assessment of results, and adherence to COSHH regulations.
This module offers a solid foundation in biochemistry and analytical chemistry, preparing students for further study or careers in related fields.
Students will critically discuss current UK legislation regarding drugs and alcohol, elucidating the biological effects of common drugs of abuse and the impact of alcohol and drugs in legal contexts.
They will assess various methodologies and techniques for analysing toxicological samples, including practical considerations and theoretical principles behind techniques such as High- Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) and Atomic Absorption Spectroscopy (AAS).
Furthermore, students will explore how biochemistry, pharmacology, and toxicology intersect to aid forensic scientists in criminal investigations, examining real-world examples where toxicological analysis plays a pivotal role in solving criminal cases.
Additionally, students will develop a thorough understanding of both photographic and non- photographic forensic imaging techniques, applying photographic principles to forensic evidence and analysing the continuity and evidential value of these techniques.
By the end of the module, students will be equipped with the skills and knowledge necessary to effectively investigate crime scenes and present forensic evidence as a professional witness in a legal context.
Forensic Medicine
Digital Forensic Evidence
Forensic Ecology Missing Persons
Students will gain in-depth knowledge of chromatographic, spectroscopic, mass spectrometric, and elemental analysis methods, understanding their principles, instrumentation, and applications within the forensic context.
Through hands-on experience, students will develop proficiency in sample preparation, instrumental operation, and data interpretation for a wide range of forensic samples.
Emphasis will be placed on the critical evaluation of analytical techniques, quality assurance, and the admissibility of chemical evidence in legal proceedings.
Students will cultivate skills in interpreting and communicating complex chemical findings through detailed reports and presentations, preparing them for roles as expert witnesses.
This module equips aspiring forensic scientists with the advanced analytical skills and knowledge necessary to excel in the increasingly sophisticated field of forensic chemical analysis, through rigorous scientific investigation.
Choose from: Anatomy and Anthropology or Fakes, Forgeries and Fraud Choose from Forensic Archaeology or Ballistics, Fire and Explosives
BTEC/CTEC: DMM from BTEC or Cambridge Technical (CTEC) qualifications.
National Extended Certificate/ Foundation Diploma/ Technical Diploma/ Extended Diplomas in Applied Science.
International Baccalaureate: To include a minimum of 2 Higher Level certificates at grade H4.
To include a minimum of grade 5 in Standard or Higher level English and Maths and a minimum of grade 5 in a Higher level Science.
T Level: Merit in a T Level in Health, Healthcare Science or Science
Selina joined the University of Winchester in 2022 as a Lecturer in Forensic Investigation.
She is currently a Senior Lecturer and Programme Leader for the Forensic Investigation programmes.
Selina obtained her BSc (Hons) in Archaeological and Forensic Sciences at Bournemouth University in 2011.
After leaving University, she became Project Coordinator with Victim Support for an Anti-Social Behaviour Project focussing on young offenders and victims.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/LLB-Hons-Law-2025:
At Winchester, your Law degree is built with your future in mind.
So you won’t just study law – you’ll learn how to use it, question it, and apply it in real situations.
Our Law course blends a strong academic foundation with practical experience from the very start.
Whether you’re presenting in our moot courtroom, interviewing clients, or developing your voice in a legal debate, every part of your degree is designed to get you career ready.
That way, you move beyond theoretical exercises to explore skills you’ll use long after graduation.
Law at Winchester doesn’t happen in a bubble.
Our city is steeped in legal history – from the Magna Carta connections to the influential legal figures who've shaped national law – and alive with legal practice, from the annual Law Sunday procession at Winchester Cathedral to the high-profile Crown Court, a five-minute walk from campus.
Many of our students spend afternoons in the public gallery, watching real cases unfold – bringing their studies to life in a way textbooks simply can't.
And when it comes to connecting to the wider world of law, you’ll find London’s legal hub just an hour away by train.
Close contact with academics mean your lecturers know who you are and how to help you grow.
And because we regularly update our curriculum to reflect changes in law and society, what you learn will always be relevant, current, and connected to the industry around you.
Outside the classroom, you’ll have the chance to make a real difference by getting involved in pro bono work through our on-campus Legal Advice Centre – here, you'll support in note-taking and facilitation, offering free legal guidance to those who need it most in family law matters.
It's a unique opportunity to put your skills into practice, build real-world experience, and give back to the community.
Whether you want to become a solicitor, barrister, legal advisor or work in policy, law enforcement or beyond, choose Winchester and you’ll graduate with valuable experience, strong industry connections, and the skills you need to stand out.
Surrounded by a friendly, supportive community, we’ll help you grow into the best version of yourself – ready to take on whatever comes next.
At Winchester every law student has the chance to get involved in our University Legal Advice Centre.
After relevant training, you will be able to help qualified lawyers in our pro bono Family Law appointments.
While all legal advice will be given by the lawyers, you will have an important practical role in assisting the lawyer for example by meeting real clients, and sitting in on and making notes of the client interviews.
Getting involved in the Centre provides a number of benefits for students:
•    a chance to learn from observing and assisting specialist qualified lawyers
•    an opportunity to practise client handling skills and note taking skills
•    a boost to student confidence and resilience skills
•    a chance to build contacts with local lawyers and other legal professionals
•    an introduction to important professional principles such as client confidentiality and professional ethics
•    adds valuable work experience to your CV to enhance your employability
•    a chance to make a difference to your local community
M100
Study Law at Winchester and you’ll cover all the essential foundations – from Contract and Tort Law to Public, Criminal and EU Law as well as Land Law and Equity and Trusts – while developing the practical skills that employers are really looking for.
Throughout your degree, you’ll take part in assessments that mirror real legal practice, alongside traditional lectures and seminars.
Mooting, cross-examinations, client interviews and negotiations are embedded into your degree – helping you build confidence, think on your feet, and apply legal knowledge in practical contexts.
From small group discussions in your first year to confidently cross-examining witnesses in your final year, your journey is made possible by our supportive learning environment, with open-door policies, personal academic tutors, and an individualised approach for every student.
As your degree progresses, you’ll have more opportunities to tailor your learning to your interests and goals, from intellectual property law to family and child law to international criminal law.
You’ll also have the option to take on a law-related work placement in your final year, giving you the chance to test your learning in a professional setting – and secure valuable experience before you graduate.
By the time you finish your degree, you’ll have a solid legal foundation, a track record of practical experience, and the confidence to take your next step – whether that’s into legal practice, public service, business, or another path entirely.
While your class contact hours, independent learning and assessment activity may vary depending on the optional modules you select, here’s what you can expect from your teaching journey at Winchester.
Year 1 (Level 4): Building Foundations Teaching, learning and assessment: 288 hours* Independent learning: 912 hours*
In your first year, you’ll build a strong foundation in legal knowledge and academic skills.
You'll explore the institutions and processes of law, learn how legal rules are created and interpreted, and begin developing key legal skills used in both study and practice.
This year sets the stage for your development as a confident legal thinker, equipping you to take on real-life legal challenges.
Year 2 (Level 5): Developing Expertise Teaching, learning and assessment: 276 hours* Independent learning: 924 hours*
In your second year, you’ll deepen your understanding of core legal areas while developing the practical skills essential for future legal practice.
A dedicated module on academic and professional skills helps you grow your confidence and sharpen your communication – preparing you for both final-year study and life beyond university.
You'll explore how law intersects with today's most pressing social issues, making your learning relevant, practical, and connected to real-world concerns that matter to people.
Optional modules in Employment Law, Criminal Justice, Immigration Law and Medial Law allow you to tailor your degree to your interests as you build a broader perspective on how law interacts with the world around you.
Year 3 (Level 6): Specialising
Teaching, learning and assessment: 216 hours* Independent learning: 864 hours* Placement: 120 hours*
In your final year, you’ll bring together everything you’ve learnt as you specialise in areas that reflect your passions and career goals.
You’ll also have the chance to take your learning further through an independent study project.
Or, you can step into the professional world with a work placement that could open doors to your future.
This module introduces students to the structure and operation of the institutions and processes of the English legal system.
It will consider the primary and secondary sources of English law and how the law is interpreted.
In addition, the module will allow students to develop a theoretical understanding of a number of foundation academic legal skills used in the study and practice of law.
The law of contract deals with multi-million-pound deals such as ship building down to the purchase of a cup of tea.
The module is an introduction to contract law and its socio-economic context.
Students also consider the role of EU law in regulating the actions of member states of the European Union.
This module begins with an examination of the historical development of Equity in order to establish a clear understanding of its influence, as well as how equitable principles and remedies continue to play a crucial role.
Students will be encouraged to consider a broad range of important themes, such as conscionability, fairness and justice, including the need to promote great flexibility in the application of the law.
Much of this module will focus on the operation of the Trust and how the different types operate in practice.
The trustee, appointed to carry out the trust instrument, is bound by their duty to uphold the terms of the trust, and this module will explore the potential for serious breaches, and the consequences which arise as a result.
The practice of law requires not merely an understanding of law and procedure, but the skills necessary to utilise that knowledge effectively.
This module will allow students, as prospective practitioners, to develop fundamental skills that will assist them in their studies and will prove essential in their later careers.
The skills considered include writing and drafting; legal research; interviewing and advising; advocacy; and mediation.
In addition, the module will allow students to develop a more detailed appreciation of their preferred career and the personal development required to pursue that career.
Land Law deals with one of the society’s most valuable assets.
Land is not only desirable but also constitutes a human right, which is recognised as essential to realisation and pursuit of a good life.
It is therefore crucial to understand and evaluate the law’s approach to who owns the land, how are his/her interests safeguarded and how others may interact with the land.
During this module, you will gain understanding of the principle underpinning this area of law, but also how it has developed and changed over time.
Subsequently, we will delve into in-depth examination of specific areas of land law.
During the study of land law, you will realise how relevant this is both in your current and future life, as we all relate to land in some dimension.
A-Levels: BBC-BBB from 3 A Levels or equivalent grade combinations (e.g.
BTEC/CTEC: DMM from BTEC or Cambridge Technical (CTEC) qualifications
International Baccalaureate: To include a minimum of 2 Higher Level certificates at grade H4
GCSEs in English Language at grade 4 or C, or higher.
Costs will vary depending on the student's existing wardrobe.
Cost £0 - £50.
Core texts: Law students are expected to purchase core texts for almost all law modules and some modules also require the purchase of statute books.
This could amount to approximately £800 over the course of the degree for single honours depending on module selection.
Cost £800 across 3 years of study.
The LLB at Winchester gives you both a grounding in legal knowledge and a springboard to wherever you want to go next.
You’ll develop invaluable practical skills – and graduate with the confidence to hit the ground running.
Our students study the seven ‘Foundations of Legal Knowledge’ subjects and many continue their Winchester training on our LLM in Legal Practice, designed to get you ready to complete the Solicitors Qualifying Examinations.
Beyond legal practice, our Law graduates are highly valued in industries like management, finance, HR, education, government, and the voluntary sector.
Many also go on to roles within the criminal justice system – including the police, probation and youth justice services, or the prison system.
Others find meaningful careers in the Home Office, HM Revenue and Customs, law firms, or organisations supporting crime prevention and rehabilitation.
Whatever path you choose, your time studying Law at Winchester will equip you with the critical thinking, communication skills, and ethical awareness needed to make a real impact.
Reflecting our strong teaching, dedicated support, and focus on your future, Winchester proudly ranks in the top 10 in the UK for graduates in employment or further study, according to the 2023 Graduate Outcomes Survey (HESA).
Dr Amelia Shooter is lecturer in Law.
Her main research interests lie in the interaction between law and science, specifically in the way that legal actors understand and interpret scientific evidence.
Take a look at all our courses within the subject area of Law

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Law-with-Criminology-2025:
Law at Winchester has been developed to embed legal skills, which include mooting, negotiation and client‐interviewing as a general learning, teaching and assessment methods.
The emphasis on skills-based learning is a core component of the programme and forms a key element in the assessment pattern.
Our three‐year Law with Criminology course appeals to those who are fascinated by these two overlapping and intellectually stimulating subjects.
Taught by research‐active experts who form part of a strong and lively community of students and staff, you are actively encouraged to critically evaluate a broad range of criminal and legal concepts, developing your understanding for strategic and operational entities.
Studying for a law degree with us is a thought-provoking experience.
The programme encourages you to develop an enquiring and critical attitude to law, learn to think logically and communicate clearly.
In Year 1, you study The English Legal System and Academic Legal Skills; Public and EU Law; Law of Torts; Introduction to Criminology, and Police and Police Work.
In Year 2, you study Criminal Law; Contract Law; Penology, and Violent Crime, alongside optional modules.
In Year 3, you undertake an Independent Law Project/Work Placement.
The module provides students with an opportunity to undertake an independent study concerning an area of law, which can include the opportunity to undertake a work placement.
You will also study Evidence Law and International Criminal Law.
Optional Law modules include Land Law, and Family and Child Law.
There are also optional criminology modules available including Identity, Equality and Crime; Criminal Bodies; Addiction, Crime and Control; and Sport and Crime.
M211
Teaching, learning and assessment: 192 hours Independent learning: 888 hours Placement: 120 hours
54% coursework 23% written exams 23% practical assessment
37% coursework 38% written exams 25% practical assessment
75% coursework 0% written exams 25% practical assessment
This module explores the sociological and psychological theories of identity and the representation of identity within political and media discourses.
It will challenge the notion of identity as fixed, presenting instead a conception of multiple identities which are negotiated through everyday social interaction.
This module focuses on the fundamental principles of criminal law.
It explores key offences against property and the person,  and examines legal and moral issues relating to these offences.
Students will be introduced to the most important philosophical interpretations of the concept of punishment, and will discover the birth, evolution and socio-criminological characteristics of the main form of punishment (prison) and its alternatives.
The students will be invited to practice and maintain a critical approach to the subject, in order to understand that theory and reality in criminal justice practice may be two different things, and to identify where some change in the policies could be needed.
However, the notion of violent crime moves beyond the obvious offending into areas such chastisement of children, violence in social disorder and domestic abuse.
The aim of this module is to explore the range of violent offending currently criminalised within the criminal justice system, the social and political responses to such offending and the treatment of violent offenders.
Drawing on theoretical considerations from sociological, penological and psychological fields of knowledge alongside political, social and media reactions, the module offers a multi-disciplinary view on this particular form of offending.
The module provides students with an opportunity to undertake an independent study concerning an area of law.
This can include the opportunity to undertake a work placement.
Mandatory Core texts: Law students are expected to purchase core texts for almost all law modules and some modules also require the purchase of statute books.
Formal wear Students may be expected to dress formally for oral assessments.
Legal knowledge is highly useful in a range of roles, including management, finance, human resources, education, local and central government and the voluntary sector.
Criminology skills will enable you to pursue roles within criminal justice, the police and security services.
Dr Amelia Shooter is Lecturer in Law.
Take a look at all our courses within Law and Policing, Criminology and Forensics

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/Courses/2025/BSc-Hons-Professional-Policing-2025:
The BSc (Hons) Professional Policing programme covers a comprehensive range of knowledge, skills and professional approaches that have been identified as being critical to policing services in the 21st century.
These include evidence-based policing; decision-making and discretion; criminology and crime prevention; pro-active approaches to vulnerability, risk, and public protection; well-being and resilience.
There is also coverage of key emerging areas of responsibility, such as digital policing and counter terrorism.
Students develop academic and research skills as well as policing knowledge.
In the final year, students will be putting the in-depth learning into action through an Extended Independent Study module.
Students can explore methods of crime prevention and detection with investigation specialists.
Develop skills in decision making, discretion and evidence-based policing.
Explore key emerging areas such as digital policing and counter terrorism.
Authorised by the College of Policing, and underpinned by the National Policing Curriculum, this programme prepares students for a wide range of roles within uniformed public services such as the police, prison, and probation services, the National Crime Agency, Border Force, Independent Office for Police Conduct, and His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs.
As well as subject specific skills, students will have the opportunity to develop key transferable skills that are highly valued by employers in the graduate job market, including the ability to present and develop a cohesive argument, IT skills, research and problem-solving skills, communication skills and working as part of a team.
L450
Year 1 (Level 4): Teaching, learning and assessment: 144 hours.
Independent learning: 1056 hours
Year 2 (Level 5): Teaching, learning and assessment: 144 hours.
Year 3 (Level 6): Teaching, learning and assessment: 240 hours.
All class based teaching takes places between 9am – 6pm, Monday to Friday during .
Year 1 (Level 4)*: 50% coursework.
50% practical assessment
Year 2 (Level 5)*: 59% coursework.
41% practical assessment
Year 3 (Level 6)*: 56% coursework.
13% written exams.
31% practical assessment
The Police Service of England and Wales is recognised as the pinnacle model of policing-by-consent globally.
For this position to be maintained, policing specialists must characterise and demonstrate exemplary attitudes and behaviours, recognising the complex nature of policing activity.
Consequently, this module examines the values, ethics and personal/professional standards required for policing professionals.
Students will reflect upon core ethical and evidence-based practices when making decisions and problem-solving within the identified core areas of policing practice: response policing, policing communities, policing the roads, managing information and intelligence, and conducting investigations.
The unbiased use of discretion underpins the module throughout, encompassing wider policing entities and roles.
This module starts to educate students to be able to apply a broad expanse of evidence-based policing to the scenarios they will face.
This module introduces the principles of academic study, the associated discipline, research, reading, interpreting, and referencing skills necessary to achieve a professional policing degree.
It additionally starts to focus on learning theory, communication skills, and reflective practice, all essential to continuous improvement and development.
Policing in the contemporary world is made challenging by the advent of new methodologies and technologies in terrorism and digital, internet, cyber-dependent and cyber-enabled crime.
This, in turn, has an inextricable link and impact on many aspects of the core policing areas of response policing, policing communities, information and intelligence, and conducting investigations.
It is therefore appropriate that this module looks in detail at all aspects of the initial considerations in these areas.
The module examines the advent of digital policing and terrorism, together with evolving and existing strategies to counter them.
The ever-changing scope and function of the core policing areas is examined and later evaluated for its effectiveness.
Throughout, the concept of evidence-based policing, evolutionary in contemporary policing, must be considered and appropriate evidential sources located, applied, and evaluated.
This is a fundamental requirement in modern policing contexts.
The Police are just one agency working within the Criminal Justice System - a multi-agency approach to supporting and delivering justice within society.
Importantly, the Police will typically initiate the criminal justice process.
Underpinning this must therefore be an understanding of criminology and crime prevention within the field of criminal justice.
Exploring a range of criminological and criminal justice theoretical perspectives, policing will be considered from this academic viewpoint.
The National Decision Model will be introduced, and its role and application will be considered.
The study of legislative, judicial and court proceedings will be part of this module as well as wider international influences such as relevant UN Sustainable Development Goals including Gender Inequality, Reducing Inequalities and Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions.
Understanding a wider definition of policing, students will start to understand the concept of plural policing and the many different forms that this takes.
Contemporary policing requires appreciation of a wide cross-section of vulnerability and public protection requirements within society.
Individuals who are, have been, or are likely to be subjected to modern slavery, human trafficking, forced marriage, honour-based abuse, and female genital mutilation, are examples of those who are of relatively recent consideration to the police in terms of vulnerability and the need for public protection.
This module introduces the students to some of the personal characteristics, history, risk, and situational factors leading to vulnerability.
Relevant legislation, noteworthy cases, and the multi-agency information sharing protocols are also examined.
Consideration of external (international) influences such as the UN Sustainable Development Goals enable a wider understanding of issues such as inequality, inclusivity and partnership working as elements within this module.
This module will introduce students to some of the core knowledge required in conducting police investigations.
Starting from the point of the relevant legislation, principles and powers that are involved in investigating, students will begin to understand both the scope and limits of those powers.
Wider legislative and policy influence such as the UN Sustainable Development Goals will be considered.
Areas of focus will include stop and search/entry and search powers, and the differing approaches taken in ‘volume and priority’ crimes and ‘serious and complex’ crime investigations.
The role of wider ‘policing’ entities will be considered.
With public trust and confidence in the police being essential, the importance of values and valuing difference, ethics and adhesion to professional standards is paramount.
Effective communication, leadership, and team-working together with ethical and consistent decision-making, are crucial elements to this.
This second-year module requires students to evaluate ethics, values, and norms in policing and to critically examine and reflect upon their impact on policing and communities.
Evaluation of theory and professional practice are sought, both in respect of communication and leadership.
This will encourage the student to consider both sets of skills in relation to presentations, operational briefings and team dynamics, and cohesion.
In addition, a focus on well-being and resilience and strategies to manage organisational justice and organisational culture are key aspects of this module.
Continuing study within the field of social and criminal justice, this module explores relevant criminological theories and strategies, analysing the role of the police in contemporary society and within the wider criminal justice system.
The module seeks to critically evaluate strengths and weaknesses of different policing models through sociological and criminological perspectives.
The module requires students to critically review operational policing and decision making.
Additionally, it reaffirms the importance of multi-agency engagement, crime prevention, bail, offender rehabilitation, and diversity issues within the criminal justice system.
The module will further develop students understanding of the role of victims and witnesses within the criminal justice process.
With traditional core policing areas affected by an increasing influence of the more contemporary forms of terrorism and internet-enabled crime, the innovative and creative use of intelligence and analytics together with well-developed investigative ability and the appropriate level of understanding to source and use best available evidence to support an evidence-based policing approach are becoming essential skills within policing.
This follow-on module takes a deeper look into the psychology of human behaviour and key history of events and incidents which help to understand both the importance of a contemporary policing approach, but also the impact of crime on response, community, and roads-policing with a view to developing modern prevention and disruption tactics and strategies, fostering, and maintaining community cohesion and ensuring capability within a joint emergency services operational provision.
Intelligence, information, and investigative strategies are examined and enhanced in support of this throughout the core policing areas.
This second year Research Methods and Skills module continues to develop the skills needed to support the student, regardless of background, the opportunity to learn and practice the skills needed by future police officers in the research, study, interpretation, presentation, and application of evidence-based policing.
Focusing on research methods and approaches that will support the development of students as independent, critical, and ethically sound researchers, the module will prepare students to undertake a work based, problem oriented, Extended Independent Study in their final year of study.
This module explores theories and concepts surrounding victimisation, offending, recidivism, and intervention.
Specific study is undertaken in respect of youth gangs’ targeting of the vulnerable or at-risk individuals, and professionals abusing their position of trust.
The module culminates in the evaluation of different approaches in supporting and managing the vulnerable, and strategies to manage both repeat victimisation and repeat offending.
Understanding the role of wider international policy development such as the UN Sustainable Development Goals – particularly gender equality and reducing inequalities – will frame these considerations.
Evidence-based policing is at the core of modern practice.
The concept in both theory and practice is essential knowledge for those conducting criminal investigations.
The collection, management and retention of information and intelligence is subject to extensive legislation and guidance and this module introduces this and its applications in policing.
Understanding the professional concept of evidence-based policing underpins many of the operational decision-making processes involved in both preventing and investigating criminal activity.
The responsibility and interaction with other criminal justice, social justice and community organisations will be covered within this module.
This module continues to develop the students’ knowledge around the use of police powers, policies, and procedures.
The module concentrates upon key legislation that can be drawn upon by holders of the office of constable to safeguard and protect the public.
Underpinned by their oath of office, constables seek to safeguard fundamental human rights, keep the peace, and prevent offences against people and property.
Key legislation is explored which enable constables to undertake proactive and reactive activities to confront suspected criminality.
Interactive lectures and practical interactive workshops are utilized throughout this module to help embed learning.
Ethical decision-making, the use of discretion and the maintenance of professional standards are identified as methods by which the police service can help to ensure peaceful and inclusive societies where there is equitable access to justice for all.
This concentrates on the core policing areas concurrent to completion of the evidence-based policing independent research project and requires the student to examine specific challenges in more complex response situations and the enablers to evolving response policing strategies.
Community policing is evaluated in respect of key emerging issues, problems, concerns, and challenges placing the imperative on designing problem-solving approaches.
The focus for road policing is reviewing, using an evidence-based approach, serious road policing offences and strategies associated with reducing the number of collisions.
Underpinning these areas is an evaluation of the National Intelligence Model and how information, intelligence and outcomes from a given policing operation can be reflected upon and the learning used to inform future practices and indeed shape policing objectives.
A comprehensive understanding of complex investigations and some of their intricate considerations concludes the module.
Understanding the development of wider policing entities and models will be considered.
For many years, policing has focused on reactive practices, responding to crimes once occurred and in response to public reporting.
Crime have been regarding as episodes of detection with a conviction being the point of ‘solving’ a crime.
However, contemporary policing, as well as community needs, require a much more pro-active and intelligence based approach to policing.
This requires a different skill set of police – focusing on problem solving and interrogating a much broader range of intelligence and evidence than has previously been required.
The concept and practice of problem-oriented policing is at the core of this module and students will have the opportunity to develop a critical understanding of the underpinning theory, what this means in practice and how this is helping to change the approach of contemporary policing practice.
Conducting complex investigations requires a different set of skills to addressing volume and priority crimes.
This module will explore the processes required in conducting such investigations.
This will include considering the wide range of stakeholders involved, the practice of interoperability between emergency services and the challenges of such investigations.
Taking a practice-based approach, real cases will be explored as to best practice and lessons to be learned.
Actions relating to both live and cold cases will be considered.
The specific role of victims and witnesses in conducting complex investigations will be considered.
This final module requires an evidence-based independent research project situated within a core area of policing practice.
The student is required to research, identify, and demonstrate understanding of an emerging issue or problem and formulate an ethically sound research question.
A critical evaluation of the issue or problem is undertaken using appropriate research methodologies, techniques, and analysis as applicable.
Consequent to this is the expectation to plan, using an analytical approach to solving complex problems, an intervention to tackle the identified issue or problem.
Concurrently, the student assesses the resultant conclusions and recommendations for their potential impact on the workplace, workforce, and service overall.
We have a variety of scholarships and bursaries available to support you financially with the cost of your course.
Many students who undertake this degree will be aiming to join the police service as a Police Constable but it is important to emphasize to applicants and students that completion of this degree does not guarantee employment as a police officer or police staff.
Every police service in England and Wales sets its own recruitment process and selection policy and entry requirements vary from service to service.
Candidates are advised to check their eligibility against the College of Policing Vetting document , this may assist you in deciding whether to undertake the BSc (Hons) Professional Policing course and/or pursue a career in policing.
The BSc (Hons) Professional Policing course does not limit graduates to a career with the police service.
Other careers could include working in; National Crime Agency, Border Force, the Independent Office for Police Conduct, probation service, military police, private security, civil service, local authority, or Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs, where investigative and legal knowledge are required.
This course is a national pre-join degree programme licenced by the College of Policing.
Dr Daryl Kenny is Programme Leader and Senior Lecturer for the BSc Professional Policing Degree and has over thirty years of policing experience, five years as an armed officer in Toronto and twenty-six year in Staffordshire.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Careers-Support-and-Advice/Graduate-support---life-after-university:
As a graduate of the University of Winchester we are delighted to continue to support you through our Careers Advice for Life offer.
You can take advantage of a range of resources or arrange in-depth discussions with advisers, focusing on any aspect of your future career.
Don't forget that CareerConnect - our online careers platform - is still available to you.
Either use the account you had previously via the student link above, or set up a new one here.
If you have registered with a University email address you will need to update this to a personal email address -  find out how to do this here.
CareerConnect can:
Careers Guidance Appointments
You are welcome to book a 40-minute Careers Guidance Appointment with one of our Faculty Employability Advisers (Careers Advisers).
You can choose an online or in-person slot - log in to your CareerConnect account and go to the 'Appointments' tab in the top-right corner of the screen to get started.
The appointment offers you an in-depth discussion focused on any aspect of your future career.
Tips for finding graduate employment:
The Careers and Opportunities Team can support you in exploring options for further study, choosing a course, and writing a personal statement.
Read our Postgraduate and Further Study guide and book an appointment with a member of the Team for more help and information.
Our academic departments, centres and institutes offer a range of study options within the arts and humanities, social sciences, cultural studies, computing, and entrepreneurial business and management.
Further details on advertised courses at the University of Winchester can be found here.
You can access email support and digital resources via the ‘ UoW Resources ’ page on CareerConnect , w her e you can click on ‘ Entrepreneur ship and Freelancing ’ .
If you would like more in-depth sup po rt , you can email startup@winchester.ac.uk .
Heading out into the world of work after your studies is likely to mean that you will encounter many unfamiliar terms and concepts.
There are, for example, different kinds of work contracts that are available.
These come with many responsibilities for employers – the Government and ACAS websites may be good places to start if you want to learn more.
Depending on your circumstances, you may not have the same rights as workers.
If you’re self-employed, traditional employment law might not cover you, but you will have protection for health and safety and (in some cases) against discrimination.
Your rights and responsibilities will generally be set out in any contract with a client.
As a freelancer, consultant or contractor, you will either be working for yourself or employed by another company, but you’ll still be responsible for your own income tax and National Insurance Contributions (NICs).
There is a lot you need to know about both of these.
Firstly, how they are paid depends on whether you’re employed or self-employed.
If employed, they’ll probably be deducted from your wages first.
If you’re self-employed, however, you’ll need to pay through self-assessment.
There are plenty of videos and webinars online to guide you through this, and you can also contact HMRC or visit the Government website for more information.
If you wish, you can even be assisted by an accountant.
Tax documents you will need to be familiar with include the P60 (which shows the tax you’ve paid in the tax year, from 6 April to 5 April), and the P45.
This shows how much tax you’ve paid up to the point of your departure, and has four parts:
Information on your state pension, how much you’ll get and when you can claim it is available here.
You can also find out about workplace pensions – your contributions to this will give you additional income alongside your state pension when you retire.
Budgeting is always useful in helping you save – you could use a budgeting tool to help you with this.
Many straightforward examples can be found online, and apps are also available.
If you’re looking for work, you might like to read the Government’s guidelines for the National Minimum Wage.
If you drive and have a car, you should tell your insurer that you are no longer a student, plus any other relevant changes.
If you travel by train frequently, you may be eligible for a railcard, and some employers offer interest-free loans for annual travel cards too.
They may also help you to purchase a bicycle, if you’re a keen cyclist.
If you have a student bank account, this is likely to mature into a graduate account automatically at the end of your course.
In some cases, though, it will have to meet certain criteria to do so.
If unsuccessful, it will be converted to a standard current account – in which case you should contact your bank to establish what to do next.
If you do need to open a new graduate account, you should consider the following:
Employee Help Card
If you’re head ing into work , make sure your payslips are accurate with an Employee Help Card.
It will help you give your employer all of the personal details they need to pay you properly – in this case, that means your name, date of birth and National Insurance Number.
The card takes you through each of these individually, describing how they should be formatted (and, in the case of your National Insurance Number, where you can find it).
Repaying your student loan
The repayment plan of your Student Loan will be different depending on the year you began studying.
Students who started studies between 2016 and 2022 (inclusive) will be on Payment Plan 2, and students starting study from September 2023 will be on payment Plan 5.
Students who receive funding from Student Finance Wales, Student Finance Northern Ireland, or Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) will have different repayment terms.
Please see the relevant website for full details .
If you’re a full-time student, your repayments won’t start until the April after you graduate.
If you study part-time, they will begin the April four years on from the start of the course.
Once they have begun, they will continue until you either stop working or your income drops below £27,295 per year (as of January 2022).
This amount can change - after 30 years, any outstanding debt is written off.
If you’re employed, your repayments will be deducted from your wages by your employer.
If you’re self-employed, HMRC will work out what you pay using your tax return.
You pay your tax and your loan repayment at the same time.
These rules also stand if you work abroad for a UK employer, but if you work for an overseas employer, your repayments depend on the minimum amounts under Plan 1 or Plan 2 for the relevant country.
If you go abroad for more than three months, you must complete an overseas income assessment form to:
The Interest added depends on what you earn.
Student loan interest rates are based on the RPI of inflation (the rate at which prices rise).
Whilst studying, until the April following graduation, you’re charged RPI + 3%.
After that it depends on your annual earnings.
This table relates to Plan 2:
Your annual income
Interest rate
£27,295 or less
RPI (currently 1.5%)
£27,296 to £49,130
RPI (currently 1.5%), plus up to 3%
Over £49,130
RPI (currently 1.5%), plus 3%
If your course is starting from September 2023 onwards, and you are therefore on Plan 5 for payment, you might find these online resources useful:
The interest rate changes every September.
You will be charged interest from the day your first payment is made until your loan is repaid in full.
Interest is added to the total amount you owe, every month.
This is based on the RPI rate of inflation in the year up to the previous March.
The interest rate doesn’t change what you repay each year.
The interest is paid off with your standard payments or if you choose to overpay your student loan to clear it quicker.
You should only overpay if you are a very high earner, likely to clear the loan and interest completely in under 30 years, or if you are paying a very large lump sum straight away.
You might take the time after your degree to travel or work elsewhere in the UK or abroad (or just to enjoy yourself).
If you are planning this, make sure that you use the time as effectively as possible, as any future employers will look favourably upon this when you come to apply for roles.
Think about the skills you might acquire and how you might develop during your time away.
You’ll then be able to clearly articulate these in the future should you need to.
You might also like to consider undertaking temp or voluntary work, or teaching English as a foreign language (also known as TEFL).
Whatever plans you make, research them carefully in advance, and plan your time to ensure you make the most of it.
Take any visa requirements or work restrictions into account.
More information can be found on Prospects, which offers sections on TEFL and working abroad.
The Workaway website may also be beneficial for those looking for hosts as they work across the world.
Establishing a professional digital profile across all your social media accounts can really improve your career prospects and how employers view you.
Having an active and well-maintained LinkedIn presence can be particularly useful as it can allow you to make connections with companies, their staff, and other potential collaborators.
You should ensure that this (and any other social media profile that may be relevant) provides a record of your achievements that is as comprehensive as possible, and displays a full range of abilities.
Some may be from the workplace, but others may be academic or extra-curricular.
Whatever they may be, the goal is to paint a clear picture and cement yourself as an approachable and professional individual.
This should also be reflected in your profile picture, which should be appropriate for employers to see.
There are two approaches to acquiring academic references when applying for a role.
If you require a full academic reference, which includes a comment on your character and abilities, you should contact one of your lecturers or your Programme Leader and make the request.
If you only require a reference which is evidence of a qualification or study period, for example, you should direct your prospective employer to contact Registry via registry.enquiries@winchester.ac.uk .
Fifteen months on from completing your studies you will be asked to participate in the Graduate Outcomes Survey.
Whether you are in full-time employment, further study, running your own business or freelancing, the survey aims to capture what you are currently doing.
You will be contacted by email and invited to complete it.
In this video , you can find further information on what any Winchester graduate about to complete the survey can expect.
The Graduate Outcomes Survey is owned by HESA, the Higher Education Statistics Agency.
HESA supports the advancement of the higher education sector by collecting and publishing timely and reliable data about it.
The administration of the Graduate Outcomes Survey is undertaken by a third-party contractor who works in collaboration with HESA.
The University of Winchester has a statutory responsibility to share with HESA the most up-to-date contact details that we hold for you.
If you are unsure as to whether you have provided these, we recommend that you update your details here .
Without them, you won’t be able to participate in the survey and you may also be missing out on exclusive benefits and opportunities that are available to you as alumni.
Even if you are in touch with academic staff at the University , make sure your details are formally recorded using the form.
Your responses will be used by the University of Winchester and by other organisations for research purposes.
Before you start the survey, we will provide detailed information about how your data will be processed, who will receive it, and what they will use it for.
It is not compulsory to complete the survey.
When you are contacted by the organisation, you will be able to opt out if you wish – and it is important to do so, otherwise you will continue to receive further communication.
Unfortunately, the University is unable to offer mental health support to students after graduation.
Your GP should be your first port of call for any mental health concerns, but other organisations also offer advice and support.
These include, but are not limited to:
NHS Out of Hours and emergency services
If you’re a disabled student and about to graduate, or you’re nervous about what lies beyond your studies in the world of work, there are also organisations outside of the University with plenty of advice and help to give.
E xamples include:
Evenbreak , the only global jobs board run for and by disabled people.
In addition to the vacancies it promotes in the UK and internationally, it offers a number of other resources and articles supporting disabled applicants.
It also provides free one-to-one career coaching , which can help with CV writing, applications, interviews, job searches, networking, and building your confidence and mindset as you head out into the world of work.
The Winton Society is the official Alumni association of the University, in which every graduate automatically becomes a member upon graduating, and which now boasts a membership of approximately 35,000 across 90 countries.
It gives its members the opportunity to inspire prospective students, empower current ones and reconnect with other alumni through events and opportunities.
Several other benefits, such as various discounts, are also available.
You can find out more about everything the Winton Society has to offer here, by calling 01962 827600, or by emailing alumni@winchester.ac.uk .
If you’re leaving us as an international student, you can refer to the UK Council for International Student Affairs , which will help you to understand your visa options once you have graduated.
The UK Government website includes information on Graduate visas , and the British Council also offer guidance on studying, living and working in the UK.
If you have any questions about your Student/Tier 4 visa, please contact the International Student Success Team at international.support@winchester.ac.uk (they can also refer you to other support if necessary).
You may find this online toolkit useful too – it takes you through all the different routes by which you can stay working in the UK after you graduate.
If you would like to get in touch, you can contact us by email at careers@winchester.ac.uk , or by phone on 01962 827310.
If you have any more general enquiries, you can email Student Support at studentsupport@winchester.ac.uk .
Statement of Service
Careers Opportunities Hub Privacy Notice

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Postgraduate/Courses/2025/MSc-Applied-Sport-Psychology-2025:
Applied Sport Psychology enables you to become an evidence-based practitioner who is an active problem-solver, providing the best psychological solutions to the challenges you encounter.
The course has been developed for individuals who possess Graduate Basis for Chartership (GBC) with the British Psychological Society (BPS).
The programme is accredited by the BPS, and therefore provides the first stage in a training process towards becoming a Chartered Sport and Exercise Psychologist.
The course encourages you to actively participate, engage in independent study, and develop a passion for the subject and the process of learning.
You draw on your own experiences in a variety of ways throughout the programme, and improve your skills in both critical self-reflection and the ability to share these reflections with others.
You study core modules including Philosophy Development & Ethical Practice, Psychological Skills and Intervention and Leadership and Group Dynamics in Sport, along with two modules designed to help you with the research for your dissertation.
MSc Applied Sport Psychology is the first step (Stage 1) in gaining Chartered Psychologist status with the British Psychological Society (BPS) and Registered Practitioner status with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
On completion of the course, you can progress to Stage 2 of training in Sport and Exercise Psychology, which is also offered by the Department of Sport and Exercise at the University of Winchester.
Accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS) for the purpose of eligibility to apply for the Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership, provided the minimum standard of qualification of second-class Honours is achieved and the empirical project is passed.
Apply online
A first or second-class honours degree
From £9,550 pa
A diverse range of teaching methods are employed including seminar and workshop sessions interspersed with more formal lecture-style presentations from teaching staff and guest lecturers.
Fostering critical self-reflection, and the ability to share these reflections with others, is central to learning on the programme.
It encourages active participation, autonomous learning and passion for the subject and the process of learning.
Students draw on their own experiences in a variety of ways throughout the programme.
This module will introduce students to those aspects of applied sport psychology which underpin service delivery and fundamentally shape the technical aspects of the consultancy process.
This critical examination of professional philosophy will encompass issues such as core beliefs and attitudes, theoretical frameworks (e.g., cognitive-behavioural; humanistic), and models of practice (e.g., psychological skills training; counselling model; medical model) including theories and models of performance excellence.
The module will empower students to begin to develop their own philosophies and challenge them to consider how these might influence their practice, for example in terms of assessment and intervention.
Importantly, students will also examine the ethics of sport psychology delivery and practice and critically consider common ethical dilemmas that occur in the field.
This module provides students with an opportunity to gain an understanding and appreciation of the essential skills required to work as a practitioner in a sports performance environment.
It focuses on critically examining and reflecting upon the interpersonal, psychological and personality factors which determine the practitioner-athlete relationship.
It further demonstrates how these are applicable within a range of environments including the elite sports environment.
Using professional practice based research, students will evaluate a range of factors underpinning practitioner competency and analyse the impact of each upon perceptions of consultancy experiences and outcomes.
A core focus of the module will be to introduce students to basic counselling and communication skills and develop a conceptual and practical understanding for how to use these skills to build more effective working relationships with athletes and other stakeholders (e.g., coaches, parents, performance directors)
This module provides students with the opportunity to gain an advanced critical understanding of the psychological skills that underpin sports performance (e.g.
attentional and emotional control) and critically analyse the techniques used to enhance those skills (e.g.
imagery, mindfulness).
Building on a theoretical foundation, students will explore a range of psychological skills and their application/s and crucially consider how to intervene to ensure the most efficacious outcomes for athletes.
This module will examine alternative approaches to the skill acquisition process in sport leading to expertise.
In addition quantitative approaches to research in learning and performance will be critically explored and examined.
An emphasis will be placed on the application of knowledge in the interface between sport psychologist and coach and the application of quantitative research design and analysis to explore questions relevant to the skill acquisition process.
This module provides students with the opportunity to gain an understanding of contemporary theory and research that has examined effective leadership and group dynamics in different sporting contexts.
This will involve the interaction between leaders (e.g., managers, coaches, captains) and their athletes, considering the subsequent impact on group processes, and will also exploring and critically evaluating current practice in developing and increasing the effectiveness of group functioning.
The module will also explore qualitative approaches to research in investigating leadership and group dynamics, focusing particularly on the application of different qualitative research methods and the rigor of conducting qualitative research.
This module will largely use qualitative methodology to critically examine the impact of transitions on athletes.
These transitions will include critically exploring the lives of; elite youth performers as they adjust to the challenges of academy life; injured athletes in the rehabilitation environment; athletes facing career-ending injury and retirement.
It will also explore the support given to athletes both during and at the end of their careers to help them manage these critical moments and also critically explore whether transition out of sport can be a positive and enabling experience.
This module will examine a range of factors influential in the mental health and well being of those involved in a range of sporting contexts.
This enables the students to examine how they perceive sport as something which can enable but also inhibit mental health in performers, coaches and support staff.
An emphasis will be placed on the examination of real world scenarios and the potential input from an applied sport psychologist.
This module will examine the range of ways in which the knowledge and skills of an applied sport psychology practitioner could be utilised.
In concert with this the way in which practitioner skills can be developed post MSc (through the available professional development qualifications (i.e.
BPS Stage 2, Professional Doctorates and BASES SEPAR) will be examined and the challenges of applied practice in real world environments will be analysed.
This module aims to provide students with the opportunity to undertake an in-depth and independent empirical study in a topic of interest related to the study of sport and/or exercise.
Students will demonstrate originality in the development and application of knowledge and research skills (gained in other modules).
A research proposal will initially be produced that will outline the chosen research process, and the students will present their rationale for their proposed study, and their ideas for conducting the research.
No research will be permitted without ethics approval.
Students will be required to resolve complex conceptual, methodological and practical problems that are often encountered by researchers.
Completion of a dissertation will demonstrate students’ comprehensive understanding of all stages in the research process, an ability to deal with complex issues creatively and systematically, and how to communicate information in a clear and appropriate fashion (e.g., in a format akin to a research/journal article).
The module will also prepare students to undertake future research through the practical experience that they have gained under the supervision of a member of academic staff.
Normally a first or second-class Honours degree or professional experience in the area of study.
Send us a message
If English is not your first language: IELTS 6.5 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in writing​
If you are living outside of the UK or Europe, you can find out more about how to join this course by emailing our International Recruitment Team at International@winchester.ac.uk .
If you are a UK student starting your degree in January / September 2025, the first year will cost you £9,775**.
If finance is a worry for you, we are here to help.
Take a look at the range of support we have on offer.
This is a great investment you are making in your future, so make sure you know what is on offer to support you.
**The University of Winchester will charge the maximum approved tuition fee per year.
Multiple copies of core text are held within the library and e-books are identified where possible, however due the popularity of some books, there will not be enough copies for every student.
It is advised that students seek to purchase their own books - second hand copies are often available.
Indicative cost is £350.
To see if you’re eligible, please see our Scholarships, Bursaries and Awards page .
MSc Applied Sport Psychology students can progress to Stage 2 of training in Sport and Exercise Psychology which is also offered by the Department of Sport and Exercise at the University of Winchester.
Dr Tim Holder is a BPS-chartered, HCPC-registered Sport and Exercise Psychologist and a BASES-accredited Sport and Exercise Scientist.
He was appointed as a Senior Lecturer in Sport and Exercise Psychology at the University of Winchester in September 2017.
Take a look at all our courses in the subject area of Psychology

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Postgraduate/Courses/2025/MA-Creative-Writing-2025:
You study a diverse range of fiction and narrative non-fiction by acclaimed contemporary writers, which allows you to explore different styles and genres including fantasy, crime, historical fiction and literary fiction and gain a critical foundation for your own writing while increasing your knowledge of the publishing world.
Throughout the course, you create new work and discuss it in a supportive group of peers alongside your tutor as you redraft and refine.
The structure of the programme enables you to experiment from week to week, hone your craft and develop complete short stories as well as engage with the demands of longer-form prose.
In the first semester you will take modules in contemporary fiction and literary non-fiction, and also develop a project that addresses ways in which writers engage with community audiences.
The second semester focuses on genre fiction and preparation for your Independent Study project, which is a substantial creative submission of 20-25,000 words written over the summer months.
This could be the first part of a novel, a collection of short fiction, the opening to a work of literary non-fiction or a hybrid submission, completed with tutor support.
Find out more about the Department of English and Creative Writing
Refine your writing across a range of styles and genres
Understand where your work fits in the current publishing world
Be inspired and encouraged by guest writers and editors
Teaching takes place: Evenings
Start date: September
The academic staff are professional novelists, scriptwriters, poets and writers of creative non-fiction, as well as cultural critics and playwrights.
They are supported by guest writers, editors and literary agents.
This course has long enjoyed a vibrant programme of visiting speakers.
Students have the opportunity to develop their creative work, give and receive feedback in weekly workshops, and work with lecturers who are all practitioners.
Taught elements of the course take place on campus in Winchester.
Each module typically comes with a creative writing assignment, or an assignment plus rationale (reflective piece) of approximately 4,000 words in total.
Students undertake a Dissertation between 20,000-25,000 words as part of their independent study with full tutorial support.
This module allows students to explore a range of different non-fiction genres, including memoir, Travel Writing, and reportage.
In each case they will contemplate the ethical dilemmas of so doing, and the psychological dimensions of writing about their own lives and the lives of others.
They will consider issues such as perspective, narrative, politics, audience, and editing.
The module will focus upon how to use language to achieve certain effects.
Much of the work will occur in practical workshops, working towards the submission for assessment of a specific piece prose non-fiction and an essay exploring the world of non-fiction writing (including the media) in relation to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals.
This module aims to help students develop their own practice as writers of fiction, through a consideration of the form and techniques used by published writers.
It will consider plotting and the structuring of texts, as well as the subtleties of characterisation, dialogue and place in short and longer fiction.
The module will analyse a selection of works, paying particular attention to more recent work and considering texts that range from Booker and Pulitzer prize winners to mass-market fictions; experimental odysseys to more sentimental journeys.
Students will be encouraged to consider how these fictions work as texts, how they develop character, plot story, position the reader etc., and how they relate to audiences.
Students will work individually and in groups to create/develop stories and structures, characters and scenes for or from their own fictions.
This module will be the beginning of their journey towards their Independent Study.
This module is designed to enable students to become a successful writer within a community, whether that is through residencies or works celebrating or contributing to a particular neighbourhood, community or group.
This may involve responding creatively with site-specific works within an urban or rural environment; working with an online community, or the temporary ‘community’ of a festival; involvement in a collaborative community-based art project; participation in or production of an anthology or collection for publication.
Whatever the platform or opportunity – whether it is an existing one that is applied for, or created in a pro-active way – the emphasis here is on community engagement, widening participation, and positive impact.
This module allows the students to explore a variety of fictional genres, including but not limited to: Horror, Sci Fi/Fantasy, Crime, and Historical Fiction.
By looking at texts from leading authors in each field, students will learn about genre conventions in relation to plot, character, and setting, and will use these skills to write a creative piece of their own in a chosen genre.
Alongside the creative elements of the module, students will also critically examine genre fiction, with particular attention being paid to the roles of gender and race.
This module is designed to prepare students for the rigour of writing a longer-form creative piece.
Issues of structure, sub-plotting, narrative drive, character development and ‘voice’ are considered within the context of the student’s own ideas for their Independent Study and similarly targeted works of contemporary fiction or the specific genre they have chosen.
The relationship between experimentation/originality and commercial imperatives/’what has gone before’ will be considered to enable students to locate their own work more fully within current socio-cultural contexts, while workshops and group discussion deepen each student’s interrogation of their own processes and challenge habitual modes of working.
The Independent Study is the culmination of the MA Creative Writing.
Students will write, re-write and edit an extended creative piece, 20,000 to 25,000 words of a novel, or a script or poetry collection or work of creative non-fiction to be agreed by the Programme Leader and supervising tutor.
They will realise ideas first developed in the Independent Study Preparation module and work under the expert guidance of a supervisor but with an emphasis on self-directed research and writing.
The overall outcome will be a demonstration of the student’s creative integrity, confidence and accomplishment in authorship.
Applicants are required to submit a sample of their creative writing.
Continuing students who have achieved a first or upper second-class degree in BA Creative Writing or BA Creative & Professional Writing at the University of Winchester are not required to submit a sample of their creative writing.
If English is not your first language: IELTS 7.0 overall with a minimum of 7.0 in writing or equivalent.
Applications need to be submitted before the published deadline on our website.
Late applications can be accepted throughout the remainder of the application year, for more information see our How to apply (Postgraduate) section.
Many graduates of the course have obtained publishing contracts, while others work in other aspects of publishing, or in teaching, media, the arts and business.
Dr Judith Heneghan is Senior Lecturer in Creative Writing, a novelist and the former Director of the Winchester Writers' Festival.
Take a look at all our courses within the subject areas of English, Creative Writing and Journalism

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Postgraduate/Courses/2025/MA-Cultural-Heritage-and-Resource-Management-2025:
The course offers a perspective which, although grounded in UK heritage practice, is also situated within a wider global context and offers industry placements and project work abroad.
Our current industry links include the National Trust, Winchester Cathedral, Hampshire Cultural Trust, Winchester Military Museums (particularly the Gurkha Museum) and Winchester Heritage Open Days and these offer unrivalled opportunities to develop your employability profile.
Students can also work on internal research projects, such as decolonising Caribbean archives and revealing the intangible heritage of indigenous plant use.
Core modules include Cultural Heritage and Resource Management: An Introduction, Issues in Cultural Heritage, Intangible Heritage and Employability in Heritage Organisations.
A placement module, based locally or abroad, allows you to gain practical training in the industry.
Placements may involve work experience in a museum, gallery, historic property or archaeological unit/research project.
Teaching comes from experts with specialisms in museums and galleries, cultural tourism, national, local and global heritage organisations, entrepreneurship, archives, libraries, and archaeological units.
There is also a dissertation, based on your original research, completed with full support and guidance from a tutor.
Find out more about the School of History, Archaeology and Philosophy
Students are required to undertake placement work (to the equivalent of 200 hours) in one or more heritage environments chosen in collaboration with the Programme Leader.
Recent placements have included work at the Arthurian Centre in North Cornwall; Portsmouth Historic Dockyard; the Royal Palaces; Nokalakevi; and Georgia and Barbados Museums.
Start date: September Teaching takes place: Daytime
Modules are delivered through workshops and seminars with presentations (poster and oral), reflexive learning strategies (such as blogs and diaries) and more formal essays.
A placement module, based locally or abroad, allows students to gain practical training in the industry.
Taught elements of the course take place on campus, in Winchester.
For more information about our regulations for this course, please see our Academic Regulations, Policies and Procedures section.
The aim of this module is to systematically analyse the variety of cultural heritage (archaeological sites, buildings, objects, landscapes and intangible heritage) from around the world, examining what cultural heritage means to ordinary people, investigating its history and exploring the theoretical debates that frame the concept.
The unit will also cover a wide range of subjects relevant to working in the heritage/ resource management sector, with an emphasis on the use and role of digital media in heritage, the process of learning in heritage interpretation and also developing strong professional knowledge and skills.
In addition to developing the particular knowledge relating to given field of investigation, postgraduate students need both to reflect on the nature of that discipline, to identify its place in the range of human areas of intellectual investigation, to identify particular methods and skills relevant to their disciple from a wide range of methods and skills, to develop those skills and to begin their implementation in a significant and agreed topic of research.
Students also use information technology to create bibliographies, make appropriate use of online resources, and to access research materials; they explore appropriate modes of research‐topic identification, hypothesis formation, and methodology selection; they practice techniques for moving from note taking, and data‐collection to the outlining, sectioning, writing‐up and presentation of the research project materials.
In this module local and national issues in cultural heritage and management, which have been outlined in the introductory module, are placed within a more international context.
Special attention attaches to the history and development of CHM and museum strategies across the western world and the developing world.
Legislation, protection and national debates and problems in CHM are discussed using a case study approach and with lecturers who have experience drawn from across the world and from a range of disciplines (museums, education, conservation, archaeology).
Special attention is paid to indigenous peoples’ rights, heritage and genocide, social justice, social memory and representation, and complex and advanced ethical issues are critiques and discussed, and approaches to de-colonisation of heritage practice are foregrounded here.
As well as caring for and presenting sites and collections to the public, heritage organisations also operate as businesses.
They have to work to budgets, project manage, and plan for their futures, as well as comply with the law and local and national strategic policies.
Heritage organisations also have their own sector specific management issues.
Students will link theory to practical examples, and will work through the unit towards creating a document such as a forward plan which brings together budgets and sector specific knowledge to create a detailed report.
They will gain a wide range of transferable skills that will be relevant to working in heritage and many other jobs in the private, public and third sectors.
The placement forms a vital component of this programme and enables you to gain valuable experience within the heritage sector.
Placements are equivalent to 196 hours of study and are undertaken typically in the second semester (full time students) and in the second semester of year two for part-time students.
The module is assessed formatively by ongoing diaries and blogs and a final report which encourages you to critically assess your own personal development.
It is important that all parties read, understand and sign off the agreement which formally sets the term of reference for the placement, and that the terms of the most recent University Policy on work-based learning volunteering and placements is fully adhered to.
UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) maintains lists of both World Heritage Sites (i.e.
tangible cultural heritage such as Stonehenge, and the Pyramids) and Intangible Heritage.
UNESCO states that cultural heritage includes traditions or living expressions inherited from our ancestors and passed on to our descendants, such as oral traditions, performing arts, social practices, rituals, festive events, knowledge and practices concerning nature and the universe or the knowledge and skills to produce traditional crafts.
This module will explore intangible cultural heritage as an important factor in maintaining cultural diversity in the face of growing globalisation and, through a series of case studies, will look at the varied ways in which intangible heritage is practised and performed around the world.
Students will pursue independent study and research, culminating in a dissertation of between 19,000 and 21,000 words.
This is the equivalent of three taught modules and will involve detailed input and support by a named supervisor appointed mid-way through semester one as part of the Research methods and skills module.
The MA in Cultural Heritage and Resource Management (CHARM) is run from the Archaeology Department but has broad appeal to applicants from all backgrounds.
Previous applicants have included historians, artists, linguists and students from other walks of life.
No prior knowledge is assumed, but an interest in the human (cultural) past in all its diversity, and by extension an interest in how people approach and appreciate their past, is essential.
For enquiries, send us a message .
Applications need to be submitted before the published date on the website.
Late applications can be accepted throughout the remainder of the application year.
For more information see our How to apply for a postgraduate degree section.
If English is not your first language: IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in writing or equivalent.
As one of our students, all of your teaching and assessments are included in your tuition fees, including, lectures/guest lectures and tutorials, seminars, laboratory sessions and specialist teaching facilities.
Multiple copies of core text are held within the library and e-books are identified where possible, however due popularity of some books, there will not be enough availability for every student.
It is advised that students look into purchasing second-hand copies.
Indicative cost is £100.
Students have the option to attend optional field trips (eg.
a trip to London).
Indicative cost is £50.
There may be costs associated with travel for the placement module, but these costs vary depending on the location of the placement.
Support is available from the Faculty.
Costs vary depending on location.
The course prepares you for a range of career choices.
On completion, graduates often work in heritage, museums, galleries, education, outreach, libraries, archives, and archaeological units.
I am Professor in Historical Archaeology and Heritage Studies.
I have directed archaeological fieldwork in Europe, Africa, Asia and the Americas, and my main academic interests lie in historical archaeology, maritime archaeology, anthropological archaeology and community heritage projects, particularly in the eastern Caribbean, Brazil, south-western England and East London.
Take a look at all our courses in the subject area of History and Archaeology

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Postgraduate/Courses/2025/MSc-Cyber-Security-2025:
You will enhance your knowledge of cyber crime and information security management, including software development, advanced digital forensic investigation, multimedia networking and the Dark Web.
You will benefit from links to professional and industry bodies, including EnCase Academic Programme, Cisco Networking Academy, GCHQ and the BCS, the Chartered Institute for IT.
This programme will provide you with the necessary skills to understand and apply specialised security knowledge to recognise and resolve complex threats faced by organisations and government bodies.
You will develop a rounded perspective of key security domains such as network security, penetration testing, digital forensic investigation and secure software development.
A first or second-class honours degree in computing or a computing-related discipline
The programme is designed to ensure that learning, teaching and assessment is embedded within the programme to meet learning outcomes and provide ‘accessible and appropriate support for all aspects of student academic and personal skills development’ (Learning, Teaching and Assessment Strategy, 2015-18).
The programme has a modular structure and learning outcomes and assessments are clearly defined for each module.
This module is designed to provide students with the knowledge and tools required to develop and undertake research in any area of business.
Students will evaluate and synthesise research philosophies, develop research strategies, and select research methods using secondary and/or primary sources appropriate to particular research questions, relating these to existing business theories.
The module provides the foundation for further development of research skills through a dissertation by independent study.
This module focuses on the operation and improvement of information security and encompasses three roles commonly defined in the security community: Security and Information Risk Advisor, Security Architect and Security Officer.
In addition, the following six domains are covered: Access Control, Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery, Information Security Governance and Risk Management; Software Development Security, Security Architecture and Design, Physical and Environmental Security.
This module provides an in-depth understanding of advanced penetration testing techniques.
A heavy emphasis is given to practical pen-testing methodologies and various vulnerability assessment procedures.
Legal and ethical issues are also considered.
This module critically evaluates state-of-the-art research in the areas of Cyber Crime and Cyber Security.
The history of Cyber Crime is explored together with the key stakeholders in the business of preventing, controlling and policing cyber-criminal activities.
Consideration is given to crypto currencies and the political economy of the Dark Web.
The dissertation enables students to specialise in an area of interest by conducting an independent, in-depth research project, guided by research-active tutors.
Students will evaluate and synthesise research philosophies, develop research strategies, conduct research using secondary and/or primary sources and analyse their findings in relation to existing business theories.
The dissertation is of interest to potential future employers, demonstrating critical abilities, research expertise and business knowledge.
It can also prompt student interest in conducting further research, whether in a consultancy role or in continued academic research at PhD level.
This module imparts a detailed understanding of digital forensics and the discipline of digital forensics.
The module includes in-depth practical sessions in which students apply complex digital forensic techniques in realistic real-world scenarios.
Tools include both commercial offerings and open source.
Techniques associated with gathering, preserving and presenting digital evidence will also be covered
This module is designed to provide students with a deep understanding of the concepts and principles of secure systems architecture for cyber-physical systems, with a specific emphasis on current technology trends, such as digital health applications.
The module covers current threats and vulnerabilities in the specific context of application, and students learn to design robust security measures to protect against them.
At the end of this module, students will be expected to be able to evaluate and select appropriate controls for cyber-physical systems.
Through lectures and an incrementally built design portfolio, students will develop the skills to design, implement and maintain secure cyber-physical systems.
A lower degree classification may be considered if you can demonstrate a significant level of experience in the security area, with competence in computer programming.
If English is not your first language: IELTS: 6.0 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in writing or equivalent
International students seeking additional information about this programme can email International@winchester.ac.uk .
Late applications can be accepted throughout the remainder of the application year, for more information see our How to Apply section.
Computers are available at the University, however some students prefer to bring their own device.
If choosing to do so, it is advisable that it runs Windows for compatibility reasons.
Indicative cost £800-£1,200.
Graduates will be equipped to enter a variety of cyber security graduate roles including cyber security analyst, malware analyst and cyber security software engineer.
Take a look at all our courses within the subject area of Computing and Digital Media Design

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Postgraduate/Courses/2025/MA-Death-Religion-and-Culture-2025:
The programme attracts a diverse range of students including funeral directors, clergy from a variety of traditions, teachers, nurses and those preparing for a research degree, as well as a range of people who are simply fascinated by the subject.
This dynamic group ensures that your debates and discussions are lively and informed by a breadth of interests and experiences.
Modules include Death and Pastoral Care in Global Religions, The Act and Art of Eulogy, Visiting the Dead: From Graveyards to Dark Tourism, Is Death a Good Thing?
You also complete a dissertation of 15,000 to 20,000 words on a relevant topic of your choice.
The programme is taught by a team of highly qualified and enthusiastic staff who include internationally renowned scholars.
You take part in structured discussion and debate through electronic forums, and are provided with guided course readings and access to the digital resources held in the University library in order to complete assessments.
A visit to a local crematorium, cemetery, mortuary and/or funeral home is an essential aspect of the course.
Graduates of the course pursue a range of careers including bereavement counselling, work in funeral homes, teaching and church ministries.
This course is based in the School of History, Archaeology and Philosophy .
Distance learning
From £9,250 pa
Start date : September
Distance learning: This course is offered as distance learning only
Teaching takes place: There are e-seminars in the evenings, with full tutorial and study skills support
Students undertake structured discussion and debate through electronic forums and are provided with guided course readings and access to the e-resources held in the University library in order to complete assessments.
A visit to a local crematorium, cemetery, mortuary and/or funeral home is an essential aspect of the programme.
In addition to developing the particular knowledge relating to given field of investigation, postgraduate students need both to reflect on the nature of that discipline, to identify its place in the range of human areas of intellectual investigation, to identify methods and skills relevant to their disciple from a wide range of methods and skills, to be aware of the ethics parameters of research, to develop those skills, and to begin their implementation in a significant and agreed topic of research.
Students also use information technology to create bibliographies, make appropriate use of online resources, and to access research materials; they explore appropriate modes of research-topic identification, hypothesis formation, and methodology selection; they practice techniques for moving from note taking, and data-collection to the outlining, sectioning, writing-up and presentation of research project materials.
This module will focus on the ways in which societies respond to the problems posed by human mortality.
It will apply diverse methodologies to the study of the Death (such as Anthropology, Cultural Studies, History, Religious Studies, and Sociology).
It will examine, through the critical analysis of a number of dominant theories, the problems of establishing a credible meta-narrative about human mortality in the face of the diversity of human experiences of death and the complexities that arise within multi-ethnic, multi-faith and multi-cultural world.
It will also consider methods of body disposal through burial, cremation and so-called Green approaches.
This module is designed to prepare students for their research project and facilitate the development of a research enquiry in the form of a written dissertation.
The product of this module will be a research proposal that will reflect the structure, the research context and the methodology the students are going to use in their research project.
The students will explore a variety of relevant research methodologies, they will develop a literature review for their chosen subject area and they will engage with the requirements of research ethics.
Pg-Dip students who will not move onto producing a research project are also required to complete this module as it allows them to develop a range of important disciplinary skills.
This is an Independent Study module.
In 15-20,000 words, candidates must argue and discuss with a full critical method a stated proposition which is to be presented and defended by demonstration of appropriate materials and the proper use of evidence.
The proposition must be one which relates to the subject matter of the Programme and which permits the demonstration of independent research, study and reflection.
In discussion with the Programme Leader, an appropriate work-related project may contribute to the assessment.
The course is perfect for anyone with an interest in exploring death as a subject area, and how religion and culture affect perceptions of death, dying and bereavement.
No previous knowledge of religion or death studies is required, although some summer reading would help students prepare.
If English is not your first language: IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in writing or equivalent
Due to the Distance Learning deliverance of the course, there are minimum personal computing requirements.
Please see the Distance Learning Policy.
Applications need to be submitted before the deadline published on the website.
The course is great for anyone with an interest in exploring death as a subject area, and how religion and culture affect perceptions of death, dying and bereavement.
No previous knowledge of religion or death studies is required although some summer reading would help students prepare.
If you are a UK student starting your degree in January / September 2025, the first year will cost you £9,250**.
As one of our students, all of your teaching and assessments are included in your tuition fees including, lectures/guest lectures and tutorials, seminars, laboratory sessions and specialist teaching facilities.
Due to copyright restrictions, compulsory modules require students to purchase the core texts.
Some core texts can be bought second hand, which can often reduce this cost.
Indicative cost for compulsory modules is £30.
Indicative cost for optional modules is £50-£100.
Graduates have gone on to work within bereavement counselling, funeral homes, education and the church.
Dr Timothy Secret is Senior Lecturer in Philosophy and Religion.
He has published on the philosophy of death, mourning and eulogy.
Take a look at all our courses within the subject area Philosophy and Religions

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Postgraduate/Courses/2025/MSc-Digital-Marketing-and-Analytics-2025:
You will gain an overview of the evolution of marketing and the impact of digital technologies on the theory and practice of marketing, evaluate consumer behaviour models applied to the digital consumer, and monitor changing trends in relevant current and emerging industries.
You will also develop skills within integrated digital marketing communication plans and gain a critical understanding of how to mix traditional and new marketing research tools to obtain relevant and meaningful data.
The course also covers the development and management of websites, with incorporated blogs, and how to use social media as a marketing communications tool.
Modules include Digital Transformation in Marketing, Wed Design and Analytics, Social Media Marketing and Analytics and Consumer Analysis, Insight and Creativity.
For the final dissertation/consultancy project, you are given a live brief from an external organisation facing digital marketing-related issues.
You will collate, analyse and interpret qualitative and quantitative data to identify issues and provide a report with a set of realistic recommendations and solutions.
As you learn the practical skills required for success in current and future business environments, there is extensive interaction with industry experts and there are optional, non-credit bearing, fieldwork and internship opportunities.
Throughout the course, you are provided with live briefs from businesses facing issues currently or with recent case studies.
The programme makes extensive use of industry experts and practitioners as visiting speakers in order to enhance the currency and relevance of the topics discussed in each module.
Module tutors adopt practical forms of study such as workshops and workplace visits wherever possible.
Module tutors are encouraged to move away from traditional lecture and seminar delivery modes and to adopt practical forms of study such as workshops and workplace visits wherever possible.
Students are provided with live briefs from businesses facing issues currently or recent case studies.
Teaching takes place: Daytime
The focus of this module is on the effectiveness of strategic marketing in the context of digital transformation.
This module will introduce you to the evolution of marketing, from traditional forms of marketing to digital forms of marketing, and finally to future influences such as Transformative Marketing, The Fourth Industrial Revolution and Industry 4.0.
You will develop a critical appreciation of the marketing environment with an emphasis on drivers of digital transformation and marketing innovation.
You will gain a practical insight into contemporary and future marketing approaches with an emphasis on digital marketing strategy.
You will develop a theoretical appreciation of current marketing thinking and anticipate the future of marketing.
This module explores contemporary consumer research and analysis techniques and examines its application and relevance within a marketing innovation context.
The module is designed to help you understand the factors that influence consumer behaviour and will examine the development of consumer behaviour in the marketplace from different disciplinary perspectives spanning the social sciences, evolving through an exploration of the contributions from; economics, psychology, sociology and cultural anthropology that reveal the motivations underlying consumer behaviour.
It will also appraise in detail, the new and emerging forms of consumer research and insight generating methodologies and the ethical dilemmas that may arise within this context.
Web design and analytics will introduce you to effective and contemporary website design, give you an informed appreciation of the role that an organisation’s website can play in its digital marketing strategy, and apply a range of analytics options for measuring the effectiveness of web marketing.
You will build a WordPress (or equivalent) website.
The first part of the module will concentrate on the principles of designing and building a website along with creating and organising targeted content.
In the second part of the module you will learn how to implement Google Analytics (or equivalent) to evaluate and improve the User Experience.
The theoretical basis for this module frames marketing communications as a strategic marketing tool.
Innovations from traditional communications forms such as broadcast and print as well as non-traditional forms such as ambient marketing and digital media will be reviewed; providing you with the theoretical knowledge and skills to create an engaging brand presence in an increasingly muddled media landscape.
Creative workshops are an explicit feature in this module providing scope to develop creative solutions for a variety of marketing scenarios.
This module has a global perspective, where you will develop both practical transferable skills as well as a detailed theoretical awareness of communication design.
Marketing communications play a vital role in supporting and maintaining a brand.
Marketing has now become ‘multilogue’ with the exponential growth in word-of-mouth social media marketing.
This module will introduce you to the key concepts of social media marketing.
You will learn how to understand, critically evaluate and apply conceptual social media frameworks, theories and approaches relevant to their marketing and promotional mix.
You will discover how social media networks are used as part of the marketing strategies of a variety of different organisations.
You will be able to harness the key metrics tools in order to listen, monitor and manage communications.
The module also aims to develop your strategic understanding of how to build and manage a social media marketing communications campaign which impacts on the identified target audiences and integrates with all other relevant media.
This module provides you with an in-depth understanding of digital marketing data analysis methods and statistical techniques including the use of the latest analytics software packages and their application to consumer and B2B contexts.
You will manipulate data from various industry databases and analyse and interpret primary and secondary data.
The module will also help you to evaluate methods for data analysis for business research.
In today’s competitive setting, marketers need to be numerate and analytically-minded, and to have a clear understanding of different sets of data and how to use these within strategy formulation.
You will use your new knowledge and skills linked to key industry software packages.
You must choose ONE of the three Capstone Project Options:
Capstone Project – Start Up For Good This module provides an exciting opportunity for you to draw on your learning across programmes, and work towards turning your pre commercial idea into a successful, sustainable, business enterprise, supported by a nine-month tenure within the Winchester Hatchery Incubator Programme.
This course is applicable to those interested in pursuing a career in marketing, in particular within the digital context.
Normally a first or second-class Honours degree or professional experience in the area of study is required.
Explore our campus and find out more about studying at Winchester at one of our On Campus Events .
Applications need to be submitted before the deadline published on our website.
Multiple copies of core text are held within the library and e-books are identified where possible.
However, due to the popularity of some books, there will not be enough copies for every student.
It is advised that students seek to purchase their own books - secondhand copies are often available.
Indicative cost is £250.
Graduates enter roles within marketing, customer relationship management, pay-per-click, e-commerce, search engine optimisation, digital account management, web design, copywriting and social media management.
I am a brand expert, marketing strategist and knowledge exchange specialist.
As an educator of BA and MSc students I teach the principles of marketing management, brand strategy, fashion marketing and digital marketing.
I am interested in the designed environs, customer participation and how to leverage co-creation between various stakeholders.
Take a look at all our courses within the subject area of Business and Marketing

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Postgraduate/Courses/2025/MA-Education-2025:
The MA and PGCert in Education at Winchester is a blended learning course that is grounded in research-informed teaching delivered by experts in specialist areas of education.
If you are seeking to deepen your expertise, enhance your career prospects, or make a meaningful impact through your work, this flexible and engaging programme allows you to tailor your studies to your interests and professional goals through a range of exciting specialist pathways:
- Practitioner Research - Philosophy of Education - Early Childhood - Special and Inclusive Education - Leadership
You can also opt for modules across this range of specialisms to gain the MA Education degree without specialism.
Why choose our MA Education?
Blended learning, with taught elements on campus in Winchester
A first or second-class honours degree or
From £4,775 pa
Start dates: September
Teaching takes place: On campus teaching takes place at weekends, live online teaching takes place in the evening.
The teaching team encompasses University staff from across the Institute of Education with a wide range of specialist knowledge, expertise and experience.
This programme is delivered via blended learning.
The high degree of self-directed independent learning through excellent online learning resources is designed for maximum flexibility for students.
There are in person days at the start and end of the first two terms of each academic year and scheduled live seminars and tutorials (group and individual) throughout.
Students are fully supported in navigating and managing their learning by our expert tutors.
Taught elements of the course take place on campus in Winchester.
Assessments takes the form of written coursework and a range of presentations.
Assessments will include workplace-based assignments, small scale research projects and/or text based and substantive theoretical assignments as appropriate to our specialisms.
An indicative, and not necessarily comprehensive, list of assessment types you might encounter includes essays, supervised independent work, small scale research projects or presentations.
Further details on assessment types used on the course you are interested in can be found by attending an MA Education pre-enrolment evening.
Please contact cpd@winchester.ac.uk for more information.
We have partnered with the Sir William Taylor Foundation to offer a new scholarship to a student on the MA Education course who is academically committed and passionate about improving education.
The scholarship is designed specifically to support a student with the greatest financial need and the eligibility criteria are as follows:
a professional qualification such as Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).
We would normally expect our students to hold a first or second-class Honours degree or a professional qualification such as Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).
Applicants who do not satisfy the normal entry requirements may be admitted to the programme, provided that they can submit evidence of previous serious study and demonstrate the capacity and attainments to pursue successfully the proposed programme.
Complete the form to apply
Applications need to be submitted before the 15 May 2023.
Full-time entry | £9,550 p/a Part-time entry | £4,775 p/a
Total Cost | £9,550
Full-time entry | £17,450 p/a Part-time entry | £8,725 p/a
Total Cost | £17,450
If you are a UK student starting your degree in September 2025, the first year will cost you £9,550 **.
Whether you want to build on your undergraduate experiences and progress to high-quality postgraduate study straight away, or as a professional working in the field lead change in your organisation, conduct impactful research, or explore the philosophical and practical aspects of education at an in-depth level, our MA Education programme provides the knowledge, skills, and flexibility to help you succeed.
Claire has a rich understanding of the journey from novice to expert teacher through her work in initial teacher education (ITE), advisory work and primary teaching before this.
She currently teaches across multiple routes into teaching; undergraduate and postgraduate which includes university-based and school-led training.
This teaching is augmented by working with qualified teachers who are working towards their own Masters qualification.
Take a look at all our courses within the subject area of Teaching, Education and Childhood Studies

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Postgraduate/Courses/2025/MA-English-Literature-2025:
Please note: Unfortunately, this course is no longer accepting applications for September 2025.
Applications for 2026 will be accepted from October.
The course pushes the boundaries of the discipline, providing opportunities to enjoy a thought-provoking mix of literary materials and approaches to understanding them.
You will engage with the ideas of the most exciting critical thinkers in contemporary cultural debates.
Throughout the MA course your study is backed up by a module in Research Methods, which provides a basis for your advanced learning, your assessments in each module and your dissertation – an extended piece of work on the text(s) or theme of your choice.
Within the department, staff and students form a community of learners who, together and independently, seek to generate and exchange knowledge.
Over the duration of the course, you will develop your abilities in independent and critical learning, building your confidence and expertise progressively through independent and collaborative research, problem solving, and analysis, with the support of staff.
From £9550 pa
The University aims to shape 'confident learners' by enabling students to develop the skills to excel in their studies here that are transferable to further studies or the employment market.
Staff and students form a community of learners who, together and independently, seek to generate and exchange knowledge.
Over the duration of the course, students will develop independent and critical learning, building confidence and expertise progressively through independent and collaborative research, problem solving, and analysis with the support of staff.
Students will take responsibility for their own learning and are encouraged to make use of the wide range of available learning resources available.
In addition to the formally scheduled contact time (i.e.
lectures, seminars etc), students are encouraged to access academic support from the staff within the course team, personal tutors and the wide range of services to students within the University.
The University is committed to providing timely and appropriate feedback to students on their academic progress and achievement, enabling them to reflect on their progress and plan their academic and skills development effectively.
Students are also encouraged to seek additional feedback from their course tutors and lecturers.
The Medieval period is often thought of as belonging to the Dark Ages, however, when William Caxton brought printing to England in the late fifteenth century, the richness of its literatures became apparent, permanent, and as well, more widely available.
Medieval literary riches were developed over the next two centuries in the English renaissance, when writers such as Shakespeare, Marlowe and Webster graced page and stage with poetry and dramas, and Francis Bacon published philosophical treatises.
It is the interlinking of these ages, and the forms of literature produced which will be explored in this module.
“The Enlightenment – the great ‘Age of Reason’ – is defined as the period of rigorous scientific, political and philosophical discourse that characterised European society during the ‘long’ 18th century.
This was a period of huge change in thought and reason, which (in the words of historian Roy Porter) was ‘decisive in the making of modernity’.
Centuries of custom and tradition were brushed aside in favour of exploration, individualism, tolerance and scientific endeavour, which, in tandem with developments in industry and politics, witnessed the emergence of the ‘modern world’.” This definition, from the British Library website, misses out the most important element of Enlightenment publication: literature.
It is in the literature of this period that we find arguments about the value and validity of “exploration, individualism, tolerance, scientific endeavour, industry and politics.”
Romanticism, the artistic and intellectual movement which took place in Europe between the late eighteenth and mid-nineteenth centuries, is understood broadly as a break from the guiding principles of the Enlightenment, since the Romantic Movement emphasised the importance of emotional sensitivity and individual subjectivity, claiming imagination, rather than reason, was the most important creative faculty.
The movement overlaps the Victorian period, during which Britain acquired unprecedented power and wealth.
Many of the intellectual and cultural achievements were made possible by this power.
Yet there were intense pressures too.
A rising population, rural unemployment, and migration to the towns, together with the horrendous conditions in which many people lived and worked, meant that the country’s often archaic political system and ways of organising itself were coming under immense strain.
This conflict between a small, conservative state and the explosive forces of change unleashed by the Industrial Revolution, continued throughout Victoria’s reign.
The module will explore in detail some of the types of literature produced after 1910, which was when Virginia Woolf claimed that “everything changed”.
This module is therefore necessarily a sequential study based on the literatures which came before, and from which it differed.
The studies of the modern and postmodern periods have been characterized by a focus on very few texts, to the detriment of other forms of literature which rose to prominence during this period.
While Woolf, Joyce, Eliot and Pynchon need not be ignored, this module will remind students that there are other forms of recent and contemporary literature which are equally fascinating to study.
This module will enable students to hone the skills required to undertake research in literary studies and which are necessary to present the results of such research through writing and oral presentation.
The module will deepen the range of research skills required to develop a sustained research project.
Students will develop their understanding of, and practice, these skills and methodologies before employing them in the development of a research proposal based on a literature review.
The module will also introduce students to the key academic skills needed to write a conference abstract and give a conference paper, dissemination practices integral to academic life, which will teach them how to present their work orally, defend their research under questioning, and sharpen their general presentation skills.
The module is mostly guided independent study, supplemented by workshops and a mini-conference during which the conference papers will be presented.
This module provides students with the opportunity to undertake an extended, in-depth research project of their choosing on any subject related to the broad subject of literary studies.
In 20,000 words the student will have the opportunity to demonstrate the depth and breadth of their knowledge and understanding of the advanced critical theories and research practices developed during the degree.
Students will research independently with the support and direction of a supervisor.
Completion of this independent study project will show a comprehensive knowledge and understanding of research and scholarship at this level, demonstrating such key employability and life skills as an ability to be original and logical in identifying and tackling problems, to think both systematically and creatively, to learn independently, and to manage a large project.
If you are living outside of the UK or Europe, you can find out more about how to join this course by emailing our International Recruitment Team at International@winchester.ac.uk.
If you are a UK student starting your degree in January / September 2025, the first year will cost you £9,550**.
It is recommended that students buy core texts, but it is possible to buy second-hand copies or study using library and online sources.
The indicative cost is £50-£200.
Students with MA English Literature often pursue careers in teaching and education, publishing, website production, marketing, journalism, writing, the arts, media, the charity sector, and business.
The course is also excellent preparation for doctoral studies.
Top areas of employment for English MA holders also include marketing, PR and sales professionals, clerical, secretarial and numerical clerks, arts, design and media professionals, education professionals, and business, HR and finance professionals.
Dr Gary Farnell is Senior Lecturer in English.
He specialises in Romantic Studies and Critical Theory.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Postgraduate/Courses/2025/MSc-Forensic-Psychology-2025:
The course introduces the context and application of psychology in various forensic settings including the legal and criminal justice system, forensic psychological practice and forensic mental health.
You are introduced to the role of a forensic psychologist in practice.
The programme focuses on core theoretical models of crime with an emphasis on theoretical, practical and methodological limitations.
When considering applied skills in forensic practice, there is a focus on specialist assessments, core treatments and interventions utilised when working with various client groups in a forensic setting.
Client groups include offenders in prison, secure hospitals and the community, as well as offenders on probation and within the legal system (court assessment).
You gain the ability to design, conduct, analyse, interpret and evaluate psychological research in a chosen specialised research area.
There is an emphasis on reflective practice skills, and professional and ethical practice in the workplace.
Students are also encouraged to work with the university’s volunteering team, to seek out opportunities for working or volunteering in relevant forensic practice roles alongside their course.
Core modules include Foundations of Forensic Psychology Practice, The Criminal Justice System and the Legal Framework, Specialist Skills in Treatment and Interventions, and Investigative Psychology.
You have access to excellent facilities including numerous research cubicles and laboratories equipped for conducting forensic interviews, developmental research, EEG and social observation.
There is a strong criminal investigation representation and practitioner focus within the teaching team, and there is a departmental forensic research group which complements the programme.
Forensic Psychology graduates pursue careers in various specialisms within criminal justice pathways, including further training to become Registered Forensic Psychologists.
The knowledge and transferable skills acquired can also be useful for a career as a mental health practitioner, crime analyst or researcher.
Find out more about the Psychology Department .
The Forensic Psychology programme at Winchester is accredited through the British Psychological Society (BPS) and provides the academic component (Stage 1) of the route to becoming a Chartered Forensic Psychologist with full membership of the BPS’s Division of Forensic Psychology.
Successful completion of Stage 1 enables graduates to progress to further study such as Stage 2, or Doctorate level training, the standard necessary to become a Registered Forensic Psychologist through the Health and Care Professions Council.
From £9,775 pa
Students are encouraged to work with the university’s volunteering team, to seek out opportunities for working or volunteering in relevant forensic practice roles alongside their course.
A diverse range of teaching methods are employed including laboratory classes, lectures, seminars, tutorials and individual project supervision.
Students have access to excellent facilities including numerous research cubicles and laboratories equipped for conducting forensic interviews, developmental research, EEG and social observation.
A variety of assessment methods are employed including essays, literature reviews, report writing, presentations, and examinations, as well as a quantitative or qualitative empirical project.
Students are introduced to the fundamental theoretical perspectives within the field of Forensic Psychology.
The range and focus of the material covered links with some of the United Nations Sustainable Development Group (UNSDG) recommendations, namely, good health and wellbeing, reduced inequalities and peace justice and strong institutions.
Core theories and perspectives about the criminal behaviour of specialist client groups encountered in a forensic setting are discussed.
Theoretical understandings of criminal behaviour will be discussed more generally initially.
Following this, the focus will be on the theoretical understandings of specific offending behaviours such as sexual offending, violence, fire-setting, terrorism, stalking, and hostage taking.
In addition, theoretical perspectives regarding the offending of specialist client groups encountered in a forensic setting will be discussed, for example male, female and adolescent offending, the offending of individuals with mental illness, personality disorders, learning disability and Autistic Spectrum Disorders.
Core theories of offending will be critically evaluated, in particular their applicability, key methodological and theoretical strengths and limitations.
There will also be a focus on discussing theories and perspectives regarding victimology to provide a holistic theoretical background.
Students will be expected to demonstrate reflective skills using a reflective log.
Suggested topics for reflection will be provided.
This module introduces students to the Criminal Justice System and legal framework.
Specifically, students are informed about the role and function of key institutions that form the Criminal Justice System.
There is a particular focus on the role of a Forensic Psychologist in practice within these.
Students are informed about criminal and civil law, including considerations about cultural aspects (such as a session on case law for refugees and asylum seekers).
The applicability of the law to vulnerable populations and the contribution of Forensic Psychology in safeguarding vulnerable individuals are discussed within the module.
The law applied within specialist settings such as Mental Health Review Tribunals and Parole Board Hearings is reviewed.
Students are invited to consider the key practical and ethical considerations involved in the role of the Forensic Psychologist as an Expert Witness.
To encourage reflection and awareness of biases and stereotypes, students are invited to participate in group reflection and self-reflection tasks (using anonymous Padlets and practice diaries).
The module provides a framework for the consideration of research within psychology and spans a wide range of methods and methodologies both quantitative and qualitative.
Issues such as validity, reliability, representativeness, sampling, reflexivity and generalisability will be addressed through a variety of different examples of research.
Throughout the module students will be encouraged to examine the assumptions underpinning research and its interpretation and to adopt a critical stance to evaluating the methods and analysis they have previously been taught and those they encounter while undertaking this module.
Students will also be encouraged to compare research within frameworks (e.g., between correlational, regression and ANOVA designs) and across frameworks (e.g., between experimental designs and focus group interviews), in order to explore different ways of asking questions and the fundamental processes of discovery and knowledge in human and scientific research.
Assessment and consultancy approaches within forensic psychology practice are introduced.
The material covered links with some of the United Nations Sustainable Development Group (UNSDG) recommendations, namely, good health and wellbeing, reduced inequalities and peace justice and strong institutions.
Specifically, assessment of various types of offending behaviour is discussed with particular emphasis on risk and clinical factors.
Students are encouraged to critically appraise risk assessment approaches and structured professional judgement tools, whilst exploring different formulation approaches.
There is also an emphasis on forensic consultancy practice such as the production of professional reports, training, policy development, organisational interventions, and project management and evaluations.
Students are expected to identify key learning points to reflect on regarding the ethical and professional practice challenges of risk assessment, including awareness of biases and heuristics.
Students are expected to work co-operatively with peers during practical elements of the module but also demonstrate originality in problem solving skills in their written work.
Lastly, students are expected to remain sensitive to differences relevant to the diverse group in contact with the Criminal Justice system (such as honour-based violence explored in violence risk assessment) and develop self-awareness of their own biases and stereotypes.
This module introduces the various treatments, interventions and therapy approaches provided to clients within a forensic setting.
Material covered links with some of the United Nations Sustainable Development Group (UNSDG) recommendations, namely, good health and wellbeing, reduced inequalities and peace justice and strong institutions.
Specifically, there is coverage of offence focused treatments (e.g., KAIZEN, Schema-Focused Therapy) and forensic psychotherapy (e.g., CAT, CFT) approaches for offenders.
In addition, intervention for victims of crime such as Restorative Justice, CFT and EMDR are discussed.
Core therapeutic skills are introduced throughout the module, including boundaries, informed consent, and limits to confidentiality.
Challenges such as therapeutic relationship ruptures and transference/ countertransference within the forensic contexts are explored.
As part of this module, students are encouraged to critically consider and evaluate the various approaches to offending behaviour treatment, considering evidence-based practice.
Throughout the module, students are expected to identify and reflect on key learning points from the teaching material.
Students will be reminded to remain sensitive to cultural differences (such as a session on building a therapeutic alliance with culturally diverse individuals) in terms of the origins and treatment of mental illness (using specific examples about the boundaries to receiving therapy in BAME communities).
This module will introduce students to the investigative psychology components of forensic psychology in practice.
Some material covered links with some of the United Nations Sustainable Development Group (UNSDG) recommendations, namely, reduced inequalities and peace justice and strong institutions.
In particular, students will be informed about the various psychology based techniques utilised during an investigation such as eyewitness testimony, identification methods, and offender profiling.
Various interviewing techniques utilised within the process of investigation will be discussed, specifically with vulnerable suspects and victims.
The difficulties of techniques utilised within investigations will be reviewed such as false confessions, suggestibility, false allegations, and lie detection/polygraph.
The approaches utilised within the process of investigation will be evaluated from a theoretical, methodological and ethical perspective.
This module provides students with the opportunity to undertake an in-depth and independent empirical study within the field of forensic psychology.
Students will demonstrate originality in the development and application of knowledge and research skills gained elsewhere in the programme.
They will be required to resolve the complex conceptual, methodological and practical problems that are often encountered by psychological researchers.
Completion of a dissertation will demonstrate their comprehensive understanding of all stages in the research process, an ability to deal with complex issues creatively and systematically, and to communicate information in a clear and appropriate fashion.
The module will prepare students to undertake future psychological research through the practical experience that they have gained under the supervision of a member of academic staff.
(or recognised equivalent qualification) in Psychology and Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC) with the British Psychological Society (BPS).
Students who do not fulfil this GBC entry requirement are considered on an individual basis by the programme team.
You will be required to attend an interview.
For applicants who are unable to travel to Winchester (such as those who reside outside the UK), an interview may be conducted via Skype at the discretion of the programme team.
A first or second-class Honours degree (or recognised equivalent qualification) in Psychology and Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC) with the British Psychological Society (BPS).
You will also have access to a wide range of student support and IT services
The programme provides the first step (Stage 1) towards gaining Chartered Forensic Psychologist status with the BPS.
Dr Gary Lancaster is Senior Lecturer in Psychology in the Department of Psychology.
A former electronic engineer, he realised he would much rather study psychology, and subsequently discovered a love of teaching.
Take a look at all of our courses in the subject area of Psychology

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Postgraduate/Courses/2025/MRes-Health-Science-2025:
This dynamic course aims to provide you with a robust and flexible health science research training programme.
Our distance learning programme is aimed at people with an interest in clinical research, allied health professions, social prescribing, social work, health studies, mental health practice and healthy communities.
The programme consists of 180 credits including 60 credits of taught content.
The taught content will be delivered in two 30 credit modules and will focus on: i) understanding the application and analysis of different research methodologies (qualitative and quantitative) and research designs for a variety of healthcare professions, and ii) undertaking a detailed scientific literature review or quantitatively-focused systematic review.
The remaining 120 credits are aligned with an Extended Research Project where you will complete a piece of empirical research into a specific question or topic of your choice.
This project runs for the entire duration of your MRes programme.
With appropriate guidance from academic staff from the Faculty of Health and Wellbeing, and by extending the knowledge gained from your taught content, the Extended Research Project includes the submission of a research proposal, opportunities to critically self-reflect your research experiences, and disseminate your empirical study findings in the form of a journal article.
The programme will be distance learning with all taught content provided on the learning platform Canvas.
However, you are able to use university resources, such as the physiology, biomechanics and psychology laboratories to collect data, if you are based locally.
You can complete the programme as either full-time (one year of study) or part-time (two years of study) making it a flexible option.
It serves as an excellent prelude to doctoral studies, and/or will help you develop skills that will assist your application of research into your own personal health field of work or interest.
Distance learning only
This course is offered as distance learning only
A wide variety of assessment types are used.
These include written assignments (including essays and case studies); presentations (including oral and poster presentations); portfolios (a flexible combination of assessment types which usually include providing evidence of acquired skills/competencies and critical reflection on personal development); projects; and research proposals.
Students also complete a substantial independent research project.
Further details on assessment types used on the course you are interested in can be found by attending an open evening or contacting our teaching staff.
For more information about our regulations for this course, please see our Academic Regulations, Policies and Procedures section
This module aims to provide students with the opportunity to undertake a substantial independent research project.
The module requires the student to plan, design, organise and conduct research drawing upon the research methods and skills, and ethical considerations, that the student has developed in the earlier part of the programme.
A secondary purpose of the module is to prepare students to undertake a more substantial research investigation at doctoral level.
The students will work closely with an academic supervisor to define the aims and objectives of the research and to develop a detailed proposal and plan.
Supervisors will provide critical advice and guidance on the application of the methods, the interpretation of the data and the communication of the research in the form of a journal article submission, oral presentation and critical reflection of the student’s research experience.
This module aims to provide students with the opportunity to undertake an in-depth review of current knowledge and understanding in a subject linked to their proposed extended research project.
The student, in negotiation with the module leader, will agree a chosen area of interest for the completion of the review.
The student will be required to adopt a systematic approach to the review of literature and to be able to comprehensively summarise current understanding in their chosen field.
Students will robustly engage in processes aligned with searching for articles through different online databases, how to identify relevant sources, screening and data extraction, reporting guidelines, risk of bias and quality scores, and study write-up.
Students will also be introduced to meta-analyses and qualitative considerations including qualitative data synthesis.
This module provides a broad overview of the conception, design and implementation of research in the sport, exercise and health sciences.
The module will explore a range of ontological, epistemological and methodological perspectives relevant to various sport, exercise and health science domains by studying and critically evaluating peer-reviewed journal articles.
Specific computer-based sessions will be delivered using IBM SPSS (statistical analysis package) to enhance students’ understanding of statistical data analysis, while various forms of qualitative data analysis will also be incorporated in the module (e.g., interpretive phenomenological analysis).
If English is not your first language: IELTS 6.0 (including 5.5 in academic writing) or equivalent.
Due to the Distance Learning deliverance of the course there are minimum personal computing requirements.
Please see the Distance Learning Policy .
Late applications can be accepted throughout the remainder of the application year, for more information see our Send us a message section.
To see if you’re eligible, please see our Scholarships and Awards section .
Graduates of the MRes will have the research and project management skills to be able to engage in a wide range of opportunities in clinical, industry or academic research settings.
This might be developing your existing career in a research environment, providing the opportunity for a career move or you may wish to continue your research at PhD level.
Take a look at all our courses within the subject areas of Health and Social Care

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Postgraduate/Courses/2025/LLM-Law-2025:
This 1-year full-time programme is designed to provide you with a rigorous and challenging postgraduate degree in law that covers the foundations of legal knowledge subjects whilst enhancing your academic, professional and research skills, and providing you with the opportunity to develop your practical experience through a work placement.
You will be taught by a range of experienced Winchester academics and legal practitioners sharing their expertise and research interests.
Your learning will take place via a blended approach of campus-based, weekly workshops, personal tutor, and supervisor meetings, and online study resources, including text, multimedia, interactive text and video.
You will study the foundations of law: Law of Contract, Public and EU Law, Equity and Trusts, Law of Torts, Criminal Law, and Land Law.
You will have the option to study Solicitors Legal Knowledge or an additional optional Law module  and conclude with either a Legal Research Project or Work Placement in Law.
From £11,000 pa
Non-Law graduates with a recognised first or second-class degree (or international equivalent) in any subject.
If English is not your first language you will be required to obtain IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in writing or equivalent.
All modules develop an independent learning culture and provide a challenging learning experience for students.
They are characterised by innovative, student-centred teaching and learning which develops students' intellectual skills of analysis, synthesis and critical evaluation.
The programme is delivered via a blended approach of campus-based, weekly workshops, supported by personal tutor, and supervisor meetings.
The programme takes place on campus at the University of Winchester.
The programme uses a variety of formative and summative assessment strategies, that blend authentic, practice-based assessments with more traditional written forms of assessment.
This module examines the historical development of Equity in order to establish a clear understanding of its influence, as well as how equitable principles and remedies continue to play a crucial role.
The module will also consider a broad range of important themes, such as conscionability, fairness and justice, including the need to promote great flexibility in the application of the law.
The module will then explore the potential for serious breaches, and the consequences which arise as a result.
This module, explores the principle underpinning English and Welsh Land law, and how it has developed and changed over time.
Subsequently, the module will delve into in-depth examination of specific areas of land law.
Choose either: Legal Research Project or Work Placement in Law The Legal Research project provides students with an opportunity to intensively research an area of law which is of particular interest.
Students will be assigned supervisor who will help to guide and support them as they focus their research question on a specific area of law.
Students are expected to meet with their supervisor and work with them to formulate a working title and structure, with a view to producing an original, coherent and detailed project which critically analyses a particular legal issue.
This will require researching a range of primary and/or secondary legal sources and materials in order to engage with the required depth of analysis and evaluation.
Choose either: Legal Research Project or Work Placement in Law The university is committed to promoting work-based learning opportunities for students to apply their theoretical skills in the workplace and improve their employability skills.
This module enables students to work within a professional legal environment for a minimum of 120 hours.
Students will be supported by the UoW Placement Services to secure their placement, the Employability Advisors and Placement Manager will be available to support students in securing an appropriate placement.
This module will also allow students to start to create a professional network.
Solicitors Legal Knowledge - 30 credits This module develops competency in the application of the law in a range of practice areas to develop Functioning Legal Knowledge as defined in the context of the assessment specification for the Solicitors Qualification Examination.
Constitutional and Administrative Law - 15 Credits (Co-requisites: European Union Law) This module explores core issues relating to the UK constitution, such as the role of parliament and the monarchy within a parliamentary democracy.
We will examine the balance of power between parliament and the courts, as well as the powers of government and its limitations.
The module introduces students to the legal and political sources of the British constitution, the relationship of the State towards its citizens and to other States, and to the scope of the courts to review government action.
European Union Law - 15 Credits (Co-requisites: Constitutional and Administrative Law) This module will explore issues of European Union law as a former direct source of the UK constitution and an important area of law for study of itself.
The module will discuss the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Union with particular reference to the preliminary ruling procedure and the ability of the European Commission to act in their role as Guardian of the Treaties.
The module will also analyse the application of case law from the Court of Justice of the European Union dealing specifically with issues relating to the free movement of goods within the internal market.
Non-Law graduates with a recognised first or second-class degree in any subject.
Applicants with relevant alternative undergraduate applications or professional experience may be admitted subject to the programme leader’s discretion.
If an applicant has a non-UK degree and intends to qualify as a barrister, they should also gain a certificate of academic standing from the Bar Standards Board prior to enrolling on the LLM (Conversion).
Normally a first or second-class undergraduate degree or equivalent in any discipline.
If you are a UK student starting your degree in September 2025, the first year will cost you £11,000**.
As one of our students all of your teaching and programme set assessments are included in your tuition fees, including, lectures/guest lectures and tutorials, seminars, laboratory sessions and specialist teaching facilities.
Solicitors’ Qualifying Examinations The fees for the programme do not include the fees for the externally set Solicitors Qualification Examinations.
For information on the fees and registration process, please see the Solicitors Regulation Authority website.
Optional Formal wear: Students may be expected to dress formally for oral assessments.
This could amount to approximately £500 over the course of the degree depending on module selection.
The LLM in Law (Conversion) is specifically designed to support non-law graduates in their preparation for their vocational training which are mandatory requirements for anyone wishing to practice as a solicitor or barrister in England and Wales.
For non-law graduates who decide not to pursue a career as a solicitor or barrister our LLM in Law (Conversion), as a postgraduate award, provides an intellectually stimulating course which indicates that the graduates have acquired advanced, specialist legal knowledge and skills, which would support students wishing to gain employment in a wide range of industries and roles where law plays an integral part or enhance their opportunities for promotion in their existing organisations.
The LLM in Law (Conversion) also provides a platform for interested students to pursue a higher-level research qualification such as a doctorate.
Dr Khadijeh Masty is a lecturer in Law and a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
She joined University of Winchester in September 2021.
Khadijeh teaches at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels.
Take a look at all of our courses in the subject area of Law

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Postgraduate/Courses/2025/MSc-Psychology-2025:
Are you interested in becoming a Psychologist?
Would you like to enhance your career opportunities with a scientific understanding of human behaviour?
If so, then this course is for you.
Designed for graduates who have studied other subjects, our MSc Psychology (conversion course) engages students new to psychology with the key areas of social, biological, cognitive, developmental psychology and individual differences.
We will also enable you to develop strong research and data analytic skills in both qualitative and quantitative methods.
This will prepare you for carrying out your own independent psychology research project.
You will engage with the latest research findings and psychological theories, and have the opportunity to contribute to the vibrant research culture at Winchester.
On completion you will be able to apply your new psychological knowledge and skills to a range of professional and everyday contexts.
Find out more about the Psychology Department.
This degree is fully accredited by the British Psychological Society for the purpose of eligibility to apply for the Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership, provided students pass the empirical psychology project and achieve an overall pass mark of at least 50%.
Our psychology programme equips graduates with the knowledge and skills for Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership status with the British Psychological Society.
We enable students to confidently apply their new psychological knowledge and skills to professional and applied contexts.
Teaching is primarily through a combination of lectures and seminars, allowing opportunities to discuss and develop your understanding of topics covered in lectures in smaller groups.
In addition to the formally scheduled contact time such as lectures, seminars and workshops, you are encouraged to access academic support from staff within the course team and the wide range of services available to you within the University.
The Department of Psychology places great emphasis on the quality of teaching, and discussions of learning and teaching are regular features of departmental meetings.
We highly value the views of our students and encourage them to contribute to our discussions via their student representatives.
The Department houses several laboratories which support cutting edged research in social, developmental, cognitive and biological psychology, and has attracted significant investment in recent years to support both our teaching programmes and our research.
All academic staff play an active role in research and in this MSc, students are able to undertake their own research project and make contributions to the vibrant research culture.
Key features of the student experience are: - Department research seminars (approximately on a fortnightly basis during term time) - A range of academic and social activities organised by the student-led Psychology Society - Opportunities to get practical experience through voluntary research assistant work
The following information gives an indication of how much time you will need to allocate to different activities at each level of the course.
The course is academically demanding and you will be expected to apply independent and critical learning, engage in independent and collaborative research, problem-solving and analysis with the support of staff.
We use a range of methods for assessing learning.
A non-exhaustive indicative list of assessment types you might encounter includes essays, portfolios, supervised independent work, presentations, research proposals, blog posts, articles, written exams, or practical exams.
As such, where appropriate and necessary, students with recognised disabilities may have alternative assignments set that continue to test how successfully they have met module learning outcomes.
This module provides students with the opportunity to undertake an in-depth and independent empirical study within the field of psychology.
Students will apply theoretical and methodological knowledge and research skills gained across the programme.
This module equips students with the numeracy and analytic skills required to meet the various research and analytic requirements of the programme.
Students are introduced in workshops to the principles of research design, and to basic techniques of qualitative and quantitative data analysis.
In these sessions they will develop key skills in research design, data collection, analysis, and report writing.
They are encouraged to see how data analysis relates to research design, and hence to understand and value the insights that can be gained by a competent knowledge of quantitative and qualitative analytic techniques.
In personal tutorials and related group sessions, students will gain an awareness of the Psychology-related career pathways available to them upon graduation, and will be helped to evolve their career goals and aspired professional identities.
They will also gain a critical awareness of the specific requirements of diverse audiences, both professional and academic, in relation to ethical practice and effective communication.
The aim of this module is to introduce students to qualitative research methods in psychology.
The module will cover the historical development of qualitative methods, key conceptual debates (e.g.
the philosophy of science), theoretical approaches to qualitative research, qualitative research designs and procedures, qualitative data collection methods (e.g.
interviews and focus groups, qualitative surveys, vignettes and story completion tasks) and qualitative analytic methods (e.g.
thematic analysis, interpretive phenomenological analysis and discourse analysis).
Students will be given a chance to collect and analyse qualitative data, and write these up in a report.
The module will emphasize the acquisition of practical research skills (in relation to key methods of data collection and analysis) as well as the development of critical analytic skills and a broad awareness of ethical issues relating to qualitative research methods in psychology.
This module introduces you to quantitative approaches to psychological research methods.
It will comprise weekly statistics lectures and workshops, in which you will go through a number of set work questions using a statistical software package (SPSS).
The module will emphasise the acquisition of practical research skills (in relation to key methods of data collection, management and analysis), critical skills (e.g.
through evaluating research papers and methods), and a broad awareness of issues concerning ethics in quantitative methods in psychology and conceptual and historical development of research methods (e.g.
philosophy of science).
This module explores some of the key approaches and topics in Social Psychology.
This module aims to extend your understanding of the spectrum of individual differences and draws on content from a range of areas of psychology.
This module covers key issues of contemporary significance using core areas of individual difference psychology such as personality, motivation, emotion and well-being.
Topics are focused on in depth by examining different theoretical approaches to these concepts which allows you to understand how conceptual and historical issues inform our understanding and application of individual differences.
The application of individual difference theory and research will be considered with the module in a number of contexts, for example, clinical, educational or organisational contexts.
This module aims to introduce students to both developmental theory and developmental methods.
Developmental psychology covers a considerable number of historical and conceptual issues and current theories as well as applied issues.
The focus is on childhood/adolescence from a wide perspective, including among others social, cognitive, biological and cultural perspectives.
Diversity of development across the lifespan (childhood, adolescence) will be considered in areas such as attachment, social relations, cognition, language, moral and cultural development.
Students will also gain a critical understanding and practical experience of the observation research methods applied to an aspect of child development.
This module provides you with a broad overview of fundamental topics in cognitive psychology, such as sensation and perception, attention, language, learning, memory, thinking, problem solving, decision making, metacognition, consciousness and cognitive neuropsychology.
Conceptual and historical issues relevant to cognitive psychology are also covered.
You will gain critical understanding and practical experience of research methods used by cognitive psychologists.
This module provides students with an insight into the biological basis of human and non-human behaviour, including comparative and evolutionary psychology, typical and atypical neuropsychology, neuroscience, behavioural genetics, and the effect of hormones on behaviour.
Students will learn how our conceptual models of biological psychology have developed through history as new methods of investigation were developed.
Students will also gain critical understanding and practical experience of research methods used by biological psychologists.
Normally a first or second-class Honours degree
Normally a first or second-class Honours degree.
If English is not your first language: IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in writing​
All teaching and assessments are included in your tuition fees, including, lectures/guest lectures and tutorials, seminars, laboratory sessions and specialist teaching facilities.
Those wishing to pursue professional careers in psychology - such as clinical, educational, or occupational psychology - need to undertake further study and training to gain professional recognition as a Chartered Psychologist.
Graduates will be eligible to apply for Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership status, which is an entry requirement for many accredited postgraduate training courses in psychology.
This is the first step towards becoming a Chartered Psychologist.
Professional careers in psychology can be pursued in the following fields; clinical, educational, occupational, sports and exercise, health, counselling, neuropsychology, forensic psychology and academic teaching and research.
Due to the wide range of skills, and the rigour with which they are taught, training in psychology is widely accepted as providing an excellent preparation for many careers.
In addition to subject knowledge, an accredited degree in psychology also develops skills in communication; numeracy; analysis; teamwork; critical thinking; computing; independent learning; and many others, all of which are highly valued by employers.
The University of Winchester ranks in the top 10 in the UK for graduates in employment and/or further study (Graduate Outcomes Survey 2023, HESA).
Dr David Giles is a Reader in Media Psychology.
After working for several years as a freelance music journalist for publications such as NME and the Independent, he studied Psychology at the University of Manchester and did a PhD with the University of Bristol looking at children's spelling.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Scholarships-bursaries-and-awards/Postgraduate-scholarships-bursaries-and-awards-:
Explore below for more information about specific bursaries and scholarships available.
The Alumni Masters Scholarship is for graduates of University of Winchester undergraduate courses, providing a 20% discount off the advertised fee for eligible postgraduate courses at the University for full-time or part-time study.
The 20% discount applies to all Masters courses starting in January 2025 and September 2025 except for the following courses:
Eligible courses are reviewed each academic year and are subject to change.
The Alumni Masters Scholarship is for students who are self-funding, either with their own funds or using a Postgraduate Master's Loan from Student Finance.
If students are fully or partially sponsored by their employer or another organisation (e.g.
NHS), the discount will not apply.
Your Alumni Scholarship cannot be used in conjunction with any other discount and can only be claimed once.
Course applications should be made via the online application form by 15th May (for a September start) or 8th December (for a January start).
Applications after this date will normally still be eligible.
Your discount will be deducted automatically from your tuition fees.
If you're not sure which course to study or would like general careers advice, please contact our Careers team by either visiting them in the Careers and Opportunities Hub at the top of the St Alphege Building in the King Alfred Quarter or email careers@winchester.ac.uk
There is no application to complete; your discount will be deducted automatically from your tuition fee invoice.
For the reduced tuition fee, you need to be accepted on your intended course of Masters study and be able to satisfy all the normal academic admissions criteria.
You also need to meet the University of Winchester's enrolment and registration conditions.
If you have any queries, please email studentsandmoney@winchester.ac.uk.
All recipients are normally expected to participate in appropriate marketing activity on behalf of the University to help with future recruitment to its courses.
We have a strategic aim to reach out to groups not traditionally represented in Higher Education with particular care in overcoming disadvantage and promoting equality, social justice and social mobility.
We believe that education must be a force for opportunity and social justice, not for the entrenchment of privilege.
The Postgraduate Access Scholarship Scheme provides a 20% fee discount to eligible UK students enrolled on eligible taught Masters courses.
Please note the following:
In 2024/25, the following courses are not eligible to receive PASS:
Please note: eligible courses are reviewed each academic year and are subject to change.
To be eligible you must fulfil at least one of the following criteria:
We also offer the Postgraduate Access Scholarship to:
Applicants must first have received a conditional or unconditional offer of a place on an eligible postgraduate taught Masters programme of study before completing the online application form.
Please ensure that you have all supporting evidence available digitally by saving it to a shareable account such as OneDrive, Google Drive or Dropbox.
If the supporting evidence is a paper document, please upload it by either scanning it or taking an image that clearly shows the details required.
Evidence provided that is not able to be read will cause the application to be rejected.
PASS Application Form
The closing date for completed applications and supporting evidence is Friday, 20 September 2024 at 5pm (GMT+1) .
We are no longer able to accept applications or supporting evidence via email.
Please email studentsandmoney@winchester.ac.uk if you are unable to access the online application form, or if you have any questions about PASS.
We have partnered with the Aziz Foundation as a Preferred Partner to offer 1x 100% tuition fee Masters scholarship to support a British Muslim student access one of our masters courses, commencing September 2024.
The Aziz Foundation Scholarships are aimed at those who wish to advance in their careers and bring positive change to their communities and beyond.
The aim is to support emerging leaders who have a high level of commitment to the community and who are able to demonstrate that they can lead and inspire in their respective field.
To find out more and apply please visit the Aziz Foundation Scholarships Application webpage.
For general enquiries please contact: studentsandmoney@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/UWin-Student-Blog/Blog-Posts/Five-benefits-to-studying-a-Foundation-Year.php:
You’ll have the opportunity to build a knowledge of the subject you will be studying before starting your course, even if you’ve not studied the subject before.
If you are familiar with the subject already, you’ll have the chance to learn about it at a deeper level than A Levels and really broaden your expertise to a field you hope to study in later on.
You will gain a wide range of academic skills that will help you endlessly when it comes to your degree!
Knowing how to structure your essays, manage your deadlines and developing practical skills to help with your employability will be so helpful when it comes to Year 1 of your chosen programme.
You’ll meet other like-minded students who either needed to top up their qualifications before starting a degree or just want to be eased into university life.
You’ll also get to meet students on the foundation year who will be going on to study a range of different subjects.
Find out which courses we're running with a Foundation Year on our course pages !

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/foundation-year/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Accounting-and-Finance-With-Foundation-Year-2025:
Our Accounting and Finance Programme Team have been nominated for the PQ Magazine 2025 award for 'Accountancy College of the Year' in the public sector.
Our hugely rewarding and practical Accounting and Finance course develops the technical knowledge and professional skills required for a modern finance professional in a complex, dynamic world in which technical roles are increasingly automated.
You are taught by academics with professional experience as accountants, who support your personal development and help kick-start rewarding and fulfilling careers in multiple fields.
Throughout the course, you will develop a range of transferable abilities and professional practice skills highly valued by employers.
These include critical evaluation, self-direction and problem-solving, as well as a sound grasp of analysis, presentations and negotiation techniques.
Learning and teaching takes place in small class sizes to prepare you to work in management teams, and modules focus on applying theory to real business scenarios.
You will also have the opportunity to attend occasional field trips during the course.
A Foundation Year is the perfect way to boost your academic skills, build your confidence and develop your wider subject knowledge so you can succeed at Winchester.
This course offers an extra year of study at the start (Year 0) which leads onto a full degree programme (Years 1, 2 and 3) where you may choose to spend a year on a paid work placement before your final year.
In Year 0, you will study a set of modules from across the Faculty of Business and Digital Technologies which are designed to develop your academic and practical skills.
This broader focus in your first year introduces you to studying at university level and provides you with a better understanding of Accounting and related subjects.
You will also receive support to boost your academic skills to prepare you for the rest of your time at Winchester.
NN3X
48 points
From £5,760 pa (Foundation year)
As rated by final year undergraduate students in the 2017 National Student Survey, Accounting and Finance achieved greater than 90 % overall satisfaction.
This module is designed to support students with the transition to university, the development of the academic skills and attributes necessary for successful future study and the foundations of a developing sense of vocation.
Through a carefully structured and scaffolded series of seminars and workshops, students will be supported in building their self-awareness of, and confidence in, themselves as active learners.
Delivered in the context of their subject area and aligned with the development of academic skills and attributes required across all Foundation Year modules, workshops will focus on academic skills such as referencing, selecting and using valid academic resources, reading/researching for academic purposes, using feedback constructively and gaining confidence in contributing to discussions and debates.
Coordinated assessment points across the Foundation Year experience enables this module to provide students with ongoing support and opportunities to practice and develop their skills and confidence with a range of written and oral assessment types relevant to their subject area as they progress through the year.
This module is designed to raise students’ knowledge and competence in commercial awareness and digital skills so that they will be able to cope with the necessary demands of the undergraduate business and computing degrees.
Students will be trained in a range of business and digital skills, reflecting and discussing how the development of their IT skills can enable future success at university and in the workplace.
This module introduces students to business management as an academic discipline through exploring a range of approaches, theories and contemporary themes.
Specifically, students will study a range of topics and begin to understand the ways in which strategy, people, markets, finance, and ethical issues are entwined with, and impact upon, responsible business.
Personal Income Taxation - 15 credits
Data Analysis - 15 credits
Financial Modelling - 15 credits
Business and Corporate Taxation - 15 credits
*(UK / Channel Islands / Isle of Man / Republic of Ireland) £5,760 for the 25/26 academic year.
Subsequent years of study currently attract fees of £9,535 per academic year.
Please see 3 year programme course page(s) for further details.
Students will incur travel costs on a mandatory volunteering placement in their Foundation Year (Year 0).
Core Text: It is recommended that you purchase the latest editions of all of the core textbooks.
Indicative cost is £50 - £200 per year.
Volunteering and Placements: You may incur travel costs on optional volunteering placements in the second or third year of study.
Indicative cost is £5 - £30 per day.
Smart Clothing: You may be expected to dress formally for oral assessments.
Indicative cost is £0 - £50.
Many of our Accounting graduates take up trainee accounting positions with accounting firms or departments and go on to become professionally qualified accountants.
Others choose to enter a wide range of business careers such as banking, insurance, financial services and general management.
Recent employers of accounting graduates include Deloitte, RSM, Ordnance Survey, Larking Gowen, Aztec Group and PKF Francis Clark.
The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW), Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) all offer graduates of this programme exemptions from some professional examinations.
Jayne Little qualified as a chartered accountant with Touche Ross (now Deloitte) and has a degree in Mathematics from the University of Liverpool.
Her employment history includes roles as a Finance Manager in the education and charity sectors.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/foundation-year/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Anthropology-with-Foundation-Year-2025:
The course strikes a balance between academic learning and hands-on application.
You can tinker with extensive archaeological materials, from primate skeletons to religious relics, in our University’s cutting-edge departmental laboratory.
Our programme uses a wide range of assessment methods including fieldwork projects and work placements.
You will build experience with anthropological fieldwork techniques and will be encouraged to develop your own fieldwork interest through the course.
Classes are taught by passionate and highly-respected leaders in the field who specialise in varied aspects of the anthropological study of humanity, from investigating the evidence for health and disease in ancient human populations to migration and transnationalism in contemporary European societies.
The degree consists of three strands which extend throughout the entire course: social anthropology, biological anthropology and archaeology/material culture.
This course offers an extra year of study at the start (Year 0) which leads onto a full degree programme (Years 1, 2 and 3).
A Foundation Year is ideal if you are returning to education after a break; haven’t quite achieved the entry qualifications required; are wanting more support during the transition to studying at university; or are unsure about which subject you wish to pursue.
September 2024
LL6X
Work placements
You can also undertake a volunteering placement in Year 2.
Our BA (Hons) Anthropology course provides an opportunity for you to study abroad in the United States of America (USA) or Canada.
Additionally, you are encouraged to access academic support from staff within the course team and the wide range of services available to you within the University.
Over the duration of your course, you will be expected to develop independent and critical learning, progressively building confidence and expertise through independent and collaborative research, problem-solving and analysis with the support of staff.You take responsibility for your own learning and are encouraged to make use of the wide range of available learning resources available.
Year 0 (Level 3): Teaching, learning and assessment: 288 hours.
Year 1 (Level 4): Teaching, learning and assessment: 228 hours.
Year 2 (Level 5): Teaching, learning and assessment: 216 hours.
Independent learning: 984 hours
Year 3 (Level 6): Teaching, learning and assessment: 192 hours.
Independent learning: 1008 hours
Please note these are indicative hours for the course.
Year 0 (Level 3)*: 100% coursework.
0% practical exams
25% written exams.
25% practical exams
Year 2 (Level 5)*: 70% coursework.
15% written exams.
15% practical exams
Year 3 (Level 6)*: 70% coursework.
8% written exams.
22% practical exams
Please note these are indicative percentages and modes for the programme.
This module introduces students to invaluable meanings and understandings that are gained from being at university and participating in wider intellectual discussions and debates.
Within the context of each Discipline foundation year, students are introduced to a range of thinkers and questions that have important in various ways across the discipline.
Designed to further encourage the foundations of intellectual curiosity and critical thinking within and beyond their own subject, students will come to understand that inter and cross disciplinarity has an essential role to play in the academy and to their own intellectual progression.
The past can be studied from numerous perspectives and in a variety of ways.
This module introduces students to how historians, anthropologists, archaeologists and classicists have studied past societies and cultures across the globe.
This is achieved by looking at the specific themes of conflict, culture, social relations and beliefs in various parts of the world from prehistoric times until the late twentieth century.
We will also consider how current societies remember and examine the past and what it says about the contemporary world.
All humanities subjects are grounded in theory.
These bodies of theory may or may not be explicitly stated, but you use them, whether you are aware of them or not.
It is easiest to think of theory as the set of tools that you can use to ‘fix’ or understand a problem.
This module considers contemporary theory in archaeology, social anthropology and biological anthropology, drawing on areas of social and cultural theory that have been relevant to archaeologists and anthropologists.
You will be encouraged to read and discuss a range of key historical texts and case studies will be used to demonstrate how the theories have been applied in recent archaeological or anthropological research.
In this way, you will be able to understand the appropriateness of theories which may be relevant to your research interests and to gain a wider appreciation of how we think through problems and issues.
A-Levels : BBC-BBB from 3 A Levels or equivalent grade combinations (e.g.
BTEC/CTEC : DMM from BTEC or Cambridge Technical (CTEC) qualifications International Baccalaureate: To include a minimum of 2 Higher Level certificates at grade H4
Anthropological field studies Different options for field studies in anthropology exist over the course of the degree programme, from week-long field trips to field research over the summer on university-led or independent field research projects.
Students may have to cover project-specific costs, including travel, accommodation and subsistence for the duration of the project.
At the highest end of this spectrum are the projects in Barbados (indicative cost is £1200 for two weeks); and Georgia (indicative cost is £1500 for four weeks).
For the week-long field trip, option costs would be between £150 and £300.
If you’re applying to study our BA (Hons) Anthropology course in September, you may be eligible for a Subject Scholarship of £500
Careers
Due to the broad nature of the topic, anthropologists are highly valued by employers in many industries for their cross-cultural communication skills and their ability to analyse human behaviour.
As Margaret Mead, the great American anthropologist, once said: “Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world; indeed, it's the only thing that ever has.
Anthropology graduates work in a wide range of careers such as international development, government, NGOs, business (especially cross-cultural communication), museums, or health and tourism.
Gordon McKelvie is the programme leader for the Foundation Year across the university and teach on several of the core modules designed to develop the academic skills of Foundation Year students.
Take a look at all our courses within the subject areas of History and Archaeology

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/foundation-year/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Archaeology-with-Foundation-Year-2025:
A Foundation Year is the perfect way to build your academic skills, boost your confidence and develop your wider subject knowledge so you can bridge any gaps between school and undergraduate level, including in our academically stimulating degree courses.
During year 0, you will study a set of modules from across the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences which are designed to develop your academic and practical skills.
This broader focus in your first year introduces you to studying at university level and provides you with a better understanding of Archaeology and related subjects.
You will get a taste of a variety of teaching methods including lectures, discussion-based seminars and independent study.
Find out more and hear from our Foundation Year students at winchester.ac.uk/study/foundation-year/
F40X
From £9,535 pa (Foundation year)
Year 0 (Level 3): Timetabled teaching and learning activity*
Year 0 (Level 3)*:
Within the context of each discipline foundation year, students are introduced to a range of thinkers and questions that are important in various ways across the discipline.
Field trips Students will have the option to participate in a week-long Archaeology field trip module in their second year of study.
Indicative cost: £,1500
"Dr Marter's research and teaching focus is on the archaeology of the recent past, conflict archaeology and in particular, WWII aviation archaeology.
He works with both amateur and professional archaeologists to research, excavate and record crashed aircraft from the 1939-45 air war and is currently helping to promote standards and guidance on best practice in this field."

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/foundation-year/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Business-Management-with-Foundation-Year-2025:
Whether you envisage life at a FTSE 100 company, or prefer to found your own start-up, at Winchester we’ll equip you to be a confident, responsible and innovative leader of the future.
Gain knowledge of business organisations and their operations within a changing international environment by exploring a broad range of topics such as finance and economics, marketing, global operations, supply chain management, international communications, and strategic leadership.
You will appreciate the moral and ethical responsibilities of business and how to work within a sustainable global economy,
Here at Winchester, we give you the flexibility to pursue your passions and career aspirations by selecting your own journey through a range of engaging business disciplines.
Depending on the optional modules you choose, you may graduate with a specialism in Innovation and Entrepreneurship, Project Management, Finance or Marketing.
During your studies, you will have the opportunity to attend occasional field trips to broaden your business experience.
We tend to favour workshop-style sessions over lectures and y ou will have the opportunity to apply cutting-edge knowledge and skills to real life scenarios.
This broader focus in your first year introduces you to studying at university level and provides you with a better understanding of Business Management and related subjects.
Find out more and hear from our Foundation Year students at winchester.ac.uk/foundation.
Before moving on to your final year, you may choose to spend an industry placement year in a business relevant to your ambitions, increasing your professional confidence and employability.
The wide range of real-time business knowledge and skills gained will enable you to pursue a career in a diverse range of organisational sectors.
You are also equipped with the skills suitable for self-employment and the conﬁdence to set up your own business.
NP2X
Year 0 (Level 3): Timetabled teaching and learning activity* Teaching, learning and assessment: 288 hours Independent learning: 912 hours
Year 1 (Level 4): Timetabled teaching and learning activity* Teaching, learning and assessment: 288 hours Independent learning: 912 hours
Year 2 (Level 5): Timetabled teaching and learning activity* Teaching, learning and assessment: 276 hours Independent learning: 912 hours Placement: 12 hours
Year 3 (Level 6): Timetabled teaching and learning activity* Teaching, learning and assessment: 252 hours Independent learning: 948 hours
Year 0 (Level 3)*: 83% coursework 17% practical exams
Year 1 (Level 4)*: 56% coursework 26% practical assessment 18% written exams
Year 2 (Level 5)*: 62% coursework 26% practical assessment 12% written exams
Year 3 (Level 6)*: 62% coursework 28% practical assessment 10% written exams
A-Levels: EEE from 3 A Levels or equivalent grade combinations
BTEC/CTEC: PPP from BTEC or Cambridge Technical (CTEC) qualifications
International Baccalaureate: To include a minimum of 1 Higher Level certificates at grade H4
Mandatory Volunteering and placements:
Optional Core Text:
Volunteering and Placements:
Smart Wear:
Students pursue careers within strategic planning, project management, business development, product development, finance, human resources and marketing.
Maria has an interdisciplinary research background.
During her professional career she held leading roles in a EU-funded national research project ‘EURYDICE: Positive Actions for Women’, run by the University of Thrace, Greece, and in the research project ‘Education and Awareness Programmes for Intervention to Promote Gender Equality’, run by the Research Centre for Gender Equality (KETHI) in Greece.
Maria acts as an external expert for the European Cooperation in Science and Technology.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/foundation-year/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Classical-Studies-with-Foundation-Year-2025:
48NX
Teaching, learning and assessment: 288 hours
Teaching, learning and assessment: 312 hours
Independent learning: 888 hours
Teaching, learning and assessment: 300 hours
Independent learning: 816 hours Placement: 84 hours
Further details on assessment types used can be found by attending an Open Day.
81% coursework 13% written exams 6% practical assessment
67% coursework 20% written exams 13% practical assessment
80% coursework 7% written exams 13% practical assessment
This module introduces students to the core skills required to study classical studies successfully at degree level.
This course presents an introduction to, and an examination of, life in classical Greece and Rome.
Work on the Greek world may involve a consideration of the development of the city-state, and polis as a place and concept.
The impact of the city-states on Greek warfare, literature, politics, and other social, economic, and political developments may be considered.
Work on the Roman world may involve a consideration of Roman civilisation across from its origins in the 8th BC through to its transformation in the late 5th C AD.
In addition to the historical and political impact of the Romans, this module may also consider the cultural aspects of everyday life, women in the province, settlement and building projects, and the impact of Romanisation on the local cultures as well as the Romans living there themselves.
This is a foundational module that seeks to connect the different parts of life in ancient Athens/Greece and in Rome, and their influence on contemporary and modern culture, even as it introduces students to the knowledge and skills required for future study of antiquity.
This module provides students with opportunities to respond to the main literary genres of the Classical world and to scrutinise the relationship between literature, myth, and history in ancient Greek and Roman sources.
The timeframe considered is approximately from the eighth century BC to the second century AD (from the Homeric epics to the so-called Silver Latin poets).
Attention will be paid to elements of continuity and innovation from archaic Greece to Imperial Rome within the genres studied.
This survey of literary material may include epic poetry, lyric, drama, elegy, oratory, historiography, epigram, satire, and other major literary genres.
The goal is for students to become familiar with the different forms of literature found in Classical Greek and Roman sources, to be able to identify the distinguishing elements of each literary genre and their best-known practitioners, and to recognise key developments across the periods under examination.
This module is designed to get students thinking productively about how we make sense of the classical world beyond historical and literary analysis.
How do we begin to get into the minds of and appreciate the lived experiences of peoples from cultures so unlike our own?
Students will work across complementary fields (such as art and archaeology, mythology, religion, and philosophy) and work with a diverse range of primary materials (such as literary, philosophical and historical texts, art objects, and archaeological evidence) to develop a deep and holistic understanding of the ancient Greeks and Romans.
Classical Studies Optional Modules:
The first half of this module introduces students to some of the most influential and significant developments that have shaped the ways the various branches of the discipline think and write about the classical past.
We will consider a range of important theoretical movements of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries and trace the impact they had on the study of the classical world.
Approaches may include gender studies, reception studies, performance studies, post-  colonialism, and the study of emotions.
The second half of this module gives students opportunities to put the theories explored in Term one into practice, as they explore a range of methodologies and approaches relevant to working with a diverse range of classical sources e.g.
literary, philosophical, and historical texts, art objects, and archaeological evidence.
The module will encourage students to think reflexively about their own identities as classicists and consider how this will inform their work through the rest of their degree, with particular reference to the dissertation.
Students will have the opportunity to formulate their own research question(s) and consider the skills, methods, and approaches needed to complete an independent research project.
This module runs from the end of the Late Bronze Age palace societies, the subsequent collapse of many aspects of material culture (‘The Dark Age’), through the gradual redevelopment of the city states during the Archaic period and the height of their power in the Classical period.
This module examines the development and history of the Roman Republic from its origins in the early 6th century BC through to the civil wars of the 1st century BC and concludes with the establishment of the Principate under Augustus.
The first part of the module examines broadly the development of political and social institutions of the Early Republic and the impact of expansion on political, social, and economic developments in the latter part of the Republic.
The second part of the module considers the context of the rise and fall of Julius Caesar and the impact of single-man rule on Rome, culminating with a study of Augustus and the Augustan settlement and subsequent reflection on the longer-term impact of the culture and politics of this era of Roman history.
The Dissertation (Extended Independent Study) is an 8,000-10,000 thesis on a subject of a student’s own devising with advice and supervision from an appropriate history tutor.
Through their dissertations, the students will make an original contribution to historical knowledge and understanding, in that it will be drawn from their own engagement with primary sources and interpretation and analysis of existing secondary literature.
Building on all previous undergraduate study, students will employ the conventions of a historian whilst developing a range of transferable skills in project planning, management, and delivery, creativity, problem-solving and critical analysis.
A-Levels : EEE from 3 A Levels or equivalent grade combinations (e.g.
BTEC/CTEC : PPP from BTEC or Cambridge Technical (CTEC) qualifications International Baccalaureate: To include a minimum of 1 Higher Level certificates at grade H4
There may be additional costs you may encounter whilst studying, for example if you take part in a field trip.
When top employers look for culturally literate and engaged graduates, Winchester’s Classical Studies students cannot fail to shine.
Our graduates are valued in a wide variety of occupations including education, the civil service, local government and museums and heritage.
Others teach or write for television, film and radio.
Many also pursue postgraduate degrees, and often study MA degrees in related subjects, such as classical archaeology, ancient history, Latin or Greek languages and literature, and classical reception.
The University of Winchester ranks in the top 10 in the UK for graduates in employment and further study according to the Graduate Outcomes Survey 2023, HESA.
Dr Polly Stoker is Lecturer in Classical Studies.
Polly was awarded her PhD in Classics from the University of Birmingham in 2019 with a thesis titled: "Classical Reception in Contemporary Women’s Writing: Emerging Strategies from Resistance to Indeterminacy".
She went on to hold the position of Teaching Fellow at the University of Birmingham (2019-2021), before joining the History team at Winchester in the summer of 2021.
Take a look at all our courses within the subject areas of Environment and Society

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/foundation-year/Courses/2025/BSc-Hons-Computer-Science-with-Foundation-Year-2025:
You will graduate with an understanding of emerging trends in computer science, such as those in software development, AI and distributed computing.
During your course you will also have the opportunity to attend occasional field trips.
Your Foundation Year is the perfect way to boost your academic skills, build your confidence and develop your wider subject knowledge so you can succeed at Winchester.
This broader focus in your first year introduces you to studying at university level and provides you with a better understanding of  Computer Science and related subjects.
I10X
This module is designed to support you with the transition to university, the development of the academic skills and attributes necessary for successful future study and the foundations of a developing a sense of vocation.
Through a carefully structured and scaffolded series of seminars and workshops, you will be supported in building your self-awareness of, and confidence in, yourself as an active learner.
Delivered in the context of your subject area and aligned with the development of academic skills and attributes required across all Foundation Year modules, workshops will focus on academic skills such as referencing, selecting and using valid academic resources, reading/researching for academic purposes, using feedback constructively and gaining confidence in contributing to discussions and debates.
Coordinated assessment points across the Foundation Year experience enables this module to provide you with ongoing support and opportunities to practice and develop your skills and confidence with a range of written and oral assessment types relevant to your subject area as you progress through the year.
This module is designed to raise your knowledge and competence in commercial awareness and digital skills so that you will be able to cope with the necessary demands of the undergraduate business and computing degrees.
You will be trained in a range of business and digital skills, reflecting and discussing how the development of your IT skills can enable future success at university and in the workplace.
This module introduces you to business management as an academic discipline through exploring a range of approaches, theories and contemporary themes.
Specifically, you will study a range of topics and begin to understand the ways in which strategy, people, markets, finance, and ethical issues are entwined with, and impact upon, responsible business.
You will be taught how to manage a project and contribute effectively as a member of a project team, using idea generation techniques and problem-solving skills to develop innovative solutions to business problems.
This module contributes to your continued professional development as a student and will enable you to gain key insights into how to perform technical process improvement tasks in a range of environments to solve business problems.
Ypou will use this awareness of the properties of databases to understand and compare alternative (NoSQL) data models, their applications, and the reasons behind their recent increase in popularity.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/foundation-year/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Event-Management-with-Foundation-Year-2025:
Our future-focused course puts digital skills and problem-solving at the core and in every module, employability and industry links are integrated to support you to develop your skills
This broader focus in your first year introduces you to studying at university level and provides you with a better understanding of Event Management and related subjects.
Find out more and hear from our Foundation Year students at winchester.ac.uk/foundation
N82X
From £5,760 (Foundation year)
UCAS have further information about studying as a mature student on their website which may be of interes
Graduates find jobs in event management companies, venues, leisure departments, festival consortia, tourist organisations, publishing, sport and entertainment.
Marie Haverly is Programme Leader on the Event Management Programme and Lecturer in Project and Event Management.
As a leading wedding and events expert, Marie has worked in the industry since 2004, from managing a busy wedding venue & hotel to running her own successful wedding & event planning business.
She has a wealth of experience and interest in the events industry as a whole.
Take a look at all our courses within the subject areas of Business Management

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/foundation-year/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Fashion-Business-and-Marketing-with-Foundation-Year-2025:
This broader focus in your first year introduces you to studying at university level and provides you with a better understanding of  Fashion Business and Marketing and related subjects.
Find out more and hear from our Foundation Year students at Foundation Year
Our programme has links with a range of current industry specialists who deliver guest lectures in areas such as fashion buying and trend forecasting, writing for fashion and how to create a successful online campaign and you will have the opportunity to attend occasional field trips as part of your course.
N59X
Teaching, learning and assessment: 240 hours
83% coursework 0% written exams 17% practical assessment
64% coursework 0% written exams 36% practical assessment
73% coursework 0% written exams 27% practical assessment
She joined the University of Winchester Business School in 2020 and is currently Programme Leader for the BA (Hons) Fashion Marketing.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/foundation-year/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-History-with-Foundation-year-2025:
Our committed team of historians are passionate about their subjects, which cover a broad range of cultures and traditions spanning 3,500 years.
They will help you to explore the past seeking answers to pressing questions from the classical to the modern period in Britain, in the British Isles, Europe, the Americas (North and South) and Asia, including Japan.
Within their fields of expertise you could investigate topics as diverse as: Ancient Greek Drinking Culture, Norman Sicily, The Middle ages in Computer Games, Imperial Japan, and the Post-War Teenager.
During the year, you will study a set of modules from across the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences which are designed to develop your academic and practical skills.
This broader focus in your first year introduces you to studying at university level and provides you with a better understanding of History and related subjects.
In Year 1 (second year of study), you are introduced to the study of history at degree level.
We help you to gain a good grounding in historical periods and cultures from around the globe, including Asia, Europe and the Americas.
You explore the nature of history as a discipline, its changing assumptions, methods and definitions, and the current concerns of historians.
A Foundation degree opens you the door to all our History undergraduate pathways: BA History, BA Modern History, BA Classical Studies, BA Medieval History, BA History with Year Abroad, BA Modern History with Year Abroad, BA Medieval History with Year Abroad.
This degree is ideal if you want to experience an extensive range of historical subjects and have the maximum flexibility of choice.
Our History degrees offers a broad-and-deep experience that can open up multiple career paths.
Throughout your degree, you develop transferable skills such as undertaking oral presentations, both as part of a group and individually, and work on shorter assignments like the creation of posters and blogs.
V10X
The opportunity to engage with the seminar series specifically related to this pathway, the Modern History Research Seminar series, which features monthly papers given by both visiting and Winchester-based specialists and professionals.
Our validated courses adopt a range of means of assessing your learning.
An indicative, and not necessarily comprehensive, list of assessment types you might encounter includes essays, oral presentations, source-based critical commentaries, reflective journals, seminar response papers, written exams and supervised independent work, including a dissertation in Year 3.
This module introduces students to the core skills required to study history successfully at degree level, developing their skills in small groups with one staff member by focusing on a single topic (ex.
Anglo-Saxon and Norman Winchester; Crisis, Cooperation in England, 1381-1414; the French Revolution in Global Perspective; The British Home Front in the Second World War, etc).
There is a balance between developing awareness of overarching core skills (such as conducting research and mastering referencing conventions) and the case study in which students work on academic readings connected to a particular topic.
This intensive small group environment helps students to adjust to the university environment and provides a venue for delivering other transitional and transferable skills.
We live in an interconnected world, which can be traced across time and place.
From ancient times to the present day, this module explores history that cuts across national and local boundaries.
Global history considers historical events as they unfold in the context of large-scale cultural, political, social, economic, and environmental contexts.
Accordingly, you will explore the changing relationships between human beings and the wider world.
Students are introduced to a wide range of themes, such as different types of governance and rulership; empires, imperialism and decolonization; nation-making and the forging of national identities; war and warfare; science, religion and political ideologies; trade and labour; diseases and famine; migration and diasporas.
Through lectures and seminars, you are encouraged to explore these themes broadly, recognizing historical change and continuity through the entanglement of local, transnational and international factors.
Study the foundations of the world we live in through an exploration of key developments in modern politics, governance, national identities, culture, society and the environment, from the 18 th century to the present day.
Among the topics covered are the forces unleashed by the Age of Revolutions, the struggle over slavery, the creation of new nation-states, the Napoleonic and post-Napoleonic empires, the emergence of cultural movements (e.g.
Enlightenment, Romanticism, Modernism) and of political ideologies (e.g.
liberalism, socialism, anarchism, fascism), the democratization of education, the progress of science and technology alongside secularism, religious intolerance and revivals, racial prejudice, including towards Native Americans and other indigenous peoples.
Students are also encouraged to question the advantages of industrialization and to explore the trauma created by global conflicts, including WW1, WW2 and the Cold War, the impact of mass migration, decolonization, the struggle for gender rights, the rise of youth cultures and of environmentalism.
History in Practice invites students to explore the diverse ways historians think, research, and write about the past.
In the first semester, through lectures and seminars, students are introduced to various approaches, ideas, and worldviews that have shaped the production, writing, and interpretation of history.
Students examine how different methodologies — such as post-modernity, gender history, postcolonial history, and environmental history — have challenged our understanding of the medieval, early modern, and modern periods.
In the second semester, through lectures and workshops, students delve into the methods and skills historians use to study the past.
This may include utilizing local and national archives, databases, online sources, media, visual images, material culture, public history, and oral sources.
By exploring these approaches and sources, the module encourages students to reflect on their identity as a historian and determine which methods best align with their interests, ultimately leading to the writing of a dissertation proposal.
This module provides the opportunity to explore and analyse the evolution of a series of historical themes across a long period of time, a diverse set of cultures or a substantial region.
It takes advantage of the expertise of individual tutors to allow the consideration of a wide-range selection of periods, regions and themes and it permits students to select and investigate themes of personal interest.
Modern themes could include American slavery, the High-Speed society, feminism in Britain, political violence in Europe, post-War Japan and America, British relations with Europe, the Soviet Union, and Photography and society.
Students work with a lecturer within their area of expertise to develop skills of source analysis and evaluation, examining the authorship and meaning of historical texts.
It covers topics such as al-Andalus, Norman Sicily, English monasticism, the reign of King John, female historical writing, late medieval England, Papal-Imperial relations, the Global Middle Ages, the Early Modern period and the Golden Age of Spain, Early Tudor England, Early Modern London, Victorian and Edwardian societies, Imperial Japan, the British Raj, the Soviet Union, Nazism and the Holocaust, the American South, the Global Hispanic World from 1763 to the present, the social experience of war since the 18th century, Immigration Histories of Britain, and Post-War culture and society.
Semester 1 Option A: Exploring Past Localities
Working in small groups, students uncover the history of particular places, spaces and communities to then consider how the landscape, built environment and written material can be used to explore how these were affected by, or influenced, national, regional, and global histories.
Working as a team and under supervision students will produce an artefact (blog, tourist guide, virtual tour, or online exhibition) to showcase the history of a specific place.
Whilst it may utilize the historic city of Winchester as one such place, it considers ‘localities’ in a broader sense – other examples may include cities such as Buenos Aires, Tokyo, or Berlin; landscapes such as the South Downs or the New Forest; could stretch to regions like Normandy, Louisiana, or the Maghreb; or shrink to the level of individual villages, streets, or buildings.
Semester 1 Option B: Group Project This module gives student-led opportunities to design and run group projects in small groups.
Options for projects may include to organise and run a student conference or run an exhibition (online or physical); work on an existing staff project; design and deliver a history-related social media campaign, to give just a few examples.
Projects are planned in co-ordination with a member of staff, and the results are assessed by means of a journal and an essay.
Semester 2 Option C: Field Trip
The field trip utilises a visit to an external setting (e.g.
Paris, Madrid, Krakow, Edinburgh, Bruges) which has relevance to other components of the student’s programme of study as a means of examining the interplay between history, heritage and the contemporary world.
This may include visits to museums that provide historical contexts for the contemporary issues studied, and to historical buildings of significance, war memorials, cemeteries and other commemorative sites.
All study is supported by preparatory sessions, detailing advance reading and course assessment.
Semester 2 Option D: Work Placement
This module allows students to take up a placement equivalent in length to three working weeks (15 working days) in a carefully chosen, well-monitored private or voluntary organization either in the UK or overseas.
The aim is that students will make a positive and personally rewarding contribution to the community whilst also reflecting critically upon their experience and developing skills which will enhance employability and personal development.
Through their dissertations, the students make an original contribution to historical knowledge and understanding, drawing from their own engagement with primary sources and interpretation and analysis of existing secondary literature.
Building on all previous undergraduate study, students employ the conventions of a historian whilst developing a range of transferable skills in project planning, management, and delivery, creativity, problem-solving and critical analysis.
A variety of topic areas are offered for study each year, examples of which include: Pax Romana; modern reception of the classical world; the Wars of the Roses; civil war, revolution and republic in the British Isles; the United States and the Cold War; Japan at war and under occupation; the Italian Wars 1494-1516 and 1521-1559; genocide in history and memory; ruling England in the second Viking Age; the Global Age of Napoleon; the post-war teenager in Britain; colonialism and its aftermath in north Africa and France; and the Anglo-Norman Civil War 1135-1154.
Option A: Comparative Study in History
In this module, students explore historical issues across various countries, communities or cultures showing the numerous ways societies react to a broad range of issues.
Comparative topics covered may include: popular protest throughout medieval Europe; the Middle Ages in computer games; chivalry and knighthood across medieval Europe; early modern witchcraft and supernatural beliefs in the British Isles, continental Europe and America; war crimes in Germany and Japan; memory of the Holocaust; ideologies in British and French colonial empires; and fascism in Italy and Spain.
Option B: Contested History
Contested History explores the ways that people in different times and places understood the world they lived in, by addressing challenging and difficult pasts.
In this module, we explore – and confront – difficult histories to understand historical debates and interpretations.
Students may study topics such as Borderlands and Commodities in modern history; Refugees and forced migration in the 20 th century; the Black Death and pestilence in medieval Europe; Hostages, prisoners and slaves in the Middle Ages; Feud, rebellion and war in the early Middle Ages; Gender, authority and female rule in Renaissance Europe; and the rapidly-changing society of Britain in the 1960s.
Semester 1 Option A: History and Heritage
Societies and communities inherit ideas, beliefs, material, traditions, (their culture) from the past to preserve and put to work in the present.
This is our heritage.
Some of it is tangible, such as historic monuments and houses, the Colosseum in Rome, or former sites of conflict, death or disaster (sometimes referred to as ‘dark heritage’.
Some is intangible, such as customs, crafts, and folklore.
We also have natural phenomena, such as the Great Barrier Reef, that are recognised by international organisations as ‘world heritage’.
This module introduces students to key aspects and issues of heritage and encourages critical engagement with the forces and processes that shape our physical and cultural heritage.
Ultimately, this module confronts questions around what determines ‘our heritage’ and if there really is such a thing as ‘heritage’ at all.
Semester 1 Option B: Histories on Screen
This module allows students to explore the complex and controversial representation of the past on screen, including cinema and television.
Working with different members of the History team, students are introduced to the emergence of film as a medium as well as the theory behind the representation of the past on screen.
Students then critically assess a variety of different historical themes as these have been represented on screen.
Finally, students curate their own historical film festival, either focused on a particular theme (for example, queens on screen; imperialism and colonialism; the Holocaust; Japanese cinema), or investigating the past through a broader lens.
Semester 2 Option C: The Past Matters
This module gives you the opportunity to explore how and why the past features in our everyday lives, and why the past matters now.
The material discussed throughout this module raises questions over the importance of historical narratives in popular media, politics, and education.
You will be encouraged to reflect on your own academic study of History and/or Classical Studies and how this can be mobilised for the wider benefit of society.
Through an assessment of both academic and practical applications of public history, this module will introduce you to the uses (and abuses) of the past for public consumption.
Semester 2 Option D: Death and Ritual in the Ancient Greek World
This module explores death and death-related rituals in the ancient Greek world.
It explores funerary rites and commemorative practices through a wide range of material and written sources.
The module engages with current and past trends in death studies and with a range of methodologies for studying funerary practices and commemorative rituals.
Students working on dissertations in Year 3 may incur costs (mainly travel) of visiting archives, dependent upon the specific nature of the dissertation and availability of online resources for a specific subject.
Southampton, Portsmouth or further afield if the student chooses to study a locality away from Winchester) or a national archive, usually in London (TNA, British Library, Women's Library, etc.).
Optional week long History Fieldtrip in Year 2 - costs vary depending on location and number of students going on the trip.
Indicative costs: £300-£700.
If students decide to complete an optional work placement it may incur travel costs, which are dependent upon where the student undertakes the placement (if local it may be zero, but costs go up when public transport is used to travel).
Indicative cost: £0 - £300, dependent on location of placement and number of visits required.
Some modules require students to have access to books with an approximate cost of £100 if bought new over the course of a year (but texts can often be purchased at considerably reduced rates second hand).
Indicative cost £150 per year.
Our graduates have been sought after by employers in a wide range of fields, including education, heritage, politics, international relations, law, the media an non-governmental organisations.
Dr Gordon McKelvie's research has focussed on the nature of political society in late medieval England which has underpinned latest book examines cases of illegal livery giving and retaining in England over a 130 year period, examining the effectiveness of new laws on social relations and how ‘bastard feudal’ ties facilitated many of the rebellions and acts of noble violence in the long fifteenth century.
Take a look at all our courses within the subject areas of History and Archaeology.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/foundation-year/Courses/2025/BA-Hons-Marketing-with-Foundation-year-2025:
Sophisticated and strategic marketing is at the heart of any successful business, but marketing is not just a field of study; it’s a dynamic force that drives businesses, shapes brands, and influences consumer behaviour.
The modules you cover, from digital marketing to ecommerce and omni-channel marketing, from performance marketing to brand innovation and management, are all highly relevant and aligned to real-life practice.
This broader focus in your first year introduces you to studying at university level and provides you with a better understanding of Marketing and related subjects.
Our academics bring an extensive range of professional and research interests to the programme, ensuring it is full of stimulating, relevant, topical and engaging content.
3R9X
Students may choose to spend a year on work placement before moving on to the final year of study (4 years full-time placement).
There is also an optional part-time work experience module in Year 3.
Our BA (Hons) Marketing (with Foundation Year) course provides an opportunity for you to study abroad in the United States of America (USA) and Europe.
Year 1 (Level 4): Teaching, learning and assessment: 288 hours.
Year 2 (Level 5): Teaching, learning and assessment: 240 hours.
Year 0 (Level 3)*: 83% coursework 0% written exams 17% practical exams Year 1 (Level 4)*: 71% coursework 0% written exams 29% practical exams Year 2 (Level 5)*: 84% coursework 0% written exams 16% practical exams Year 3 (Level 6)*: 73% coursework 0% written exams 27% practical exams
This module provides students with a comprehensive understanding of e-commerce, m-commerce, omnichannel marketing, product and service marketing, and customer experience (CX) design.
E/M COMMERCE and OMNICHANNEL MARKETING This component focuses on the fundamentals of e-commerce, including the concept, evolution, and significance of e-commerce in modern business.
PRODUCT AND SERVICE MARKETING In this component, students will gain a comprehensive understanding of product and service marketing.
Students will learn about product and service development, lifecycle, differentiation techniques, pricing concepts, objectives, and strategies.
CX DESIGN The CX Design component focuses on the creation of exceptional customer experiences.
Students will develop customer-centric experiences by adopting a customer-centric mindset, applying UX/UI design principles
MARKETING PRINCIPLES Marketing concepts are examined in depth, emphasising the importance of aligning marketing strategies with market demands.
MARKETING RESEARCH Students will learn the fundamental methodologies and techniques collecting, analysing, and interpreting data.
CONSUMER BEHAVIOUR Students will explore contemporary consumer behaviour theory and its relevance in marketing management, decision-making, and societal contexts.
The Relationship Marketing module provides a comprehensive understanding of relationship marketing and its importance in modern business.
Students will learn to effectively manage customer relationships, enhance customer satisfaction, and drive long-term customer loyalty.
INSIGHT MANAGEMENT Insight Management explores the classification of relationships within the modern business and highlights the significance of managing stakeholder insights effectively.
Through this module, students will develop the skills to utilise data analytics, measure relationship marketing effectiveness, and navigate ethical considerations in relationship marketing strategies.
LOYALTY AND RETENTION This component emphasises the importance of customer loyalty in achieving business success and explores various loyalty programs and initiatives employed by organisations.
They will learn strategies and techniques to foster long-term relationships, enhance satisfaction, and maximise retention of customers and other business stakeholders.
Topics include loyalty programs, customer satisfaction, churn management, customer service excellence, personalisation, B2B relationship marketing, emotional branding, co-creation, complaint management, and continuous relationship development.
CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (CRM) The CRM module explores the strategic importance of managing customer relationships to drive business success.
Students will learn the fundamentals of CRM, including technology, tools, and data analytics, to enhance customer interactions and satisfaction.
Topics covered include CRM objectives, technology and tools, customer data management, implementation considerations, performance measurement, multichannel marketing integration, CRM in sales and customer service, cross-selling/up-selling, and CRM analytics and predictive modelling.
Through this module, students will develop the skills to effectively implement CRM strategies, leverage customer data, and optimise relationship marketing efforts
This module enables students to develop their understanding and competence in using diverse
research methods for academic and professional purposes.
Students will explore a variety of   research approaches and will develop practical qualitative and quantitative research skills including defining and scoping a project; designing an effective and manageable research protocol; collecting data and using appropriate analysis methods.
In addition, students will develop an appreciation of ethical implications of the research process to facilitate responsible research practice.
Secondly this module aims to introduce students to the key stages required to complete an applied project from concept to delivery.
Students will be taught how to manage a project and contribute effectively as a member of a project team, using ideas generation techniques and problem-solving skills to develop innovative solutions to business problems.
This module contributes to the students continued professional development as students will gain key insights into how to perform technical process improvement tasks in a range of environments to solve business problems.
The International Marketing module equips students with the essential knowledge and skills to navigate the dynamic and complex landscape of global markets.
With a focus on cultural behaviour analysis, market entry strategies, and marketing planning and strategic development.
CULTURAL BEHAVIOUR ANALYSIS This component focuses on understanding the impact of culture on consumer behaviour and marketing strategies in international markets.
It explores cultural dimensions, values, beliefs, and norms that influence consumer decision-making and marketing practices.
MARKET ENTRY STRATEGIES This component focuses on different strategies and approaches for entering and expanding into international markets.
GLOBAL MARKETING MIX This component explores the development and implementation of marketing mix strategies in international markets.
This module provides essential concepts and skills that students should learn in the Performance Marketing module.
DATA ANALYSIS This component provides students with a solid foundation in data analysis techniques specifically tailored to the marketing field.
DATA VISUALISATION AND DATA DRIVEN DECISION MAKING This component introduces students to various data visualisation techniques and emphasises the importance of data-driven decision-making in marketing strategies.
The Data Visualization and Data-Driven Decision Making will equip students with the skills to effectively analyse, visualise, and interpret data to make informed marketing decisions.
MARKETING PLANNING AND STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT This component will provide the knowledge and skills necessary to develop comprehensive marketing plans and strategies.
Students will explore the key elements of strategic marketing, including market analysis, target audience segmentation, positioning, and the formulation of effective marketing strategies.
Students will gain a practical understanding of how to align marketing objectives with organisational goals and develop strategic plans that drive business success.
The Social Media Marketing module is designed to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of social media campaign strategy, design, and management.
Upon completion, students will have the opportunity to earn digital badges for mastering the essential platforms in the field.
CAMPAIGN STRATEGY AND PLANNING In this component, students will delve into the fundamental aspects of planning and strategising effective social media campaigns.
Additionally, students will learn about social media advertising, understanding the nuances of paid campaigns and targeting options available across various platforms as well as budgeting, resource allocation and maximising campaign effectiveness by effectively allocating resources.
CAMPAIGN DESIGN The creative and visual aspects component of the Social Media module immerses students in the realm of captivating content creation and visually appealing designs for social media campaigns.
They will gain hands-on experience with graphic design tools and techniques tailored to social media platforms.
The module will also delve into the power of user-generated content, teaching students how to encourage and leverage user-generated content to enhance campaign impact.
Indicative c ost is £0 - £50.
Indicative c ost is £5 - £30 per day.
Indicative c ost is £30 per examination.
Indicative c ost is £400 across 3 years of study.
Niki Swinnerton is the Programme Leader for our BA(Hons) Marketing with Foundation Year course.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/Landing-Pages/Meet-our-students/Imogen:
Find out why our students loved their Foundation Year at Winchester.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Press-Centre/Media-Articles/PhD-researcher-Paula-asks-Are-we-getting-the-most-out-of-volunteering.php:
A growing number of employers are arranging volunteering opportunities for their staff, but how does this actually benefit the firms, their workers and the voluntary organisations they are hoping to help?
The topic of employer-supported volunteering (ESV), sometimes also known as corporate volunteering (where companies in some way support or enable their employees to do volunteering) is an under-researched area, says University of Winchester PhD student Paula Glover.
“Whilst there are a number of potential positive outcomes from ESV, it doesn’t always achieve what is intended,” said Paula.
“There can be a disconnect between the various stakeholders in terms of what they need and expect from this sort of volunteering.”
“This means that sometimes not all parties get what they want out of an arrangement, and it can even sometimes be a burden for the charity.”
In basic terms, Paula’s research so far has found that there are five categories of motivations for individuals, companies, and charities getting involved in ESV:
Paula, who is a Chartered Occupational Psychologist based in Camberley, wants to better understand how members of the different ESV stakeholder groups perceive and experience this sort of volunteering, what drives their decision to get involved, and what good ESV looks like to them.
“There are stories of charities making up tasks for ESV because they want to forge a relationship with the company,” said Paula.
“The community centre may not need painting again but the charity who run it might be looking to the benefits of a long-term link with a commercial organisation.
The charity might also gain one or two new regular volunteers from the ESV.”
Paula’s research is all the more important as statistics show there has been a drop off in the number of people volunteering over recent years.
The decline has continued post-Covid, with many older people who were volunteers before the pandemic not returning to the sector.
Whilst there is a similar percentage of young adults (18-24) volunteering , rates are lower in ages 25-64, suggesting that more can be done to harness the volunteering potential of working age adults.
With ESV allowing employees to volunteer during work time, this can reduce some of the perceived barriers to volunteering in this age group.
Paula (pictured) has already published a short summary of a scoping review of the existing literature.
She hopes her research will help improve the outcomes of ESV initiatives and enable the different ESV stakeholders to better understand the needs and expectations of others.
Paula is now keen to interviews employers, employees, and charity and community organisations about their experiences of any form of ESV.
Visit Paula’s website to find out more about her research and see how you can help My PhD Research | Paula Glover .
Paula Glover is a Chartered and Registered Occupational Psychologist, who works with HR leaders to help them better understand employee motivations and behaviours, and the lived experience of employees at work.
She produces research to support evidence-based HR decision-making about People policies and strategies.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Students-and-money/Postgraduate-financial-information:
Your tuition fees go towards funding the various resources associated with a postgraduate course at the University of Winchester, enabling us to provide the resources, staff contact and support you need and deserve.
It means that you will benefit from more contact with staff, first-class teaching equipment and an attractive learning environment.
Tuition fees for postgraduate students will be determined in light of the following criteria:
If you can't find the information you are looking for, contact the University's Students and Money team on +44 (0)1962 827008 or via email .
Please see our courses for individual programme fees.
For further information, please contact studentsandmoney@winchester.ac.uk .
In 2025/26 the full-time Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) tuition fee will be £9,535 for UK students and those EU students with pre-settled or settled status
In 2025/26 the full-time Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) tuition fee will be £9,535 for students from the Islands, Gibraltar and Republic of Ireland
In 2025/26 the full-time Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) tuition fee will be £16,700 for International students.
This information is provided for current doctorate students only
Fees are chargeable for a maximum of 3 years for full-time and 6 years for part time.
An ‘until completion’ fee of £120 per month is chargeable thereafter.
The ‘until completion’ fee will be invoiced at the start of the writing up period on an annual basis until award and is payable in accordance with our standard payment terms and conditions.
Please note that all fees quoted are for new students starting in the 2025/26 academic year and may be subject to an inflationary rise in subsequent years.
A Postgraduate Masters loan is available to eligible UK nationals (and individuals with settled status in the UK) for postgraduate Masters study.
The details of the Postgraduate Loan will differ depending upon where you are normally resident in the UK:
Students normally resident in England (other than for purposes of education)
Eligible students are able to apply for a loan of up to £12,858 for postgraduate Masters study starting in 2025/26.
Please see the Student Finance England website for further details, including eligibility criteria.
Students normally resident in Wales (other than for purposes of education)
Eligible students are able to apply for a mixture of loans and grants totalling £19,255 for postgraduate Masters study starting between 1 August 2025 and 31 July 2026.
Please see the Student Finance Wales website for further details, including eligibility criteria.
Students resident in Northern Ireland* (other than for purposes of education)
Northern Ireland-domiciled students may apply for a Tuition Fee Loan only of up to £6,500 which will be paid directly to the Higher Education provider.
Full details, including eligibility criteria, can be found on the Student Finance Northern Ireland website .
Students resident in Scotland (other than for purposes of education)
Scotland-domiciled students are able to apply for a Tuition Fee loan of up to £7,000, provided their chosen course is not available in Scotland.
Full-time students are also able to apply for a Maintenance Loan of £4,500 for a one-year full-time course, or £2,250 per year for a two-year course.
Full details, including eligibility criteria, can be found on the Student Awards Agency Scotland website .
Full-time PGCE students are able to apply for Tuition Fee and Living Cost support through Student Finance in the same way as undergraduate students.
Part-time students are able to apply for a Tuition Fee loan and a pro-ratad amount of Living Cost support according to course intensity.
PGCE students are not eligible to apply for the Postgraduate Loan.
Students following a salaried School Direct programme will not be eligible to apply to Student Finance as their course costs are normally covered by the school where they are training.
They may still be eligible for a PGCE bursary.
The government provides financial support for students on both full-time and part-time/flexi PGCE courses dependent upon the subject which the student is training to teach.
Bursaries are not available for the General Primary Education programme.
For more information visit the Get into Teaching website .
Please be aware that students from the Islands are not eligible for student loans from the UK government, or bursaries, fee waivers, or scholarships from the University.
These students should apply to the Islands for financial support.
Loans of up to £ 30,301 are available through Student Finance to help with the cost of fees and living expenses for students starting in 2025/26
To apply for a Postgraduate Doctoral Loan students must:
The course must be in the UK and be a full postgraduate Doctoral course leading to a qualification such as:
The course can be studied at a University or by distance learning (as long as you remain resident in UK for the whole of the course) and can be full-time up to three years or part-time up to eight years.
The details of the Postgraduate Doctoral Loan will differ depending upon where you are normally resident in the UK:
Postgraduate Doctoral loans are not currently available to students normally resident in Scotland or Northern Ireland.
The NHS Social Work bursary (which is not repayable) will pay £4,052 towards fees each year and at least £3,362.50 to help with living costs, so total funding over two years is at least £14,829.
The maximum funding for living costs is £6,083 depending on household income.
Additional funding may be available for students with an adult who is wholly or mainly financially dependent on them, a child dependent or who require help with Childcare costs.
Check the NHS website for updates and how to apply.
The University is allocated a number of bursary funded places on the MSc Social Work programme each year.
The number of places changes each year and it is not possible to guarantee that students who are eligible for a bursary will receive a bursary place on the course.
Currently students who apply by the 15th January UCAS deadline and firmly accept their offer by the NHSBSA bursary capping deadline (usually early August) are nominated for available social work bursaries, with any additional bursaries allocated to those who apply after the deadline on a first come first served basis.
If the number of eligible applicants exceeds the number of students who applied by the UCAS deadline, bursaries are allocated using first degree classification for MSc Social Work Students.
If secondary criteria is required after ranking by degree classification, average grade of year 3 modules is used as secondary criteria for the MSc bursary allocation.
MSc Social Work Students will be notified prior to the course commencing if they have been nominated for a bursary (usually early in September).
Students must have fully completed the registration and enrolment process by the 30 September at the latest, otherwise the bursary may be re-allocated to another student.
Students who are not allocated or do not take a full NHS Social Work bursary are able to receive the Placement Travel Allowance of £862.50 per year.
Students who are not allocated a bursary may apply for the Postgraduate Masters loan from Student Finance.
Students following MSc pre-reg healthcare programmes such as MSc Occupational Therapy are able to apply for the NHS Learning Support Fund which allows eligible students to receive:
• A Training grant of £5,000 per academic year; • Parental support of £2,000.
If you have at least on dependent child under 15 years, or under 17 years if registered with Special Educational Needs; • Money back for excess travel and temporary accommodation costs while you are on a practice placement; Further details are available on the NHS BSA website: NHS Learning Support Fund | NHSBSA
The University will accept the following forms of payment:
Please see Policies and Regulations and the terms and conditions.
For postgraduate students (including Research) commencing studies in Term 1:
For postgraduate students (including Research) commencing studies in Term 2:
For research students commencing studies in April:
Visit our payment portal.
Students don’t start paying back Postgraduate Masters loans until the April after they have graduated or left their course and are earning over £21,000.
Postgraduate Doctoral loans become repayable from 6th April following the 4th anniversary of the course start date where courses last longer than four years and when students are earning over £21,000.
The amount to be repaid each month is based on income, not the amount borrowed.
Repayments amount to 6% of income over £21,000 a year.
For example, if earnings are £30,000, the repayment would be 6% of £9,000 which equated to £45 a month.
If you already have an Undergraduate loan you’ll continue making repayments to this as well as your Postgraduate Loan.
Please visit the Student Loan Repayment website for further information.
Employers will automatically deduct payments from gross salary, alongside tax and National Insurance.
In the case of self-employment, deductions will be made through self-assessment.
Those who move abroad will need to contact the Student Loan Company to make repayment arrangements.
Your contract with the University of Winchester for your chosen course of study is subject to our Terms and Conditions and Student Regulations.
The terms and conditions are for entry to the University from January 2016 onwards.
They apply to all students from the date they accept an offer at the University of Winchester.
For more information, see our terms and conditions page .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Scholarships-bursaries-and-awards/studentships:
Our PhD studentships cover the breadth of our expertise, faculties and research centres.
There are currently no studentships; however, we regularly offer exciting opportunities for doctoral studentships, both fully funded and fees-only.
Any such opportunities will be announced here so it is worth checking this page regularly.
We also offer self-funded opportunities.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/research-degrees/Courses/MPhilPhD-Research-2025:
Our many research students are a valuable part of our dynamic research community.
Each student's work is managed in collaboration with an expert supervisory team.
This is led by a Director of Studies together with (a) second supervisor(s) and may also include specialist adviser(s), especially in the case of interdisciplinary research.
This supervisory team supports the student and oversees the development of the research programme through regular supervision sessions.
Research students undertake research training through the Research Training Programme and by attending appropriate seminars, conferences or other events as advised by their supervisory team.
This leads to the production of a thesis or, in the case of candidates in Creative Writing or Creative Practice, the production of creative work supported by contextual materials.
To find out everything you need to know about doing a research degree at Winchester, explore the Research Degrees website.
4 years full-time (maximum); 7 years part-time (maximum)
For details, visit Research, Research Degrees
The University is committed to ensuring that all students have an equal opportunity to achieve learning outcomes.
Further details can be obtained by attending an Open Day/Evening, or by contacting the Doctoral School.
Email us or visit our web pages .
Applicants will normally have a track record of high academic achievement, relevant to the discipline being applied to, demonstrated by a first-class or high upper second-class undergraduate Honours degree and/or a Masters degree (or equivalent) and supported by two academic references.
Applicants without a degree in a related discipline must demonstrate relevant experience and engagement with the subject area.
All applications are processed through the Doctoral School.
Find out how to apply .
For those students whose research proposal needs further work before embarking on the MPhil/PhD, Preparation for Research is available.
For a one-off fee, students receive up to six supervisory meetings, IT and Library access in order to develop a research proposal.
Explore our campus and find out more about studying at Winchester at one of our Open Evenings .
If English is not your first language you will need: an Academic IELTS of an average of 6.5 (with a minimum of 7 for writing) is required or equivalent, however each application will be judged individually.
For more information, head to our International Apply Page .
Disclosure and Barring Service If your proposed research topic involves working with children and/or vulnerable adults, you will be required to obtain an Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance check.
International*

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Humanities-and-Social-Sciences/Research-centres-groups-and-networks/Centre-for-Forensic-and-Investigative-Psychology:
Harnessing, growing and disseminating our extensive expertise in forensic and investigative psychology.
In October 2017, the Forensic and Investigative Psychology research cluster in the Department of Psychology formally became the Centre For Forensic and Investigative Psychology.
The centre was established based on a strong expertise in the department in forensic and investigative psychology research.
Since 2017, the Centre has grown from strength to strength.
The centre runs a speaker series with talks from international experts on forensic and investigative topics, as well as contributing to related areas within the Faculty of Law, Crime and Justice , such as the Criminal Justice Research Network .
For all the latest news and events, see below.
CFIP supports both the taught postgraduate students undertaking the MSc Forensic Psychology and our postgraduate research students undertaking research in the fields of Forensic and Investigative Psychology.
Please see below for more details and postgraduate research opportunities.
Find out everything you need to know about doing a research degree at Winchester.
We work closely with the following external organisations:
The seafarers charity Safer Waves, Nautilus International, the union for maritime professionals, and Devon and Cornwall Police (ongoing study into seafarers' experiences of sexual abuse at sea)
Winchester BID, a new collaboration intended to develop work from centre members in relation to identifying and reducing shoplifting and to work with Winchester bars, building on our strengths in alcohol research.
CFiP members and former members submitted two case studies to demonstrate the impact of their research for the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF), the system for assessing the quality and impact of research in UK Higher Education institutions.
For details, visit the REF website .
For any queries or enquiries, email cfip@winchester.ac.uk.
Follow the links below to find out more about our research interests, areas of supervision and latest publications.
Conveners
Members
Research students
An important and valued part of our research community, Psychology research students are studying a wide range of fascinating, often interdisciplinary topics, supervised by our academic staff.
For example, Ruby Swain is exploring the strategic metacognitive approach to deception detection, while Jamie Kiltie's research topic is 'Understanding individual's perceptions of behavioural indicators of Rapport within investigative interviewing.'
New study shows intoxicated witnesses can remember hair but not faces
Intoxicated witnesses expert Dr Sarah Bayless has collaborated with colleagues from the University of Portsmouth on a study aiming to bring into focus some of the blurry facts about alcohol and memory.
The study, published in the journal Memory , highlights the phenomenon known as ‘alcohol myopia’ in which drinkers have a more narrowed focus attention.
When describing faces from memory, intoxicated participants were able to remember details of hair colour and style but were worse than sober counterparts at recalling facial features such as eye colour.
Read the full story
Read the article
We run a programme of regular research seminars throughout the year, which our research staff and students use to communicate their research to colleagues and external partners.
We host conferences, give invited talks and we also regularly invite external speakers, both practitioners and academics, to talk about their work and experiences in the field.
30 May 2024, CFiP Annual Public Lecture: The Virtual Burglary Project: how we’ve used VR to study the expertise of burglars (and other offenders)
by Professor Claire Nee, University of Portsmouth, Department of Psychology/ International Centre for Research in Forensic Psychology
In recent years, virtual reality has been used to deepen our understanding of expertise in offending behaviour while the crime is carried out in a virtual environment.
Prof.
Nee began by explaining the theory of expertise and how it can help us understand offending behaviours.
She then gave an overview of what we have discovered about how burglars assess neighbourhoods for vulnerable properties, choose a particular property and break in and carry out the offence.
She discussed how we could use this information for both deterring the burglar at the scene of the crime and rehabilitate offenders who want to desist from crime.
She went on to outline research focussed on how householders assess their risk for burglary and ways to improve this.
She concluded with how our research methods are now being used to understand other types of offending, using predatory child sexual offending as an example.
Claire Nee is Professor Emeritus of Criminological Psychology at the University of Portsmouth.
She joined the department in 1996 from the Home Office Research and Statistics Directorate.
She founded the International Centre for Research in Forensic Psychology in 1997 and was Director until 2021.
With her team at Portsmouth, Vrije Universiteit in the Netherlands and the Max Planck Institute for the Study of Crime and Law in Germany, she was the first to use virtual reality to study criminal decision-making and behaviour as it happens.
She also developed the theory of Dysfunctional Expertise in offending behaviour.
She is visiting professor at the Max Planck Institute and at the Philippe Pinel Institute in Montreal, Canada.
13 March 2024: Conference 'Teaming up on rapport in forensic investigative contexts'
This one-day conference provided a platform for a wide range of researchers from multiple universities to discuss the latest developments in the field of rapport.
CFiP academics and research students are currently working on the proceedings.
Jan.
2023: Centre key partner in new initiative to support the maritime community against sexual abuse at sea
Recent surveys have revealed that serious sexual assaults on UK vessels are under reported.
Vulnerable victims are unsupported and unsure how to seek emotional support and guidance regarding engaging with the UK criminal justice system.
The Centre for Forensic and Investigative Psychology is collaborating with charity Safer Waves and Devon and Cornwall Police on a new initiative to support the seafaring community and tackle the challenges currently facing seafarers with regards to collection of evidence, reporting crime and accessing victim support.
Read the full press release
2023 events:
On 11 October 2023, the Centre welcomed back three Psychology graduates, Max Daniels, Molly Riddell, and Lily Byford, for the panel event ‘Working in Forensic and Crime Contexts’.
On 14 Dec.
2022, we were delighted to welcome Prof.
Ray Bull, who presented a talk titled Improving the Interviewing of Suspects.
Ray Bull is Professor of Criminal Investigation at the University of Derby, Emeritus Professor of Forensic Psychology at the University of Leicester, a Distinguished Member of the American Psychology-Law Society and the first ‘International Ambassador’ of the International Investigative Interviewing Research Group (IIIRG).
On 20-24 June 2022, the Centre hosted the International Investigative Interviewing Research Group Conference , a worldwide network of professionals who work to improve investigative interviewing.
The conference was opened by our Vice Chancellor and was a huge success putting the Centre on the world map for leading research in Forensic Investigative Psychology.
Just before the conference Dr Rachel Wilcock alongside practitioner collaborators delivered a sold out two day master class on eliciting evidence from vulnerable witnesses.
On 31 March 2021, we had the pleasure of hearing Jennifer Kamorowski from Plymouth University in New Hampshire speak about her work on cognitive bias in risk assessment.
The talk, titled ‘(Accurately) predicting the future is hard: Cognitive bias and risk assessment’, addressed the research regarding sources of bias that have the potential to infect forensic risk evaluations, as well as risk-based decisions in criminal justice settings.
It concluded with discussion of some promising strategies to help mitigate the influence of bias in forensic risk evaluations.
On 10 Feb 2021, we hosted Stefana Juncu from the University of Portsmouth for her talk ‘Finding the missing: Do image variability and names in missing person appeals improve prospective person memory?’.
Stefana described her work in this under-researched area, focussing on face recognition, looking at both prospective person memory and eyewitness identification.
On 25 Nov 2020, Dr Yvonne Shell, Consultant Clinical & Forensic Psychologist, Interim Director of Criminal Justice for Together for Mental Wellbeing & Senior Clinical Teaching Fellow, presented ‘A clinical understanding of a murder case study, including the role of shame’.
On 5 Feb.
2020, we welcomed Prof.
Galit Nahari from Bar-Ilan University in Israel, who gave a talk on her research titled 'Identifying deception strategy traces: The Verifiability Approach, its theoretical stems and research prospects'.
While truth-tellers usually believe that sticking with the truth is the best strategy for convincing others of their honesty, liars attempt to manipulate their fabricated accounts to make them seem truthful.
Such strategic manipulations applied by liars reduce the diagnostic efficacy of verbal lie detection indicators.
Yet those liars' strategies leave verbal traces, which in turn can be used for lie detection.
Nahari outlined the Verifiability Approach (VA) and discussed the VA's validity and applicability as a verbal lie detection tool.
On 8 April 2019, the Centre hosted a one-day conference on Vulnerable Witnesses for invited criminal justice system practitioners, including police forces across the country, Hampshire Office of Police and Crime Commissioner, Citizens Advice Witness services, Registered Intermediaries, and the Ministry of Defence.
The day focussed on presenting research on vulnerable witnesses undertaken by members of the Centre, and we welcomed keynote speakers Kev Smith from the National Crime Agency and Dr David LaRooy from Royal Holloway University London.
The following topics comprise ongoing research and ideas for possible research supervision.
The list is by no means exhaustive and Centre members are happy to discuss any alternative ideas you may have.
Exploring the eyewitness capabilities of individuals with a formal mental health diagnosis
Whilst there is literature on the general memory capabilities of individuals with a formal mental health diagnosis, very little research to date has explored this within an eyewitness capacity specifically.
Given the prevalence of mental health currently within the UK, it is likely that individuals with a mental health disorder witness crime and therefore come into contact with the Criminal Justice System.
However, their eyewitness capabilities are unknown.
Further research is needed to better understand how such individuals perform as eyewitnesses to enable them to provide their best evidence and to prevent as much as possible any stereotypes and biases held by legal practitioners.
If you are interested in working on this topic, please contact Dr Beth Parsons .
Strategic and metacognitive approaches to detecting deception, truth and hidden knowledge
Accurate deception and truth detection remains a challenge for both expert and non-expert investigators.
The strategic metacognitive approach, currently being developed by Dr Gary Lancaster, examines how a range of cognitive tasks may be used which encourage liars to invoke specific countermeasure strategies.
Specifically, we are seeking to create tasks for which the strategies used by liars differ from those used by a truth teller.
By examining the response patterns of an interviewee during and after the task, it may be possible to detect which strategies are being used and thus infer whether the person is being deceptive or truthful.
Our current studies are exploring the utility of this approach for detecting whether a person is deliberately concealing incriminating knowledge from an investigator.
If you are interested in working on this topic, please contact Dr Gary Lancaster .
The role of culture in interviewing witnesses, victims and sources
Investigators often interact with interviewees from diverse cultural backgrounds.
However, most research on investigative interviewing techniques has focussed on Western, Educated, Industrialised, Rich, Democratic (WEIRD) samples.
A PhD in this area of research could investigate i) the effect of culture on remembering past events; ii) the influence of culturally shared norms on communicating information; iii) the effective use of practices that can facilitate reporting in cross-cultural contexts.
If you are interested in working on this topic, please contact Dr Feni Kontogianni .
Retrieval and reporting of repeated events
A large body of research has examined how memory of repeated events works in children, with the aim of developing effective interviewing techniques.
Research on adults’ memory of repeated events is instead very limited.
Research in this area could help develop appropriate methodologies to investigate the role of cognitive processes when experiencing repeated events.
It could explore the presence of various factors, which occur at encoding (e.g.
deviations from script) or at retrieval (e.g.
the use of interviewing techniques and mnemonics), and which can be used to understand and facilitate memory of repeated events.
If you are interested in working on this topic, please contact Dr Feni Kontogianni.
Exploring 'microcriminality' and transitions to other criminal behaviours
Many people break the letter of the law in their everyday life.
Some reports even suggest the vast majority of people engage with behaviour like media piracy, not paying appropriately for public transport, or engage in cash-in-hand work.
These are all illegal activities with inconvenience to society, but they are understudied.
Moreover, the connection between breaking these laws and breaking other laws is not well understood.
Research in this area would contribute to understanding the importance of treating 'criminal' behaviour as a series of discrete behaviours, rather than one state.
This research also links to other risk-taking behaviours, such as alcohol use, illegal substance use, and social and sexual risk-taking.
If you are interested in working on this topic, please contact Dr Liam Satchell .
Improving bias detection and avoiding bias in forensic investigations
Forensic science involves the detection and interpretation of physical evidence by humans.
Humans are vulnerable to errors and biases.
Human factors research has grown in security and engineering contexts, and recently concerns about the bias in forensic science has also increased research in this area.
Developing better tools for detecting and mitigating analysts bias will help improve the effectiveness of forensic science investigations.
Psychologists have a range of theoretical and analytical frameworks that could be used to assist the work of forensic scientists.
Who's a good police interviewer?
Information gathering interviewing is a vital part of police investigations.
This highly important source of evidence gathering is fundamentally a social exercise, where a police officer has to create the right context and dynamic to maximise the information gathered.
Whilst we are understanding the core elements of rapport building and interview dynamics more and more, there is a lack of research into how these techniques for good interviews might come across differently depending on the interviewer.
We have statistical and theoretical tools and techniques to better identify the skill of particular interviewers.
This research project would focus on how individuals' experience of core interviewing strategies might vary based on their demeanour, personality, and experience with interviewing.
Intersubjectivity, Shame and Guilt, and Psychoanalytic Understanding of Psychological Structures in Forensic Settings
The predominant research interest of Dr Jenny Kontosthenous is intersubjectivity within the forensic context and the effort to shift from analysing the individual to analysing the relationships between individuals.
This includes (but it is not limited to) relational experiences during therapy.
She is interested in exploring further the co-creation of narratives and the shared process of making meaning of past experiences within therapeutic communities and other forensic settings.
Shame and guilt surrounding offending behaviour can have a severe impact on therapeutic engagement for individuals residing in forensic settings.
Research contributions to validate existing shame-focussed therapeutic approaches (such as CFT) remain necessary, particularly in the areas of motivation to engage in treatment and self-sabotaging behaviours such as self-harm.
A third research interest is the development of psychoanalytic understanding of psychological structures of the forensic settings, particularly in terms of the role of bureaucracy and delegation to the experts as defences in order to manage organisational anxiety.
For more information, contact Dr Jenny Kontosthenous .
Vulnerable Witnesses
Dr Rachel Wilcock would be happy to supervise PhD students in any aspect of eliciting accurate evidence (interviewing and/or identification lineups) from vulnerable witnesses.
She is particularly keen to look at alternative methods for supporting older witnesses over the age of 65 to give their best evidence.
At present there is very little research examining what works best to maximise amount and quality of evidence given by older witnesses.
If you are interested in working on these topics, please contact Dr Rachel Wilcock.
Obtaining Information from Children in Hospital Settings
Critical decisions made in hospital regarding diagnoses, the necessary next steps in examination, and treatment strategies often rely on patient histories.
Determining what has happened to a child is also vital for ascertaining if police involvement is required.
However, children’s developing ability to verbalise their experiences makes obtaining such information more difficult than it is with adults.
Health practitioners do not receive standardised training for obtaining child patient histories, and practices differ.
If you are interested in conducting research in this area, please contact Dr Genevieve Waterhouse.
Multiple Interviewing in Forensic Contexts
Oftentimes, victims and witnesses in the Criminal Justice System will be interviewed more than once about the suspected crime they have experienced.
Reminiscence, or remembering new details at a later recall opportunity, has been shown to be a robust memory phenomenon in children and adults.
However, Waterhouse, Ridley, Bull & Wilcock’s recent Study Space Analysis identifies some key areas where further research is required in order to create fully supported, evidence-based best practice guidelines.
If you would like to work on filling these gaps and examining the impact of multiple or repeat interviews on testimony, please contact Dr Genevieve Waterhouse.
Rapport-Building in Investigative Interviews
Recent research has suggested that building and maintaining rapport with children in investigative interviews is challenging and does not always result in the desired outcomes.
Rapport-building techniques should support children and teenagers to provide their most detailed, accurate testimony in the least traumatic way possible.
Additionally, they should be practical and effective in the hands of a variety of interviewers.
If you are interested in conducting research to evaluate existing practices, and develop and examine alternative options, please get in touch with Dr Genevieve Waterhouse.
Domestic Abuse and Rape Myths
Dr Genevieve Waterhouse would be happy to supervise PhD projects in the areas of domestic abuse, rape offences and rape myths.
In particular, she is interested in supervising projects around coercive control, and the impact of rape myths in the Criminal Justice System.
To discuss your ideas, please contact Dr Genevieve Waterhouse.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Apprenticeships/APTEM-Apprenticeship-System:
The Aptem system is our new digital platform, designed to provide learners and employers with a streamlined apprenticeship experience.
Your APTEM account reflects your personal learning requirements and your dashboard will allow you to track your progress in real time.
Key Benefits:
If you are a new learner, Aptem offers a streamlined onboarding process by capturing and documenting all essential information for you to enrol.
For all learners, Aptem makes it easier to record your off-the-job hours, tripartite review meetings and other key milestones as you progress.
For all learners, Aptem ensures that we meet the funding requirements of the Education and Skills Funding Agency by ensuring compliance and maintaining key documents and individual learner records in a secure environment.
If you are an employer, Aptem helps you to monitor learners progress by accessing your personalised dashboard where you can view the progress and follow up actions that are required for you to complete like sign compliance documents or contribute towards progress reviews.
Help and Support The tools and features in Aptem are intuitive and easy-to-use.
Below, you will find a comprehensive set of links and documents designed to help you make the most of them.
Resources for Learners
https://support.aptem.co.uk/hc/en-gb/articles/4408550053522-Introduction-for-Learners-Students
https://support.aptem.co.uk/hc/en-gb/articles/360019718040-Getting-started-as-a-learner
https://support.aptem.co.uk/hc/en-gb/articles/360021692019-Learner-Dashboard
https://support.aptem.co.uk/hc/en-gb/articles/360019645300-Your-Learning-Plan
Resources for Employers
https://support.aptem.co.uk/hc/en-gb/articles/14849491423506-Aptem-tutorial-for-Employers-product-walkthrough-video
https://support.aptem.co.uk/hc/en-gb/articles/4406829937426-Employer-Dashboard
https://support.aptem.co.uk/hc/en-gb/articles/4419640504594-Employer-Dashboard-Off-the-Job-Hours-drilldowns

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Apprenticeships/Degree-Apprenticeship-Programmes/2025/BSc-Hons-Midwifery-Apprenticeship-2024:
The BSc (Hons) Midwifery Degree Apprenticeship programme aims to develop inclusive, compassionate midwives who are able to safely provide high quality midwifery care and are equipped with the skills to flourish within modern health care systems.
The course adopts a spiralling approach and will build upon your knowledge and understanding, professional skills, values, capabilities and transferable skills as you progress through the course.
Your time is split equally between learning theory on campus and applying your knowledge during placements alongside experienced professionals.
Apprentices will undergo a skills scan at the start of their training to enable the creation of a training plan, leading to a more engaging and high-quality apprenticeship.
Developing strategies for self-care and emotional agility are important components threaded throughout the course alongside the provision of a person-centred approach to care and enabling student success.
You will also be prepared for registration through support with job applications, developing your portfolio and preparing for job interviews.
The programme is a minimum of 4600 hours long, divided equally between practice and campus-based learning activity and meeting the Nursing Midwifery Council (NMC) Standards of proficiency for midwives and the Apprenticeship Standards (ST0948) On successful completion of this programme, you will need to complete an End Point Assessment (EPA) to fulfil the requirements of the degree apprenticeship.
The end-point assessment (EPA) assesses whether apprentices have passed the apprenticeship, and is based on the same professional knowledge, skills and behaviours as the Apprenticeship standard.
January 2025
On-Campus and placement
3 years full-time
See Entry Details
No Tuition Fees
Work placements are a core part of this course and account for approximately 50% of the programme.
Digital Literacy
Digital and technological literacy is a requirement for entry to all Midwifery programmes.
In healthcare it is now seen as a vital tool and is used for managing patient records, assessment, research and education.
It is also the most common and the preferred way we communicate with students on our programmes.
Students will be supported in the university to access learning opportunities using online and blended learning, as well as utilising digital platforms to prepare for and submit assignments.
The University of Winchester provides 24 hour access to its library and IT facilities and all students will be allocated a university email address.
Further support and information can be found via the student handbook.
Taught elements of the course take place on campus in Winchester and on placement.
Student Support Click here to find out more about the support available.
Timetabled teaching and learning activity
Year 1 (Level 4): Teaching, learning and assessment: 378 hours * Independent learning: 409.5 hours** Placement: 750 hours
Year 2 (Level 5): Teaching, learning and assessment: 378 hours Independent learning: 409.5 hours** Placement: 750 hours
Year 3 (Level 6): Teaching, learning and assessment: 357 hours Independent learning: 370.5 hours** Placement: 810 hours
**Apprentices are allocated 11 employer weeks per year.
They are able to take their contracted annual leave, usually 262.5 hours (7 weeks) leaving an additional 150 hours where they are able to make up theory or placement hours or be available to their employer.
Teaching hours All class based teaching takes places between 9am – 6pm, Mon to Fri during term time.
Wed afternoons are usually free from timetabled teaching for personal study time.
Assessment Our validated courses may adopt a range of means of assessing your learning.
Percentage of the course assessed by coursework The assessment balance between examination and coursework depends to some extent on the optional modules you choose.
Year 1 (Level 4)*: 50% coursework 16% written exams 34% practical exams
Year 2 (Level 5)*: 50% coursework 16% written exams 34% practical exams
Year 3 (Level 6)*: 66% coursework 0% written exams 34% practical exams
Students will apply and demonstrate professional and theoretical knowledge of the midwife’s role in optimising physiological processes during the pregnancy journey.
Students will apply their understanding of related anatomy and physiology to the midwife’s role in public health and health promotion and demonstrate skills to support women, birthing people and their families with psychosocial and cultural needs.
This module introduces you to foundation principles, concepts and skills required to develop evidence-based scholarly work.
You will develop your knowledge of the principles of professional-ethical behaviour and identify and develop strategies for self-care, health and wellbeing.
During this module you will acquire and demonstrate professional and theoretical knowledge of the midwife's role in the provision of safe personalised care which optimises physiological processes, promoting health and wellbeing during labour and the postnatal period.
You will develop your understanding of psychosocial and cultural requirements of women and birthing people and apply established frameworks for effective midwifery care and professional reflection.
You will be supported in placement to meet the year one requirements within the Midwifery Ongoing Record of Achievement (MORA) for progression into the second year of the course.
You will be assessed in a range of placements as part of a continuous assessment process and undertake an OSCE and professional conversation.
Within this module you will develop knowledge and apply understanding of person-centred midwifery practice and care planning for diverse individuals and families with a range of complex and additional care needs, including health promotion and protection.
You will develop your understanding of professional behaviour to enhance partnership working with women, birthing people, families and within multiprofessional teams.
You will develop skills in sourcing and using a range of principles to analyse, evaluate, organise and communicate information to promote informed choice, professional practice and evidence-based midwifery care.
You will develop your knowledge and understanding of pre-existing, current and emerging complications that effect women, birthing people and newborn infants.
You will gain the knowledge and critical understanding of complications of pregnancy to enable the provision of safe effective care to individuals, newborn infants and their families.
You will achieve the year two MORA requirements through a range of placements and continuous assessment with supervision appropriate to your level of learning.
You will apply theoretical knowledge and understanding to complex simulated or theoretical cases, including numeracy and pharmacology.
Your will consolidate your knowledge and understanding of safe personalised midwifery care to optimise physiological processes and rationalise and justify decision-making as an autonomous practitioner within a multi-professional team.
You will develop in-depth critical knowledge and understanding, informing decision-making, as well as skills required to safely manage emergencies around childbirth.
There is an emphasis on early recognition, self-awareness, human factors, patient safety and effective multi-professional management of the emergency.
You will complete a literature based dissertation and develop a service improvement plan.
The dissertation is an independent study that allows you to undertake a review of the published research literature around a topic of your choice and designed by yourself under supervision.
You will have achieved all of the proficiencies and requirements within the MORA through a range of placements and continuous assessment with supervision appropriate to your level of learning.
You will demonstrate your professional development though effective teamworking, working effectively with other students and other members of the multiprofessional team as leader or member.
Employment: Applicants must be working full-time in a relevant health care role (37.5 hours) and provide evidence that they meet the Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) rules.
A-Levels: 96 UCAS points or non UCAS equivalent O-Level/GCSE: English Language and Mathematics at grade 4/C or Level 2 Education.
Functional Skills at level 2 is accepted as an alternative.
BTEC/CTEC: 3 x M OR 2 x D from BTEC or Cambridge Technical (CTEC) qualifications.
International Baccalaureate: 96 UCAS tariff points.
To include a minimum of grade 5 in Standard or Higher level English and Maths.
T Level: Pass in a T Level in Health, Healthcare Science or Science Other relevant non-UK qualifications, such as Irish FETAC/QQI pre-nursing courses will be considered.
Aspiring apprentices who do not have 96 UCAS points, or equivalent, are considered on a case-by-case basis with employer support/ approval.
Applicants have the right to work and study in the UK.
Applicants must also be able to evidence an enhanced DBS (Disclosure and Barring Service) Certificate dated within the previous three months (undertaken by the employer) prior to the commencement of the programme.
Occupational Health clearance by the employer's Occupational Health Provider is required at three months prior to the commencement of the programme and on an annual basis throughout.
Apprentices will be required to confirm their health and character are sufficient to enable safe and effective practice throughout the programme and when submitting the supporting declaration of health and character on completion of the programme.
Apprentices are required to declare immediately any police charges, cautions, convictions or conditional discharges, or determinations that their fitness to practise is impaired.
Relevant Experience
We will look for evidence within your application of a commitment to the midwifery profession and that your personal values align with the NHS Constitution , the NMC Code , and the University.
Application Process
Your must be employed by a NHS Trust who offers the University of Winchester Midwifery Apprenticeship Programme.
You should have a conversation with your employer who will check you meet the eligibility criteria.
Following this you may be shortlisted for a joint interview with your employer and the University of Winchester.
Should you be successful at interview you will then apply directly to the University with the below link:
The University of Winchester will also check your eligibility for the Midwifery Apprenticeship Programme.
O-Level/GCSE: English Language and Mathematics at grade 4/C+ or Level 2 Education and Skill Funding Agency (EFSA) compliant equivalents in English Language and Maths.
Please note: We are unable to accept qualifications such as IELTs for GCSE equivalent.
If English is not your first language - IELTS 7.0 overall is required, with writing at a minimum of 6.5 (no other element below 7.0)
For a full list of the qualifications that we can accept as GCSE equivalents for degree apprenticeships, please see the government guidance .
If you have qualifications studied outside of the UK, we highly recommend that you email scans of these to our Admissions Teams (via your employer) before applying for the course so we can check your suitable for entry.
To secure an apprenticeship you will need to apply for a full-time position with one of our partner employers.
To gain a place on this programme you will have been successful on application and interview as conducted by the sponsoring business in conjunction with the University of Winchester.
Alternatively, you may be seeking career enhancement within your current role.
In this case you will need your employer to support you by offering a Degree Apprenticeship with the University of Winchester.
Read What are Degree Apprenticeships?
for more information.
How much will it cost an employing business per apprentice?
The apprentice will remain employed by their existing employer throughout the programme, who will continue to pay their salary.
The funding you are eligible for is determined by the number of people you employ, the annual payroll of your company and the age of the learner.
Read Information for employers for the latest information.
As one of our apprentices all of your teaching and assessments are funded by your employer, including, lectures/guest lectures and tutorials, seminars, laboratory sessions and specialist teaching facilities.
There might be costs you may encounter whilst studying.
A full set of uniforms will be provided by the University at the beginning of the program.
If you require additional uniforms later on, you may need to pay for these.
Indicative cost: £30.
Occupational Health clearance will be carried out by your employer's Occupational Health Provider; however, you may need to pay for immunisations if they are not covered by your GP.
You will need a pair of suitable comfortable shoes while on clinical placement.
Indicative cost: £40–£60.
You will need to purchase some of your own clinical items, for instance a stethoscope and fob watch.
You will need to be able to travel to your placement and will be responsible for covering the costs associated with this .Students may need to arrange accommodation; In some situations, there may be costs incurred.
A Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance check is required which will be undertaken and paid for by your employer when applicants accept their offer for a place on the course.
Where a module specifies core texts these should generally be available in the library in hardcopy or electronic copy.
Some students may choose to buy their own and these can be purchased from any source.
Indicative cost is £10-£50.
Printing and Binding: The University is pleased to offer our students a printing allowance of £5 each academic year.
This will print around 125 A4 (black and white) pages.
If students wish to print more, printer credit can be topped up by the student.
The University and Student Union are champions of sustainability and we ask all our students to consider the environmental impact before printing.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Apprenticeships/Degree-Apprenticeship-Programmes/2025/BN-Hons-Nursing-Mental-Health-Apprenticeship-2025:
If you are a caring and compassionate individual our BN (Hons) Nursing (Mental Health) – Nursing Degree Apprenticeship will help you become a skilled and highly sought-after graduate nurse, caring for a wide range of people with mental health needs.
Placing the needs of patients, carers, family’s students and adult nursing practice at its centre, this is a dynamic and interactive professional course.
We will support you to realise your potential to become a compassionate, competent and autonomous nurse who is able to deliver and lead mental health nursing care within an ever-changing health and social care environment.
The programme enables you to develop and display the values required in modern healthcare: working together with patients; respect and dignity; commitment to quality of care; compassion and improving lives.
It also addresses contemporary challenges such as the ageing population, increasingly prevalent long-term health conditions and public health.
Drawing on the most up-to-date research and evidence, you are supported to develop not only your nursing skills but also the graduate attributes required to succeed in the modern workplace.
You study a range of academic core modules across all areas of nursing as well as field modules which focus on mental health nursing.
As you progress through the course and as your knowledge grows, programme content becomes increasingly complex and more specific to mental health nursing.
On-Campus
3-4 years Part-time
The University aims to shape 'confident learners' by enabling students to develop the skills to excel in their studies here and be transferable to further studies or the employment market.
Over the duration of the course, students develop independent and critical learning, building confidence and expertise progressively through independent and collaborative research, problem solving, and analysis with the support of staff.
Students take responsibility for their own learning and are encouraged to make use of the wide range of available learning resources available.
lectures, seminars etc), students are encouraged to access academic support from staff within the course team, personal tutors and the wide range of services to students within the University.
The course uses the NHS Leadership Academy Maximising Leadership in the Pre-Registration Healthcare Curricula Framework to build leadership skills through a spiral curriculum.
There is ongoing and building of digital literacy throughout the programme.
Digital literacy is important in all professions.
It is also the most common and the preferred way the Programme Team will communicate information to student cohorts.
All students are expected to have digital literacy skills and use these throughout the programme and become proficient in the use of commonly used software.
Training and support for this will be available to students.
Digital platforms will be used for the submission of assignments, access information and conduct research.
All students will have access to computers and a university email address.
At the University of Winchester validated programmes may adopt a range of means of assessing your learning.
We ensure all students have an equal opportunity to achieve module learning outcomes.
Further details on assessment types used in the programme you are interested in can be found on the course page, by attending an Open Day/Evening, or contacting our teaching staff.
On campus, University of Winchester
The aim of this module is to help you understand the issues that are inherent in working as a professional within the healthcare setting.
The module will include professionalism, codes of conduct/standards of practice, values-based practice, and introduction to ethics, ethical practice, information governance, confidentiality and the legal and policy frameworks that underpin nursing practice.
A macro to micro view of healthcare will be adopted to understand the organisation and structure of healthcare.
You will be challenged to identify how your personal values, emotional intelligence and resilience impact on professional practice.
Your learning in relation to personal and professional values will be applied through your introduction to Part 1 of the Practice Assessment Document.
This requires them to undertake guided participation in care and perform with increasing confidence and competence.
The aim of the module is to explore human anatomy and physiology across the lifespan and begin to understand the physiological, structural, behavioural and functional changes associated with selected pathology and disease progression in key systems.
You will begin to apply this to your own field of nursing practice through seminar sessions.
The module will introduce you to the basics of pharmacology and medicines management, which will be developed as you progress through the programme.
Finally, module explores key theories within the behavioural sciences to build an understanding of people’s lived experience of health change, wellbeing and functioning, and how these impact on their relationship with the health care system and wider society.
The module will broadly outline the approaches to health-care research and support you to develop preliminary knowledge and skills in searching and identifying appropriate literature to inform both practice and academic writing.
This module will cover the basics of assessment (engagement, interview and physical assessment) to determine the physical, psychological and cultural needs across the age spectrum and the application of clinical reasoning and decision making in co-producing an appropriate plan of care.
You will demonstrate maintenance of personal and professional values and your learning in relation to the nursing process will be applied through your continued engagement with Part 1 of the Practice Assessment Document.
This module will enable you to build on the learning achieved in Practice Experience 1 and 2 and complete the Part 1 requirements set out in your Practice Assessment Document (PAD).
This module carries 187.5 hours of academic credit, but you will undertake an additional 12.5 hours to contribute towards the requirements for NMC registration.
This module engages you with the basis of health promotion and builds on your learning in relation to the behavioural sciences.
Determinants of health and needs analysis will then progress into the study of health and social care policy, epidemiology and public health, education and influencing health behaviour and the challenges for implementing health promotion activities for different people groups.
The behavioural sciences will encompass models of behaviour change, effective communication, social stress, support and caring.
The module will enable you to recognise different styles of leadership and begin to identify your own within a group learning environment.
You will also undertake the Lean Foundations Yellow Belt 1-day course.
This module introduces you to Part 2 of the Practice Assessment Document (PAD), which requires student nurses to more actively participate in care delivery with minimal guidance and perform with increased confidence and competence.
This module carries 187.5 hours of academic credit, but you will undertake an additional 12.5 hours to work towards the requirements for NMC registration.
The aim of the module is explore the physiological, structural, behavioural and functional changes associated with co-morbid pathologies and disease progression in the identified systems.
It will also introduce systems not taught in year 1.
The module will continue to develop knowledge of pharmacology and medicines management.
Finally, the module will expand on the behavioural sciences learning across year 1 to develop your ability to utilise therapeutic approaches to promote wellness and recovery.
This module builds on Foundations of Nursing Practice in year 1, focusing in on meeting the acute/crisis and longer-term needs of people presenting to mental health services across the lifespan, accounting for their physical, psychological, social and cultural contexts.
Building on the skills developed in year 1, students will hone their skills in searching and critically analysing research literature and policy, considering findings in relation to the reality of practice environments.
The aim of the module is to develop your knowledge and skills in relation to leadership, management and decision making within the culture of a care team.
This builds on the Understanding Self in the Professional Practice Context module.
This module will enable you to build on the learning achieved in Practice Experience 4 and complete the Part 2 requirements set out in your Practice Assessment Document (PAD).
This module carries 375 hours of academic credit, but you will undertake an additional 25 hours to work towards the requirements for NMC registration.
This module will develop apprentice/students’ knowledge and understanding of practice inquiry and the service improvement process, contextualised within a chosen module ‘pathway’ (4/5 will be offered, with the flexibility to change between years as new health care issues/innovations emerge).
They will be exposed to a range of tools/approaches to change and quality improvement used within healthcare.
It will give apprentices/students the opportunity to systematically search for and critically appraise evidence from studies and information to support their final year project proposal.
This proposal will be presented in the form of an academic poster or other form of media.
This module provides you with an opportunity to identify an area for personal and professional development, which may be addressed through a self-managed placement experience.
This module carries 187.5 hours of practice towards the requirements for NMC registration.
This module provides you with an opportunity to engage in and develop a portfolio of learning activities as part of your personal and professional development, for engagement with the Transition to Registered Nurse Apprenticeship Programme.
This module builds on Foundation Level Nursing Practice in (Year 1) and Developing Nursing Practice in Mental Health (Year 2) focusing on the multifactorial needs of people who access mental health services and the role of the mental health nurse in supporting them in living well.
Students will further develop their ‘toolkit’ of therapeutic approaches in order to provide targeted and effective interventions that meet people’s individual needs.
The module will also focus on psychopharmacology and prescriber ‘readiness’ as a NQN.
The aim of the module is to enable you to plan your transition to being a newly qualified nurse (NQN), enhancing your personal resilience, leadership, management and decision making skills.
You will also prepare to become the practice supervisors for future generations of student nurses.
This module builds on the Understanding Self in the Professional Practice Context module (Year 1) and Working with Others to Coordinate Pathways of Care (year 2).
This module will allow you to develop and apply your learning from your Practice Inquiry module (year 2) and apply it by completing your own project.
The inquiry project may take different forms depending on your and the programme requirements.
You will conduct and manage your own project, but will be supported through group work and a mentor/supervisor.
This module introduces you to Part 3 of the Practice Assessment Document (PAD), which requires student nurses to more practice independently with minimal supervision, leading and coordinating care with confidence.
This module will enable you to build on the learning achieved in Practice Experience 7 and complete the Part 3 requirements set out in your Practice Assessment Document (PAD).
This module carries 375 hours of academic credit, but you will undertake an additional 105 hours to work towards the requirements for NMC registration.
GCSE A*- C or 9-4 pass in English Language and Mathematics is required (certified alternatives, such as Functional Skills level 2 will be considered).
You will need to provide original certificates to the University.
If you only hold a ‘statement of provisional results’ and do not hold original certificates, please contact the relevant awarding body to obtain a ‘certified statement of results’ as soon as possible.
Further information about obtaining a replacement exam certificate is available on the gov.uk website .
Study in a science or social science graded at a C (A Level) / Merit (BTEC/CTEC/Access) or above is desirable, but not essential.
International Baccalaureate: 104-120 points to include a minimum of 2 higher level IB certificates at grade 4 or above.
Other relevant non-UK qualifications, such as Irish FETAC/QQI pre-nursing courses will be considered.
We will look for evidence within your application of a commitment to the nursing profession and that your personal values align with the NHS Constitution and the University.
Also desirable, is prior care experience in a paid or voluntary capacity to demonstrate an informed decision to embark on a career in nursing.
An enhanced DBS (undertaken by the employer) is required prior to the commencement of the course and at progression points an update will be required.
It is advised for the learner to register for the update service.
Occupational Health clearance by the employer is required prior to the commencement of the programme and on an annual basis throughout.
Explore our campus and find out more about studying at Winchester by coming to one of our Open Days.
To find out more about applying as an International student, visit out International Apply Page .
In the absence of formal learning qualifications applications are welcomed from persons who can demonstrate relevant work experience, including work in a voluntary capacity.
The course structure actively supports claims for Accreditation of Prior Certificated Learning (APCL) and Accreditation of Prior Experiential Learning (APEL).
A full set of uniforms will be provided at the beginning of the programme.
The University will pay for an occupational health assessment; however, you may need to pay for immunisations if they are not covered by your GP.
You will need to be able to travel to your placement ‐ travel costs will be associated with this and paid by your employer.
A Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance check is required which will be undertaken by your employer when applicants accept their offer for a place on the course.
There are placements in each year of the programme that are organised by the University with our local healthcare provider.
In some situations, there may be costs incurred here for travel and accommodation.
Printing and Binding: The University is pleased to offer our students a free printing allowance of £20 each academic year.
This will print around 500 A4 mono pages.
Our Reprographics team also offer printing and binding services, including dissertation binding which may be required by your course with an indicative cost of £1.50-£3.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Apprenticeships/Degree-Apprenticeship-Programmes/2025/BN-Hons-Nursing-Adult-Apprenticeship-2025:
If you are a caring and compassionate individual our BN (Hons) Nursing (Adult) – Nursing Degree Apprenticeship will help you become a skilled and highly sought-after graduate nurse, caring for a wide range of people with adult health needs.
This module builds on Foundations of Nursing Practice in year 1, focusing in on meeting the acute/crisis and longer-term health needs of adults, accounting for their physical, psychological, social and cultural contexts.
This module builds on Foundation Level Nursing Practice in (Year 1) and Developing Nursing Practice in Adult Health (year 2), focusing on the multifactorial needs of people who access services and the role of the adult nurse in supporting them in living well.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Apprenticeships/Degree-Apprenticeship-Programmes/2025/BN-Hons-Nursing-Child-Apprenticeship-2025:
If you are a caring and compassionate individual our BN (Hons) Nursing (Child) – Nursing Degree Apprenticeship will help you become a skilled and highly sought-after graduate nurse, caring for a wide range of people with child health needs.
On campus, University of Winchester.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Apprenticeships/Degree-Apprenticeship-Programmes/2025/FdSc-Nursing-Associate-Apprenticeship-2025:
The programme includes both academic and work-based learning and prepares you to provide care for people of all ages and from different backgrounds in a variety of health and social care settings.
This includes providing care for people who have mental, physical, cognitive and behavioural differences and additional care needs, those living with dementia, the elderly and for people nearing the end of their life.
The Nursing Associate role was introduced in response to the Shape of Caring Review (2015), to help build the capacity of the nursing workforce and the delivery of high-quality care.
It will be a vital part of the wider health and care team and aims to:
As an apprentice Nursing Associate you will remain employed and continue with on-the-job learning at your workplace, alongside learning in the University and practice placements.
These placements will give you the opportunity to demonstrate that you are capable of meeting the holistic needs of people of all ages, including children, to NMC standards (2018).
The programme enables new and existing healthcare staff to study for a fully-funded Foundation Degree (FdSc) and professional qualification leading to eligibility for entry to the Nursing & Midwifery Council (NMC) register whilst in paid employment.
During the two-year course, you will build on your own experience of caring for people and learn to play a proactive role in multidisciplinary teams, in the area or field you would usually work.
You will become proficient in contributing to the promotion of health and the prevention of ill health by empowering people and communities to exercise choice, take control of their own health decisions and behaviours and by supporting people to manage their own care where possible.
Your role will involve interacting with a variety of service users, families and carers, and with an extensive range of health and care professionals and other agencies including social services, police, probation, prisons, housing, education, language interpreters and third sector agencies.
As a trainee Nursing Associate you will need to be emotionally intelligent and resilient, able to manage your own personal health and wellbeing, recognise boundaries of practice and know when and how to access support.
The main component of this programme consists of core compulsory modules focusing on theory and practice.
You will complete a total minimum of 2,300 practice and theory hours over the two years.
In Year 1, you study compulsory modules that include Personal and Professional Practice; Foundations of Evidence-Based Practice; Long-Term Conditions; Health Sciences for Professional Practice; Health and Care Skills Across the Life-Course; and Practice-Based Learning Part 1, including an extended placement.
In Year 2, you undertake modules in Enhancing Personal and Professional Practice; Promoting Health and Wellbeing; Developing Evidence-Based Practice and Quality Enhancement; and Monitoring and Recognising Deterioration in Physical and Mental Health.
Nursing Associate apprentices will continue in their place of employment where they may be eligible for new roles.
Graduates will be able to find employment with local health and social care organisations including primary, secondary and tertiary sectors, in all fields of nursing, adult, mental health, learning disability and child health.
This includes acute and community hospitals and NHS community trusts (across a range of clinical areas), community nursing teams and GP practices.
At the University of Winchester, we are committed to ensuring all our students gain employability skills to enable you to enter graduate level jobs and pursue the profession of your choice.
This apprenticeship is approved against the new NMC standards of proficiency for Nursing Associates (2018).The standards of proficiency represent the standards of knowledge and skills that a Nursing Associate will need to meet in order to be considered by the NMC as capable of safe and effective nursing associate practice.
2 years full-time
For more information about our regulations for this course, please see our Academic Regulations, Policies and Procedures.
This module enables the learner to begin to understand the demands of professional practice and to foster self-awareness, resilience, emotional intelligence, and adaptability in an interprofessional healthcare environment.
It aims to enhance understanding and application of person-centred practices and encourages learner engagement with the professional and ethical standards outlined in the NMC Code (2018).
The concepts and personal development plan created in this module will provide the foundations for further exploration and development in the year 2 module; Enhancing Personal & Professional Practice.
This module will explore the full range of health sciences and will support the development of knowledge, skills, attitudes, and behaviours required when caring for people with short and long-term conditions.
The module will encompass the management and impact of prevalent long-term conditions across community and acute care settings, providing learners with opportunities to apply their knowledge of anatomy and physiology, sociology, and health psychology to gain further insight into the impact on patients and families.
The module will support learners’ knowledge and understanding of physical monitoring and strategies for responding to deterioration.
It will introduce the learner to the fundamentals of pharmacology and medicines management, which learners will continue to expand on as they progress through the programme.
This module will enable the learner to develop underpinning knowledge and understanding of healthcare related evidence and how it is used to inform policies, practices and healthcare decisions.
It will assist the learner to develop the fundamental knowledge and skills required to conduct research and identify relevant literature from which to inform practice.
Learners will gain insight into the Nursing Process; assessment, diagnosis, planning, implementation and evaluation and apply sound clinical reasoning and context dependent thinking, underpinned by a robust evidence-base to create co-designed, holistic care plans.
This module will empower the learner to demonstrate effective, age and intellectually appropriate communication with children, young people, adults, families and caregivers.
The learner will consider the importance of addressing individuals’ preferences and needs within a biopsychosocial context, together with demonstration of competence to safely perform a range of nursing procedures.
The learner will collaborate with Practice Assessors and Practice Supervisors to demonstrate competence in practice, through achievement of agreed NMC proficiencies, as outlined in Part 1 of the Nursing Associate Practice Assessment Document (NAPAD).
The module will provide four assessment points which will demonstrate successful achievement of the required NMC (2018) Standards of Proficiency for Nursing Associates for progression to Part 2.
This module builds on the Year 1 module, Developing Personal and Professional Practice, as learners critically reflect on their Personal Development Plans (PDP) to identify key areas for growth and development within the Nursing Associate role.
The module examines fundamental principles and theories of leadership, team working, supervision and assessment whilst promoting effective safeguarding practices and fostering an understanding of professional standards of practice and behaviour defined by the NMC Code (2018).
It will also enable the learner to gain insight into the inherent challenges of professional practice whilst strengthening their self-awareness, resilience, emotional intelligence, and adaptability in a healthcare setting.
This module aims to enhance knowledge and understanding of global, national and local public health challenges.
This will include health promotion and health protection strategies aimed at preventing illness whilst also fostering patient self-management and independence across all fields, lifespan and aspects of health and social care.
The module will explore the determinants of and disparities in health and wellness among communities, whilst considering the role of the Nursing Associates in promoting and safeguarding health, as well as their contribution to the fulfilment of public health objectives.
This module builds on the Nursing Process and Foundations of Evidence-Based Practice module undertaken in year one and explores ways research, audit and service evaluation contribute to the development of professional practice, guidelines, policy decisions and care quality.
The module will encourage the learner to reflect on the role of the Nursing Associate in quality improvement and support the development of knowledge and skills required for planning, implementing and evaluating an audit or service evaluation aimed at improving patient care and experience.
This module will equip the learner with the essential knowledge and skills necessary for their role as a registered Nursing Associate.
It emphasises the significance of applying underpinning knowledge and understanding of the Code (NMC 2018) and the Standards of proficiency for Nursing Associates.
The module continues to embed knowledge and proficiency in medicines management, information governance and effective communication with individuals, families and care givers of all ages to ensure the delivery of safe and effective person-centred care.
In addition, through practice-based learning experiences, the learner will collaborate with Practice Assessors and Practice Supervisors to demonstrate proficiency in practice through achievement of proficiencies, as outlined in Part 2 of the Nursing Associate Practice Assessment Document (NAPAD).
On completion of practice and academic requirements for the final assessment point of Part 2 of the NAPAD, the learner will progress to registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a registered Nursing Associate.
Academic requirement
Additional requirements
S end us a message
A full set of uniforms will be provided at the beginning of the programme by the University.
Your employer will ensure you have an occupational health assessment; however, you may need to pay for immunisations if they are not covered by your GP.
Printing and Binding: We are proud to offer free printing for all students to ensure that printing costs are not a potential financial barrier to student success.
The University of Winchester and Winchester Student Union are champions of sustainability and therefore ask that all students consider the environment and print fairly.
Students may be required to pay for the costs of dissertation binding.
Indicative cost is £1.50-£3.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Apprenticeships/Degree-Apprenticeship-Programmes/2025/BA-Hons-Social-Work-Apprenticeship-2025:
The University has been running a number of successful social work programmes for many years at undergraduate and postgraduate levels.
At the end of 2018 the government signed off standards for a new apprenticeship in social work.
This is a new route towards gaining an approved qualification in social work, which is regulated by Social Work England.
The programme is a partnership between the University and a number of employers of which Hampshire County Council is the lead.
Although many prospective and existing students are interested in the apprenticeship in social work they have to already be working for a local authority in our partnership to be considered eligible.
If you already work for a local authority you can check their website to see whether they offer an apprenticeship in social work.
This new programme is an employer led course funded by the ‘Levy’ that local authorities must pay as required by central government.
For those working for Hampshire County Council they have to be working in a social care post for a minimum of one year.
The University is unable to take any other interested candidates.
They have to be employed by a local authority and selected as suitable for the apprenticeship.
The government supports this route as it views apprenticeships as a direct way of recognising experience and talent in the workforce and retaining good staff by training them to become social workers.
For further information and our BA Apprenticeship Social Work Programme Handbook 25/26
3 years part-time Degree Apprenticeship
See entry details
January and September
Work based learning is a central feature of the apprenticeship programme.
The first year is located in the apprentices’ own work setting.
The apprentice remains in their existing role the service they are employed and is given a reduced workload to reflect their new role of learner.
Their role title will change to social worker apprentice.
The theme of this first year is introduction to social work.
This is followed in the second year by a contrasting practice experience either within the same service or different for a period of 70 days.
This year is themed around consolidation of knowledge and skills.
The final year is a 100 days practice experience involving social work tasks.
This again could be either in the same service or different.
The theme for this year is being ready for practice.
This means they are ready to register and enter practice as a social worker.
The Programme is based on transitions; developing and changing towards new areas of capability.
This module is a basic introduction to working in a regulated profession.
It covers rights and responsibilities under codes of practice.
It presents you with core ideas in social work and begins your journey of reflection and learning.
This module seeks to build your professional base and assesses your readiness to move to the second year of the course where you will be assessed in practice.
The module will draw upon your knowledge and experience and develop an understanding of the ethical framework in which the law and social policy is formulated in England and how it operates.
You will understand how to apply ethical decision making as the basis for sound professional judgement
This module develops the individual’s understanding and application of sociology, ethics and psychology to social work.
The task of social work is managing moral dilemma and as such students will investigate both their own ethical and moral development and ground that within their reading.
There is no easy prescription to social work.
Using best evidence to inform one’s judgement on ethical decision-making is at the heart of effective social work.
Social work is informed by a number of core disciplines to provide an underpinning knowledge base.
However critical thinking and moral judgement are the two most important constructs social workers rely upon to practice both the art and science of social work.
You will be introduced to a range of skills needed in working with service users and carers, in order to develop confidence and competence in communicating with others, to gain experience of presentation skills, understand the importance of professional boundaries, promote choice and involve others in the decision making.
You will be asked to undertake reflective exercises, peer and user feedback will be used throughout the module, alongside practical workshops to allow you to practise your skills.
Building and sustaining relationships is the heart of good and effective social work.
Building and developing key skills to communicate effectively to a range of diverse people is critical to effective social work practice.
This module gives apprentices a practical opportunity to advance their skills and knowledge in a social work service and enhance their capability.
It will cover the core tasks of social work, risk assessment, assessment of needs, care planning, working with other professionals and developing and sustaining relationships with service users and carers.
The SWA will need to demonstrate their skills in developing relationships, critical and analytical reflective thinking when confronted with problems and dilemmas, and working using best evidence, e.g.
identifying what is best evidence and how it informs better outcomes for service users.
This module will provide you with a basic understanding of social work law and its relationship with practice across adults and children’s legislation and policy frameworks.
It will provide an opportunity to develop your critical skills and knowledge in analysing applied law in social work practice.
Acquiring legal literacy to perform safe and legal social work tasks is a core part of social work practice.
This module provides an understanding of the ethical basis of practice within a Human Rights framework to legitimise social work decision making.
Indicative legislation taught covers the following legislation: Children Act 1989, Mental Health Act 1983, Mental Capacity Act 2005, Care Act 2014, Human rights Act 1998 and Equalities Act 1998
This module will address safeguarding in both adult and child contexts; enabling you to recognise, and respond to signs of harm and abuse.
It will support you in your analysis of assessment of risk.
Risk and assessment  represent deceptively simple concepts, however good assessment is the cornerstone of social work practice and therefore will be explored in-depth.
Assessments can have a significant impact on the lives of children, young people, families and communities; therefore assessment frameworks and the ways in which ways assessments are conducted and how information is used and analysed will be considered.
Effective assessment is a transparent area of practice where the social worker is clearly accountable for his/her actions.
Stringent recording and communication are essential cornerstones of good practice.
You will continue to learn about the importance of research and by encouraging research literacy you will develop skills required to be critically informed and your work be supported through evidence based practice.
This module will introduce you to critical thinking and reflective skills are essential to effective decision making and this module will take the form of critical reflective learning in small groups.
You will share and investigate critical incidents from your practice experience in a safe learning environment supported by service users who are experienced in this type of  engagement and facilitated by lecturers.
You will be invited to think about your practice and make links with relevant theories, skills and experience.
This module gives apprentices a practical opportunity to advance their skills and knowledge in a social work service and enhance their capability in preparation for their ASYE year.
The SWA will need to demonstrate their skills in working autonomously, critical and analytical reflective thinking when confronted with problems and dilemmas, and working using best evidence, e.g.
Ready for Practice 2 will focus on interprofessional working, interdisciplinary context, changing environments which uphold the rights and needs of individuals.
The teaching and learning will focus on developing adaptable and reflective practitioners ready for contemporary practice.
This module will provide you with the opportunity to enhance your skill and knowledge in critically applying law in social work practice.
In this module social work apprentices are expected to demonstrate their evaluative skills in applying social work legislation to their work-based learning.
You will be expected to not only know the powers and limits of the legal framework but provide defensible evaluation against legal and ethical challenge.
This module presents a range of key concepts in social work such as self-determination and strengths based working and how these impact on different service user groups, key issues and areas of concern such as: domestic abuse, drug and alcohol abuse, poverty and homelessness and mental health.
Being able to evaluate and critically analyse contemporary issues in society is fundamental to the core task of social work.
There are no formal academic entry requirements for the BA (Hons) Social Work – Degree Apprenticeship, but applicants will be asked for GCSE English Language Grade C/4+ (or equivalent) either during the selection process or before formal completion of the course.
The University will work with your employer to evaluate your suitability for social work education, including your values and understanding of social work, fluency in spoken English and suitability for apprenticeship study.
This process will involve employers and University teaching staff.
An enhanced DBS check is mandatory.
Telephone: +44 (0) 1962 827234 Send us a message
Apprentices who will be 18 at the start of the apprenticeship will require Level 2 Functional Skills or GCSE at Grade C/4+ (or equivalent) in English.
For apprentices that will be 19+ at the start of their apprenticeship, particular requirements around Level 2 Functional Skills English will be decided by your employer that is supporting you to complete the apprenticeship
Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance check required when students accept the offer of a place on the course (the indicative cost of this is £40: www.gov.uk/disclosure-barring-service-check )
All candidates must have significant prior social work/social care/youth work experience in a paid or voluntary capacity in a relevant setting, in order to demonstrate an informed decision to embark on a career in Social Work.
International students seeking additional information about this programme can send an email to International@winchester.ac.uk or head to the International Apply page .
As one of our students all of your teaching and assessments are included in your tuition fees, including lectures/guest lectures and tutorials, seminars, laboratory sessions and specialist teaching facilities.
Some core texts can be bought second hand or as an ebook, which can often reduce this cost.
Indicative cost is £100 per academic full time year.
There may be additional costs for optional off-campus activities.
Some trips are local and free, however if the trip includes coach travel, the student is expected to cover this cost.
Indicative cost is £20.
Students are required to pay for Camtasia, for use on campus.
A Discloure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance check is required when applicants accept their offer for a place on the course.
Indicative cost is £40.
Students are not required, but are recommended, to register for the DBS update service during the length of the programme.
Indicative cost is £13 per year.
Students will be required to have appropriate motor insurance if they are driving their own vehicle during any placement.
The type of motor insurance cover will depend on the type of journey that they undertake.
Driving to and from the placement is commuting and driving as part of the business activity during the placement day is driving for business use.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Apprenticeships/Degree-Apprenticeship-Programmes/2025/BSc-Hons-Midwifery-Apprenticeship-2025:
January
University of Winchester application link following successful interview.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Apprenticeships/Degree-Apprenticeship-Programmes/BSc-Hons-Occupational-Therapy-Degree-Apprenticeship-:
The BSc (Hons) Occupational Therapy Degree Apprenticeship programme is a combination of workplace learning alongside studying at a university allowing for employers to retain and grow their existing workforce.
This innovative course has been co-produced with a wide range of stakeholders including employers, apprentices and experts by experience.
The programme’s philosophy has been co-produced with current apprentices, local and national therapists, as well as service users.
At Winchester, our apprentices will be:
- Confident and capable of fostering a culture of research engagement and innovation at every stage of their careers.
- Committed to inter-professional working, recognising the value of wider workforce roles such as support workers, social prescribers, work coaches, care staff, and housing officers.
- Knowledgeable, creative, committed and confident in driving innovation and demonstrating the impact of occupational therapy.
- Proficient in understanding the role of AI and technology enabled care in occupational therapy.
- Compassionate and inclusive leaders.
- Change-makers within occupational therapy practice.
- Advocates for equitable health outcomes, addressing social determinants of health and challenging structural barriers to health, well-being, and occupation.
Professional in practice and understand self-limitations for safe and effective practice.
Both the BSc and MSc courses are embedded within work place learning will be delivered through a combination of lectures, seminars, workshops, online learning and employer-led projects, as well as through the full-time placement experiences and on-the-job training within the workplace.
Apprentices will attend the University of Winchester one day per week, alongside one day per week of guided independent learning.
Apprentices on both the BSC and MSc will also undertake three full-time placements outside the usual workplace.
This programme has received University approval for curriculum development and is now in the final stages of the validation process.
Some elements of the curriculum could be altered at this stage such as inclusion of optional module content, assessment types, module names and indicative curriculum content.
This programme is the process of being validated by Royal College of Occupational Therapists and the HCPC.
Taught elements of the course take place on campus in Winchester, on placement in the  work place and community.
Both courses adopts a hybrid approach.
Taught elements of the course take place on campus in Winchester, on placement in the work place and community.
Apprentices will be scheduled to attend face to face teaching on a set day of the week.
BSc is full time (one day a week) over three years, MSc is full time (one day a week) over 2 years.
Our courses adopt a range of means of assessing your learning.
An indicative, and not necessarily comprehensive, list of assessment types you might encounter includes essays, portfolios, supervised independent work, presentations, written exams, or practical assessments.
As such, where appropriate and necessary, students with recognised disabilities may have alternative assignments set that continue to find out how successfully they have met the module's learning outcomes.
Digital and technological literacy is a requirement for entry to all Occupational Therapy programmes.
Teaching hours All class based teaching takes places between 9am – 6pm, Monday to Friday during term time.
Wednesday afternoons are usually free from timetabled teaching for personal study time.
TBC
All applicants must have 5 GCSEs (or equivalent) at grade C/4 or above to include Maths and English prior to commencing the programme.
A GCSE (or equivalent) in a science related subject (including Social Sciences) is preferable.
Aspiring apprentices who do not have 96 UCAS points, or equivalent, are considered on a case-by-case basis with employer support/ approval, such as the criteria outlined in the Discover Winchester Scheme ( www.winchester .ac.uk/discover).
We will look for evidence within your application of a commitment to the Occupational Therapy profession.
You must be employed by a health or social care provider who will committ to supporting you on your apprenticeship  You should have a conversation with your employer who will check you meet the eligibility criteria.
Should you be successful at interview you will then apply directly to the University.
Each applicant will be individually assessed, they will be required to demonstrate their ability to study at a degree level and meet the RCOT (2019) and HCPC (2021) standards.
We are aware that not all learners may have the desired academic qualifications but will adopt an inclusive approach but will need to show readiness for Level 4 study.
Relevant life experience is an important attribute in occupational therapy.
The University of Winchester will also check your eligibility for the Occupational Therapy Apprenticeship Programme.
Applicants must demonstrate an awareness of, and commitment to, the professional standards of practice and the ethical and professional conduct expected of occupational therapists.
These principles are embedded within the entry requirements for the apprenticeship and will be assessed through both the application and interview stages.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Press-Centre/Media-Articles/There-are-so-many-misconceptions-with-apprenticeships-Hannah-Lee-of-Zurich-on-setting-out-on-a-degree-apprenticeship.php:
Following the launch of a new BSc (Hons) Data Science degree apprenticeship programme at Winchester sponsored by Zurich Insurance , student Hannah Lee, a junior data scientist at the leading insurers, explains why she chose to study on the programme and how what she is learning is boosting her career prospects.
I'm Hannah and I work as a Junior Data Scientist in the Predictive Analytics team at Zurich.
I started as an Actuarial Apprentice after completing my A-Levels and have now been here for over 3 years.
In my role I work on various projects involving AI and machine learning - no two projects are the same which means I get a lot of variety, which I love!
(They say "variety is the spice of life" - William Cowper).
There are several core aspects of data science and this degree apprenticeship will provide a strong coverage of all these things - data analytics, maths and statistics and computer science.
I have been able to learn so much on the job, but this course will help me understand the maths and theory behind some of the techniques we use, as well as learning new skills and techniques that I can apply to my role.
Mondays are my uni day, where I attend online seminars and workshops.
This is ideal for me because it means I have the rest of the week to focus on work.
At the moment, my team are working from home so every morning we have a virtual meeting to catch up and talk about the work we have on for the day, which helps maintain our strong team culture.
In terms of work, I spend a lot of time exploring and interrogating data in R.
I also analyse data and create statistical models based on internal data collected from customers, as well as external data which is often publicly available.
These models are used to analyse trends or make predictions and can be used to inform pricing decisions, among other things.
A significant part of my role involves communicating my findings, so I spend time working on presentations to communicate to the team and stakeholders.
I also spend time working on an initiative I lead called Ride the Railway, which enables people in the organisation to visit other teams to broaden their understanding of the business, discover new roles and grow their network.
I found it hard to rebalance my work/life with the added element of study!
I'm trying to manage my time so I can focus on my work deliverables Tuesday to Friday and setting aside enough time throughout the week to focus on university work and lectures.
It's taking some getting used to but I'm getting there!
The fact I'm learning new things that I can apply directly to my role.
Most students may not realise the things they're learning are relevant or if they'll ever use them.
However, working in the industry means when you learn things you can stop and think "I know how I'd use this at work" or "this would help me with this piece of work".
It can be useful to know that what I'm learning is worthwhile.
This apprenticeship will help me gain the knowledge, skills and experience that will help me develop technically within my team and to gain expertise in the data science field.
I will also be able to develop other transferable skills such as time management, prioritisation and communication, which will be beneficial in any role throughout my career.
Why not?
I couldn't think of a better way to do it.
You get a degree paid for by your employer, earn money, and get three + years of real work experience.
Some people struggle when they finish university as they have no work experience and have difficulty adjusting from textbook learning to applying their skills on the job.
With a degree apprenticeship, it seems you get the best of both worlds!
There are so many misconceptions with apprenticeships, but lots of industries offer them at different levels (you can do a Masters degree as an apprentice!).
It's an alternative to full-time university, with many benefits.
Press Office  |  +44 (0)1962 827678  | press@winchester.ac.uk | www.twitter.com/_UoWNews

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Press-Centre/Media-Articles/University-named-a-top-UK-training-provider-for-degree-apprenticeships.php:
The University of Winchester is celebrating after being named one of the UK's top 50 training providers at the RateMyApprenticeship Awards 2020 for its degree apprenticeship courses.
The league table of UK top training providers rewards those who have delivered exceptional training, and is based on the reviews of students across all apprenticeship and school leaver schemes on the national website RateMyApprenticeship.co.uk .
"Training providers play a huge role in the success of apprenticeships and at the University of Winchester we pride ourselves on building effective relationships with our employer partners to deliver apprenticeships and learning experiences that support and motivate learners," said Stella McKnight, Director of Employer Partnerships at the University of Winchester.
"It is fantastic to be recognised for delivering exceptional apprenticeship training and even more special and significant because it is voted for by students themselves."
The winners were announced at a special awards event, along with the winners of several other awards.
Celebrating the outstanding achievements of apprentices, schools and colleges, universities, employers and training providers in apprenticeships, the awards saw over 400 people come together virtually to recognise the industry's finest.
The University of Winchester offers a range of programmes in digital and technology, designed in close collaboration with employers to ensure that apprentices develop the high-level skills they and their employers need in increasingly competitive markets.
Employer partners include CGI, Fujitsu, BAE Systems and Quicksilva.
If you are an employer wishing to source further information about degree apprenticeships at the University of Winchester, please contact Stella McKnight: Stella.McKnight@winchester.ac.uk .
More information at: www.winchester.ac.uk/degreeapprenticeships
Press Office  |  +44 (0)1962 827678  |  press@winchester.ac.uk  |  www.twitter.com/_UoWNews

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Postgraduate/Courses/2025/MRes-Sport-and-Exercise-2025:
You have the opportunity to focus on physiology, biomechanics, coaching, sociology, strength and conditioning, business, exercise and health, or medicine.
You are supported in making this choice, and your specialism is reflected in the title of the degree you are awarded.
The programme also offers you the opportunity to undertake a substantial year-long research project of your choice under the guidance of expert staff from the Department of Sport and Exercise.
You study core modules including Scientific Research Methods, Scientific Research Review, along with the extended research project.
You are also encouraged to actively participate in seminar and workshop sessions and to develop your ability to reflect critically on your own experiences and share these reflections with others.
The tutors support you in your enjoyment of autonomous learning, and foster your passion for the subject and the process of learning.
Daytime
For more information about our regulations for this course, please see our Academic Regulations, Policies and Procedures section.
Graduates progress to a wide range of professions, including academia.
A particularly strong route is going onto a Doctoral research programme (PhD) or obtaining professional qualifications in the sport and exercise sciences  (BASES).
Other avenues include coaching, teaching, and working in the sports business industry.
Take a look at all our courses within the subject area of Sport

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Postgraduate/Courses/2025/PgCert-Practice-Education-2025:
Our exciting programme of study is taught via online learning and is applicable to professionals working across a range of health care and social work settings.
It is divided into two equally-weighted modules, which are mapped to the Social Work Practice Educator Professional Standards (PEPS) stages 1 and 2.
The first module, Supporting Learners in Practice Education, will cover the application of creative supervisory methods that address complexity of learning, including different models of supervision.
You will explore how to manage complex and contentious issues such as managing failing students, unconscious bias, diversity, appeals and assessment bias.
This module will include assessing performance in practice, assessment standardisation and observation of supervisory and assessment skills.
The second module, Leading Learning in Practice Education, will encourage you to develop your own practice by demonstrating application of practice, new roles and contemporary practices such as long arm supervision.
There will be a focus on leadership in practice education, facilitating a culture of supervision and learning support and interprofessional working.
In the final component you will address supervision in practice through the implementation of a quality improvement project around supervision and practice education.
You can also take either one of the modules (Supporting Learners in Practice Education OR Leading Learning in Practice Education) as a stand-alone short course.
The fee for either single module as a short course is £1,600.
Please email PracticeEdAdmin@winchester.ac.uk for further information on when the short courses will run and how to apply.
The course has been structured to be accessible to working professionals with different schedules and demands on time.
The assessment has been designed to be appropriate for application in practice and will consist of a portfolio and the implementation and evaluation of a quality improvement project.
A first or second-class honours degree or equivalent professional experience
From £2,920 pa
This course is offered as distance learning only.
Assessments take the form of reviews of literature, reflective accounts of practice in relation to research, portfolios, case studies or workplace-based assignments.
An indicative, and not necessarily comprehensive, list of assessment types you might encounter includes essays, portfolios, supervised independent work, presentations or written exams.
This introductory module will explore educational theories relevant to practice education and will develop skills in facilitating and constructing effective learning through a constructivist collaborative approach.
Practice educators will explore barriers to learning and assessment in their setting as well more generic factors such as unconscious bias and student expectation.
Managing a student who is failing to achieve learning objectives, risk of failure processes, and supporting learning in complex environments will also be explored.
Issues of standardisation of marking, sensitivity, and inter-rater reliability will be evaluated in relation to fairness and equitability for students at different levels of their training, as well as ensuring feedback is fair and transparent.
This module enables practice educators to build on the Supporting Learners in Practice Education module to develop leadership skills in practice education.
Practice educators will consider different modules of supervisory practice that could be adapted to different placement opportunities.
They will review their current practice and develop enhanced leadership skills to develop supervisory skills in others.
The module will consider the implementation of a multi-professional approach and the development of a culture of lifelong learning and supervision from novice through to advanced clinical practice.
Professional issues, problems and concerns will be explored in the context of the practice area, and solutions and opportunities developed to extend practice education opportunities.
Using this information, practice educators will develop an online learning package for novice practice educators that will support the context of transformational practice education.
Normally a first or second-class Honour degree awarded in the past 6 years or professional experience in the area of study.
To apply for our either our September or January intake, please visit our How to Apply page.
Applications need to be submitted by the published deadline date on our website.
For more information see our How to Apply section.
Part-time entry | £2,920
Total Cost | £2,920
ADDITIONAL COSTS
Successful completion of the programme is likely to lead to advancement in your health and social care profession, workforce development or educator role.
I joined the University of Winchester in 2019 as a Senior Lecturer in Physiotherapy.
I qualified as a Physiotherapist in 1998 with an extensive background in community and in-patient rehabilitation.
My experience expands on broad clinical, leadership, and practice education environments in various NHS Trusts and private sectors.
I am also an Education Consultant for the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy, an External Examiner at the London Southbank University’ Physiotherapy programmes.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/further-study-options/Distance-and-flexible-learning/Distance-Learning-requirements:
Minimum and recommended specification for equipment
As a distance learner you are reliant on your own computer equipment, network connection to the internet and working environment.
Because you are working remotely from the campus you are also going to have manage your own time and sustaining motivation can be a problem.
If you are working and if you have family commitments or other domestic obligations, you will have to think about how you manage these.
None of these issues are specific or unique to the distance learner, but they can play a significant role in your learning experience.
This page provides guidance on these and related considerations.
It is a requirement that you have reliable access to a desktop or laptop computer for the duration of your studies.
A device of this sort is essential for reading extended documents online and for writing and submitting assessments.
Computer Specifications
For best performance, it is recommended to use a computer with at least 1GB of RAM.
This will ensure that you are able to run the most recent browsers (see below) and is a very low specification.
Any computer purchased in the last five years will meet this requirement and many older models will comfortably support it.
If you want to check the specifications of your computer, read this Wikihow guidance .
Browser versions
You should always access Canvas with a computer that supports the most recent browser versions.
We recommend Chrome and you can ensure that this browser is fully up to date by following these instructions:
If you want to check that Chrome is up to date follow the browser guidance .
Operating System
Canvas only requires an operating system that can run the latest compatible web browsers.
Your computer operating system should be kept up to date with the latest recommended security updates and upgrades:
You can get instructions on how to update all recent versions of the Windows operating system on the Safety Detectives website .
For a Mac you can access instructions on how to update your Operating System and other critical apps on the Apple website .
Internet Speed
Along with compatibility and web standards, Canvas has been carefully crafted to accommodate low bandwidth environments.
It is recommended to have a minimum Internet speed of 512kbps.
Screen Readers
Macintosh: VoiceOver (latest version for Safari)
PC: JAWS (latest version for Chrome and Firefox)
PC: NVDA (latest version for Chrome and Firefox)
You will be able to use mobile devices like tablets and even smartphones to access course materials and even participate in many activities.
This can provide flexibility and help you manage your engagement in academic study around varied commitments, work environments or domestic situations that are dynamic or unpredictable.
Mobile devices can be extremely effective when you are participating in live online learning activities and you can download the mobile Teams app for both Android and IOS for free.
When you create documents, presentations or other resources that you are required to share with other students or your tutor it is your responsibility to ensure that these are created and published in a compatible format.
The standard is normally the Microsoft office Suite: applications like Word, Excel and PowerPoint in other words.
If you do not have a license for these applications – once you have registered for your course - you can download the software for free from our intranet .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/further-study-options/Study-abroad/Incoming-exchange-students:
If you are interested in studying abroad at the University of Winchester please see the information below.
Once the ancient capital of England and former seat of King Alfred the Great, Winchester is the quintessential English city with a rich heritage and vibrant contemporary culture - truly an inspiring place to both live and study.
Not far from the coast, with its small friendly community and excellent transport connections (one hour from London), it is not surprising that Winchester is regularly voted one of the best places to live in England.
Our modern university campus is located just a short walk from the city centre and offers excellent facilities, including on campus accommodation.
The university has been successfully hosting Study Abroad students for over 40 years and has dedicated Study Abroad co-ordinators to support students throughout their experience.
Our Study Abroad students can select modules from a wide range of high quality programmes across the Humanities, Arts, Social Sciences, Business and Sport.
Our Study Abroad students have full access to our university support services as well as Winchester’s Student Union , which offers a variety of societies and sport teams.
At Winchester, w e offer a supportive and engaging learning community, where students studying abroad can make connections and feel a sense of belonging.
"Making the choice to study abroad was both exciting and terrifying, but the University of Winchester welcomed us with open arms.
They accommodated our needs and made us feel very comfortable.
We grew both as students and as people and we would never trade this experience for anything" - (Magi and Emily, Lander University, USA)
"Coming to Winchester was one of the best decisions I’ve made so far.
For one thing, Winchester provided me with a safe, friendly and diverse learning environment that helped me grow intellectually and personally" - (Graeme, Westminster College, USA)
Study Abroad students include Visiting (fee paying) and Exchange students.
Normally students must be at least 18 years of age on 31 December of the year of admission.
Students should be registered on a recognised programme of study at a university or higher education institution.
Most of our Study Abroad applicants are from our Exchange and Visiting Partners in the USA, Canada, Europe and Japan.
Spaces permitting, we will also consider applications from students from non-partner higher education institutions.
Applicants should have a minimum GPA of 2.8 or equivalent.
If English is not your first language, you must provide one form of evidence of your English language competence from the following list:  IELTS – Minimum overall score of 6, including 5.5 in Academic Writing or equivalent (e.g.
TOEF IBT 80 - 19 in writing) OR an Overseas GCE O level in English language at Grade A – C or equivalent qualification.
If you require a ‘Student visa’ UKVI approved IELTS will be required.
If you have not already been nominated by your home university Exchange co-ordinator, please contact studyabroad@winchester.ac.uk to check whether a nomination is required.
If you have already been nominated, please complete the Study Abroad Application Form 25/26 and arrange for your home university Exchange Co-ordinator to email them to studyabroad@winchester.ac.uk.
If you are a free-moving student (non-partner university) you may email these to us directly.
Students wishing to apply for University Managed Housing must also complete a Housing Form, which is available from studyabroad@winchester.ac.uk .
Please note that places on Study Abroad at Winchester are limited and students are advised to apply as early as possible.
Application deadlines:
Study Abroad are proud to belong to the International Student Success Team within the Student Support and Success Department.
Student Support and Success offer a wide range of support, including Disability and Inclusion, Mental Wellbeing, International Student Support and Academic Success (who are also able to support students for whom English is an additional language).
We strongly encourage all applicants to consider the support available at the University when making their Study Abroad application.
For students who require support for a disability, learning difference, mental health condition or English Language study, we would encourage you to make contact with our teams at the point of application.
Students are welcome to contact studyabroad@winchester.ac.uk to be connected with the relevant teams.
Further information and direct contacts are also provided below:
Wellbeing, Disability and Learning Diversity Support - https://www.winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Student-support/Wellbeing/
Email: disabilty@winchester.ac.uk or mentalwellbeing@winchester.ac.uk
International Student Support - Student support - University of Winchester
Email: International.Support@winchester.ac.uk
Studying Abroad offers students a chance to study in a new academic culture and possibly study new topics
Academic Culture
We have five faculties: Faculty of Business and Digital Technologies , Faculty of Education and The Arts , Faculty of Health and Wellbeing , Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences , Faculty of Law, Crime and Criminal Justice .
Upon arrival at the University of Winchester you will be placed in the faculty which best fits your area of study.
Your faculty will handle the modules you take and support your academic study.
Admission and module changes are handled by the Study Abroad Co-ordinator, who is located in the International Student Success department.
This allows the University to have a centrally organised Study Abroad system.
Modules and Credits
A full-time student would be expected to take 60 credits per semester or 120 credits per academic year.
Each module is usually worth 15 credits.
This usually means that you will take 4 modules per semester or 8 per academic year.
One credit translates to 10 hours worth of work.
At the University of Winchester, Home students usually follow a strict structure to their programme.
However, as an exchange student your home institution will define which level is best suited to your current level of study.
Year 1 classes are defined at Level 4 (or level 1) with a module code starting with a 1.
Year 2 classes are defined at Level 5 (or level 2) with a module code starting with a 2.
Year 3 classes are defined at Level 6 (or level 3) with a module code starting with a 3.
For postgraduate programmes each level is increased depending of the level of study.
A full-time student would be expected to take 60 CATS credits (equivalent to 30 ECTS credits) per semester.
A single module is usually worth 15 CATS credits (7.5 ECTS credits), and a double module 30 CATS credits.
A student taking single modules only would normally take 4 modules per semester.
Module Catalogues
Our 24-25 Module Catalogues are provided below to give students an indication of the types of programmes we offer.
Please note that many of these modules will be replaced with new modules in 25-26, so we recommend students confirm their modules choices once the new catalogues are available (please check with Studyabroad@winchester.ac.uk ).
Information for Students Eligible to Select BA Primary Education Teaching Modules
Eligible students are from partner institutions with whom we have a specific Teacher Education subject agreement.
Some students may be expected to undertake a school placement (maximum of 8-10 days), which would normally be in a Primary School.
Please note that students undertaking Primary Education modules are required to provide a Criminal Record Certificate from their home country.
Please see the following link for guidance: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/criminal-records-checks-for-overseas-applicants.
The certificate should be no more than 6 months old at the time of submission to Study Abroad.
Students will also be asked to undertake an Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Check.
The current cost of the DBS check is £ 49.50 (this cost set by the DBS and may be subject to change).
Please be aware that the DBS can take a few weeks to process the records so any placements are likely to take place towards the end of the semester.
For the practical information regarding studying at the University of Winchester please read below.
* Students staying on for an academic year may be required to attend assessment weeks Monday 5 January to Friday 16 January 2026 (unless alternative assessments are agreed).
Traditionally, Study Abroad students do not stay for the assessment periods.
Please contact Studyabroad@winchester.ac.uk if you would like to extend to include the two week assessment period (ends 15 May 2026).
* During progress week there will be no scheduled teaching.
Supported learning sessions (assessment preparation and wellbeing workshops) will be available.
Please check the website https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/uk-visas-and-immigration and https://www.gov.uk/check-uk-visa to check whether you require a visa to study in the UK.
Students intending to study here as a ‘Standard Visitor’ will need to apply for an Electronic Travel Authorisation before they travel  - see https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-for-an-electronic-travel-authorisation-eta for further information.
If you have any questions regarding visas, please do contact us at studyabroad@winchester.ac.uk .
Please do not book your transport until you have received notification of your acceptance from The University of Winchester and have received your visa (if visa required).
For students who have been accepted to Study Abroad at Winchester, please contact Study Abroad for transport advice.
Semester 1 students who wish to extend their study period to include semester 2 should contact Studyabroad@winchester.ac.uk as soon as possible (places are subject to availability and any visa restrictions).
Study Abroad Application Form 25/26
Module Selection Form for Incoming Study Abroad Students
Study Abroad Module Catalogue - Fall Term 24/25
Study Abroad Module Catalogue - Spring Term 24/25
(CAS) Request Form
Applying to Winchester
Have you....
Documents to bring with you
Study Abroad International Student Success Team University of Winchester Sparkford Road Winchester Hampshire England, UK SO22 4NR
Tel: +44 (0)1962 827404 Email: studyabroad@winchester.ac.uk
Get in touch with our International Student Success Team to find out more
Tel: +44 (0)1962 827404
Email: studyabroad@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/further-study-options/Study-abroad/Studying-abroad-as-part-of-your-degree:
Study abroad allows you to spend part of your university course studying overseas at one of our partner universities in the USA, Canada or Europe.
Alternatively, there is the opportunity for shorter term study trips organised by your course at Winchester.
An exchange means that you spend an extended period studying at a partner university.
At Winchester this is usually for a full semester in your 2nd year, however, a full year may be available for your course.
Studying abroad immerses you in the culture of the country and the life of the overseas university.
Taking part in an exchange has many benefits:
We offer financial support to eligible students.
You will continue to pay tuition fees to Winchester and no tuition fees are paid to your host (which is often much cheaper than if you were to study there independently)
Short term visits - or Field Trips - are an intensive overseas experience for students and staff lasting up to two weeks.
This could be visiting a partner university or organisation, or a trip that travels around.
For more information please contact Globalmobility@winchester.ac.uk .
We currently have 13 partner Universities across USA, Canada and Europe.
If you decide to study abroad as part of your degree, you can study at any of the following institutions:
The Study Abroad programmes offer you the opportunity to Study Abroad at one of our partner Universities.
You can apply for the exchange programme if you are currently a full-time first year student, or, if you are a second year Accounting and Finance student or BSc Psychology student.
You cannot take part if you are studying any of the following programmes:
If you are offered a place on the exchange during Semester 1, you will be expected to stay at your host.
University for the Fall Semester between late August and mid-December (dates vary), before returning to the UK in time for the start of the second Semester of Year 2 in early January.
If you are offered a place on the exchange during Semester 2, you will attend as normal here in Winchester for Semester 1 and then you will be expected to stay at your host University for the Spring Semester between January - May (dates vary).
Studying in a different country is a challenge and a joy.
You should be aware of the difference in teaching style, assessment types, class sizes, contact with teachers and expectations.
If you have a learning agreement at the University of Winchester please inform the Study Abroad Coordinators right away.
We can help you set up a learning agreement in your host institution.
You will be marked and graded at your host university.
Depending on your institution these marks will be returned and we will convert them to Winchester credits only for semester abroad exchanges.
All your modules (and module changes) must be approved with your programme leader in order to be eligible for credits at Winchester
Depending on your Study Abroad programme, the University prepares students for Study Abroad through pre-departure meetings.
These sessions will prepare you for:
These sessions are vital to prepare you for your Study Abroad programme Please check with the Study Abroad Coordinators when these sessions are run.
Please check with your host university the relevant semester information.
You will normally be expected to arrive before traditional induction for international induction sessions.
Please refer to the information provided from your host institution for more information.
You will not pay any tuition fees to your host institution.
As an exchange, you will continue to pay fees to the University of Winchester.
Accommodation fees vary depending on the programme.
Please see information from your host institution.
In most cases you will be placed in University Halls.
The University of Winchester will provide you with full Travel Cover for the duration of your Study Abroad programme.
Please read the Travel Cover documents to ensure that you are aware of the coverage, these will be provided to you upon successful application.
There are a few partner institutions who require students to be protected by additional host university insurance.
If this is the case then you should take out the insurance required at your host institution.
You will remain protected under the University of Winchester Travel Cover but cannot claim on both.
Please refer to documents from your host institution for more information.
​If you are studying outside of the EEA​ (European Economic Area)​ you will normally be required to get a visa.
Please refer to the information regarding the visa you should apply for, and keep informed about costs.
You will be required to arrange your own interview and pay for travel to/from the embassy.​
You should ensure you complete the following actions:
There are various forms of online and mobile banking which could be used abroad.
Ensure your bank knows you will be abroad during this period.
Please check with your bank, account charges that might occur should you complete transactions abroad.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Short-courses/Courses/An-Introduction-to-Global-Health:
The course is designed to provide an accessible introduction and overview of global and planetary health, with opportunities to learn more detail by using the links and further reading provided.
It places health in the context of our relationship to the ecosystem of the planet and society.
This short course identifies why health has improved in many countries of the world but not in others and provides a framework to help us make a difference.
The course identifies the world agenda that will achieve a sustainable planet and good health for all, but notes that this is not inevitable and relies on humans choosing this direction of travel.
October 2024, February 2025
Distanced Learning
10 hours
Apply Online
Health Professionals
£150
Distance learning only.
The course is delivered entirely online, self-paced and takes between 5 - 10 hours to complete.
The duration will be dependent on the amount of further reading in which a learner engages.
The course content includes written material, graphics, videos, narrated presentations, links to further resources and reading materials.
There is no formal external assessment.
However, learners are encouraged to reflect on the content of the course and the course includes some guided reflection.
This distance-learning course is delivered via Canvas.
Due to government regulations, Instructure (Canvas) prohibits the unauthorised use of its products and services in specific countries and regions.
We need to make these restrictions clear to individuals considering this course.
Please see the guidance as documented by Canvas.
Which countries are restricted from using Canvas?
This course uses the video hosting platform Vimeo, which the following countries have restricted access.
China (excluding Hong Kong), North Korea, Iran, Cuba, Indonesia, Sudan, Syria, and Russia.
For more information regarding these restrictions please email HWBShortcourses@winchester.ac.uk before booking a place on the course.
Opens
Closes
28 October 2025
10 December 2025
3 February 2025
17 March 2026
This module is about people and the planet.
It covers the evolution of humans, their spread and development over time.
It notes the important changes that took place when they developed settlements and how this and their animal origins have affected their health ever since.
The module concludes by asking how their numbers have now increased to nearly 8 billion and asks why.
This module is about causes of death and how and why these have been changing.
It explores early theories of disease and tests whether changes in these have lead to the increase in population.
Using the example of a country that has become high income it covers how causes of death have changed and how this knowledge can be used when looking at all countries round the world.
It notes the very significant changes that have taken place over the last 50 years and provides the opportunity to look more closely at the main diseases in the world together with their epidemiology.
It concludes by looking at the main health challenges in the future.
This module is about the health gradient, inequalities and social determinants.
The module starts by looking at the relationship between health and wealth and explores why some people are more healthy than others.
It looks at the basic ingredients we need in order to survive and explores how the way we structure our society increases or decreases our survival capabilities.
This includes access to affordable healthcare and the manpower challenge the world has to achieve this.
It concludes by looking at the evidence that shines light on how the relationship between our animal origins and our social hierarchies affect our health.
This module provides a practical framework to help decide how to improve health in the most cost effective way.
The module begins by looking at the health problems of a low-income country in Africa.
It then follows the patient journey of a woman who lives in a rural village as she seeks help from a health clinic.
This is then linked to the determinants of health and expands a medical care model to a population health care model.
Using examples, it uses the model to help people identify the most effective interventions that will improve particular health problems.
It also addresses barriers to the use of healthcare and looks at need, demand, prevention, effectiveness, efficiency, service improvement.
This module looks at what the world doing about global health and the future of the planet.
The module looks first at the impacts that human activities have had on the health of people in countries of the world and some of the ways these have and are being tackled.
It notes that the interconnected big problems of the world today demand a co-ordinated approach, if they are to be managed.
It describes the formation of the UN and WHO, together with the significance of health now being seen as a human right.
The module concludes by recognising that Sustainable Global Health for All is only achieved by achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, the development of which are traced back to the formation of the UN.
The course concludes with examples and guidance for people who want to learn more or to become involved in global health in some way.
Run by the Faculty of Health & Wellbeing at the University of Winchester, this course does not require prior knowledge or experience and should be accessible to a wide range of learners.
A good command of the English Language is required, both written and oral.
The current course dates are available via the 'Book now' button.
For academic/course content enquires please contact Dr John Acres John.Acres@winchester.ac.uk or Dr Rachel Locke Rachel.Locke@winchester.ac.uk .
For general enquiries please contact the department administrator HWBShortCourses@winchester.ac.uk
It will be particularly useful for healthcare professionals as it meets the recommendations of the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges (AoMRC) (see (1) and (2) below) for what healthcare professionals (doctors, nurses, dieticians, nutritionists, physiotherapists etc.) should know about global health.
The recommendations set out capability areas to do with:
Diversity, Human Rights and Ethics Environmental, Social and Economic Determinants of Health Global Epidemiology Global Health Governance Health Systems and Health Professionals
(1)A Summary of the AOMRC Recommendations (2)The Planetary Health Education Framework
Those interested in Planetary Health: As the course also covers the domains of the Planetary Health Education Framework, it will also be of interest to the growing number of people concerned about the future of the planet and the people who live on it.
The course also provides an introduction to the five foundational domains of the Planetary Health Education Framework recommended by the taskforce of the Planetary Health Alliance (3).
Interconnection with Nature The Anthropocene and Health Equity and Social Justice Movement Building and Systems Change Systems Thinking and Complexity
No International Entry Requirements for this course.
This course is available for health care professionals.
For information about staff and student discounts please contact the department administrator HWBShortCourses@winchester.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Short-courses/Courses/Community-Rehabilitation---Healthy-Ageing-:
This short course will provide Registered Nurses and Registered Allied Health Professionals with a comprehensive understanding of rehabilitation theories, and interventions to encourage healthy ageing.
Students will develop critical skills to enhance their own rehabilitation practice and enable a self-managed approach to their clinical practice.
Students will explore theories of leadership and critically reflect on leading their teams and services.
The module is delivered by Dr Esther Clift, Visiting Lecturer at the University of Winchester, and Consultant in Frailty.
January & May 2025
University of Winchester Campus
4 days
£900
Face-to-face learning on the University site in classrooms and online learning delivered via virtual learning environment.
The summative assessment at the end of the module, is an academic poster presentation.
Students will deliver a poster presentation and critical reflection on their practice.
The student will be required to prepare for taught sessions through accessing reading and materials on the virtual learning environment.
Drawing on previous learning about person and relationship centred care, applying the theories to improving the quality of life for people living with dementia.
Living well with dementia and individual wellbeing within the care home environment will be reviewed, based on the learners enhanced understanding of dementia.
The importance of a persons life history, integrating  the  core values  and the benefits of sensory therapies and interventions in dementia care.
Exploring leadership approaches, principles of team leadership and how to inspire a team operating in a pressurised workplace with a dementia focus.
Concluding with how to develop a creative & innovative team.
This module is aimed at practicing Registered Nurses and Registered Allied Health Professionals working in community rehabilitation, who are in roles leading to or that will require advanced skills.
Students are required to have at least 3 years’ experience working in practice.
Students should be working in, or towards an advanced practice role with support from their manager.
Course will start September 2023 and May 2024.
For general enquiries please contact HWBShortCourses@winchester.ac.uk .
Please book via the ' How to apply ' page.
For information about staff and student discounts please contact the short course administrator HWBShortCourses@winchester.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Short-courses/Courses/Community-Rehabilitation---Long-term-conditions:
This short course will focus on physical activity approaches for people with long term conditions, covering behaviour change approaches to underpin self-management strategies.
Students will explore population health approaches, social determinants of health and health inequalities to understand the needs of the local population.
Students will become  confident in developing innovative, transformative solutions / interventions that are community based and population driven.
Students will critically reflect on how theories of education and leadership impact on leading and managing their teams and services.
The module is delivered by Dr Ruth Ten Hove, Visiting Lecturer at the University of Winchester, Assistant Director, Chartered Society of Physiotherapy and credential chair for Community Rehabilitation: Long term Condition (Health Education England).
January & September 2025
Population Health and Rehabilitation
Evidence based Approaches in Rehabilitation
Leadership in Rehabilitation

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Short-courses/Courses/Early-Careers-Framework:
Helping the next generation of teachers to thrive with the early career framework.
Our early career induction programme, fully funded by the Department for Education (DfE), will ensure early career teachers (ECTs) receive the support they need during their first two years of transition and development.
Our team of ECF facilitators work in schools across our region and have a wealth of experience of successful, high quality facilitation of adult learning and understand how to effectively meet the needs of early career teachers and their mentors in a range of settings.
September 2025
Blended Learning
2 years
Apply at EDT.org
Teaching Professionals
Funded by the DfE
Start date
September each year.
For information on a mid-year start, please email ecf@winchester.ac.uk .
Blended Learning.
The two-year programme consists of some face-to-face sessions (including two full day conferences) and online webinars.
These sessions are complemented by weekly independent, online learning.
Each ECT will receive support from a dedicated, school-based mentor.
The Full Induction Programme (FIP) provides ECTs with seamless transition and development from their initial teacher training.
The programme ensures that ECTs begin their careers with the practical skills, experiences, and insight to enhance teaching and learning and to make a positive impact on children and young people.
Our programme has been carefully designed with teacher workload in mind and includes:
Behaviour Management
Pedagogy
Curriculum
Professional Behaviours
This is a statutory 2 year induction programme for Early Career Teachers.
The minimum entry requirement is therefore an undergraduate degree and/or PGCE and to hold QTS.
For more information, please contact ecf@winchester.ac.uk .
To register your ECT on our programme, please go to Early Career Professional Development Programme - Education Development Trust (eft.org) .
In addition to registering for the programme, you will also need to register your ECT and Mentor details with the DfE .
This course is available for teaching professionals.
The Department for Education is funding all training, at no cost to schools.
All state funded schools, who offer statutory induction, will receive additional funding to deliver the Early Career Framework reforms.
The funding will cover:
Further information on funding can be found on GOV.UK.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Short-courses/Courses/Help-to-Grow---Management:
Help to Grow: Management is an executive development programme to support SMEs to boost their business performance and growth potential.
Small business leaders will develop their strategic skills to increase their business’s long-term productivity, resilience and capacity to innovate.
Through this programme, business leaders develop their leadership and management skills together with the confidence and tools to implement change within their business and adopt new and improved business practices.
The goal is for the business to experience productivity growth and become more resilient and sustainable in the long term.
Practical application and embedding of the learning is crucial.
Help to Grow: Management is a UK government initiative to help small and medium-sized businesses boost their business performance and growth potential.
The programme has been developed by the Chartered Association of Business Schools in partnership with world-class business schools who hold Small Business Charter accreditation and who have come together to develop a practical management programme for senior leaders in business.
April 2025
12 weeks
Business Owner
The University sponsors the £750 fee
Blended learning; taught elements of the course will be delivered on campus in Winchester and Distance Learning.
The course is delivered both online and on-campus, and takes 50 hours over 12 weeks to complete.
The course is designed to be manageable alongside full-time work.
Peer Groups consist of around 5 participants and are established at the beginning of the programme.
The Peer Group calls are virtual Teams calls of one hour involving the members of the peer group and a facilitator, sharing their experiences in relation to that module's content and their business.
Tasks related to webinar content are completed by participants in their own time using tools and materials on the virtual learning environment.
Tasks are discussed in facilitated peer groups calls.
Participants will be matched by the business school with a mentor/business adviser whose role is to help them apply the learning to their business and support them in developing a business growth plan that is right for them.
The case study sessions will be delivered at the University of Winchester, West Down Centre, Romsey Road, Winchester, Hampshire SO22 4NR.
The online virtual-learning components of the course will be delivered via Canvas.
Explore factors that drive productivity and growth in SMEs and consider what this means in your own business context
Understand how to innovate your business model, and develop a strategic approach to successfully adopting and investing in new and digital technologies to drive competitive advantage
Identify key domestic and export markets for your business.
Explore the strategic value of vision, purpose and brand, their link to the customer value proposition and their role in achieving competitive advantage ​
Identify strategies for market segmentation, positioning and targeting in the context of your competitive environment
Review the culture, values and decision-making in your business in relation to building your brand
Explore how to build capacity for growth in your business by looking at structures, skills and governance needed in the business now and as it grows.
Developing your leadership and management skills to facilitate the introduction of management practices to enhance employee wellbeing and effective teams through employee engagement.
Understand the need and benefits of embedding equality, diversity and inclusion practices within your business.
Creating a High Performance Workplace
Identify strategies to improve operational efficiency in your business.
Be aware of key elements and principles of financial management and understand the value of data analytics and key metrics to monitor growth and support strategic decision making in your business.
Your Growth Action Plan – where next?
To join the programme, you must be a senior manager or key decision maker in your business.
To be eligible, your business must:
- have been operating for more than one year - be based in the UK - have between five and 249 employees
To find out more and book please contact: H2GM@winchester.ac.uk
Unfortunately, this government initiative does not extend to charities.
N.A.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Short-courses/Courses/History-Taking-and-Assessment-:
This short course will provide Registered Nurses and Registered Allied Health Care Professionals with a comprehensive understanding of consultation models and a systematic approach to history taking and physical assessment.
This short course will provide Registered Nurses and Registered Allied Health Care Professionals with a comprehensive understanding of consultation models and a systematic approach to history taking and physical assessment, including for different age groups, those with difficulties with communication, as well as for people who may require mental health assessment in a variety of different settings.
Teaching and practical sessions in simulation wards will cover Inspection, Auscultation, Palpation, and Percussion skills as part of the physical examination for common respiratory, cardiovascular, neurological, abdominal, musculoskeletal, and ENT conditions.
Students will be equipped with the skills to make credible referrals in cases of proven or suspected abnormality, undertake exploration of legal, professional, and ethical issues and critically consider of the evidence base underpinning health assessment, role expansion and advanced practice.
January, May & September 2025
9 days
£1,200
Face to face learning on the University site in classrooms and simulated environments.
This module is led by Senior Lecturers and Advanced Care Practitioners who provide preparatory activities, classroom teaching, group work and workshops as well as teacher facilitated practical sessions in the simulated environments here at the University of Winchester.
The summative assessment at the end of the module, is through an Observed Structured Clinical Examination, where the student will be assessed in the application of history taking and assessment skills in a simulated environment in the university.
The support of the students’ application of learning from the module in practice by a suitably qualified and experience supervisor is required and should be in place for when the student commences the course.
The student will also be required to prepare for their study days through the preparatory materials provided and make opportunities to practice related learning regularly outside of the taught module.
The duration of this course may vary, but comprised of 8 study days and one exam day.
By the conclusion of this module, a student will be expected to be able to:
The module is jointly delivered by experienced and practising Advanced Care Practitioners from local clinical areas, alongside Senior Lecturers from the University of Winchester who also have expertise in the field of advanced practice.
Teaching and learning is across 8 full study days, and focuses on the application of related models and tools for effective patient History Taking and Physical Assessment, as well as the related application of practical skills in a simulated environment.
All the study days for this module are face to face and students must be available to attend all study days and the OSCE exam date.
This short course is aimed at practicing Registered Nurses and Registered Allied Health Care Professionals who are in roles requiring, or that will require advanced skills in history taking and physical assessment of patients.
Evidence of NMC / HCPC registration and related professional qualifications are required before commencing the module, and a formal application made.
Confirmed course dates:
Feb 2024 May 2024
For general or academic enquiries please contact the department administrator HWBShortCourses@winchester.ac.uk .
For more information about applying, please visit our how to apply page.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Short-courses/Courses/Independent--Supplementary-Prescribing:
Completion of this multi-professional course will provide you with the knowledge and skills required to safely prescribe medicines within your scope of practice.
It is recognised that nurses, midwives, AHPs and pharmacists have different pathways to registration, and develop different skills, experiences, and competencies in practice before undertaking a prescribing programme.
This module enables each professional group to develop the profession-specific skills and knowledge required before legal annotation as an independent (and/or supplementary) prescriber by their regulatory body.
For nurses and AHPs, this involves a greater focus on the principles of pharmacology and therapeutics, drug interactions, disease management and decision making.
Whilst for pharmacists, there is a greater emphasis on consultation and clinical assessment skills.
During the course you will develop your knowledge of therapeutics, medicines management and the legal / ethical and professional issues related to prescribing across the lifespan.
During the course you will undertake supervised practice, completing a portfolio to demonstrate achievement of the Royal Pharmaceutical Society’s (2021) A competency framework for all prescribers.
On successful completion of the course, you will be eligible to apply to your professional regulator for annotation as an independent and / or supplementary prescriber.
January, September
6 months
Apply via link below
£1,800
Module dates
Please see course dates for 2025/2026 here: AP7002 Module dates 2025_2026 .
University of Winchester campus.
The Independent & Supplementary Prescribing course consists of 10 face-to-face taught days, 16 self-directed days, a separate exam day and completion of a minimum of 90 hours (12 days) supervised practice supported by a Designated Prescribing Practitioner (DPP) to ensure you apply knowledge to your own clinical setting and achieve the required competencies.
Due to the nature of this course 100% attendance is expected for the taught elements.
A variety of learning and teaching methods are utilised in this course, supported by a Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) CANVAS.
These include lectures, case studies, small group work, tutor-led tutorials and seminars, and guided independent study.
Overall, you can expect to devote a minimum of 300 hours study to this course.
Support will be given to enable you to engage in a process of self-analysis and evaluation to identify areas in which you are already competent, and those which require further learning and development.
At the start of the course, you will develop a personal learning contract, which will be used (in conjunction with your DPP*), to plan your learning and enable each of the module learning outcomes and practice competencies to be met
*To comply with the NMC (2018) Standards for Student Supervision and Assessment, Nurses & Midwives undertaking the course must have a separate Practice Assessor (DPP) and a Practice Supervisor (DPS) throughout the period of supervised practice.
Self-employed applicants are required to contact the admissions team/programme leader for advice prior to application and an interview with the programme leader may be required to ensure eligibility to undertake the module.
For general enquiries please contact the department administrator at HWBShortCourses@winchester.ac.uk
This module is only available to eligible UK based healthcare professionals registered with the NMC, HCPC or GPhC / PSNI.
The following additional profession specific entry criteria also apply:
NMC Registrants:
HCPC Registrants (excluding paramedics):
HCPC Paramedic Registrants:
No International Entry for this course.
This course is only available to UK base healthcare professionals.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Short-courses/Courses/Leading-in-Dementia-Care-Residential-Settings:
This course is designed to enable care home managers, nurses and senior care staff working in the care and nursing home sector to enhance their understanding of the needs of people living with dementia.
The emphasis will be on advancing knowledge of dementia to support the delivery of evidence-based practice.
Team leaders in care homes are faced with many challenges and the aim of the course is to provide a theoretical platform to complement their management experience in the delivery of service improvement for dementia care.
Deborah Macartney
Deborah is an experienced Nursing Home Registered Manager in dementia care achieving a CQC Outstanding for Responsiveness in initiatives related to dementia care provision.
She has an academic background in nursing and now practices as a Quality Assurance Consultant within the care home sector.
January 2024
Flexible
Care Professionals
£295
Flexible, can be online or face-to-face.
The delivery format and pattern can be tailored to your service needs.
They may be delivered together on a single day or weekly over a period of time, and may be either face-to-face or online.
There are 5 topics, each involves a 2-hours live teaching session plus 2 hours' preparation work.
The preparation work involves engagement with a range of online resources made available via a virtual learning environment Canvas, including clinical scenarios/case studies, readings and video resources.
The live sessions include a combination of lecture-style input, discussion and interactive group work.
Reflective practice will form the platform for this course, encouraging participants to analyse their individual approach to practice and team leadership in dementia care.
The pathophysiology & stages of dementia will be presented with reference to less common types of dementia.
The session will discuss Alzheimer’s, Lewy Bodies, Vascular and Frontotemporal lobe dementia, with  consideration to the impact such changes can have such as falls, social isolation, behaviours, psychological impact related to the care home environment.
Key theories on dementia with consideration given to the  impact  and  relevance  to  individuals  living  in  the  care  home  setting.
We will consider how these theories could be implemented in to practice to improve dementia care.
This include Kitwoods.
Person Centred Care, James’ Conceptualisation of Dementia Framework and the Admiral approach to dementia care.
Understand what presenting behaviour may mean in relation to the individual expressing a need.
Effective communication, interventions and management will be reviewed, including the benefits of management protocols and prescribed medications in the care home sector.
The theories explored in session 2 will be integrated into the discussion.
This short course is aimed at staff who have senior roles in dementia care (residential settings).
This may include roles such as care supervisors, nursing staff and registered managers.
For general enquiries please contact the department administrator HWBShortCourses@winchester.ac.uk .
For academic/course content enquires please contact Deborah Macartney .
Booking should be made via employer invoice, please email HWBShortCourses@winchester.ac.uk .
This course is available for care professionals.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Short-courses/Courses/Musculoskeletal-Practice-in-Primary-Care:
This course will begin to prepare experienced practitioners from across disciplines, working in musculoskeletal roles, for moving into First Contact Musculoskeletal Practice roles in Primary and/or Community Care and continuing onwards towards Advanced Practice.
This course addresses the HEE FCP/ACP Roadmap Stage 1 requirements and following successful completion of this module, and the Stage 2 requirements (detailed in the FCP/ACP Roadmap and the co-requisite), the individual can seek HEE Centre for Advancing Practice recognition as a FCP.
This module offers the opportunity for MSK practitioners to develop their theoretical knowledge and professional practice skills to a level necessary for managing complexity in clinical scenarios, often where the evidence is lacking and where complex clinical reasoning is necessary.
There will be an opportunity to work inter-professionally and to link and share ongoing clinical experiences.
Work-based learning, the support of the practitioner’s manager, and identification of a Supervisor are part of the requirements for becoming, or working, towards FCP abilities.
10 weeks
£1,800 - £2,862
Blended learning, with taught elements on campus at the University of Winchester.
This short course will utilise a blended approach of online resources, practical face to face teaching, seminars and work-based learning and assessment.
Self-reflection and lifelong learning skills will be important components, both for assessment and professional and personal development.
Inter-professional learning will be embedded into the Learning and Teaching approach in both the University and the work-based components.
Must be registered with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC), Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) or General Pharmaceutical Council (GPS) or similar appropriate regulatory body.
Minimum of three years post-registration experience in a musculoskeletal setting plus two years of general consolidation of undergraduate learning.
Must demonstrate the ability to work at Level 7 (Master's level).
Students may have a certificated Masters level learning, but applications are also welcome from students with significant relevant clinical experience.
Application must be supported by your employer who agrees to release you to attend the taught content and supervision of your practice placement.
You will need to have an identified and appropriate Supervisor.
For the Stage 2 Clinical Module, you must be able to successfully complete a minimum of 75 hours practice placement during the working hours of 09:00 - 18:00, Monday to Friday, regardless of current working arrangement.
To formally apply for the course, please complete our online application form: www.winchester.ac.uk/myapplication .
Applications will be reviewed by the course leader with reference to the criteria above.
UK/Channel Islands and Isle of Man
Total Cost | £1,800
This course is available for healthcare professionals.
Total Cost | £2,862

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/study/Short-courses/Courses/National-Professional-Qualifications:
The National Professional Qualifications (NPQs) provide training and support for teachers and school leaders at all levels, from those who want to develop expertise in high quality teaching practice, such as behaviour management, to those leading multiple schools across trusts.
Each NPQ is underpinned by a new content framework.
These frameworks set out what participants should know and be able to do after completing an NPQ.
You can access guidance on the NPQ frameworks at gov.uk .
For more details about each programme, please refer to National Professional Qualifications (NPQs) - LLSE .
We offer the full suite of NPQs, as follows:
Leadership NPQs
Specialist NPQs
EmpowerED Leaders
November 2025
12-18 months
Expressions of inter
See LLSE Website
Early Headship Coaching Offer for New Headteachers
In addition to the reformed suite of NPQs, this is a targeted support package for teachers new to the role of headship.
November, 2025
Each module consists of one face to face day (delivered in a local school) and two online webinars.
These sessions are complemented by approximately two hours of weekly independent, online learning.
NPQs have been designed with teachers and leaders in mind using the latest evidence and can be completed flexibly around existing commitments.
Leadership NPQs (NPQEL, NPQH NPQSL and SENCO) programmes are 18 months in duration.
Specialist NPQs (NPQLT, NPQLTD, NPQLBC, NPQEYL, and NPQLL) programmes are 12 months in duration.
During this period of study, you will:
Please note the modules listed are correct at the time of publishing, for full-time students entering the programme in Year 1.
Optional modules are listed where applicable.
Please note the University cannot guarantee the availability of all modules listed and modules may be subject to change.
For further information please refer to the terms and conditions at www.winchester.ac.uk/termsandconditions .
The University will notify applicants of any changes made to the core modules listed above.
Progression from one level of the programme to the next is subject to meeting the University’s academic regulations .
The National Professional Qualifications (NPQs) provide training and support for teachers and school leaders at all levels.
We have one cohort in 2025-26, starting in November
Course enquiries and expressions of interest
For more information, please contact npq@winchester.ac.uk .
For more information about eligibility for funding please see: National Professional Qualifications (NPQs - GOV.UK .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Scholarships-bursaries-and-awards/International-scholarships-bursaries-and-awards:
We offer a range of scholarships, bursaries and awards for new students joining us in September.
These provide students with financial support based on their academic achievements, personal circumstances and household income.
The International Postgraduate Student Scholarship is available to all new International students joining for a taught programme at the University* in 2025/26.
This is an automatic scholarship that will be applied to your offer letter
The International Undergraduate Student Scholarship is available to all new International students joining for a taught programme at the University* in 2025/26.
This is an automatic scholarship that will be applied to your offer letter.
Below are scholarships offered by external companies or organisations.
The University of Winchester is therefore not responsible for any information provided on the websites listed below.
Any questions on the below scholarships should be directed to the organisation offering them.
Open to: All prospective foundation and undergraduate students who are currently attending a UK FE college or Sixth Form, and who are experiencing difficulties funding their higher education.
Criteria: Please see link below.
Exclusions: Please see link below.
Value: Maximum £1,500, along with access to free training sessions and work shadowing.
How to Apply: Visit Helena Kennedy Foundation website
Deadline: Please see link above.
Open to: Prospective masters students from Chevening-eligible countries.
Criteria: See link below.
Exclusions: See link below.
Value: Tuition fees, a monthly stipend, travel costs to and from the UK, an arrival allowance, a homeward departure allowance, one visa application, and a travel grant to attend Chevening events in the UK.
How to Apply: Visit Chevening website
Deadline: November
Open to: Prospective postgraduate students who are permanently resident in developing Commonwealth countries.
Value: Tuition and examination fees, a monthly stipend, travel costs to and from the UK, thesis grant (if applicable), warm clothing allowance (if applicable), study travel grant, and some specific grants for PhD Scholars and if the scholarship is at least 18 months long.
How to Apply: Visit Commonwealth Scholarships website
Deadline: Please visit the Commonwealth Scholarships website
Open to: Graduate researchers from any country.
Value: See link below.
How to Apply: Visit British Council website
Deadline: See link above.
Open to: Prospective postgraduate students from Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Syria, Egypt, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Madagascar and Mozambique.
Criteria: Students who have no other means of financing their studies.
Value: Tuition fees and living expenses (half of the scholarship is a loan).
How to Apply: Visit AKDN website
Deadline: March
Open to: Prospective postgraduate students from Malawi, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
Exclusions: Students who have already commenced their course.
Value: Tuition fees, related academic expenses, personal allowance, arrival, laptop, printing of thesis and travel costs to and from the UK.
How to Apply: Visit the Beit Trust Scholarship website
Open to: Prospective PhD students from China (including Hong Kong).
Exclusions: Students requiring funding for the first two years of a PhD, or a postgraduate taught course (e.g.
masters).
Value: Up to £3,000 (commonly £1,500-£2,000)
How to Apply: Visit Great Britain-China Educational Trust website
Deadline: April
Open to: Prospective postgraduate students (2 months to 1 year) from India.
Value: Tuition fees, accommodation, living costs and a contribution to international fares.
Open to: Final year PhD students from India.
Value: £500-£600
How to Apply: Visit Charles Wallace India Trust
Open to: Final year PhD students from Pakistan.
Value: £1,000
How to Apply: Visit The Charles Wallace Pakistan Trust
Open to: Prospective masters and PhD students from the USA (any residency except the UK).
Criteria: Candidates must demonstrable ambassadorial skills with evidence of cultural sensitivity and a genuine desire to learn more about the United Kingdom and share with British citizens aspects of American culture, and have experience and interest in a range of extracurricular and community activities, leadership potential, and a desire to further the Fulbright Programme and give back to your home country upon returning.
Exclusions: Students already resident in the UK.
Value: £12,700 outside Greater London rate (for the 2016/17 cycle, may vary year to year)
How to Apply: Visit Fulbright Commission website
Deadline: October
Open to: Prospective postgraduate students (1 or 2 years) from the USA.
Criteria: Candidates must demonstrate academic merit, leadership potential and ambassadorial potential.
Exclusions: You must have an undergraduate degree from a college in the USA.
How to Apply: Visit Marshall Scholarships website
Open to: Prospective postgraduate students from Commonwealth countries.
Exclusions: See link below
Value: : See link below
Open to: Prospective postgraduate students from Palestinian Territories (junior academic staff at participating Palestinian universities).
Value: Tuition fees, arrival allowances, thesis allowances, and a monthly allowance for living expenses.
How to Apply: Visit HESPAL website
Open to: Prospective postgraduate students from Israel.
How to Apply: Visit Anglo Jewish Association website
Open to: Prospective postgraduate students from any country (various bursaries).
Value: £500 per bursary
How to Apply: Visit Postgrad website
Deadline: September
Open to: Prospective postgraduate students (6 months) from Denmark.
Value: £1,500 minimum
How to Apply: Visit Anglo-Danish website
Open to: Prospective postgraduate students from Singapore.
Criteria: Candidates must have an outstanding academic record (a good Honours Degree or equivalent), a record of sustained commitment to serving the community, and be effectively bilingual.
Value: $10,000
Deadline: May
How to Apply: Visit Tan Kah Kee website
Open to: PhD students from Afghanistan, Albania, Angola, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cambodia, Democratic Republic of Congo, Republic of Congo, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Guinea, Haiti, Kosovo, Laos, Libya, Macedonia, Moldova, Mongolia, Myanmar/Burma, Nepal, Palestine, Papua New Guinea, Serbia, Sudan, South Sudan, Syria, Swaziland, Tajikistan, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Yemen.
Criteria: PhD students who are looking to conduct short-term, international academic projects (2-9 months), such as fieldwork (data collection), research visits to libraries, archives, or universities, course/curriculum development, and international research collaborations leading to peer-reviewed publication.
Exclusions: Ineligible fields include business administration, management training, computer science, finance/banking, marketing, engineering, hard sciences (physics, biology, chemistry, etc.), mathematics, medical sciences, or teaching English as a foreign language/language instruction.
How to Apply: Visit Open Society Foundations website
Open to: Prospective postgraduate students from Turkey.
Value: Tuition fees, living expenses, visa-passport, educational materials, travel, study visit, registration to local authorities, and health and insurance.
How to Apply: Visit J ean Monnet website
Open to: Prospective postgraduate students from Australia.
Value: Up to $20,000 for maximum 3 years (value may vary)
How to Apply: Visit University of Melbourne website
Deadline: June
Open to: Prospective postgraduate students from the USA.
Criteria: Students wishing to pursue a graduate course of study in the arts, humanities and social sciences.
Value: $4,000 immediately, $30,000 spread out over maximum 5 years
How to Apply: Visit The Beinecke Scholarship
Deadline: February

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Students-and-money/International-financial-information:
Tuition Fees for international students will be determined in light of the following criteria:
The tuition fees shown are for a single year of study for new international students in 2025/26.
The International Tuition Fees for new students for most undergraduate courses in 2025/26 will be £16,700 per annum (per year).
However, some specialised courses attract higher fees due to real-time placement experience.
Individual course fees can be found on the course pages.
The International Tuition Fees for new students for most postgraduate taught courses in 2025/26 will be £17,450 per annum (per year).
However, some specialised courses attract different fees.
Part-time students will pay half of the full-time fee in Year 1 and half of the full-time in Year 2.
The International Tuition Fees for Distance Learning Masters courses in 2025/26 will be £11,820 per annum (per year)
Fees are chargeable for a maximum of 3 years for full-time and 6 years for part-time.
An ‘until completion’ fee of £100 per month is chargeable thereafter.
The ‘until completion’ fee will be invoiced at the start of the writing up period on an annual basis and is payable in accordance with our standard payment terms and conditions.
All international students are required to pay a deposit before the University will issue you a CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies) can be issued.
The deposit will be clearly shown on your offer from the University.
For further information on tuition fees and refunds, please see our tuition fees policy .
To be eligible for Home rather than International Tuition Fees you must normally hold settled status (i.e.
have no restrictions on your right to remain in the UK), be ordinarily resident in the UK and have lived in the UK for the full 3 year period prior to 1 September (for courses starting in September).
Further information about eligibility for home fees is available from the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA)
If you are in doubt as to your fee status, you should contact us to request a Fee Assessment Form.
All international students must pay a Tuition Fee deposit to the University before arrival to enrol on their course.
Students will not be issued a CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies) until this deposit has been received.
Tuition fee deposits are non-refundable.
Please see section 14.8 in the Payment of University Fees Regulations for details of exceptions Policies and Regulations - University of Winchester
All deposit payments are to be paid through our Flywire payment portal:
If your application was submitted direct to the University of Winchester, please use this link:
winchester.flywire.com
If your application was submitted via Oxford International, please use this link:
https://payment.flywire.com/pay/payment
Before visiting the above links, please ensure you know the value deposit you are due to pay.
The University of Winchester has officially partnered with Flywire to accept Tuition Fee Deposit payments from over 240 countries and territories, in more than 140 currencies.
Millions of students and their parents worldwide trust Flywire to facilitate their education payments.
Flywire
By making your payment using Flywire you can:
Students paying fees direct to the University (Students through Oxford International, please see separate section below)
Term 1 start:
Term 2 start:
Make a payment on the University payment portal.
Tuition fees for the first year of study are payable direct to Oxford International.
All further year’s tuition fees are payable direct to the University in line with our standard payment terms (above).
How do I pay the balance of my Tuition Fees?
(After my deposit has been deducted)
Term 1 start :
Term 3 start:
For information on the bursaries and scholarships available, see our Scholarships section .
It is important that fees are paid on time.
If all or a proportion of fees or charges remain unpaid after the due date relevant to your chosen method of payment, charges and/or sanctions may be imposed which could affect your studies.
If you withdraw from your course or interrupt your studies, in certain instances a refund of fees may be due.
For International Students will be determined in light of the following criteria:
If you are unable to pay fees on the due date, it is imperative that you contact the Finance Office as soon as possible.
The Finance Office is located on the first floor of the Winton Building and is open on Tuesdays from 10am-3pm (closed for lunch 12-1pm).
If you wish to discuss payment, please contact the Income Team on +44 (0)1962 827265 or email credit.control@winchester.ac.uk
Please refer to the Payment of University Fees - Regulations 2024 document for further details.
In certain cases where a student withdraws from a course or interrupts study, a refund of fees may be due.
Please refer to the Policies and Regulation - University of Winchester for further details.
If a student wishes to withdraw or interrupt then it is their responsibility to contact Registry and complete the relevant paperwork.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/international/international-agent:
The University has an exclusive partnership with Oxford International any agents interested in representing Winchester University should contact Oxford international direct.
Become and Agent with Oxford International.
A good education agent will help you to decide where in the UK is the best study destination for you and help you understand what course options are available.
The below guides have valuable information to help you decide who will be the best agent to help you on your university journey.
Guide for Choosing the right UK Education Agent
National Code of Ethical Practice for UK Education Agents
As an institution, the University of Winchester is a signatory to the UK Agent Quality Framework and has committed to create and maintain the highest standards of agent management, ensuring the UK remains a leading study destination for international students.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/Landing-Pages/Meet-our-students/Community-Matters:
University is a massive transition but it (Winchester) really helps cushion that, in the fact that it is small, it is compact.
Kimmy, BSc (Hons) Psychology

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/Landing-Pages/Meet-our-students/Study-that-supports-you:
Close-knit experience...Lecturers are people who have been in the business...it' so well-organised

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/Landing-Pages/Meet-our-students/Best-place-to-live:
I feel so safe...it's very friendly and welcoming...it feels like a community.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/international/Meet-our-students/Malo:
My name is Malo and I’m from France.
I study BA (Hons) Criminology and Sociology and I’m soon graduating, so I have plenty to say about Winchester!
Why Winchester, you ask – well, first, they had the course I wanted to study.
In France, I couldn’t do Criminology; it’s a Masters in France and I wasn’t patient enough.
I was also interested in Sociology in my home country but Criminology was in my mind too.
Winchester offered both Criminology and Sociology so the choice was easy; it’s a good excuse to study abroad and my parents were okay with the choice.
And coincidentally, the year before I applied, I went to Oxford to perfect my English and I had to change trains at Winchester and the city looked lovely – maybe it stayed in my mind since then.
Why the UK then?
It’s close to France: I can take the ferry from my hometown and 3 hours later, I’m in the UK and one train ride after, I’m in Winchester.
Proximity was a huge factor.
Second, I wanted to leave France; living in France is cool for many different reasons but I felt I needed to leave to see different things.
Two years before I applied, I went to the UK to study English intensively in language schools during the summer and I gained confidence and fluency to speak English.
The fact that I was able to speak English is a huge reason why I chose the UK, but also that English is the international language and opens many doors for careers.
I wanted to speak English as good as the British so I chose to study in the UK.
What’s good about Winchester?
First, how walkable it is!
At first glance, it may not be the case and you’ll have to get used to it: on the way to the campus from the train station, there is a massive (maybe not that massive) hill and I wouldn’t advise carrying your suitcase along that hill like I did on my first year (it’s doable, it’s just the workout you wish you didn’t have to do).
You can take the bus from the train station to the university so don’t worry but just to let you know there is a hill and don’t be surprised about it.
What’s good about the university is that it’s not too big and you can’t get lost.
The lecturers of my course are all very engaging and they make their topic very understandable – if English is your concern, you should be fine anyways.
You can email them often and they are happy to help.
There are plenty of societies around the university, and what’s good is that the Student Union has made a commitment to have a majority of non-alcoholic events so if you’re not a drinker, it’s all fine, you can socialise too!
I know university culture is very much about drinking and partying but it’s more than okay to be sober to make friends and have fun.
More generally, life at Winchester is very relaxing and very lively!
When you walk down the high street, there are plenty of independent cafés and they all have their originality.
For example, you can go to Rawberry to grab yourself a healthy lunch and study there (they have a study space) or you can go to FlatWhites’ to grab their latest hot chocolate creation – their weekly specials are amazing and definitely a must go if you choose Winchester.
You can also shop locally and sustainably as the town is committed to sustainability (just like the university)!
At the time of writing, it’s the end of November so there’s the Christmas market and the big Christmas tree in the high street and it’s beautiful.
Winchester as a city has the advantage to be close to London – if you plan ahead, you can go there in less than £20 and it’s just 1 hour of train ride!
You’ll spend more money in London than in Winchester but it’s a nice day-trip.
You can also go to Southampton for a shopping trip for a 15-20min train ride.
You can also have a day-trip to Stonehenge.
If you want to travel for longer, you can go to Oxford, Bath, Bristol, Bournemouth, Portsmouth and Brighton… That doesn’t mean you can put your studies on hold though!
A word of advice I would like to share with prospective students: sometimes going abroad is scary – you’re going out of your comfort zone and think of the worst scenarios (and your parents will think the same).
However, you are going to university and a whole support system is there to help you: from housing, international recruitment (us), student services, the student union… but also other international students like you.
You are not alone in this journey, there’s always someone there to help you and you can talk to.
And we also have an International Society where you can make friends and relate your struggles too!
And above all, you can do this, prove to yourself that you can study abroad and step out of your comfort zone, it’s such a huge confidence booster.
I hope this helps seeing what it’s like to live as an International Student at Winchester and all the best!
By Malo our BA (Hons) Criminology and Sociology student from France.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/international/Meet-our-students/Alyssa:
My name is Alyssa, and I’m from the state of New Jersey in America.
I’m a first-year mature student who is studying here at Winchester.
I have previously studied Musical Theatre, after graduation I worked full time but decided to go back to school.
A big part of me has always wanted to travel as well so, with the support of friends and family, I chose to kill two birds with one stone and continue my studies across the pond.
I knew the UK education system is held to a higher standard so studying here was a no-brainer.
The tricky decision was choosing a university.
Once I gathered a list of universities, I was faced with the options of London or Winchester.
It’s any tourist's dream to visit the great big city of London, but I wasn’t going to be a tourist, I was going to be living there.
So, when looking into Winchester and the university, I found that it was a very welcoming place, and much smaller than London.
The campus looked beautiful, and the town seemed like something out of a fairy tale.
How could I say no?
I’m glad to say that it didn’t disappoint.
For the application process, I received help from an organization called Across the Pond , who made everything go very smoothly for me.
Aside from them, I was in constant contact with the University's International Student Advisor.
He answered all my questions, and really helped ease any anxiety I was feeling.
The university even offered an airport pickup for all international students flying into Heathrow, which was a true blessing in disguise and saved me a big headache.
From the start of this process the school has been nothing but helpful and informative.
When starting the semester, I was a bit nervous for my lectures because of the difference in teaching styles, but my tutors were very helpful.
Each class I took was led by upbeat people, who were obviously passionate about the subject they were teaching.
Any questions or concerns I had were always answered and solved.
Outside of the study life, there are so many clubs and events happening weekly that it’s difficult to be bored.
During Fresher’s Week a fair is held where club representatives talk about their clubs and societies and what they have to offer.
It’s a great way to sign up for clubs and events and easy way to make friends.
I’m quite partial to quiz nights held on Tuesday!
Even if students don’t want to join anything, the town centre is a lively, bustling place that can fill one’s day with things to do.
I absolutely love walking into town just for the pure beauty of the architecture.
I try my best to do it all when I’m not busy with my assignments!
I’ve found the University of Winchester and the city to be a wonderful place, filled with wonderful people.
Everything is easy to navigate, whether I’m walking, taking a bus, or a train (which is all new to me since I drive everywhere in the U.S.).
I’m very happy with my life here, the people I’ve met, the things I’ve learned, and the experiences I’ve had.
I truly can’t wait to see what the rest of my time here will bring me.
By Alyssa our BA (Hons) Business Management student from the United States of America.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/international/Meet-our-students/Devi:
My name is Devi, I am a mature student from India and I am studying a master’s degree in Digital Marketing and Analytics.
Education is a continuous learning process that lasts till our last breath.
I was in the Education field itself, and once I decided I wanted a career break and find a diversified study option, the first place that came to my mind was the United Kingdom.
Such a beautiful country with an excellent offering for people coming from various aspects of life, culture, caste, nation, and liking; it has everything to offer that you seek.
A short one-year study and post-study work visa was the best option, and of course, my husband could join too; the icing on the cake.
This degree will boost my career once I return to India to a whole new different level.
And all these, just by studying for a one-year degree at the University of Winchester, which seems to be a very great thing to me.
In this journey, I have met new people and great minds.
When you change a place for a good long period you seek for human association, and that's precise, I want to say about the University.
From my first communication with the Head of International Student Recruitment about my overseas study plan, I knew this was the place.
He comforted me with my decision to get a degree as a mature student and guided me with suitable study options.
My admissions process was straight and smooth; within a few hours, I got my offer, and I paid my fees and secured visas straight away.
The international team made the admission and CAS process seamless.
Once I landed here, I spoke to the International Student Advisor and they supported me with various letters required when you land in a new country like bank account opening letter, council letter, term letter.
I started feeling that people at the university care significantly about the student.
Their aim is not just to get international students but make sure they pass the program successfully.
The University campus is very much technologically advanced.
I am studying at the West Downs Campus and University Business School, and both have fantastic student facilities.
The West Downs Centre has a massive library with computer and printing facilities and a Laptop-on-loan facility – this is the best place for me to look for research papers, articles, and books for my study work.
Charming Cafes offer delicious pizza, wraps, sandwiches, and many more, to munch between the sessions.
The student Community is strong; we have a student union here and various clubs that support us to grow outside the classroom.
The teaching faculty and administrative staff are very supportive.
Apart from the regular seminars and workshops, we can get one-on-one guidance for the assignments from the faculties, who are experts in their field.
Even to make international students adjust to the new environment, the university offers sessions on "Culture Adjustment and Diversity," which helped us a lot with social etiquette and gave us insights into the British culture, which I believe is essential when you come to UK and study.
As soon as I reach Winchester Railway Station for my classes, I literally feel I am at a different place, and the vibes of a university campus are ultimate.
Students at the University of Winchester are very friendly; they have supported me to get a university understanding more and study patterns.
Even the university has Peer Mentors who support and guide what it needs to do well in the studies.
During study sessions, we have a lot of guest speakers from people in the industry people to Winchester alumni, which helps give us an understanding of what is out there in the market to prepare us for future job.
Studying at an international university is a considerable investment of money and time.
I can’t recommend enough to all international students to put the University of Winchester on their "priority" list because the experience you will gain here will be a lifetime experience.
By Devi our MSc Digital Marketing and Analytics student from India.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/international/Meet-our-students/Marie:
My name is Marie, and I am from Bergen in Norway.
I started studying at the University of Winchester in September of 2020, and as of writing this I am in my second year of Film Production.
For as long as I can remember I’ve wanted to study outside of Norway, but where I wanted to study was never fully clear.
All I knew was that I wanted to study somewhere that spoke English as that was my preferred language.
It wasn’t until I was 16 and went to an educational fair, I considered the UK a real possibility.
That is where I first encountered the University of Winchester.
Something drew me to their booth, and the more I researched it, the more it became evident that Winchester would be the right place for me.
Not only had I heard good things about the university, but the course also looked amazing.
I also really liked the social aspects, like the societies and the other Student Union activities.
So, I applied, and soon enough I got a response.
I got a conditional offer that worked perfectly for me, and from then on, I knew I would be going to Winchester.
Except, not long after applying, the pandemic made things uncertain, but I kept my hopes up.
And sure enough, I ended up being able to go.
With the help of some of the International Student Ambassadors, the University made the move way easier than expected.
That is one thing I will be forever thankful for!
Moving to a completely different country is scary but, having the support of the University made such a difference.
As I started my studies during the height of Covid, my first-year experience was quite out of the ordinary.
But that doesn’t mean I didn’t enjoy it.
It changed some things for the better.
Not being able to live like normal meant I spent more time at home with my flatmates, and from that I met some of my best friends.
It also meant that group sizes were limited for certain assignments, so you got to know the people you worked with quite well.
I certainly wouldn’t say that studying during covid was a bad idea at all.
I also quickly learnt how to adapt to the foreign way of teaching as my mind was already prepared for it all to be different.
Not only had I not had any prior experience with university, but I was also in a foreign country.
I personally found that when being surrounded by English every day, it wasn’t that hard to use it during lessons.
Your brain quite quickly adapts to the environment, and it becomes natural to speak in English instead of your native language.
I even struggled with my Norwegian when going home for Christmas, especially with some of my words!
My brain was so used to English that Norwegian just didn’t sound right.
Another great thing about studying in England, and especially the University of Winchester is their facilities.
The number of hours I have spent in the West Downs Library are countless, and the fact that it is accessible 24 hours of the week, it has been a life saver.
Let’s not forget the very convenient food outlets on campus that are there for you in case you have a late lecture and have no energy to cook dinner.
During my first year of studying here at the University of Winchester I have also been able to explore the city.
Finding hidden pubs, beautiful nature walks and enjoying the beautiful city has become a weekly thing, and even days where I have no reason to go down to the city centre, I find myself wandering down the high street.
I’ve also been fascinated with history and Winchester is far from lacking in that department.
Not only was Winchester the first capital of England, but it was also very much the capital of Norway at one point in time.
While this was back during the time when Vikings lived and travelled, and the country of Norway wasn’t technically Norway as we know it today, it still is a fascinating piece of information.
Not only can you read about the history of the place, but you will also be able to visit it.
The whole city is a mix of old and new, and wherever you look you’ll find reminders of what once was.
The Winchester Cathedral, which is located in the middle of town, also has cheap annual tickets for students, and even if you aren’t a history buff it is a fascinating sight - and let’s not forget the annual Christmas market!
Filled with warm light, amazing smells and nice people, the Christmas market is something to experience.
Even with the lack of snow the place manages to put you in the Christmas spirit.
Winchester is also one of the safest places in England, and you can really notice that.
I am now halfway through my studies, and I cannot imagine studying anywhere else, and I am not the only one.
I would therefore highly encourage anyone looking to study internationally to keep Winchester in their mind, as it will give you memories for life.
By Marie our BA (Hons) Film Production student from Norway.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/international/Meet-our-students/Brian:
My name is Brian.
I am from Norway and I am studying Criminology at the University of Winchester.
I was born in Stavanger, Norway in a family of four.
In my 11th year of school, I was concerned about everything, I had no idea what I wanted to do, and I had no idea what would be the right choice.
Everything seemed to be falling apart as the exams applied pressure to me, the thought of the exams closing in was becoming a daunting thought, and just leaving my family to study in another country made me feel even worse.
I wasn’t even sure if I even wanted to go out and study.
Then came the University fair that was held nearby our school, this was something that we were recommended to go to.
Knowing that I’d have to make this choice sooner or later, I decided to get a ticket with my other friends to check it out.
Going in, I still remembered the feeling of amazingness as I saw the mass amount of people and stations that were set up from all kinds of institutions and Universities, I didn’t feel that nervous but rather excited to see what was available to me.
This brought me back to the thought of what I really wanted to back in middle school.
I had always been in love with the thought of Crime, watching all the detective shows ranging from Benedict’s Sherlock Holmes to CSI, I really wanted to get into the field of Criminology.
With wonder, I walked around to the Universities that had this course, which led me to the University of Winchester’s Head of International Recruitment.
He informed me with everything I needed to know about the University of Winchester, and he supplied me with the basic information that I would need to get started on thinking about what University to choose from.
He also then came over to my school, and was very informative on what would be available for me.
Winchester was a very appealing choice for me.
When I got back home, I instantly started researching about the local area, what the University was like, what other people thought, and what I would be expecting.
Everything seemed perfect, and that was exactly why I decided to lock on to the University of Winchester.
Once I got my conditional offer, I was very excited!
I was really happy on the thought of going to the UK to study.
At first the process to finish up the documentation was troubling.
Because of Brexit, we needed a student visa to study in the UK.
This took a lot of time, and brought a lot of trouble to me and concern to my friend.
However, after communicating with the International team, they took this very seriously and tried to help me as much as they could.
They were very helpful and I was able to finish up the process at the very end.
After getting all my documentation in place, I booked my flight on the day that the University offered free transport from Heathrow airport, and I waited for that day to come.
I got to the UK pretty smoothly, but with a slight concern of timing and not being able to get there for the ride.
I was however relieved to see the Ambassadors that waited, and got to know the people that were also coming from different places around the world.
Everything went quite smoothly when we arrived at Winchester.
We got a good introduction from the ambassadors and the International Student Advisor, and was led up to our accommodation.
I still remember going into my room and looking out the window, it looked like a great start to a new beginning.
After being through the first week of lectures and seminars, everything was great!
I got to know a couple of friends and got to take part in Volleyball and Badminton where I got to meet more people.
The subjects were fun and learning about Crime in the past, criminological theory and law was something that I was very excited for as the lecturers introduced them in a very great way.
Hanging out with my friends was fun as well, we would always hangout at each others flats.
I enjoyed going to sport trainings and I got to do things I had been wanting to try for a long while.
Overall, everything was pretty straight forward and we got a lot of support from the University team.
This was especially prevalent in the resources available to us, from the library with a variety of books to the online materials and the lecturers.
The University of Winchester is a really fun and comfortable learning environment to get into!
It has a very similar feeling to my school, and I feel very at home here.
I’m looking forward to the road ahead and I am hoping to get to know more about the world of Criminology and also the people here.
I cannot wait to see what kind of person I grow into after these three years, and where I will be at the end of this journey.
By Brian our BA (Hons) Criminology student from Norway.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/international/Meet-our-students/Clara:
My name is Clara, and I am from Halmstad, southern Sweden.
I study BA (Hons) Marketing.
In addition to my interest in studying abroad, my boyfriend, from Southampton, also played a role in my choice to study in England rather than Sweden.
Being a Swede, learning a foreign language is an excellent advantage in a career and thrilling experience.
For the past four years, during the winter months, my boyfriend and I worked as ski instructors in the Austrian Alps, and it was fantastic to live in the spectacular winter landscape.
As we were in St.
Anton, Austria, when Covid-19 hit, I became tired of seasonal work and decided to start studying marketing.
In addition to skiing and sports, I am passionate about marketing, and I believe that studying marketing at an English university will allow me to combine my interests.
From the beginning, I applied for five other universities in southern England.
Still, my instinct told me that the University of Winchester would be the best fit.
I've been to Winchester several times over the years, and the city is charming, with lots of nature and history, and it feels very similar to my hometown.
I was looking for a university located in a town where I could go for walks in the nature, spend time with friends at cafes and just feel safe.
And Winchester ticked all the boxes for me.
One of the primary reasons I chose the university was that I received a lot of support from the international staff and from current International students.
They answered all my questions about my Visa, Brexit, insurance, financing, etc.
When you start studying at a university, and more so in another country, it is very stressful, and there are a lot of questions and uncertainties.
During the spring and summer, before I started in September, I had to do an English test and sort out a couple of things with the Swedish government.
It was stressful, and there was a lot to do, but when everything was done, I could really enjoy the experience, and I could already notice how much I'd learnt from this experience already.
Also, in England, university degrees have a strong reputation internationally, and there are teams at universities that assist new graduates in finding jobs.
It was vital for me to know how I could get a job after my degree.
Winchester has already provided me with the information about available positions, such as Marketing jobs in London, that I can apply for now and begin working for in a few months.
As an international student, I found it essential to find a university that could provide all my studies because I come from different backgrounds and school systems.
There are many ways to find friends at Winchester, and I've joined a group called "Snowsports", where several people interested in skiing are involved.
Most of us get together once a week and have some events planned.
As an international student, making friends through different groups is great for me, especially when I don't live on campus.
As the first weeks progressed, I felt increasingly confident in the course, the approach, and the new strategies.
My teachers have been helpful, and I have received the support I needed if I did not understand something.
We have had plenty of time during lessons to work on the last assignment, which is at the end of the course.
It is a good structure for me, and I am happy with it.
If you consider studying in England, I recommend the University of Winchester because the school offers excellent support, and the city is charming.
Furthermore, it is only an hour's train ride from London, so it is very easily accessible for friends and family to visit.
My friends can't wait to come over here and see how my student life in Winchester is.
Winchester is a quiet, safe city, with a lot of nature and culture, so my parents are also happy with my choice.
Living in another country for over three years is a huge step and a big part of life.
University is for everyone, it doesn't matter of age or background, this is an incredible experience and if you feel like it could be something you could benefit from – do it!
By Clara our BA (Hons) Marketing student from Sweden.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/international/Meet-our-students/Chisato:
My name is Chisato and I am from Japan.
I completed a foundation programme in Japan then I entered the University of Winchester to study BA (Hons) Theatre Production.
I am so proud of learning here, as Theatre Production has been a dream of mine since I was a child.
I have two main reasons why I chose the University of Winchester.
The first is that the Theatre Production programme at Winchester develops your professional skills.
I wanted to learn about entertainment, especially theatre and couldn’t find a course which really suited me.
However, Theatre Production at the University of Winchester offers me a professional outlook in each module which interested me.
I’ve even had the chance to visit the Theatre Royal in Winchester to observe and listen to professionals.
I am very satisfied with my choice and my learning.
The second reason is that Winchester is a safe place.
When studying in the UK, it is important to choose the right university and course.
However, the environment in which you will live is also essential.
You will leave your family and start a new life and it’s challenging because the UK has a different culture.
In Winchester, you can live very safely and quietly and there are a lot of students around.
If you go to the city centre, there are lots of supermarkets including two Asian supermarkets, so you won’t have any trouble shopping.
There are a lot of facilities that are wonderful, useful, and beautiful on campus you will be surprised by them when you start university life!
In addition, they have fun events and many kinds of societies so you will make new friends and new networks.
I am very satisfied because all the classrooms I use have professional equipment and you use these facilities as part of your learning.
There are lots of study spaces, and the library at West Downs is accessible 24 hours a day.
At the University of Winchester, there’s not only many types of wonderful support from the teaching teams but also very kind students.
Finally, I would like to share with you one of the experiences that made me happy I chose to come to Winchester.
When I went to my first session, I was so nervous because I had arrived four weeks late.
I sat a little bit further away from the other students to start with however, one of my classmates said, “come on, sit a bit closer!”.
When I heard this, I was so happy and relieved.
At the University of Winchester, there are an enormous number of helpful students and if you come to Winchester I, like everyone else, will be here to support you.
By Chisato our BA (Hons) Theatre Production student from Japan.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/international/Meet-our-students/Xinyue:
My name is Xinyue Zhao and I am from Shenzhen in China.
I started my journey at the University of Winchester studying Musical Theatre.
I thought I would go through the Gaokao system for a long time, ending up with going to a university in China until 2019, my second year of my Senior High School.
I had a late self-conscientiousness of what I really wanted to do after watching some musicals, especially Rent (1996).
That was the first time in my life, I seriously considered myself being an “artist” for the rest of my life rather than doing other academic stuff which I was trained for 17 years.
It was a complete risk for a person who had never properly sung, danced, or acted before, I still think it is very brave to make the decision.
Luckily, I got support from my family after I showed my determination, so I started to think how to achieve my dream.
I did think about going through the Yikao which would be an easier choice or going to America where musicals are extremely flourishing.
However, the UK became my first choice as I felt we share a more similar culture.
I then arrived in the UK to study A-Level before university in order to be more prepared for further studying.
When it came to applying for university, Winchester became my first choice.
Not only because the course is amazing, but also the lecturers and students gave me a very welcoming and friendly vibe when I had my interview.
Although it was hard since it happened during the pandemic, it was the best interview I had.
It was more than an interview, the lecturers gave me a lot of useful singing and acting advice which helped me to improve my skills, and senior students told me about their fabulous time in the university, inside and outside classes.
One of the best things here for me is the friendly, tolerant, and diverse community.
You can find people from many different races and cultural backgrounds with different beliefs.
My best friends are from Norway, my flat mates are from Portugal, Greece, and South Africa.
We have felt welcomed and encouraged to share and embrace our differences and I am fascinated by their experiences, as well as proud to show my culture.
I do not feel stressed at all about being different, which is a precious thing of being a student from overseas.
I love the way we are trained in my course.
It combines practical professionalism and academic study which helps us to know the industry better and offers us multiple choices in future careers.
We’ve had multiple guest lecturers from the musical theatre industry giving us diverse views about our future career.
We are also able to set up our social network in theatre from our lecturers, classmates, and friends from societies.
I was lucky to be involved in two professional shows outside the university this year, The Producers in Plaza Theatre and Starling Arts 10+ concert in London Cadogan Hall.
These great experiences not only happen in the Faculty of Arts, but also every other course.
The University of Winchester is a university that provides current academic study as well as future career advice help which helps us to move forward after uni.
Although I have only been here for one year, I have had so many awesome memories so far.
This is absolutely an excellent choice for international students to consider in terms of university studying or living.
I cannot wait for my next two years and hopefully I will be able to meet some lovely fresh faces from all over the world this September!
By Xinyue our BA (Hons) Musical Theatre student from China.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Conferencing-and-Facilities/Sport/Sports-Facilities:
The Winchester Sports Stadium is situated 2km away from campus at Bar End.
The stadium is home to a floodlit 8-lane athletics track and floodlit Tiger Turf All-Weather Pitch which houses three 5-a-side football pitches, or a full-size football pitch or a full-size hockey pitch.
The stadium is home to Winchester and District Athletics Club (WADAC) and is used by the SU Hockey, Football, Athletics, and SoccerSixes teams to train.
The Sports Stadium is a cashless facility, card payments only.
The Stadium’s athletics track has eight lanes with sandwich surface and field discipline facilities.
It is a hub for many outdoor sports in Winchester and is a fantastic location for everyone to participate in sport, from beginner level to elite athletes.
The All Weather Pitch is floodlit to allow for evening play and is used throughout the week by a number of hockey teams, 5-a-side social groups and private company bookings.
Winchester Sports Stadium's top grade, dressed, tiger turf pitch is available to hire 7 days week.
It is a great venue for competitions, matches and training.
£41.65
*Pay as you go
Please contact us for more information or to purchase a track pass.
make a booking.
Twitter: @_UoWSports Facebook: University of Winchester Sports Instagram: uowsports
To contact one of our Sports Stadium Assistants, please email sportsenquiries@winchester.ac.uk or please call 01962 827650 (Option 2).
Unfortunately, there is no customer parking at the Winchester Sports Stadium – unless given prior permission, disabled or dropping off equipment.
Any of these permitted users must ensure that they sign in at reception as ticketing is in operation.
A coach drop-off point is available within the stadium.
Parking is available at the Barfield Park and Ride site (SO23 9SQ), located close to the Stadium off Bar End Road, accessible from junction 10 of the M3.
Pedestrian access to the Winchester Sports Stadium is by a pathway through the Garrison Ground Playing Fields by the Bar End road.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Press-Centre/Media-Articles/Healthier-people-through-better-buildings-University-of-Winchester-flagship-West-Downs-development-registered-for-WELL-Certification.php:
The University of Winchester's flagship West Downs development is among one of the first university projects in the UK to be registered to pursue WELL Certification , an accreditation scheme which recognises buildings that support and advance human health and wellbeing.
Delivered by the International WELL Building Institute (IWBI), the WELL Building Standard (WELL) is a performance-based rating system for measuring, certifying and monitoring features that impact human health and wellness in the built environment.
The ten concepts of WELL are: air, water, nourishment, light, movement, thermal comfort, sound, materials, mind and community.
Features of the West Downs development that boost wellbeing include a contemplation space for practicing mindfulness; healthy food options; access to nature through the courtyard garden; landscaped areas for encouraging outdoor use; and reduced harmful buildings emissions, including air and water testing.
In addition, many workstations have adjustable height sit-stand desks.
Currently, there are 215 WELL Certified projects around the world, including seven certified projects in the UK.
Professor Joy Carter CBE, DL, Vice-Chancellor of the University, said: "WELL is focused on the ways that our buildings and indoor spaces can enhance the health and wellbeing of individuals.
Given that we spend as much as 90 per cent of our lives indoors, using our expertise to design better buildings that help our students, staff and visitors thrive is vital.
"I am delighted that the University of Winchester is aiming for Gold WELL Certification, not least because it embodies our values, which include individuals matter, and underlines our mission as the university for social justice and sustainability.
This is particularly true given the launch on 1 August of our new Faculty of Health and Wellbeing , which aims to enrich the health and wellbeing of individuals, communities and society through teaching and research."
Mark Butt, Major Capital Project Manager at the University of Winchester, who heads up the West Downs project team, said: "The new building at West Downs will be one of the 'greenest' buildings in Winchester and is set to achieve the 'Excellent' rating of the Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM), which is the benchmark standard for the construction of environmentally sustainable buildings in the UK.
"The link between health and buildings was made many decades ago and is now a fast growing area of interest.
As a forward thinking institution, which is recognised for its pioneering work in sustainability, it is right that we use the wellbeing of students, staff and visitors as a key driver alongside sustainable development."
Designed by award-winning Winchester-based architects Design Engine , the building will provide state-of-the-art facilities for learning and teaching.
Winchester is the first UK university to secure green finance for campus development, with a £30m loan from Triodos Bank , Europe's leading sustainable bank.
Construction started in January 2018 and the building will open in January 2020.
It would be awarded WELL Certification by IWBI after rigorous testing and a final evaluation by Green Business Certification Inc.
(GBCI), which is the third-party certification body for WELL, to ensure it meets all WELL performance requirements.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Our-future/West-Downs-Centre:
Our new learning and teaching building at our West Downs Quarter has inspirational state-of-the-art facilities for learning and teaching is home to our Digital Technologies computer and digital-related degree programmes and business and management programmes.
Our new learning and teaching building at our West Downs Quarter is now open for students and staff.
The inspirational state-of-the-art facilities for learning and teaching is home to our Digital Technologies computer and digital-related degree programmes and business and management programmes.
The contemporary design, by award-winning Winchester-based architects Design Engine , includes a drum-shaped 250-seat auditorium, art gallery, café, food hall, shop, library, social learning areas and teaching spaces.
Boasting sustainable features including a combined heat and power plant, heat recovery systems, rainwater harvesting, a green roof and solar photovoltaic panels, the building is on target to achieve a BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method) 'Excellent' rating.
We are also applying for WELL certification , an international building standard for measuring how a building impacts on its users’ health and wellbeing.
We are the first University in the UK to secure green finance for campus development, with a £30m loan from Triodos Bank for our landmark new building.
The project represents an important investment in our future, as we improve our facilities and learning resources to support academic excellence and ensure Winchester is an automatic first choice for undergraduates.
It also provides a new gateway into Winchester, linking the University and the city and creating an impressive addition to Winchester’s civic buildings.
During construction, we published regular newsletters about the progress of the new building.
Download the latest newsletter: West Downs newsletter July 2020
Our YouTube channel features timelapse films of construction progress, including topping out, interviews and other films about the development.
Our new building features a number of benefits for local people, underlining our commitment to engage with and support our local community.
Some areas of the building are open to our local community to enjoy:
We want to provide the best possible experience for students studying at Winchester and one way we do this is by continuously improving our estate, facilities and learning resources, supporting academic excellence and promoting Winchester as an automatic first choice for undergraduates.
The West Downs development provides state-of-the-art facilities for students, including specialist labs for our Digital Futures courses, as well as social learning spaces, quiet study spaces, a library and café and food hall.
The University is a major employer and a key part of the city – yet it has very little civic presence.
This project has created an impressive addition to Winchester’s civic buildings at the main gateway into the city centre from the south-west where it is visible from the Romsey Road.
The West Down’s site is situated on the B3040 Romsey Road south-west of the city centre.
The 7500m2 building has been built on existing green space within the site, next to the Grade II-listed University of Winchester Business School.
Work began on the new building in January 2018 with a groundbreaking ceremony.
At the end of October 2018, we celebrated a key construction milestone with a traditional 'topping out' ceremony to mark reaching the highest point in the landmark development.
The building was handed over to the University by Osborne in the summer of 2020 and it opened for teaching in September 2020.
The building will be highly environmentally friendly: sustainable features of the new building include a combined heat and power plant, heat recovery systems, rainwater harvesting, a green roof and solar photovoltaic panels.
It is on target to achieve a BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method) 'Excellent' rating.
BREEAM assesses, rates and certifies the sustainability of new buildings around the world.
Metrics cover a range of environmental issues, such as energy and water use, materials, waste, ecology, pollution and transport.
The University is investing £50m in constructing and equipping the building.
The building boats a number of benefits for local people, in line with our role and responsibilities as an integral part of the local community.
Benefits include: improved pedestrian safety across Romsey Road and into West Downs; improved access and security for pedestrians using the public footpath between West Downs and Hillier Garden Centre; public access to parts of the new building including the café, auditorium, courtyard garden and public piazza, and an art gallery.
There will also be a Changing Places personal care room for people with disabilities and their carers

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Conferencing-and-Facilities/Sport/Gym-Memberships:
We have a gym pass to suit everyone!
Burma Road Student Village hosts the University Gym.
The equipment supplied by both Technogym and Life Fitness provides an excellent work out experience.
The top floor hosts our cardio area providing an array of bikes, treadmills, cross trainers, rowing machines, stair climbers and more.
There is also a stretching zone to get you ready for your workout and fixed resistance machines to improve your strength.
The basement floor hosts our changing rooms and our free weights area, where you will find a power rack, dumbbells, barbells, benches, deadlift area and our synergy 360 rig.
Gym Pass Type
12 Months
Academic Year
3 Months
1 Month*
Student
£235.00
£180.00
£80.00
£27.50
Staff
£275.00
£215.00
£85.00
£28.50
Partnership
£320.00
N/A
£95.00
£32.50
Community
£340.00
£105.00
£35.50
*All gym passes require a 3 month initial sign up period, after which point you can pay monthly **The university gym is a cashless facility.
We only accept card payments.
Gym Membership includes a short induction, free Fitness Classes, free exercise advice and programmes from our qualified instructors.
UoW Gym Terms and Conditions 2024
Weekdays: 7am-10pm
Weekends (including bank holidays): 10am-6pm
All classes are designed for all abilities.
Classes are included in your gym membership, pay as you go options are available and rates start from just £3 per class.
Attendees must present the instructor with an in-date class ticket, all tickets must be collected from the University Gym prior to the start of the class.
All classes require 1st time attendees to fill out a quick Health Questionnaire before the start of the class, we recommend popping into the gym 15mins prior to the start of the class to do this.
Indoor Cycling 17:15 - 18:00
*Most classes will take place in our fitness studio.
However, some classes may be held in the University Gym or on the MUGA, If unsure, please do get in touch.
For more information email sportsenquiries@winchester.ac.uk .
To book onto your favourite class call +(44) 01962 827650 (Option 1) or visit the University Gym on Burma Road at the bottom of Block C and speak to a member of staff at the gym desk.
Fitness classes can be booked up to 1 week in advance.
All classes require a receipt/proof of purchase,please ensure payment is made at the University Gym.
Remember to bring your ticket to your class and hand on arrival to the instructor.
Visit us at the bottom of Burma Road, Block C where you can talk to our qualified fitness instructors regarding which membership type will suit you best.
Alternatively find our contact information in the ‘Contact Us’ section below.
Please see link below for our PAR-Q form, print and bring this with you when you sign up.
Weekdays: 7am - 10pm (These hours may change outside of term time) Weekends: Including (Including Bank Holidays): 10am - 6pm
Anyone can use the gym including members of the public.
The University Gym is now cashless so card payments only.
University Staff can also have a deduction from salary if they wish, after paying the first month in advance, by card payment.
The minimum age requirement to use the gym is 16 years of age.
If under 18, parental consent is required.
All you need to come up to the gym and fill out the gym pass form, health questionnaire and then bring a method of payment.
After we ask everyone to take part in a quick induction with one of our staff members, please let them know if you would like further information on using the facilities and they can give you a more thorough induction.
Email: Helen.Thomas@winchester.ac.uk Tel: 01962 826362
Email: Ryan.Sanger@winchester.ac.uk Tel: 01962 827553
For more information or to purchase a membership.
Sports Stadium Assistants and Health & Fitness Instructors: Email: SportsEnquiries@winchester.ac.uk
Gym Team: 01962 827650 option 1 Bar End Team:01962 827650 option 2
GDPR Privacy Data Notice - Gym

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Conferencing-and-Facilities/Sport/Campus-Sports-Facilities:
The University of Winchester main campus is home to our Multi Use Games Area (MUGA), sports hall, and gym.
The MUGA and sports hall can both be used to play a wide variety of sports and are frequently used by both student and external sports teams for training and competitions.
Due to the demand for these facilities, it is important to book in advance
The Sports Hall is housed in the Bowers Building on campus.
It is used for teaching, casual sports use, and SU Sport training.
The sports hall is perfect for hosting a wide range of sports from Basketball, Volleyball, Dodgeball, Futsal, Frisbee, Badminton, Netball, and more.
This facility can be booked by staff, students, and members of the local community for casual use.
This facility includes attached changing rooms and an elevated viewing gallery for spectators.
The John Shannon Sports Ground (MUGA) is situated on the King Alfred Quarter, behind the Performing Arts buildings.
This is an enclosed Tiger Turf All-Weather Pitch which houses two tennis courts, two 5-a-side pitches and one netball court.
Please note this is an outdoor facility and it is not flood lit.
Campus facilities - Multi Use Games Area
Campus facilities
Please note, these facilities are frequently in use, so it is important to book in advance.
Please contact us for more information or to make a booking.
For block bookings or large events, please email sportsenquiries@winchester.ac.uk .
To contact one of our on-campus sports facilities assistants regarding a one-off booking or for general enquiries, please call 01962 827650 (Option 1).
Follow our socials for offers and updates.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Conferencing-and-Facilities/Sport/Get-Active:
GetActive is an award-winning scheme to help tackle inactivity.
GetActive lets you take part in the sports that you know and love, as well as trying something new for the very first time.
We offer a range of sporting sessions in a fun, friendly and relaxed environment.
GetActive sessions run on a weekly basis and the scheme works in collaboration with the Students’ Union.
Specially designed sessions are available both separately and together.
The sessions are run by coaches and volunteers, although some staff sessions are organised to be a pitch up and play session.
As our aim for this scheme is to help increase participation in sport for our staff and students there is not a charge for any of these sessions.
Some one-off sessions might be charged to cover costs of specialised coaching or equipment.
Sessions may take place on campus, online, or at the Bar End Sports Stadium, so please contact us if you require more information.
Some activities may require payment.
(Staff) Tennis/Table Tennis Sports Hall/ MUGA 5pm - 6pm
(Student) 6ASIDE Winchester Sports Stadium 7pm - 9pm
(Staff) Tai Chi Fitness Studio 12pm - 1pm
Virtual Zumba Online 6:30pm - 7:30pm
For more information regarding our GetActive events, please email SportsEnquiries@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Conferencing-and-Facilities/Sport/Elite-Sport-Programme-and-TASS:
Student-athletes on the Elite Sport Programme are treated as exceptionally talented individuals who are backed up by the full force of a dedicated sport performance support team.
The Elite Sport Programme (ESP) allows student-athletes to develop and compete in their sport while studying for a degree.
We understand the motivations of the student-athlete and provide support to allow an individual to reach their full potential as an athlete while gaining a fantastic education.
The ESP provides student-athletes with expert coaching, sport science support and academic support within an elite sport environment.
The ESP is student centred to create a professional environment for individuals to excel.
Eligible student-athletes have access to our strength and conditioning laboratory and coaches, access to our sport therapy clinic, frequent physiological performance testing, regular one-to-one support with academic staff, access to sport-specific facility and university gym, and lifestyle improvement workshops.
Our exceptional programme ensures that all student-athletes receive high-level coaching and performance programming from a sport-specific Head Coach.
The elite track and field athletics programme is based at the university’s England Athletics recognised track and field stadium, a short walk from the King Alfred campus.
Unlike other universities, we provide the full offering to all of our ESP student-athletes as well as an experienced and proven head coach to oversee performance development.
If you want to experience training like a professional track and field athlete while gaining your degree, the University of Winchester is for you.
To create the elite sporting environment, student-athletes are provided with the following support services completely free: • Sport-specific Head Coach to oversee performance development with up to 12 hours of stadium-based coaching per week - Individualised yearly planning with close relationship maintained with home club where required • Use of exceptional sport facility for training - Unlimited use of the university’s track and field athletics stadium • Access to sport therapy and physiotherapy - Physiotherapy treatment at the Winchester Health Clinic - Sport Therapy Clinic offering free remedial massage and injury treatment • Access to Strength and Conditioning - Multiple sessions per week overseen by fully qualified S&C coach • Free access to the university gym • Physiological performance testing - Pre, mid and post testing in the physiology laboratory • Academic and lifestyle support through Talented Athlete Scholarship Scheme (TASS) Dual Career programme - Weekly meetings with dual career coordinator • Free Elite Student membership with Winchester & District Athletics Club - Further training with discipline-specific coaches and senior athletes
In order to qualify for the programme, an athlete must have achieved the minimum performance levels below and/or received a representative vest at county or county schools level or above at age U17 upwards.
Apply for the Elite Sport Programme via this application form
The University of Winchester is an accredited Talented Athlete Scholarship Scheme (TASS) Dual Career provider.
As an accredited provider, the university supports talented athletes on the academic side of their development because we recognise the challenge of balancing high-performance sport and university study.
TASS Dual Career Provision • Dedicated member of staff to support academic progression • Weekly meetings with TASS academic staff • Lifestyle and performance support workshops • Access to sport performance support • Assignment deadline extensions where necessary
TASS Dual Career Eligibility
A TASS Dual Career athlete will be competing at a senior or age group national standard (i.e., national open events across England) or higher (i.e., international) or is a member of a regional group (i.e., South of England Development Squad) or higher (i.e., National Development Group).
In recognition of team sports, such as football and rugby where participation numbers are high, local regional level athletes will be considered.
To apply for TASS Dual Career click the link here.
Apply for the TASS Dual Career via the application form .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/winpay:
If this is your first time using WINPay!, you must first setup a password.
All accounts have been created by Knowledge and Digital Services when you arrive.
Simply enter your University of Winchester email address below and we'll send you out a password setup form.
If you are a student or staff member and your email address is not being recognised, please email cateringcard@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Sustainable-Campus-and-Community/Ethical-catering:
We believe the University of Winchester is a national leader in the area of Sustainable Catering.
Committed to sustainability, we launched our LIFE brand which provides the foundation for our all our operations.
Committed to sustainability, we launched our LIFE brand which provides the foundation for our all our operations:
We promote the use of local suppliers, ensuring that our outlets always stock a number of local products.
We use farm assured meat as a minimum standard in our recipes and where possible, use locally reared animals across our range of menus.
Use our supplier map to view the local suppliers and producers we work with.
We are an independent University caterer, so we have the ability to use suppliers that best serve the needs of our customers.
Being fair and just is at the core of our philosophy, from offering Fairtrade products to dealing with customer comments or ensuring that our dishes are honestly priced and remain good value for money.
We strongly believe in high ethical standards.
We encourage sustainable life choices and embrace good practices in our operation such as reducing food miles, promoting recycling and efficient waste management.
As outlined in the University’s Ethical Food Policy, tender specification documents for university food suppliers include the requirement for service and supply standards to be met and delivered against targets outlined within the policy.
The University’s allotments at Holm Lodge provide space for staff and students to grow their own food.
Staff and students interested in joining the waiting list for an allotment plot can contact the Student Union General Manager.
Additionally, any forgeable food, grown across campus, where possible will be used in our dishes.
We have three Campus Community Fridges.
The Community Fridges are based in the Learning Café (Level 4-King Alfred Centre) KKB Cafe (Kenneth Kettle Building) and the West Downs Food Hall (Level 1).
These enable the University community to share surplus food that would otherwise go to waste.
We offer free drinking water across campus and at all catering outlets.
Use the Water Fountain Map
The University is also a supporter of the Refill campaign .
All Food on Campus outlets are listed on the Refill App and are available to university staff and students and external visitors.
Kale Yeah!
is a loyalty scheme to encourage students and staff to try more veggie and vegan food.
Students and staff are rewarded with a stamp-based loyalty scheme with a free meal for every 6 veggie or vegan meals purchased.
The free meal can be veggie, vegan, meat or fish.
The offer is earned and redeemed through the university’s WINPay!
loyalty scheme and is available in all University catering outlets.
We are committed to encouraging healthy and sustainable food production and consumption.
A diet that contains less meat will help tackle climate change and be better for the wider environment, our health and animal welfare.
For more information, see our policies and procedures
It's through these principles we have won a variety of awards for our work: Policies and Regulations
Compassion in World Farming (CiWF) is a leading farm animal welfare charity that campaigns peacefully to end all cruel factory farming practices.
Through prestigious awards, CiWF hopes to inspire, encourage and reward businesses that demonstrate the commitment to improving the standards of animal welfare.
The University was awarded the Good Dairy Award from CiWF in 2011.
The Good Dairy Award celebrates companies that use or are committing to use higher welfare dairy systems for cows and calves.
The University was awarded the Good Chicken Award from CiWF in 2010.
Winchester was one of only three higher education institutions to receive the award, which recognised the University's use of free-range chicken in catering operations.
The Good Chicken Award, launched in 2010, celebrates companies that use or are committing to use (within 5 years) higher welfare chicken production systems in their supply chain.
The University has been using free-range eggs in its catering service since 2005 and was awarded the Good Egg Award from CiWF in 2009.
The award recognises the University’s commitment to animal welfare, in particular, the use of free range eggs in all catering activities.
From 2023, all our dishes and recipes requiring whole raw egg will be made using local free range eggs.
The win also demonstrated the University's continuing move to a totally animal welfare friendly catering service.
The Good Egg Awards were developed by CiWF to celebrate companies that have committed to freeing millions of hens from a life of suffering in battery cages.
The Good Pig Award recognises companies that use or are committing to use (within five years) higher welfare systems for sows and meat pigs.
To date, more than 3.1 million sows and meat pigs are set to benefit each year as a result of our Good Pig Award.
The University has been using farm assured pork in its catering service since 2010 and we are currently working towards achieving the Good Pig Award for 2025.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Accommodation/whats-on-offer:
A range of student accommodation is available including catered and self-catered accommodation on campus.
The best way to find out about our accommodation is to book on an open day and attend one of our guided accommodation tours.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/UWin-Student-Blog/Blog-Posts/Going-Out-Out.php:
The nights may be drawing in but there’s no need to hibernate when there are so many evening entertainments and activities on offer in Winchester.
Here are some options with approximate costs for you to plan with your new mates.
Enjoy!
DANCE THE NIGHT AWAY
BOP.
What’s BOP I hear you say?
It’s only Winchester’s biggest student night.
BOP is your club night held at the Students’ Union Vault on campus every Wednesday night 8pm-1am.
Enjoy your favourite pop and cheesy tunes where themed fancy dress is heartily encouraged.
If you arrive by 10pm the ticket price is £4.50 and £6.50 after.
DANCE THE NIGHT AWAY, BUT QUIETLY
Silent discos have discoed silently in two of Winchester’s most iconic venues in recent years, the cathedral and the Great Hall and occasionally on campus in the Vault too.
GET YOUR QUIZ ON
Winchester Students’ Union hosts a quiz on campus most Thursday nights.
For a couple of pounds you can quiz to win the cash prize.
Various Winchester pubs host quizzes too – O’Neills and Alfie’s currently quiz on a Monday evening (free entry) and the St James Tavern on Romsey Road, very close to the uni, quizzes on a Tuesday.
SCREEN TIME
The Everyman cinema, which is super close to our King Alfred Quarter, is at the more expensive end of the movie ticket spectrum.
As it's quite fancy maybe save it for when you want to impress a date.
A more budget-friendly alternative is the Vue cinema in nearby Eastleigh which has most tickets starting from the £5 mark if you buy them in advance online.
On the edge of the city is Winchester Science Centre which screens Halloween and Christmas movies on its massive planetarium ‘all around you’ screen while you relax in their super-recliney seats.
Tickets are approximately £8.50.
CRAFT ME UP
Bella Crafts is the best fun and affordable craft hub in Winchester.
Check out their calendar of student-friendly evening events like ‘pottery and pizza Fridays’ (no explanation needed).
Monthly ‘paint and sip nights’ have nibbles and a drink included in the £6 entry fee (you’ll need to pay extra for any crafting supplies you buy on the night).
You can bring your own crafting project along and even bring your own bottle.
CRACK ME UP
If you're in the mood to laugh until you cry, head to The Arc on Jewry Street.
Yes, it is the city’s main library, but behind all that shelving is a gig and comedy venue with tickets in the £13-£23 region.
MIKE ME UP
O’Neills pub offers karaoke on Thursday evenings with free entry (our favourite price).
In saying this, karaoke at Alfie’s is also free to attend and our Students’ Union hosts karaoke and cocktail ‘n’ mocktail events in the Vault on campus.
The Railway Inn hosts Winchester's longest running open mic night on Monday evenings with free entry.
If you play an acoustic instrument you are welcome to come and play whatever genre of music you like.
MIX ME UP
And by this we mean DJ nights and live music.
Overdraft offers up a winning combination of craft beer, Mexican street food and vinyl-only DJ sets.
Other pubs around town like O’Neill's have a weekly programme of DJ nights and live music interspersed with quieter activities like quiz nights and the Broadway pub has a DJ on Thursday and Friday nights.
And remember that the Students’ Union also organises the occasional DJ night on campus in the Vault.
Your best bet for gigs is The Arc on Jewry Street where recent music events have included folk, blues and a free acoustic café.
Still our favourite price.
LOCK ME UP
Bond with your housemates at ClueCapers Escape Room at the foot of town.
It's a great way to get to know new friends - who's the competitive one, who's the clever one and who just tagged along for the pub visit afterwards?
Outside games are priced per game and start at £50 off-peak.
Indoor games are priced per person with a game for a team of five costing £130 (£26 each).
FIRE ME UP
For a cosy night in a pub with a real fire, head to the Old Vine , the Wykeham Arms , the King Alfred or the William Walker .
Fireworks Night in Winchester is usually the Saturday after 5 November and tickets are £8-£10.
Winchester Cathedral lantern parade is at the end of November each year and is a free event where the good folks of Winchester parade through the city with their homemade lanterns finishing at the cathedral.
Lanterns in previous years have included a panda, Rubik’s cube, Mickey Mouse, rockets, suns and stars.
If making a lantern isn’t your thing, no problem.
You can still take part and enjoy the spectacle.
The city’s main Christmas lights switch on is mid-November and sees the opening of the hugely popular Christmas market in the Cathedral Close.
This Winchester highlight is just a 10-15 minute walk downhill from campus.
Kingsgate village is a historic and atmospheric part of the centre of Winchester and their Christmas lights switch on is usually the third week of November, with independent stores open late that night.
Perfect with a hot chocolate or mulled beverage.
FEED ME UP
Winchester arguably has too many places to eat.
Choose your options carefully to ensure your main meal is nearer the £10 than the £20 mark.
The Stable , specialists in pizza and mac 'n' cheese, always have one or two pizza options around the £13 price point.
Three Joe's massive sourdough Margherita is around £11.50 and most of the tofu options at Wagamama are around £13 but prices shoot up pretty quickly for chicken or beef options.
Overdraft do incredibly filling burritos for £12.50 which are tricky to eat prettily.
If you are on a date we recommend you go for the easier to eat poke bowl option, also £12.50.
WHAT IS OUT THERE?
We mean this literally.
Winchester Science Centre and Planetarium hosts science-based talks, stargazing events, planetarium shows and other space, science and astronomy themed events, some exclusively for adults, served with or without popcorn and cocktails.
AND FINALLY...HAVE A GREAT NIGHT.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/UWin-Student-Blog/Blog-Posts/The-best-of-city-life-on-a-budget.php:
There are loads of fun things to do and places to eat and drink in Winchester, even on a budget.
Check out our handy guide showing what you can enjoy in the local area for just £10 or less.
From cinema trips to craft workshops and mocktails to open mic nights – what will you try first?
If you’re looking for a great night out with mates or a date, why not head to the Vue cinema in Eastleigh where you can watch the latest blockbuster for just £4.99.
With a return train from Winchester to Eastleigh costing around £4.30, that’s movie night covered for under a tenner.
Perhaps you’re looking for something spooky?
If you’re brave enough, give the Ghost Tour of Winchester a try.
For £10 you can hear all about the dark history of Winchester and tales of tormented souls on a blood-curdling adventure lasting around 60-75 minutes.
Josie’s has a variety of delicious breakfast and brunch options for around £9.
Start your day right with eggs benedict, granola, eggs on toast, a vegan burrito, spiced butterbeans or breakfast tacos.
Josie’s also offers some tasty lunch options for £8.50-£9.50 including loaded tots, buttermilk fried chicken burger and a variety of toasties.
Whether you’re looking for the perfect outfit for a night at Bop, something more formal or comfy sweats to study in, charity shops are great places to look.
You can nab a bargain for under £9 while supporting a great cause.
Head into town and have fun searching – there’s lots to choose from including Naomi House & Jacksplace , Dogs Trust and Oxfam.
Independent business Bella Crafts offers a range of walk-in workshops.
Starting at £8 you can embrace decopatch, glass painting, pottery painting, silk and fabric painting, or jewellery making sessions.
You can craft for as long as you wish until the venue closes.
If you need some sustenance to keep your creativity flowing, they offer delicious coffee, cake and lunch options too.
If you’re craving satisfying Mexican food, Overdraft is one of our favourite restaurants in the heart of Winchester.
You’ll often find us there on Taco Tuesdays, munching through three tacos for the price of two which should set you back about £8.
The vibe steps up at night with regular DJ sets and a range of craft beers to sample.
Turtle Bay offers some of the best mocktails in Winchester.
Transport yourself to a tropical paradise with a Strawberry Non Daiquiri, Passion Paradise or Passion Fruit Nojito for £7.35.
Let the drinks and conversations flow as you socialise with housemates or coursemates.
Projects Store and Kitchen offers products from over 30 independent local traders whether you’re after vintage clothing, handmade gifts or quirky antiques.
Top up your food cupboard regulars from the zero waste refill station or visit the café for fresh, ethically sourced food.
In the winter, we can’t get enough of their large soup and sourdough toast for £6.50.
Fancy a bit of culture?
Explore the city’s past and present across three floors in the Winchester City Museum .
Handle real artefacts, view a model of the city in Victorian times and find out more about the influential Hampshire icons Jane Austen and Alfred the Great.
Concession tickets are £6.30 for this museum or instead, pay £11.25 for 12 months of unlimited entry to City Museum plus The Great Hall and Westgate Museum too.
Enjoy a dip in the eight-lane 50m swimming pool at our local Winchester Sport and Leisure Park , next to our University of Winchester Sports Stadium in Bar End.
Note: the children’s splash pad next to the learner pool looks sooo much fun, but sadly that’s just for the little ones!
Each session in the main pool costs £6.20 or £3.55 for a concession ticket – how many lanes will you swim?
The Works is a great place for artists on a budget.
A mere £6 can buy you a Crawford & Black A5 Artist Sketch Pad and a pack of colouring pencils.
Which beauty spot will you head to for inspiration – perhaps Winchester Cathedral grounds, St Catherine’s Hill or the water meadows?
From Camden to Winchester – embrace the latest trend and try a bubble (boba) tea.
Head to Mooboo to discover your favourite flavour combination with their milk teas, fruit teas and a mango, passion fruit or lychee matcha coming in at under £5.
One of the favourite things for a Winchester student to do is to enjoy a coffee in the centre of the city.
You have a huge choice of cafés with Costa on the High Street offering a coffee and a butter croissant in the mornings for £4.99.
Winchester is surrounded by loads of beautiful towns so take the chance to explore beyond the city.
For just £3 you can get a bus ticket to Romsey – a super cute market town with an amazing Norman Abbey, independent stores and picturesque walks by the River Test.
If you’re feeling more active, set out on the beautiful four-mile walk along the Itchen Way from Winchester to Shawford.
Pause for a refreshing drink in the local pub, The Bridge, before getting the train back for just £3.10.
Craving a big city vibe?
Thanks to the Government capping single fare bus journeys at £3 and Bluestar offering £1 journeys after 6pm, you can travel to Southampton and back again for a mere £3.
You’ll be spoilt for choice with hundreds of shops for a bit of retail therapy, an epic range of restaurants, an incredible calendar of events and some excellent venues for a big night out.
Depending on how much space you have, you can choose from around 200 packets of vegetable or herb seeds, each costing less than £3, from Hilliers Garden Centre (next to our West Downs Centre).
Even if you’ve just got a tray or pot on a windowsill, it’s super easy to grow your own lettuce, basil or mint.
Wetherspoons offers free refills on tea, coffee or hot chocolate for just £1.71.
This deal is perfect for a good long catch up with friends or to keep your thirst quenched during a daytime study session (if you don't mind a little background noise).
Release your inner child in the Old-Fashioned Sweetie Shop .
There’s a huge range of yummy sweet treats under £2, including pick 'n' mix for £1.65 per 100g.
Whether you snack on it, blend it or share it, it’s easy to enjoy delicious fruit on a budget.
For under £1 at Tesco you can get a jumbo kiwi (95p), three oranges (90p) or six small bananas (96p) – what will choose as part of your five a day?
If you’re looking for a fun night out in the city, then head to the Roots open mic night at The Railway Inn .
It’s on every Monday evening from 8.30pm and tickets are free.
Take a break from your studies and unwind by walking through the beautiful 64-hectare Winnall Moors Nature Reserve .
Wander along the boardwalks by the River Itchen – keep an eye out for kingfishers, water voles and roe deer.
Prices correct at time of publishing.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/UWin-Student-Blog/Blog-Posts:
Here you'll find anything and everything to do with life at Winchester – from settling into uni life to societies, student hacks and preparing for life after graduation.
Find out about the gigs and festivals you could experience in Winchester and the music you could make as part of the University's super inclusive Music Centre.
Our handy guide showcases what you can enjoy out and about in Winchester city and the local area for just £10 or less.
Top tips to help you in supporting your student through a stress-free Clearing process
Alex shares her Clearing experience and why coming to Winchester was such a good choice for her.
Madison shares how she changed her mind about her uni choice, entered Clearing and loves her final choice, Winchester.
Louise shares her experiences of joining the Winchester community through Clearing and how she hasn't looked back since.
Check out our top tips to help ease worries about starting university covering everything from finances to friendships and fending for yourself.
We debunk some myths about what going to uni is like with some reassurance about the positive experience that lies ahead.
Join us on a whistlestop tour of seven must-see spots around the city.
Think countless independent coffee shops, hilltop panoramas and a riverside nature walk.
Parent Stuart shares his experience of supporting his daughter Maddie in researching and visiting her uni choices and in making her application to UCAS.
A student's guide to Winchester's food scene.
The must-try spots serving up unmissable food.
Musical Theatre Graduate Rebecca talks to us about her graduate scheme success
and career since leaving Winchester.
Take a trip through the stranger side of Winchester's ancient and intriguing history through the stories told by those who lived through it.
In the side streets and quiet corners of our city are many hidden delights.
Discover vintage clothing stores, coffee with a conscience, escape room puzzling and many layers of history.
From crafting to escape rooms, movie nights, karaoke and gigs, find out what you could be getting up to during the evenings in Winchester.
Hear all about Business Management student Erle's placement year in two companies and how the experience has boosted his employability.
Final year Law student Clara shares her amazing experience spending four months in Virginia in the USA as part of the University's Study Abroad programme.
Discover the best ways to make and save money while studying at the University of Winchester.
Sophie tells us all about her fascinating six-month Law placement with barristers' chambers 3PB based in the centre of Winchester.
We caught up with graduate Jake at our Careers Futures Fair, where he spoke about the range of career pathways open to History alumni.
Final year Business Management student Oksana, tells us all about her placement year with Samsung.
Read about how Georgia decided to volunteer at HMP Winchester during her degree and how this experience has shaped her career.
Child Nursing student Macy tells us all about her route into Nursing and how she has already secured her graduate role in neonatal care.
If you are considering living at home and commuting to Uni, then read on for information, advice and top tips.
There are so many places to eat in Winchester, it may take you three years to try them all!
So why not experience some unique local restaurants to begin with?
Don’t know what to expect when you start University?
Here are some of the biggest differences you’ll encounter to help you prepare.
Advice on meeting other students and forming new friendships during your first few weeks at Winchester.
We celebrate the role Winchester regularly plays in literature, TV and movies, whether our city is where they were written, set or filmed.
Read Clare's honest and super helpful advice on helping her son prepare for his new adventure as a Winchester Geography student.
Ceri bravely bares her soul in this open letter with reassuring advice from her third year to her first year self.
Packing for university can be a daunting process so we’ve put together this handy list to make the transition to university that much smoother.
Find out the differences between our accommodation options, including catered and self-catering, to help you find the best option for you.
Our open days are a great opportunity to find out more about us, our courses and accommodation.
Make the most of your visit by reading our top tips.
Learn how our Academic Skills Advisers can help you to achieve the best grades you can in your assignments.
Find out about the personalised career development and support we build into your Winchester Psychology degree and where your degree could take you.
Read all about Lily's experience studying Criminology at Winchester, from attending an Open Day to choosing the modules that fitted her career aspirations.
Our Physiotherapy students share their insightful placement experiences where they covered orthopaedics, musculoskeletal care, hand therapy and neuro rehabilitation.
Hear from students about their experience in the History Society.
Find out about guest speakers, trips and how you don't have to be studying History to be a member.
Hear why Natasha Evans coursemates nominated her for an Academic Excellence award and hear from the winner herself at the awards ceremony.
Find out about all of the different settings where you could complete your placements on your Adult Nursing course.
Do you have any questions about coming to the University of Winchester?
Here are some common queries about life on campus and moving to a new city.
Discover more about the incredible academic successes of students from each of our faculties.
We couldn’t be more proud of them!
We asked Film Production graduates Beth and Marie for their best things about studying Film Production at Winchester.
Show your five university choices, your talents and your potential to thrive studying your chosen subject.
Read our top tips on perfecting your personal statement.
Find out all about Georgia's experience studying Geography at Winchester, from field trips to her favourite modules.
Hear from our Law students about their time volunteering with the University's unique Legal Advice Centre.
Here's what you'll need to have ready before you get in touch with us with your clearing enquiry.
We’ve put together our top tips so you can  maximise your time and experience at a university virtual open day.
Take a look at some of the best and simplest ways to reduce stress during busy times, suggested by our Student Support and Success Team.
Find out all about studying Winchester's career-focused Cyber Security course and why it could be for you.
Find out why Computer Science student Thomas Bwambale Muhiwa chose Winchester and read his advice for anyone thinking of studying here.
With pancake day coming up we're excited to bake up a storm in the kitchen.
Here are some of our favourite recipes to impress your housemates.
Tips and advice on choosing the best course for you and all the things to consider when making your university choices.
Graduate Savannah takes you through the differences between college homework and university assignments and what you can expect from university study.
Independent businesses are the backbone of Winchester.
We interviewed the people who built their business here and asked what makes the city special.
Former student and current lecturer Dr Vanessa Harbour discusses her twenty years at the University of Winchester from student to successful published author.
If you didn't quite get the grades you were expecting, don't worry.
We've put together some top tips to help you ace clearing.
Loneliness is impacting young adults at an increasing rate.
We take a look at some of the key ways to help combat the feelings of isolation.
Clearing may seem a bit confusing and feel a little overwhelming, so Emma has shared her top 10 tips in a vlog to help you through clearing.
Find out what is different about studying Law at Winchester.
Recent graduate, Chloe, tells us all about moving to the beautiful historic city of Winchester and shares her reasons why she loves living here!
Event Management student Kate Browning shares her experience of volunteering at The Trinity Big Sleep Out in the Cathedral Close on 13 May
One of the most exciting things about starting university is exploring not only your new city, but having the opportunity to discover new towns and places nearby.
Find out where our students recommend as the best day trips to take from Winchester.
As we all know, the planet can really use a helping hand at the moment.
Luckily, the University has been working on ways to make it as easy as possible for you to be more sustainable in your everyday life as a Winchester student.
Below are a few tips on how you can make a difference.
In a time when everything is so uncertain, I’ve shared some things I wish I knew before coming to Winchester, and I hope you’ll find them useful too.
Alex studied BA (Hons) Forensic Studies, graduating in 2017.
Alex shares how his experiences at Winchester have helped get to where he is today.
Sending your child to university can be a rollercoaster of emotions.
Alison is mum to our psychology student, Katie and she shares her top tips to parents and guardians who are supporting their children in applying to university and in choosing their next new home.
Kendra shares her best independent coffee shops in Winchester to keep you energised whilst tackling university life.
PhD student, Laura shares her experiences and knowledge of studying Education Studies at Winchester.
Kendra reflects on her first year at Winchester; discussing all-parts of student life from halls, social life, academic life and what she would do differently next year.
Just missed out on the grades or entry requirements to secure a place on your degree?
Here are five reasons why a Foundation Year might be a great option for you.
If you’re coming to the end of your undergraduate degree, now might be the time to start thinking about postgraduate study.
Take a look at our top five reasons to consider pursuing a Masters at Winchester.
Taking breaks and regular exercise whilst studying has been shown to improve your mood, memory and thinking skills.
Check out our top 10 tips to stay healthy whilst studying.
Lydia and Jack run an Instagram channel dedicated to making cheap and healthy meals to maintain a balanced lifestyle whilst at uni.
Here are their tips to inspire you to cook cheap yet amazing meals.
As her second year draws to a close Creative writing student, Andrea, ponders upon the five things she most enjoys about her course.
Choreography and Dance student, Jess, tells us all about the courses student lead D@win Dance company and what the class of 2017/18 are getting up to in preparation for the Dot.to.Dot tour.
Choreography and Dance student, Orla, tells us all about returning to Winch after the Christmas holidays and how her course eased her back into uni life with a week packed full of motivational workshops.
After a ghostly semester studying Gothic Literature, our second year Creative Writing students gathered together on a cold, winter's morning to create their own stories, and to take part in a brand new University initiative.
You know what is exhilarating?
Buying a one-way plane ticket and arriving in a new place where you are going to live and study for the next few years.
Read Savannah's experience of moving to Winchester from the USA.
Thinking about a career in journalism?
We've been in contact with some of our journalism alumni to find out what they've been up to since graduating at Winchester.
Find out where their degree has taken them.
Thinking about postgraduate study?
Find out what inspired student blogger, Evie, to pursue a Masters degree at the University of Winchester.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/UWin-Student-Blog/Blog-Posts/Winchester-Folklore.php:
Winchester’s 2,000 years of history has been well documented, preserved and fastidiously researched.
Perhaps though, it doesn’t tell us the full story of the city.
What about the local tales passed down through generations that should come with a ‘citation needed’ warning?
Take a pinch of salt and read my favourite stories from across the city.
Starting with one of my favourites, it’s the Great West Window in Winchester Cathedral.
The Cathedral is a grand building; there’s much to see inside, plus it’s a memorable place to graduate.
However, one element that stood out when I went inside was how strange the main stained-glass window in the C athedral really was.
Unlike the other stained-glass windows, it didn’t depict anything, or tell a story, it was more of a psychedelic collage that looked as if it had come from the 60s (interestingly enough, Crosby, Stills and Nash do have a song, Cathedral which features Winchester Cathedral).
The story, as I was told, is that during the Civil War in the 1640s, between the royalists and the parliamentarians, Winchester was captured early by the parliamentarians and the soldiers, who were slightly annoyed by a delay in their pay and decided the great Cathedral may hold some treasures to ease the wait until payday.
Opening the tombs of early priests and kings yielded little except bones.
Of course this didn't exactly calm things down.
Those with muskets started using the great window as target practice and those that didn't, well...
they decided to throw the bones of the former nobility through the window , destroying it.
Once the soldiers had left, the townspeople flocked to the scene, collecting up all the glass and bones they could find and storing the pieces in boxes under beds in the hope that one day it could be rebuilt.
After almost 20 years, the monarchy regained control of the country, the Cathedral was windowless and rundown, and the time had come to bring out those boxes.
Together , they reburied the bones and created the patchwork glass window we now see in the Cathedral.
Originally, I wanted to believe the locals had created this broken yet beautiful pattern as a comment on the adversity they had faced.
Unfortunately, it seems more likely that they tried quite hard to recreate the original windows but decided that was an impossible task.
One of the first stories that greeted me on arrival to the city of Winchester was the story of how the Cathedral was saved from sinking into the ground at the start of the twentie th century.
It wasn’t until a haircut a while later, that I learnt that it was saved thanks to the efforts of one man, a diver by the name of William Walker.
Here are some of the best ‘facts’ I have found about him:
You can raise a glass to the man in the aptly named William Walker pub, just a stone’s throw from the Cathedral.
You probably already know that writer Jane Austen in buried at Winchester Cathedral.
But did you know Thomas Thetcher, a grenadier in the Hants Militia , is also buried in the graveyard?
His name may not be familiar but the message on his gravestone features in one of the best-selling publications of all time.
A curious gravestone was commissioned when he was buried, which is how we learnt that he wasn’t killed in the line of duty but rather by a drink.
Yes, Thomas Thetcher died of a ‘Violent fever contracted by drinking Small Beer when hot’.
The cause of death is not exactly known, but it’s believed that the beer Thomas drank was likely contaminated and caused an infection.
Thetcher’s legend grew to numerous misinterpretations of the quo te and the most famous example of this comes from Bill Wilson, an American soldier who was stationed in Winchester in 1918.
After returning to America , Wilson began drinking so heavily that he believed his life was at risk.
After working with others in the same position, and maintain sobriety, Wilson wrote the book Alcoholics Anonymous where he recounts his visit to the gravestone and paraphrased the first and last parts of the grave on the first page of the book.
St Swithun is a big part of the history of Winchester.
The Bishop was well liked for his acts of kindness towards the poor and the needy and remembered for his building of bridges to help connect the city and allow traders to enter.
He died in 862 and became the centre of many posthumous miracles and legends.
His one wish upon death was to be buried in a simple grave, where the rain could fall on him and people could walk by.
However, after a century of rest he was moved into the Cathedral and after that day, July 15, it was said to rain for weeks.
This is where legend arose that if it rains on St Swithun’s Day then it will continue to rain for 40 more days and if it’s dry, then it will be dry for the following 40 days.
Next July 15, keep an eye on the weather.
Winchester has a gruesome history of executions, with many having been carried out across the city for hundreds of years.
In fact, the last public execution in Winchester was in 1864, the last triple execution in 1896, and the last only in December 1963.
Another of the 'lasts' that happened in the city was the last beheading of a woman.
Lady Alice Lisle was executed in The Square after a controversial trial in 1685.
Lady Lisle was originally sentenced to be burned at the stake, though this was later changed to beheading, which is often claimed to have been an act of mercy by James II, though it’s more likely that it was changed because of her social rank.
Lady Lisle spent her last night at The Eclipse Inn, the black-and-white Tudor pub that is still open just off The Square.
Since then, patrons have claimed to have seen visions of a slender woman and bedsheet being pulled off them in the night.
The Jolly Farmer pub on Andover Road also supposedly sits on a former public execution site that was known to locals as ‘Gallows Hill’.
With that history, it’s not a surprise that customers have ‘felt’ the grip of Henry, a man executed on the site, on their shoulders as they drink in the pub.
These are just some of the local legends that I’ve learnt about Winchester in my time here.
There’s plenty more out there, some which couldn’t be published on this blog, for you to discover when you arrive.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/UWin-Student-Blog/Blog-Posts/Winchesters-Best-Bites.php:
Moving to university brings together academic achievement and personal growth – it's about discovering your new home whilst building your future.
Winchester offers an incredible food scene that perfectly complements student life, from quick bites between lectures to weekend catch-ups with mates.
Whether you're budget-conscious or looking to treat yourself, our vibrant city has something for every taste and occasion.
Here's our insider guide to Winchester's must-try spots that have become student favourites.
Perfect for: Fuel between lectures and early morning pick-me-ups
Location matters when you're rushing between campus and town, and Two Hands delivers on convenience.
Positioned at the top of town, it's the closest option on this list to the King Alfred Quarter – a great option when you are short on time.
Two Hands have taken the humble sandwich and elevated it to an art form, using quality local ingredients and creative combinations that make your typical meal deal look rather sad in comparison.
Opening at 7am with a dedicated breakfast menu, Two Hands understands student timetables.
Their sandwiches are proper crafted affairs – the kind of honest, hearty food that keeps you going through those intensive study sessions whilst making you feel like you're treating yourself properly.
Student Budget Pick (Under £10)
Sausages, Chutney + Ketchup Sandwich: £7.50
Any of their 'classics' menu items fall well within student budget range, from BLT to Egg Mayo.
Perfect for: Late-night study fuel and weekend socialising
Forget everything you know about typical pizza chains.
5 Boroughs Pizza brings authentic New York-style pizza to Winchester – and it's become a student institution.
The genius is in the simplicity: grab a massive slice and go, perfect for those rushing between campus and town.
What sets this place apart isn't just the pizza (though those big, foldable slices with crispy-yet-soft bases are brilliant).
It's the atmosphere.
The late-night bottomless pizza parties with DJs create the kind of memories that define your university years.
It's where study groups turn into spontaneous celebrations and where you'll bump into coursemates from across the university.
Pepperoni Slice: £4.50
Hot Honey Drizzle: £0.75
Total: £5.25
Pro tip: Follow their social media to stay in the loop on special events and those limited-edition slices that disappear as quickly as they appear.
Perfect for: Study sessions and catching up with friends
Sometimes you need a space that works as hard as you do.
Open House Deli offers the perfect blend of productivity and comfort – a large, light-filled café where you can spread out your laptop, meet study partners, or simply escape campus for a few hours.
The food philosophy here matches the student lifestyle: fresh, made-from-scratch options that fuel both body and mind.
From Turkish eggs for those leisurely weekend brunches to grab-and-go salads when you're in a rush, they've got something for any situation.
The attached shop is always worth a browse, with a wide range of interesting ingredients and home items.
Roasted Jerusalem artichoke + salsify salad with orzo, apple, fermented chilli and lemon dressing: £5.50
Cauliflower Fritter: £3
Total: £8.50
The salads are made fresh each morning and change regularly – perfect for those who like variety in their routine.
Perfect for: Date nights and celebrating good grades
This intimate Mexican street food spot has mastered the art of making students feel sophisticated without breaking the bank.
Serving craft beers, frozen margaritas, and vinyl-soundtrack vibes, Overdraft has become Winchester's worst-kept secret.
The cosy space means you might wait for a table, but that's part of the charm.
It's the kind of place where conversations flow as smoothly as drinks, making it ideal for those important university moments – whether you're celebrating exam results or getting to know your flatmates better.
The name might hit a little close to home, but that just adds to the charm!
Student Budget Pick (Under £10) Tuesday is your day here!
Three tacos for £8 is unbeatable value.
3x Stewed Frijoles Tacos: £8
OD Hot Sauce: £1
Total: £9
The charred pineapple salsa is a game-changer, and these tacos happen to be vegan and gluten-free friendly.
Perfect for: Adventurous eaters and nutritious comfort food
University is about expanding your horizons, and Marse offers the perfect culinary adventure.
This unique spot champions ancient grains through creative Nepalese-influenced dishes that you won't find anywhere else in the city.
From Momo to Buckwheat Noodles, every dish tells a story whilst delivering the kind of nutritious, satisfying meal that student life demands.
Located on Middle Brook Street, Marse proves that eating well on a student budget doesn't mean sacrificing flavour or nutrition.
With protein options for every dietary preference, it's the kind of place that becomes your regular once you discover it.
Rainbow Rolls (rice paper rolls with salads, pineapple, and your choice of braised pork belly, fried chicken, or fried tofu): £8
Your Winchester Food Journey Starts Here
These five spots represent just the beginning of what Winchester has to offer.
Each reflects something special about student life here – the convenience, the community, the quality, and the character that makes this city the perfect backdrop for your university years.
Ready to discover Winchester for yourself?
Our vibrant food scene is just one of the many reasons students choose to call this historic city home.
From the moment you arrive, you'll find a community that welcomes you – and flavours that will become part of your university story.
Explore our courses and discover everything Winchester has to offer.
Images courtesy of @5bpizzauk and @odbeerandtacos

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/UWin-Student-Blog/Blog-Posts/Lauren-in-Paris---A-History-and-Anthropology-Field-Trip.php:
The University of Winchester offered the second and third year students across History, Classical Studies, History and Politics, and Anthropology a trip to Paris in April to learn about the history of Paris, explore the city, and wander a range of museums.
After going on the trip, I can say with full certainty that it was an amazing opportunity that I’m glad I didn’t pass up.
We travelled to Paris Tuesday morning, arrived mid-afternoon and made our way to Hôtel Kabanel, which was a very nice hotel.
We stayed in rooms of three which was great as it meant we got to know our roommates better and make friends on this trip.
We used the metro for most of our travel around the city.
Once we got to the hotel we were given metro cards to use for exploring the city.
Luckily the metro system was very easy to navigate.
After dropping our things off at the hotel, we made our way to Place de la Concorde where we then learned about the history of this area, such as where Marie Antoinette was executed, the obelisk that was taken from Egypt, and the palace and church.
We then walked along the Seine to make our way to the Latin Quarter.
On the way we saw, from a distance, the Arc de Triomphe, the Eiffel Tower, and the Louvre, which we would visit later in the trip.
We also stopped to observe what remains of the Notre Dame.
Once we got to the Latin Quarter, we once again stopped to understand the history of the area.
After, we had time to ourselves separate from our lecturers so that we could get dinner.
A group of us went to a café called Café Union which was enjoyable and affordable.
This was amazing as it gave the students a chance to all get to know each other better, learn about our studies and interests, and all enjoy a meal together away from our lecturers.
Wednesday was our first full day in Paris, and it was filled with history.
We woke up early so that our morning could be filled with going to the Louvre.
However, even though we went early, the line was quite long to get in.
Once we did get in we had a few hours to go off with each other and explore.
While this was a fun trip, it was also educational as we had to pick one piece from the Louvre and write a commentary on it, giving us more insight into the piece, the museum, and its history.
Everyone could choose their own piece, according to their own interests and passion.
Personally, I went to the Egyptian Antiquities which was extremely interesting.
Those of us studying History went to the Pantheon for the afternoon which was extremely fascinating and was a great addition to the day, especially after already exploring the Louvre.
An example of one of the fascinating things in the Pantheon was that of the pendulum, as it was in the centre of the building where it represented the idea of science and modernity.
Alongside this, there were many amazing paintings lining the walls such as that of Joan of Arc, Charlemagne, and Saint Louis (Louis IX).
The interest continued as we made our way down to the crypts where we saw tombs of important people in French history including many generals from the Napoleonic wars and the French Revolution.
Alongside, probably the most fascinating thing of all was Marie Curie’s tomb.
After this, we made our way back to the hotel where we met up with the Anthropology students, who accompanied their lecturer to visit different sites.
Once we had met back up, we once again went out to dinner, but before this we went to Place des Vosges/Square Louis XIII to learn a bit about the history of the area before we went to get dinner together at a falafel place that was recommended by one of our lecturers and the food was amazing.
It was a great end to probably the best day of the trip.
On our third day spent it Paris, we went to Quai Branly which, compared to the Louvre and the Pantheon, was a much newer museum.
It had a different layout with a non-western focus allowing us to learn more on the history of colonialism in France.
While this was great, the best part of the trip for me came in the afternoon.
We were able to split off and go to a museum of our choice.
Me and a friend I made on the trip went to Musée d’Orsay which used to be a train station and had fantastic art and sculptures that were extremely beautiful.
Thursday was the day when all of us as a group went to get dinner together, including our lecturers.
We went to a Moroccan restaurant called L’Homme Bleu and this was a highlight of the trip because not only did it allow us to all spend time together before we went home the next day, but it also allowed us to get to know our lecturers better, especially because we did different courses and may not have had the chance to be taught by them.
Friday was our last day in Paris before we left to come home that afternoon.
We went to Montmartre, a marketplace that is largely for tourists.
Montmartre was originally a poorer area of the city, but in the 18th century artists started coming over and it became more bohemian.
Today, Montmartre does not have many people living there anymore and as already mentioned, it is now largely a tourist area where people can get souvenirs and go to eat.
Before we were allowed to go off on our own to explore the shops, we were told the history of Montmartre and how it came to be, which was very fascinating.
It was also interesting to see the changes that were made to Montmartre to make it what it is today.
After exploring Montmartre on our own, we met back up so that we could make our way to the hotel and pick up our bags so that we could go home.
However, another highlight for me was that we had enough time for a detour to walk through the red light district and see Moulin Rouge before we headed back, which was amazing to see.
Overall, this trip was wonderful in a lot of ways.
We were given a lot of freedom to explore the sights as we wanted to, while we were also educated on the history of Paris, making it all the more fascinating.
This trip has allowed me to have a more hands on experience of learning history, something which I may not have had the opportunity to otherwise.
This trip has also given me more confidence as it made me get out of my comfort zone to get to know other students I hadn’t met before during my degree.
Finally, alongside all of this, the trip brought learning to life for me, because for most hours of the day we were outside exploring and learning, which is a change from being in a classroom.
***
To discover more about our History and Anthropology subjects, click here .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/UWin-Student-Blog/Blog-Posts/Clearing-Its-ok-to-change-your-mind.php:
My name is Madison and I am currently in my final year studying BSc (Hons) Nutrition and Dietetics .
I have loved my time at the University of Winchester!
While it is bittersweet to be leaving such an amazing chapter, I am equally eager to step into the working world, well prepared for what lies ahead.
Why apply through Clearing?
During my time in Sixth Form, I felt uncertain about which university and course I wanted to pursue.
Time was ticking, and I needed to submit a university application if I wanted to go that year.
I made a rushed decision about the course and university I chose.
Fast forward to the summer after A-levels, and I spent the summer holidays feeling confused and anxious about the decision I had made.
When results day rolled around, I was ecstatic about the grades I had achieved, and I had got into my chosen university.
However, I finally felt sure that the university and course I had picked were not the right choice for me.
I decided to reject my university offer and enter Clearing.
This resulted in me frantically looking for universities that offered the course I knew I was passionate about: Nutrition and Dietetics.
I found the University of Winchester and immediately contacted them.
I loved the look of the university and city and could not believe that I had not come across it before.
By the next day, I was being interviewed to secure a place on the course and within the week, I was prepared and packed to start my journey at the University of Winchester.
Why Winchester?
What I love about Winchester is the amazing scenery.
My favourite activity is going for a walk or run at St Catherine’s Hill – it is a beautiful place to switch off and reconnect with nature.
I also love the amount of independent coffee shops in the town centre that are all unique.
A highlight of my time at the University of Winchester was meeting my coursemates for a coffee on campus before our very first lecture.
We sat outside in the sun, sipping our iced lattes and chatting about where we were all from and why we had chosen our courses.
Over the three years at university these friends have been by my side – tackling tricky assignments, sitting through lectures together and spending countless hours in the library.
I am now leaving university with friends for life.
Top tips
My top tip for anyone applying through Clearing is to be prepared.
If you are unsure about your choice or think your grades may be lower than expected, have an idea of the courses or universities you are interested in so you can start contacting them as soon as you receive your results.
My advice to anyone starting university this September would be to say ‘yes’.
Say ‘yes’ to new opportunities and experiences.
I am leaving university not only with a degree, but with so much more.
I have been able to have a part-time job through the university, as a note-taker, which has strengthened my academic and organisational skills.
I have gained extra qualifications, like a personal trainer qualification, offered at a subsidised cost by the university.
I also have got involved with charity and extracurricular events on my course that have allowed me to develop teamwork and leadership skills.
My course has also provided me with amazing placements in which I have done a range of activities from attending farms to explore the local food system to working in fast-paced, acute hospital settings.
There are so many opportunities to try new things and challenge yourself within the university – join societies, volunteer, try a part-time job or anything new!
There are so many ways to challenge yourself and grow as a person.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/UWin-Student-Blog/Blog-Posts/Clearing-Finding-a-uni-where-I-truly-belong.php:
My name is Alex and I’m a first-year Psychology student.
I went through Clearing two years ago, an experience which was full of anxiety but turned out to be one of the best decisions of my life, finding the university where I truly belonged.
Results day anxiety
I found A-levels quite overwhelming; however, I had my heart set on studying Psychology at university.
I wanted to pursue Higher Education despite a setback.
On results day, like most students, I was full of anxiety.
I opened my results and felt gutted.
I did not get accepted onto my firm choice or my insurance choice.
While others were celebrating, I was full of confusion, unsure of what the next chapter of my life entailed.
I met with my Sixth Form Deputy Head who helped ease my nerves by guiding me through the UCAS website to find a place.
This was where I found a lot of universities, however, the University of Winchester stood out, although I had originally not considered it.
I was scared but had hope.
Finding Winchester
After finding Winchester, I called the Clearing hotline and the person on the phone was nothing but lovely, spoke to me with kindness and offered me a place at Winchester on the foundation course.
I was supported through every step.
They explained everything step-by-step, which helped calm my anxiety, talking to me not only about my grades but my hobbies, what I enjoyed and so on.
For such a stressful day, this was the best support I could have had.
Even though I did not have the grades for the main course, the University of Winchester was able to offer me a foundation year, allowing me to build on my skills while having access to Higher Education.
It gave me the boost of confidence I needed.
I felt more than just a number - I was seen, heard and welcomed with open arms.
Clearing top tips
Be sure to have an open mind while going through Clearing.
Take care of your wellbeing while doing so as well; it’s a stressful time and it’s okay to be overwhelmed.
However, I recommend calling possible universities straightaway.
Be sure to do your research on the universities you’re interested in.
Your teachers, advisors and Clearing call handlers are all there to help you.
Settling in at university can be scary; however, a tip of mine for starting university is to have an open mind.
Be open to the opportunities that may arise from stepping outside of your comfort zone, particularly with events happening throughout fresher’s week as it’s a good way of finding friends and trying something new.
Throw yourself out there!
The highlight of my journey at Winchester so far has been meeting like-minded individuals through my course and the societies that Winchester Students’ Union has to offer.
On top of this, the city is so beautiful, every day I find a new place to enjoy while making new memories with friends.
Whether it’s walking through the Cathedral grounds or going to St Catherine's Hill and watching the sunset.
Looking back on my Clearing experience, I feel grateful.
Applying through Clearing may seem like a failure, but it’s not.
It’s a second chance.
I was able to have a fresh start.
My experience at Winchester has been full of finding myself, making lifelong friends and memories which I’ll look back on forever.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Spirituality/Spiritual-journey:
At Winchester we are learning from each other and sharing our experience of silence, meditation or contemplation.
We strive to make a difference in a world where religious intolerance seems to be growing.
Here at the University of Winchester we encourage everyone to explore the spiritual dimension of their lives.
Coming to university is the last ‘great rite of passage’ and we really hope that your time at Winchester will be an adventure, a fantastic challenge you will want to rise to and relish, and a real opportunity to discover who you are, what you are called to do, and the difference you hope to make to humanity and to the whole of creation.
The Contemplative Community was set up in 2018.
We are a group of students from all faiths and none: currently Atheist, Pagan, Buddhist, Christian, ‘spiritual seeker,’ Humanist – but we are open to everyone!
We have five staff mentors (currently Atheist/Humanist, Muslim, Christian, Pagan and Buddhist) who offer their experience and help ensure no one group dominates.
We meet twice a week for contemplation (Monday for breakfast and shared silence; Fridays for silence and shared lunch).
We also have regular opportunities to meet experienced practitioners of different contemplative traditions, who serve as Mentors to the community.
Every year we select a social justice project we commit to supporting through our work as a community.
Twice a year we have an opportunity to participate in a residential contemplative retreat.
We each continue with our own religious practice, if we have one.
We are learning from each other and sharing our experience of silence, meditation or contemplation.
Come and join us.
This innovative project, unique in the UK, is a network of more than 20 academic and professional staff from across the University who are keen to develop alternative forms of teaching and learning, a robust research base and practical tools for both personal and professional practice.
Contact WICEP.
The aim of the Institute’s work will be to create a robust, inclusive and sustainable Community of Practice that includes academic and professional staff and the membership and work of the student Contemplative Community.
The Institute will be an independent extra-department unit, within the Senior Management Group, that exists to enable students and staff from the University’s different academic faculties and professional services to work together to develop the presence and effectiveness of contemplative disciplines, pedagogies and studies in the life of the University community and thereby to support the mission of the University.
The Institute will promote the development of contemplative approaches to teaching and learning; alternative and embodied ways of knowing; the integration of contemplative practices within both academic learning/teaching and personal spiritual development/awareness; and the development a robust research and publication agenda.
Membership is open to anyone within the University.
Current members come from psychology, archaeology, business, education, performing arts, student wellbeing, chaplaincy, arts, academic quality and development, theology, and health and wellbeing.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Spirituality/Sacred-spaces:
We have a number of sacred spaces available for all our staff and students to access.
The Chapel is in the middle of the Campus and offers a wonderful bright space.
It is reserved for personal silence and meditation each weekday 08.00-12.00.
The Anchorage meditation space, adjacent to the chapel, is for individual and small group contemplative practice.
There are two Muslim Prayer Rooms on campus, one is located in the Business School on the West Downs Campus, and in the Winton Building on the King Alfred Campus.
There are many quiet green spaces scattered everywhere.
Download the Green Spaces app and visit them all in the company of a variety of meditations and suggestions for yoga poses.
There is a projected labyrinth in the University Chapel.
This is available at set times each week for individual use and bookable for teaching groups by arrangement.
Opening in early 2020 this stunning circular space will host personal and group meditation.
The Harmony Garden is a peaceful green space which visitors can use for quiet thought, reflection or meditation.
It is situated at the rear of West Downs Quarter accommodation village.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Spirituality/Our-chaplaincies:
Our Chaplaincy team is here for everyone.
We are based in the Winton Building, room 30, next door to the Chapel and are here to provide support for all members of the University community.
We are based in the Winton Building, room 30, next door to the Chapel and are here to provide support for all members of the University community.
Buddhist Chaplain Olena Waskiewicz Olena Waskiewicz first encountered Buddhism more than two decades ago and has since practiced with various teachers in UK and Europe.
Her core practice is Zen and she is currently engaged in a formal programme of traditional Koan study.
She is an official student of Roshi Sunya Kjolhede, the founder and co-abbot of Windhorse Zen Centre in Asheville, North Carolina, as well as a member of Bodhidharma Zen Centre in Falenica, Poland.
University Chaplain: Revd Fiona Gibbs
Fiona studied for a BA in Christian Ministry in Lancaster, and then an MA in Theological Studies in Nottingham, before being ordained in 2000.
She has served in three parishes in Winchester Diocese, along with other leadership responsibilities, before taking a role in an Academy in Southampton as a Pastoral Leader.
She is passionate about finding the full potential in every individual person, and pastorally connecting and sharing in life’s journeys with them, as they experience the endless gift of God’s grace.
Fiona.gibbs@winchester.ac.uk
Catholic Chaplain: Father Marco
Father Marco belongs to the Priestly Fraternity of the Missionaries of Saint Charles Borromeo, a society of apostolic life present in seventeen countries in the world.
He was ordained priest in 2017 in Rome and he was sent to England in 2019.
He is Assistant Priest of St Swithun Wells Parish, which brings together the six worshipping communities of Our Lady Queen of the Apostles in Bishops Waltham, St Edward the Confessor in Chandlers Ford, Holy Cross in Eastleigh, St Swithun Wells in Fair Oak, St Joseph’s in Romsey, and St Andrew’s in North Baddesley.
mvignolo@portsmouthdiocese.org.uk
Each week there are different activities:
Shaykh Rizwan is an Islamic scholar and teacher.
He is a graduate of Al Karam school and its Islamic Studies Department, Al Azhar University in Cairo and Cambridge Muslim College.
He is currently the Head Imam in Bashir Ahmed Mosque in Southampton and serves as religious advisor to the Muslim Council of Southampton.
Rizwan.hussain@winchester.ac.uk
There is a Muslim Prayer Room located at the rear of Winton Building in the King Alfred Quarter.
The room is segregated to ensure a dedicated space for both brothers and sisters.
There are ablution and shoe storage facilities, as well as copies of the Qur’an and some pieces of Islamic text.
To provide some extra comfort there are also beanbags, coat hooks and a wall mirror available.
The Muslim Prayer Room is open Monday to Friday 6am-9pm.
If you wish to worship outside of these hours, our Site Stewards can provide suitable access.
Please phone them on 01962 827666 to make arrangements.
Want to join a shared community along with your fellow sisters and brothers?
Join the University of Winchester’s Islamic Society.
The society is open to all students who are interested in learning more about Islam.
The society is also keen to host a variety of community, social and academically engaging events throughout the year.
Although Halal food is not served in the Food Hall, the Student Union shop serves a selection of certified Halal samosas and sandwiches, such as the URBAN eat range.
In Winchester city centre there are several establishments and restaurants that serve Halal meat.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Accommodation/How-to-apply:
Accommodation applications are allocated on a ‘first applied, first allocated’ basis in date order, so we would strongly encourage you to apply as soon as possible from February 2025.
The Housing Application for 2025/26 is now open!
You will need your 7 digit Winchester Number to apply.
We allocate on a ‘first applied, first allocated’ basis in date order, so we would strongly encourage you to apply as soon as possible.
Further information about our allocation process can be read here .
If you have any queries regarding accommodation at Winchester please contact our housing team via email: housing@winchester.ac.uk
Explore and find out more
Make sure you explore what is on offer .
We have videos and virtual tours to help you get a flavour for residential life.
Accommodation Costs for 2025/26 can now be viewed here
Still have questions?
We have pulled together some FAQs for you , including information for students with disabilities, postgraduate students and part-time students.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Accommodation/Student-landlord-forum:
Are you looking to rent your property, or a room in your house, to students?
There are two options for this; please read through the information below and get in contact with us if you have any queries.
The Student Landlord Forum provides an advertising and advisory service to landlords who wish to rent their properties/rooms to students at University of Winchester.
The University would advertise your property through www.winchesterstudentpad.co.uk and your property advert would be visible to all students at the University, providing you with a high number of potential tenants.
The student tenants would deal directly with you, the landlord if they would like to view or rent the property from you.
The landlord understands that the tenancy is between them and the students.
As a member of the Forum you are invited to Landlord Forum meetings twice a year.
You are also able to contact Student Housing Services if you have any queries about your tenancy or are having any problems with your current tenants.
Your student tenants will also be able to contact us for advice or if they are having a problem with their tenancy.
All properties on our Forum must meet specific requirements before we agree to advertise them.
Landlords must supply copies of the following:
Student Housing Services organises advisory events for students prior to property adverts being visible on the website; landlords are invited and encouraged to attend these events.
For further information or to request an information pack please contact Student Housing Services (details on the right of this page)
The UMH scheme was setup for landlords who require a more comprehensive service.
By joining this scheme landlords are able to lease their properties to the University, who will then arrange for students to view the properties, carry out an inventory and undertake regular inspections to ensure that your properties are maintained in a reasonable condition.
The University will collect the rent from the students and pay the landlord in regular instalments agreed at the commencement of the tenancy.
The scheme will allow the landlord to receive a regular income from the property without the need to be involved in time-consuming daily management of the property.
If you are interested in joining the scheme please contact Student Housing Services for an information pack housing@winchester.ac.uk
Landlord Forum Registration Fees:
All charges are inclusive of V.A.T at 20%
If you are interested in joining the scheme please contact Student Housing Services for an information pack.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Student-Support/Information-for-needs-assessors:
Study Needs Assessors may find the information on this page helpful when assessing students for the purposes of Disabled Students' Allowances (DSAs).
If you require further information please contact the Disability and Inclusion Team by emailing disability@winchester.ac.uk or calling via telephone 01962 827341 to discuss the matter with one of our Disability Advisers.
Where students cannot afford or may experience financial hardship contributing towards the cost of DSA recommended equipment, means-tested support is available via the University's Hardship Fund which opens near the end of October each academic year.
Students are advised to email studentsandmoney@winchester.ac.uk for more information.
A small stock of equipment (e.g.
laptops with screen reading assistive technology installed such as Claro Read and Read & Write) is available for short-term loan (no longer than 8 weeks) for disabled students.
This service may be used by students who are in the process of applying for DSAs or hardship funding (to cover the cost of the £200 contribution) or during periods when personal equipment is being fixed and the AT provider is unable to provide courtesy equipment.
We also offer a laptop loan scheme which enables all students to borrow a laptop for use on or off campus for up to 24 hours.
These laptops do not have any assistive software installed.
We do not have lecture capture facilities widely available across campus.
Whilst some lecturers record themselves and distribute their recordings to their students, this is not widely practiced .
We record lecturer le a d sessions through MS TEAM S and Stream .
L ectures are then uploaded to the virtual learning environment (Canvas) after the taught session.
Seminar s and sessions where students are contributing or leading the session will not be recorded.
There may be other times where recording may breach confidentiali ty where sessions will not be recorded.
Students will be advised if thi s is the case i n accordance with our Inclusive Learning Policy , all stude nts are permitted to record tutor-led teaching sessions using their own personal recording equipment.
All students enrolled at the University are able to download a personal copy of the full Office Pro Plus license on Office 365.
One Drive is also included which provides 50GB of storage for files.
There are a number of open access multi-function printers on the University campus which have scanning and photocopying functionality.
Students need to pay for printing and photocopying.
Scanning is free.
The following assistive technology applications are currently available on all computers in open access areas and computer-based teaching rooms across campus:
Students with disclosed disabilities can also access JAWS, and Dragon Naturally speaking at selected times such as exams.
The software available on campus is not currently available for students' personal use on their own computing devices.
The continuation of DSAs funded assistive software is advisable.
We provide introductory group drop-in sessions for some assistive technology, but this resource is limited.
These are not full training sessions or set-up sessions, but a chance for staff and students to see if particular software might meet their needs.
We also provide guidance and links to training for DSA approved and free access Assistive Technology through our virtual learning environment (Canvas).
The University of Winchester will be implementing a range of approaches to support these students.
The University will consider the barriers a student faces to accessing their programme of study .
as identified within their Needs Assessment Report ( NAR ) and use this to form the basis of our discussion with the students about their support through an internal shared document called a ‘ Learning Agreement ’ .
The University is committed to making all learning resources as accessible as possible.
As per our Inclusive Learning Policy, we aim to purchase adequate quantities of books to allow the spread of loan types and for all core texts, make e-books available alongside the printed copies as default, wherever possible.
Where suitable resources are not available, our library will be able to offer assistance upon request.
As part of our inclusive agenda, staff are encouraged to follow the principles of inclusive document design and consider the accessibility of all resources at the course design and (re)validation stages.
We are also subscribed to the full online document conversion tool, SensusAccess Robobraille which gives students and staff self-sufficiency in creating accessible formats.
The Disability and Inclusion Team and Library team have access to the RNIB Bookshare sytem.
We will make reasonable adjustments to assessment where need is identified within needs assessment reports and/or diagnostic assessments.
With programme agreement this may include alternative assessment/mode of delivery and/or the provision of additional support in exams.
Exam support may include but is not limited to:
For more information please refer our Assessment Regulations
We understand that students may have mitigating circumstances due to their disability, such as the need for extended course deadlines or disability-related absence and aim to provide clear, transparent advice and support in these cases.
You can find more information and read our Extenuating Circumstances Policy.
We do not operate a two-tier or 'sympathetic' marking system.
Instead, emphasis is on the utilisation of support and the implementation of reasonable adjustments and inclusive marking practices.
We provide marker s with good practice guidance on marking which supports all students.
If you are an external provider who has been assigned to a University of Winchester student please contact disability@winchester.ac.uk for an external provider pack.
The University of Winchester does not have any provision for Band 4 NMH support.
The University of Winchester will continue to offer in-house provision of the following forms of DSA funded band four NMH:
All NMH are permanently employed by the University and have enhanced DBS checks.
All one to one support sessions are provided in private, confidential spaces on the King Alfred Campus.
To arrange support students should email disability@winchester.ac.uk if they need require assistance.
Students should not contact individual members of staff.
Needs assessors are requested to use disability@winchester.ac.uk as the contact details for the disability support team.
We are unable to arrange support prior to students' arrival at the University.
We are not registered with DSA QAG for NMH Bands 1-3.
Where students are entitled to such support through DSAs, needs assessors should refer to the DSA QAG database.
We do not have a preferred second provider for band four NMH support or a preferred provider for any other DSA funded support.
At this time The University of Winchester is unable to accept any recommendations for Specialist One to One Study Skills Support (SpLD and AS) and Specialist Mentoring (Mental Health and AS).
To find out all about how we support disabled students with additional accommodation requirements, please see our students with disabilities webpage

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Careers-Support-and-Advice/Careers-Support:
Our dedicated careers team offer free, impartial advice and guidance for your future career.
We support students and graduates of the University of Winchester wherever they are on their career journey.
We can help you to:
There are a variety of ways that you can choose to engage with our service and access support and advice, from browsing our online resources, to booking a one-to-one appointment to speak in more detail with a member of the team.
Watch our short film to find out more about what we do.
Register to CareerConnect , our online jobs and opportunities platform, to access all our resources.
Through CareerConnect, you can:
The Team also arranges a variety of events and talks with employers and organisations, from on-campus recruitment events to face-to-face presentations, lectures and webinars.
These are listed in the Events section on CareerConnect.
Undertaking part-time work during your studies will not only support your bank balance, but it will also enhance your commercial awareness and provide evidence for your CV to help you stand out in the recruitment process.
It is important to gain a breadth of experience while at university to ensure you gain additional skills and the commercial and community awareness to enhance your future options.
A placement, internship or volunteering opportunity can be a great way to do this, and we can help you find one.
Here are some of our top tips:
To contact the Placements Team, email workplacements@winchester.ac.uk .
For more information on volunteering, email volunteering@winchester.ac.uk.
If you’d like a more in-depth conversation regarding either of these, you can book a one-to-one appointment using CareerConnect.
In 2023, the University moved into the top 10 in the UK for the percentage of students going into employment or further study.
The latest figures show that 92.8% of 2021 graduates progressed to one or both of these paths within 15 months of graduating – this is the eighth best result in the country, and the fourth best among English universities.
For more information on startup support, please email startup@winchester.ac.uk .
Whether you have an idea for what you’ll do when you graduate, or you’re not sure where to begin, we are here to support you every step of the way.
To make informed decisions about your future path, try to be flexible and gain as much information as possible to assist you:
In your final year of study, you may have the chance to be linked to a mentor in the world of work through our Professional Mentoring Programme.
This helps mentees develop the understanding and skills required to enter the graduate labour market through the opportunity to work with someone – a ‘professional friend’ - who can provide insight and tips by sharing experiences and knowledge from industry.
It emphasises how the University of Winchester firmly champions mentoring and recognises its value to students and professionals alike.
For more information about our mentoring programme , contact mentoring.careers@winchester.ac.uk .
Click here to find out more.
If you would like to get in touch, you can contact us by email at careers@winchester.ac.uk, or by phone on 01962 827310.
Careers and Opportunities Hub Privacy Notice
If you would like to discuss your career or further study options, get in touch with our team today.
Tel: +44 (0)1962 827310
Email: careers@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Get-Involved:
The University of Winchester and Winchester Students’ Union offer an array of opportunities to get involved with activities outside your degree, including sports clubs, societies, representational networks, jobs on campus and volunteering.
Taking part in such activities equips you with a broad range of transferable skills which will prepare you for life after university and make your CV look great.
Being a member of an activity group will grow your communication and networking abilities.
By taking part in an activity group, you also have the opportunity to be elected as a committee member of an activity group which will equip you with skills such as problem solving, perseverance and the ability to work under pressure.
Taking part in academic engagement activities can develop your research capabilities, and our volunteering schemes can provide you with great leadership opportunities.
These are open to all, and many students look back on their involvement as a central part of their university experience.
Below are just a few examples of what you can Get Involved with during your time at Winchester.
*Please note that some of the opportunities mentioned here may be subject to change.*
Winchester Students’ Union offers an amazing range of sport on both a competitive and non-competitive level.
Whether you want to try something brand new or continue a sport you’ve been playing for years, there’s something for every student!
There are over 30 different sports teams to choose from.
Some are part of British Universities and Colleges Sports ( BUCS ) league s and play competitively, and some just wish to play for fun.
To see what Sports Teams are available to you at Winchester, be sure to visit the Winchester Students’ Union website for a definitive list of all the activity groups on offer.
Winchester Students’ Union works with you to provide numerous extracurricular opportunities but are also always receptive to new ideas.
Winchester Students’ Union offers a wide range of student-led societies and representational networks.
Many of these focus on advocating for equality, diversity and accessibility within underrepresented student groups to directly improve their overall experience on campus.
There are also around 30 different societies which represent an array of interests and areas of life, in addition to course-related student groups .
For a definitive list, please visit the W inchester Students’ Union website.
An academic or university engagement opportunity can enrich your studies and showcase your skills in areas relevant to your course or ambitions.
It can also allow you to play a pivotal role in capturing student voices and shaping the University's future.
Examples of academic/university engagement opportunities include:
To find out more information about Students' Union-led academic engagement opportunities , click here .
Many students consider getting a part-time job whilst studying.
At the University of Winchester, we recommend that students work no more than 15 hours over a week, as we want you to have enough time to focus on your studies and all the University community offers.
The benefits of getting a part-time job on campus include the opportunity for networking, financial support and improving your future employability prospects.
You can work for the Students' Union as a:
Please note these vacancies are all subject to change - to see a current list, and apply, click here.
Other campus roles are also available throughout the year, subject to requirement.
All of these are advertised on our online jobs board, CareerConnect , alongside other local part-time opportunities.
You can also visit the Careers and Opportunities Hub in SAB (St Alphege Building) 303 - on the King Alfred Campus - for support with all your short and long-term career que ries.
It’s open from Monday to Friday between 10am and 3pm.
Volunteering offers valuable personal and professional experience.
Choosing the right opportunity for you can enable you to build your experience, skills and knowledge.
It also connects you with others and forms links and contacts for potential future employment.
Becoming a volunteer shows initiative, dedication and commitment - all positive qualities which you can apply to a range of roles and situations.
You might wish to gain insight into a particular area of work linked to your career aspirations, or develop existing skills you can offer the community .
The choice is yours.
Every year many students from the University of Winchester actively engage with a wide range of volunteering opportunities across many sectors.
The U niversity team in the Careers and Opportunities Hub work with students who are keen to volunteer alongside or as part of their studies, and they are happy to assist you with any queries you may have.
You can take a look at CareerConnect for an up-to-date list of volunteering roles.
Not sure where you could volunteer?
Contact our team for information and advice at volunteering@winchester.ac.uk.
Please note that this list of opportunities is subject to change.
Privacy notice - Student Extra Curricular Activities

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Students-and-money/Undergraduate-financial-information:
Information on tuition fees and government funding for new and current undergraduate students at the University of Winchester.
This covers those who are normally resident in the UK and includes the Channel Islands, IOM, those from the EU with a valid pre-settled or settled status and Ukrainians with a valid approval under one of the ‘Homes for Ukraine’ schemes.
If you are UK student starting your degree in September 2025, the first year will cost you £9,535.
The indicative fees for a three-year degree will be £28,605.
If you are a UK student starting on a degree course in September 2025, which starts with a foundation year, the tuition fee is dependent on your course and will cost between £5,760 and £9,535.
Please note: you are liable to pay the tuition fees.
You can either pay yourself or, if eligible, apply for your Government’s funding for tuition fees to cover the full cost of your tuition fees each year.
You are making a great investment in your future, so make sure you know what is on offer to support you.
For international students, the first year tuition fees will cost from £16,700.
The indicative fees for a three-year degree will be from £50,100.
In 2025/26, UK part-time tuition fees are calculated on a pro rata basis of the full-time tuition fee for a 120 credit course.
The fee for a single credit is £79.46 and for a 15 credit module is £1191.87.
Part-time students can take up to a maximum 90 credits per year.
The maximum tuition fee in a given year is the government permitted maximum tuition fee of £7,145.
If you are doing a foundation year part time, the tuition fee for a single credit is £48 and for a 15 credit module is £720.
The maximum tuition fee in a permitted year is the government permitted maximum tuition fee of £4,315
Full-time UK students entering Higher Education for the first time in September 2025 and who fulfil the eligibility residency criteria will not have to pay their tuition fees upfront as Tuition Fee Loans are available.
Students can apply for a loan to cover all or part of their fees.
This includes students from the Ukraine who have a valid approval under one of the ‘Homes for Ukraine’ schemes, EU students with a valid pre-settled or settled status in the UK and students from Éire (Republic of Ireland) will be eligible to apply for government funding.
Students with pre-settled status and from Éire are able to apply for Tuition Fee support only.
For September 2025, new part-time UK students are eligible to apply for a Tuition Fee Loan provided they are studying at least 25% of an equivalent full-time course in the relevant academic year.
A loan of up to £7,145 per year will be available to cover tuition fees (correct for 2025/26).
You will only start paying the loan back from the April after you have graduated or finished your course and when you are earning at least:
For more information about applying for Tuition Fee Loans, please visit the relevant government's information based on which country or crown territory you currently live in
Please be aware that students from the Islands are not eligible for student loans from the UK government or for bursaries, fee waivers or scholarships from the University, with the exception of the Excellence Awards.
These students should apply to the governments for their Island / Territory for financial support.
The £9,535 fee applies to students from the Channel Islands, Isle of Man and Gibraltar.
Eligible UK full-time students can also apply for loans to cover their living costs whilst they are studying.
The amount you receive depends on your household income and whether you are living at home or living away from home.:
Annual package of support 2025/26 (Students ordinarily resident in England)
Living cost loan
Household Income
Living away from home
Living at home
£25,000 or less
£10,544
£8,877
£30,000
£9,791
£8,132
£35,000
£9,038
£7,387
£40,000
£8,285
£6,642
£45,000
£7,532
£5,897
£50,000
£6,779
£5,152
£55,000
£6,026
£4,407
£60,000
£5,273
£3,907
Over £62,377
£4,915
For more information about applying for Living Cost, visit the government's Student Finance website .
Additional sources of funding
Further support is available from the government for eligible:
To find out more about these additional sources of support, please go to the government's Student Finance Extra Help website.
Students from England can use the Student Finance Calculator to get a better idea of the support package that they may be able to receive.
Part-time study
England
Eligible English domiciled part-time students starting a course in  2025/26 and studying at a minimum of 25% intensity of the full-time equivalent course, can also apply for loans help towards their living costs.
The amount of loan available will depend upon intensity of study and household income.
The maximum rates at 100% intensity are:
This means that if you study at 50% intensity, you will be eligible for 50% of the annual loan rate which will also be dependent on household income.
Wales
Information for Welsh domiciled part-time students is available.
Visit Student Finance Wales website for further information.
Students on pre-reg Healthcare courses such as Nursing, Midwifery, Physiotherapy, and Social Work courses may benefit from additional funding from the NHS:
• Learning Support Fund (not applicable for Social Work) • Social Work bursary for students in years' 2 and 3 of their Social Work course
• How will this affect any means-tested benefits you receive including Universal Credit, Housing Benefit and Tax Credits?
You must tell the benefit provider you are a student.
• Due to the nature of the Nursing, Social Work and Health Profession courses, it is not always possible to maintain part-time work alongside studies, particularly when on placement.
• We recommend that you plan your finances accordingly.
• Please contact studentsandmoney@winchester.ac.uk for guidance.
(Not Applicable For Social Work)
The Learning Support Fund (LSF) provides supplementary funding to the higher education student loans support from the government, for eligible students attending eligible pre-registration healthcare courses starting on or after 1 August 2017.
In order to apply to the Learning Support Fund, you must be eligible for Tuition Fee and Maintenance Loan support from the Student Loans Company.
Part-time students will be eligible to an award on pro-rata basis.
The LSF consists of different award allowances.
Eligible students can apply to the NHSBSA for some or all of these allowances, depending on their own personal circumstances.
Students studying one of the following courses will be able to apply for the Training Grant of £5,000 a year from September 2020: • BSc Midwifery • BN Nursing (Adult) • BN Nursing (Child) • BN Nursing (Mental Health) • BN Nursing (Learning Difficulties) • BSc Nutrition and Dietetics • BSc Physiotherapy
Students with parental responsibility for a child or children under 15 years of age (or under the age of 17 if the child has special educational needs) on the first day of the academic year for which they are applying, can claim a non-repayable grant of £2,000 a year.
Reimbursement of some of the excess costs arising from attendance at a practice placement provided that a valid claim is made within 6 months of the costs being incurred.
Students in genuine hardship who have exhausted all other available avenues of funding support are able to apply
Register an NHS Learning Support Fund account with the NHSBSA no later than one calendar month after the start of active study.
Apply to the NHS Learning Support Fund no later that 6 calendar months after the start of active study.
You must re-apply for this funding each academic year.
Eligible Undergraduate students in second and third year of study are able to apply for this bursary through the NHS in addition to any funding through the Student Loans Company.
The University only receives a limited number of bursaries each year so we are unable to guarantee that you will receive a bursary even if you are eligible.
For full eligibility criteria, please visit the NHSBSA website.
Please visit the course page on our website for further information regarding allocation criteria.
Students who are allocated a Social Work bursary will receive £4,862.50 in each of their second and third years of study.
This amount includes Placement Travel Allowance and is not based on household income.
Students who are not allocated a bursary will be eligible to receive a fixed Placement Travel Allowance of £862.50 per year.
Student Finance will notify you if you have been approved for a Tuition Fee Loan and will pay the University directly.
If you do not have a Tuition Fee Loan from Student Finance, or if you only have a partial loan, you will need to pay fees directly to the University.
Payment terms vary according to your mode of study and your start dates.
If you have a partial Tuition Fee Loan, Student Finance will write to you notifying how much of your Tuition Fee you will need to pay.
Students are required to pay their tuition fees in full, or to join the University Recurring Card Payment (RCP) instalment scheme via our online payment portal (see below).
Fees are to be paid:
Term 2 start (Full time only):
In full on or before the start of the academic year (and no later than 31 January 2026); or By RCP in two equal instalments on 1st April 2026 and 1st June 2026 .
For fees paid in full the University will accept the following forms of payment:
Visit our payment portal
Students from England can use the Student Finance Calculator to estimate student loans and extra student funding, e.g.
if you are disabled or have children.
The calculator will give you a guide to the amount of funding you are likely to receive, subject to your eligibility for funding.
Your result will be more accurate if you know your annual household income (your parents' or partner's income plus your own).
Access the calculator on the Student Finance England website .
When you start repaying your loan and how much you repay depends on your repayment plan.
Students on the repayment plan, for those who start a course after 1st August 2023, don’t start paying back loans until the April after they have graduated or left their course and are earning over £25,000.*
Repayments amount to 9% of income over £25,000 a year.
For example, if earnings are £30,000, the repayment would be 9% of £5,000 which equates to £37.50 a month.
Salary
Amount of salary from which 9% will be deducted
Monthly Repayments
£25,000
£0
£5,000
£37.50
£10,000
£75
£15,000
£112.50
£20,000
£187.50
£225
£262.50
*Students who started before September 2023 start repaying once they earn more than £27,295 a year.
Repayments for someone earning £30,000 a year, for example, will be £20 per month.
For more information about how you would repay your loan and how much your repayments are likely to be, visit the gov.uk website
For information on the bursaries and scholarships available at the University of Winchester check the Undergraduate scholarships and bursaries page.
If you can't find the information you are looking for, try our Frequently Asked Questions page, phone us on +44 (0)1962 827008 or email us .
The terms and conditions are for entry to the University from January 2018 onwards.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Students-and-money/US-Federal-Aid-Title-IV:
The University of Winchester participates in the William D.
Ford Federal Direct Loan Program (Federal Direct Loans).
These provide funding to Students from the USA to cover tuition fees and living expenses, subject to approval by Student Services.
Please be aware we are unable to support funding for every course.
Please refer to the U.S.
Federal Aid Policy for full details on eligibility criteria.
We calculate and approve the level of federal student loans available to you through the U.S.
Dept of Education .
This is calculated in line with regulations using a cost of attendance calculation, in advance of you arriving at the University of Winchester.
Once you have arrived and enrolled, the funds will be disbursed to you, subject to satisfactory academic progress.
All US Federal Aid Policies can be accessed via our website, including your right to cancellation.
Important: If you require a Student Route Visa and you are in receipt of any amount of US federal loans, your CAS will not be assigned until your US federal loans documentation has been completed.
Although you can borrow the visa fee amount, your loan cannot be used to pay for visa fees as you will need to have been granted your visa to enrol onto your course at the University.
The first step in applying for a US Federal Direct Loan is to complete a FAFSA ( Free Application for Federal Student Aid ).
To apply electronically, you must have an FSA ID.
Start the application process.
Once your FAFSA is completed and processed, it will generate a Student Aid Report (SAR).
This is used by University of Winchester to determine your eligibility for a loan as stipulated by the U.S.
Department of Education.
University of Winchester School Code: G21497
Once we have received your SAR, we will complete your COA for you and confirm the amount of loans you may be eligible for through a Funding Notification Letter, sent via email.
You will be required to sign and return your Funding Notification Letter to confirm the amounts you wish to borrow.
Once you have accepted and returned your Award Letter, you can go on to complete the applicable Master Promissory Notes (MPN).
The MPN is a legal document in which you promise to repay your loans and any accrued interest and fees to the US Department of Education.
It also explains the terms and conditions of your loans.
The MPN is a binding legal document that you must sign when you get a federal student loan.
It lists the terms and conditions under which you agree to repay the loan and explains your rights and responsibilities as a borrower.
It is important to read and save your MPN because you’ll need to refer to it later when you begin repaying your loan or at other times when you need information about provisions of the loan, such as deferments or forbearances.
Complete MPN
Except for parent Direct PLUS Loan borrowers, if you have not previously received a loan, you must complete entrance counselling before University of Winchester can make the first disbursement of your loan.
This helps you to understand your responsibilities regarding your loan.
You will be able to complete your entrance counselling online.
Complete Entrance Counselling
Once all the required documents have been received and are correct, your loan will be originated.
Once your loan has been originated, a Funding Notification Confirmation (FNC) will be emailed to you to confirm the dates and amounts of disbursement.
Before your loan application can be completed, you must complete Entrance Counselling.
This ensures that you understand the terms and conditions of your loan and your rights and responsibilities.
Before you withdraw, graduate, or drop below half-time attendance (regardless of whether you plan to transfer to another school), regulations require that you complete an exit counselling session for your Direct Subsidised and Unsubsidised Loans.
The counselling session provides information about how to manage your student loans.
According to US regulations, University of Winchester is required to disburse your loan funds in multiple instalments that coincide with scheduled semester start dates.
If your loan period is based on enrolment for two semesters, you will receive two disbursements, one at the start of each semester.
For a September start:
October
May
If you have not already paid your tuition fee, once the University has received the amount of the disbursement from the US Federal Government, this will be deducted before any excess balance is forwarded to you.
Generally, loans cannot be disbursed until the semester has officially started and you must be enrolled onto your course before loans will be disbursed to you.
Before each disbursement, you will be contact via email by the International Student Success team requesting whether you accept/reject your disbursements.
You must confirm acceptance of your disbursements via email before your loan can be disbursed.
To receive any surplus funds, you must have your provided your bank account details via Student Bank Details (office.com) .
The origination fee is a charge made by the US Department of Education (USDE) to cover the administrative charges related to your loan and is subject to change by the USDE.
For information on origination fees charged by the USDE please see Student Aid .
The University of Winchester does not charge any loan fees.
The USDE funds received by the University are converted into the equivalent GBP according to the exchange rate.
Fluctuations in exchange rates cannot be used to increase the Cost of Attendance.
Please visit the Federal Student Aid website for details on current interest rates for direct loans.
The University of Winchester can accept funding for students from private loans company such as, Sallie Mae.
Other private lenders are also available.
To receive these funds, the University must ‘certify’ the loans for each student.
You can request any amount, but this amount must not exceed your Cost of Attendance (COA).
Although you can borrow the visa fee amount, your loan cannot be used to pay for visa fees.
If you have any questions about your U.S.
Federal Loans and how they are processed, please contact International Student Success via email: international.support@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Students-and-money/Students-and-money-FAQs:
We have compiled all our frequently asked questions into to one place for your reference.
However, if you have a question that hasn't been answered in this section, please email: studentsandmoney@winchester.ac.uk
You can apply online for your student loan at the relevant website; please see the contact details above for the relevant link.
New entrants are advised to complete their applications during April and no later than by the end of May preceding​ your entry, for your application to be processed for the start of term.
However, you can apply up until nine months after the start date of your course.
If you have applied before the deadline set by Student Finance, the first instalment of your maintenance support should reach your bank account on or around the first teaching day, depending upon whether you start in September or January, provided you have:
Please note ; for those starting in September, you will not receive your funds in time for Welcome Week, so you will need to have sufficient funds available to cover all your expenses during Welcome Week and until your maintenance support has cleared in your bank account.
The second and third instalments of your support will be paid directly into your bank account either in January and May or May and September, respectively, depending on when your academic year starts.
You can check your payment schedule by accessing your online Student Finance account.
Information and how to apply for the Widening Participation Bursary is available on our Undergraduate Scholarship, Bursaries and Awards page
If you are eligible, the University will make arrangements for your bursary to be paid into your bank account using a payment service, such as via Student Finance.
The Winchester Learning Support Fund is available for full-time and part-time UK students experiencing exceptional, unforeseen hardship, particularly final year students, single parents, students with dependents and students with additional needs.
Students can only apply to the Fund if they are a current student at the University.
For more information on the Winchester Learning Support Fund, please contact Student Support on 01962 827341 or email studentsandmoney@winchester.ac.uk
Yes; Tuition Fee Loans are available to UK Home and those from the EU with pre-settled status undergraduates who start their course after September 2020 provided they are studying at least 25 per cent of an equivalent full-time course in the relevant academic year.
New UK Home students starting a part-time course from 2025/26 are also able to apply for a Maintenance Loan to help with the cost of living.
EU students with pre-settled status are not eligible for maintenance loans.
To find out more about Loans, please see the relevant Student Finance website .
If your parents or care givers are supporting your application, please make sure that they have submitted all their evidence for an income assessment.
It is possible that Student Finance have agreed to give you the minimum amount of funding as an interim measure if they are waiting for further details.
If your parents or sponsors think that the income assessment is incorrect, they will need to contact Student Finance.
Please email the Students and Money team if you require support in resolving the situation
For information regarding University housing costs and payment options, please see our student accommodation section
​No; to receive these awards, you must be studying full-time and paying the full tuition fee.
You will need to log into your online account with Student Finance .
You can find more information by watching the How to Change your Student Finance application video.
You will then be able to update the information to select University of Winchester and select the appropriate course.
It will ask you to confirm term dates and the tuition fee for your course, which is currently £ 9,535.
If you have already enrolled with us, you may not be able to make this change yourself.
You will need to visit Students and Money, Student Support & Success Reception, in the Winton building, so that we can manually register you and ask our Registry team to submit a Change of Circumstances form to Student Finance.
You will need to show us your Notification of Entitlement Letter which is in your online Student Finance account.
You will need to contact the National Insurance number application line on 0345 600 0643.
Further information can be found on the gov.uk website , where you can apply online or call 0800 141 2079.
You will be notified in writing once your application has been approved.
You can check the status of your application via your online account with Student Finance; this will also indicate if Student Finance are waiting for any further evidence from you.
As long as you can provide evidence that you have submitted an application to Student Finance, you will be able to enrol.
You will need to provide a screenshot of your online Student Finance account, and if you have any correspondence, please bring it with you when you come to enrol.
It is recommended that you also meet with a member of the Students and Money team who will be able to provide further guidance with your Student Finance application.
Please email our Students and Money team to arrange an appointment.
You need to pay careful attention to the definitions of a "person of good standing" on the Applicant's Declaration of Identity Form (ADIF).
Student Finance will only accept an Identity Confirmation Form signed by a person on this list.
You can find out more information about how tuition fee loans work and how the fees are paid on the undergraduate financial information web page.
If you are looking to pay your fees online visit the Online Payments web page.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Students-and-money/Cost-of-living-in-Winchester:
We recognise the anxiety caused by the ongoing economic situation and the real impact it is having on some of you.
As the cost of living continues to rise, we want to update you about the support and useful information that is available.
While we cannot control the causes of the rising cost of living, there are many sources of help and support for you.
We have worked with our Student Union to identify what we can be doing to provide funding to those who most need it and put measures in place to help you keep costs down.
All of this is to help you to continue to enjoy and succeed in your studies.
In the meantime, if you want to get in touch about financial support please do email us at StudentsandMoney@winchester.ac.uk
Our Food on Campus team have several things in place to help you save money whilst still enjoying food and drink across campus.
This includes using WINPay for all transactions, taking advantage of outlet meal deals and  tapping your ID card on the readers when you purchase a hot drink.
The University will not pass on cost increases on parking and park and ride permits, and will meet the additional payments by freezing costs for this academic year.
In addition to freezing the costs of parking and Park and Ride permits, the University has a range of discounts and ways of saving money on travel and transport to and from the University.
You can find out more about these on this spreadsheet - Commuting Travel Discounts 2022-23.xlsx
There are many organisations who offer a variety of ways to help you manage your cost of living, this is not a service provided by the University.
Many can help you stay informed and up to date with the wider financial situation and gain access to money saving tips, discounts and offers.
Prescription Costs, as students are on low incomes you can apply for help towards prescriptions and other medical costs.
More information is available on the website
For most students, rent is the biggest expense - whether you're living in University accommodation or in a private rented property.
On a standard 39-week licence, the price of accommodation ranges from £155.40-£213.50 per week, depending on the type of accommodation you choose.
Some accommodation options include catering.
Learn more about our student accommodation
All utilities (gas, water, electricity, internet) are included in the rent.
If you are a full-time student, you are exempt from paying Council Tax.
If you live in On-Campus accommodation, the University will manage this for you - however, if you are living in a private rented property, please get in touch with the local council to set up your exemption.
To find out more about your council tax exemption, please visit the Winchester City Council webpage using the following link: Discounts & Exemptions - Winchester City Council
If you live in On-Campus accommodation you will automatically have contents insurance which is organised by the University, and the cost of this is included within your rent payments.
If you have any questions regarding this, please contact the Housing team at Housing@winchester.ac.uk
You will need a TV licence if you have your own TV, watch live or record live television programmes through a mobile phone, tablet, laptop, computer, or games console.
Please see www.tvlicensing.co.uk for further information.
Private rented property rates vary depending on location and type of accommodation.
On average, without bills, private rented properties cost £110 per week.
However, this varies depending on location, size of room, and any extra amenities the property may have (eg.
driveway, garden)
Utility bills (gas, water, electricity, internet) are not always included in the rent in the private sector, so you may need to allow £40-£50 per week for these.
If you are unsure whether your utilities are included in your rent, please get in touch with your estate agent or property manager to confirm this.
You will normally be required to supply a security deposit and pay one month's rent in advance in order to secure a property.
When searching for a property, please be transparent with your housemates about what you can afford to pay and compromise on a reasonable rate between yourselves.
If you live in a private rented property and wish to have contents insurance, you will need to budget accordingly for your own contents insurance.
This can often be £80+ a year depending on what items you wish to cover.
This reflects current TV licensing law.
Please see the TV Licensing website for further information.
Full-time students are exempt from paying Council Tax even if they are sharing accommodation with non-students.
Part-time students are not entitled to Council Tax exemption.
Further information regarding this can be sought from the University's Housing Services.
*Please note that if you share accommodation with a non-student and they fail to pay their Council Tax, you may be liable to pay as a joint tenant.
There are other costs you may need to consider, please see below.
```
Most courses will require you to purchase textbooks and other course materials.
We give a guideline cost of approximately £10 a week for study materials.
This will vary according to the course you are studying and whether you need to undertake ﬁeld trips, placements or project work.
The University library is well-stocked meaning it is not always necessary to purchase every recommended textbook.
You may also be able to source second-hand copies of many texts.
You may want to purchase a laptop for personal study but the University has a huge number of computers available for use and many of these can be booked 24/7.
Other costs will include printing, photocopying, memory sticks, binding and specialist printing.
Additional costs speciﬁc to the course you are studying can be found on the relevant course pages.
Although most students live on campus for their first year of study, travel costs need to be considered for subsequent years of study if you live further away from campus.
You will also need to budget for trips home and moving out of your accommodation at the end of your licence.
New students will not be able to park on campus, except those who meet the eligibility criteria outlined in the Parking Regulations.
You can access the Parking Regulations on the Intranet once you have enrolled.
Students are encouraged to use public transport whenever possible, and the University offers a wide range of discounts on local Bluestar buses, Stagecoach Unirider buses and South Western Railway season tickets.
See Travel and transport - University of Winchester for further details.
You will also need to budget for trips home.
A 16-25 Railcard will give you a third off most off-peak train fares.
Similarly, National Express offer a Young Persons Coachcard saving you a third on standard fares.
Check with the bank when applying for a Student Bank Account, as a railcard is often offered as a benefit when opening an account.
If you plan to cycle, you will need to budget for insurance for your bike and a strong security lock.
The University has cycle storage facilities on campus ranging from cycle hoops, covered shelters and bikeaway lockers.
If you are unsure about the best way to get to the University or have enquiries about travel by public transport please email environment@winchester.ac.uk .
Questions regarding parking can be directed to the Parking Office.
This is where you can really tailor your costs according to your budget.
Food
Costs will vary depending upon how you shop and the choices you make, but on average, students spend £144 a month on groceries.
On average students spend an additional £48 a month eating out or takeaways, which does not include the delivery charges.
Obviously, wherever possible, try to cook for yourself and friends instead of going out or ordering on an app for food to be delivered.
(Save the Student – Student Living Costs in the UK 2025)
Try to club together with housemates and do one big grocery shop between you.
Compare prices between brands and stores.
Preparing your meals from scratch will work out cheaper than purchasing ready meals.
Make sandwiches and a flask of coffee rather than buying food and drink on campus.
Mobile phone
There are many options available according to the phone you choose and whether you have a contract or not.
Shop around for the deal that you can best afford to suit your needs.
It is often more cost effective in the long term to buy a reconditioned phone and a SIM only.
Use discount apps to reduce your costs event further.
Socialising and Leisure costs
Again, these will vary depending upon the choices you make but the National Student Money Survey 2025 found that students spend on average £61 a month on socialising and going out.
The Winchester Students Union offers a range of events throughout the academic year.
There is a huge range of bars and restaurants in Winchester, many of which offer discounts to students.
The University has a gym which offers preferential rates to students.
Making decisions about what equipment to bring to University can be daunting.
We have lots of PCs available on campus and 240 self-service laptops available for free, short loans – students find these very helpful for study and lectures.
If you are thinking about buying a laptop, try to get the best one you can for your budget – unless you are expecting to use resource-hungry applications, most modern laptops with good memory and storage will do the job well and allow you to write up your notes and assignments.
Get advice from your local PC supplier who will be able to talk through the different options.
Remember that you may be carrying your laptop around so think about the weight of the device before buying.
For those who will be living in halls, you may want to bring a gaming device (lots do!) but note it has to be connected via cable to the network (not wireless).
Please don’t buy a wireless printer unless it can be connected by cable to the network as wireless printing is not possible.
Our IT Technicians can offer help with getting connected when you arrive.
Here are some tips for saving money.
You may be able to reduce your spending across a number of areas in order to reduce your outgoings.
Money saving tips
Share the cost of food with flat/housemates or friends and try cooking communally
This way you can take advantage of the cost savings of buying larger quantities.
You can also club together and get shopping delivered to your accommodation to cope with getting the larger items back to your home.
Make your own food for lunch rather than purchasing food and drink on campus
Making a sandwich and bringing a flask of coffee or a water bottle to campus will save you pounds every day.
Get to know how much things cost and compare prices between stores and within a store
The cost of a loaf of bread varies from 55p for a loaf from the major supermarkets' basic range to over £1.
Shop according to what you can afford.
Think about how much you spend on household bills
If bills are not included in your rent, take meter readings when you move in and give them to the respective utility companies, asking them to set up a new account for you.
This should ensure that you aren't liable for bills left by previous tenants.
You may be able to take advantage of a discount on bills if you pay by Direct Debit.
Turn electrical items off when you are not using them and unplug items once they are fully charged.
If your heating is controlled by a thermostat, turning it down by one or two degrees can save pounds.
Do as much of your work using the PCs on campus to save charging your laptop battery.
Students are exempt from Council Tax
If you are a full-time student living alone or with other students, you don't need to pay Council Tax.
If you live with a non-student then you are still exempt from Council Tax.
However, if the non-student does not pay their tax you may be liable as a joint tenant.
Public Transport Buy a season ticket for public transport and consider a 16-25 Railcard or Young Persons Coachcard for longer journeys which give discounts on fares.
If you use public transport regularly then it is probably worth investing in a season ticket rather than paying individual fares.
Season tickets are available for Stagecoach bus travel within Winchester City.
Further details are available on the Unirider website
Walking and cycling are the cheapest forms of transport and keep you fit at the same time
Look out for second-hand textbooks
Students often sell their course books once they have finished with them.
Many advertise on the intranet.
Remember that the library has a good stock of course materials and it may be worth borrowing some books rather than purchasing them.
Take advantage of Student discount schemes
A TOTUM + Card costs £14.99 for one year or £29.99 for three years membership and allows you to take advantage of valuable discounts in the high street and online.
There is also a free digital membership offering less benefits.
Register with Unidays and Student Beans to receive notification of offers and discounts both on the high street and online.
It's always worth asking if a store offers a student discount – many do without advertising the fact!

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Students-and-money/Additional-course-costs:
To find out what your costs are for your course, please see our course pages.
The following table sets out the general principles which apply to courses at the University of Winchester.
Professional Body
Registration

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Scholarships-bursaries-and-awards/Undergraduate-scholarships-bursaries-and-awards:
We offer a range of scholarships, bursaries and awards for students joining us in September.
We recognise the anxiety caused by the current economic situation and have recently reviewed our offer of undergraduate bursaries and scholarships for September 2025.
We are currently finalising details and the application process for our new Widening Participation Bursary for new students who come from backgrounds recognised as under-represented in higher education, and whose characteristics make them more likely to face cost pressures during their studies.
This will include students who are care-experienced, estranged, young adult carers, and from gypsy, Roma, traveller, showman and boater (GTRSB) communities.
Further information, including the eligibility criteria and application process, will be made available soon.
Please note, our bursaries and scholarships are available subject to application and eligibility.
We reserve the right to alter available funding or recipient criteria through our Bursary and Scholarship schemes when required to do so in order to meet our statutory obligations.
We also recognise that many of our current students may be impacted by unexpected financial difficulties.
The Students and Money Team have been working closely with the Student Union to provide advice and support on how to manage the cost of living in Winchester .
Financial support at Winchester includes:
Students may also be eligible for additional financial support through one of our widening participation bursaries if they meet one of the following criteria:
To find out more about the financial support available please email StudentsandMoney@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Scholarships-bursaries-and-awards/Students-seeking-asylum:
We are committed to creating opportunities for all to study at the University of Winchester, particularly those in difficult circumstances.
Our Sanctuary Award supports up to two students per year seeking sanctuary in the UK to undertake a course in higher education.
We will cover your fees and also help with additional costs with a bursary of up to £5000 per year.
This award does not include accommodation costs.
Academic English support is available for students for whom English is a second language throughout the year.
Tutors are available to provide help with academic reading, writing, speaking, and listening, as well as vocabulary, grammar, pronunciation, and discourse.
Our Sanctuary Award offers a full tuition fee waiver and bursary to up to two students per year who are already living in the UK and who are:
Please note: Spouses/civil partners must have been the spouse/civil partner on the date which the asylum application was made.
Children/step-children must have been aged under 18 on the date on which the asylum application was made.
In addition to the fee waiver we can help you cover the costs that come with studying (for example books, IT equipment, travel costs or other costs which will enable you to study successfully) up to a maximum of £5000 per year.
Applicants for the Sanctuary Award will need to:
Priority will be given to applicants who already live within easy commuting distance (25 mile radius) of the University of Winchester, and all applicants must commit to living within this distance when they begin their course.
The Sanctuary Award is payable in three instalments in each standard academic year of the course.
This is unless, as a result of an asylum application, you (or your parents or spouse/civil partner) are granted indefinite leave to remain in the UK.
If this happens, you must inform the University and the award will cease from the start of the next academic year, when you would be expected to apply for student finance instead.
If you wish to apply for the Sanctuary Award for 2025 entry:
Once you have received your offer of a place on a course at the University of Winchester, please download and fill in the application form below.
Sanctuary Award Application Form (September 2025 entry)
Please note that BSc (Hons) Physiotherapy, BN (Hons) Nursing (all pathways) and BSc (Hons) Nutrition and Dietetics are excluded from the Sanctuary Award.
(This list is correct at the time of publishing but may be subject to review and alteration).
Please note, if you are considering applying for BSc (Hons) Professional Policing, the College of Policing have additional requirements that you are required to meet to become a police constable.
Further information is available from the College of Policing website and we would encourage you to review this information before submitting your application for a Professional Policing degree.
Since 2022, Ukrainian nationals have been able to apply to Student Finance for funding and are therefore no longer eligible for the Sanctuary Award.
We recommend Ukrainian applicants contact studentsandmoney@winchester.ac.uk to discuss their financial needs and course.enquiries@winchester.ac.uk for other queries about their application.
For more information and help with getting to and paying for university, please visit the Refugee Education U K website.
Please note, any Sanctuary Scholarships awarded in collaboration with Refugee Education UK will be considered on a case by case basis.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/Commuting-students:
Train: we currently help students save around 30% on South Western Railway season tickets.
Travelling by train is also super easy, as the university is only a 10 minute walk from the station.
Created and hosted by our Student Union, the Commuter Society Lounge has been created with homely facilities designed to give commuting students a 'home from home'.
Complete with comfy sofas, a microwave and fridge, a shower, lockers, and a suite of network PCs and printer, our commuting students have the chance to meet face to face and build up friendships all across the university.
Take a look inside the lounge here .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/UWin-Student-Blog/Blog-Posts/Planes-Trains-and-Automobiles-Commuting.php:
Maybe you live locally or maybe you even live on a 'tropical' island (we’re looking at you Isle of Wight).
Wherever you're commuting in from (and we know lots of you travel in from neighbouring counties like Berkshire, Dorset, Surrey and Wiltshire), you will be part of Winchester’s welcoming student community.
Read on for information and tips on commuting to your on-campus teaching sessions and hear from current Winchester students about their experiences travelling into the city.
To commute or not to commute: that is the question
If yo u are considering living at home and commuting to uni, it may be the right decision for you.
Perhaps you're looking to save money on accommodation, and you can have your family on hand for support while you study.
It may also be a practical option if you have caring responsibilities or a part-time job near where you live.
If this is you, it’s a good idea to consider how, and how often, you will need to travel in so you can work out your costings and how you can best fund your travel.
A great place to start is by researching our Commuting Students page and definitely check out our Travel and Transport page which is updated regularly with the latest bus, coach, rail and car parking discounts.
Some transport apps offer further student discounts so research what's out there.
Even if it is only a few percent off, it all helps.
Winchester is really well served by bus and train, and we’ve highlighted some train journey times to the city below.
We are just a 15-minute walk from Winchester train station and the station is a 5-minute walk from the city centre.
Maximise your time on campus
Once you are on campus for the day, make the most of your time while you’re here.
Need a face-to-face appointment with the Academic Success Team or a 1:1 with your tutor?
No problem.
Want to work out between your timetabled sessions?
The gym on campus is open weekdays 7am to 10pm.
Just want to hang out with your course mates and have a coffee (or a muffin, salad, pizza, smoothie or something more substantial)?
We have several cafés across our campuses and the main Food Hall is on our King Alfred Campus.
Scratch that, you’ve got an assignment deadline looming.
Head to a study space in one of the beautiful libraries (Martial Rose or West Downs), to one of the PCs available in our cafés or even curl up in a nice quiet pod in the Contemplation Space (pictured below).
Forgotten your laptop?
Don't despair, there are self-service laptop loan cabinets at key locations on the King Alfred, Medecroft and West Downs Quarters, as well as at the Multimedia Loan Counter in the Fred Wheeler Building.
You can borrow a laptop for free by swiping your University card at the cabinet scanner and following the on-screen instructions.
Commuting Students Network
If, when you’re on campus, you think you might need a shower or may just need a nice cup of tea and a sit down, consider joining your campus home-from-home, aka the Student Union’s Commuter Lounge .
Once you have paid the (nominal) fee to join the Commuting Students Network , you’ll have access to the Commuter Lounge which has a private shower, relaxing sofa area, a microwave, kettle, PCs and a printer and lockers to store all that stuff you wish you hadn’t brought in with you.
“The Commuting Students Network is a really great place to socialise, especially if you’re travelling a distance from the University and you don’t have time to socialise with others.
We are very lucky to have our own facilities where we have a lounge, kitchen, bathroom and study room facilities as well.
We do regular events such as afternoon teas, quizzes and other fun things.” Jenny, PhD student
Maximise your commuting time
If you are on public transport, it's the perfect time to catch up on your reading or start planning for an upcoming assignment.
In saying that, don’t be afraid for some of this travel time to be your downtime where you can relax in front of your favourite box set or listen to a podcast.
If you are driving to uni: podcast ✔️  box set  ❌
Plan ahead for disruptions to your travel
It’s an inevitable part of life that a train strike or traffic jam on the motorway might delay you on your journey in.
Be prepared by researching alternative transport methods for those days when your car/bike/train company lets you down.
Have Microsoft Teams and your unimail account installed on your phone so you can let your lecturer or tutor know you have been delayed.
If you need to stay overnight in Winchester, the University has short-term guest rooms available at reasonable rates and delicious breakfast options to choose from in the Food Hall.
To find out more contact the Conferences Team on conferences@winchester.ac.uk or call 01962 827322.
“I’ve commuted for the past three years and I would say that they have made that really accessible and inclusive for me.
There is a Commuter Lounge where we can all go and socialise and chill out and that to me just made coming to University so much more enjoyable.” Catherine, Primary Education student

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/UWin-Student-Blog/Blog-Posts/Dont-Forget-Your-Toothbrush.php:
Packing for university can be a daunting process.
From bedding to kitchenware to towels, it’s hard to know where to start.
Don't worry - we have you covered.
Third year student Ceri Evans has put together this handy packing checklist to make your transition to Winchester that much smoother.
BEDROOM
Arguably the most important room!
It’s crucial to have a cosy space you can call your own.
KITCHEN
Another really important room for students!
If you’re self-catering, you’ll be making your meals here.
BATHROOM
Ensuite or shared?
These staples will make an appearance regardless.
*co-ordinate with housemates so you don’t end up with 8 of each if you will be sharing a bathroom
UNI SUPPLIES
Because who doesn’t love pretty stationery?
MISCELLANEOUS
Other important bits you don’t want to leave behind.
And make sure you don’t bring any of these
And finally.....
We hope this guide helps alleviate any concerns you have about packing!
We look forward to seeing you in Winchester soon.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/UWin-Student-Blog/Blog-Posts/Helping-My-Son-Prepare-for-Uni.php:
Tom and me on holiday in the South of France
When your child is considering higher education, you are given enormous amounts of information about the many universities available and what they are able to offer your child – courses, accommodation, facilities, nightlife and the endless possibilities for new experiences.
What you are often not given is information about how, as a parent, to navigate these choices and the eventual move.
My son Tom is currently in his final year studying Geography at the University of Winchester.
It is an experience that he has embraced wholeheartedly but the journey getting there, as a parent, was often a little bewildering, slightly overwhelming and, at times, extremely emotional.
Here's my experience and advice on how best to prepare as you enter this new chapter.
Which university to choose
When it came to looking at universities, we were still in strange times after Covid, so a lot of research had to be done via online tours.
We are now looking at universities with our daughter and what I can say is that the experience of being on a campus and looking at the accommodation in person is extremely important.
So much of the decision comes down to that intangible quality – the feel.
We were fortunately able to visit Winchester in person and Tom knew without question that this was where he wanted to be.
He was able to speak to students who were studying on the course that he liked and the staff who lead it.
We were also able to visit the city and the surrounding area.
University is so much more than just the course and the campus, so my advice would be to look around as much as you possibly can.
It is tiring and the amount of information you receive can be overwhelming, but until you see the campus, speak to the staff and students, you really will not know whether it is right.
Accommodation and student finance
Choosing which accommodation to go for is a very personal thing so try to look at all the options on offer.
Winchester offered accommodation tours with real students showing us their rooms - a great chance to be nosy and ask all the important questions.
University open days usually offer the opportunity to attend talks about everything from student life and the courses available to accommodation and finances.
Student loans were a complete mystery to me until I attended one of these talks.
The information I received was concise, clear and when it came to applying, I felt more confident in the process.
The harsh fact is that university is expensive.
Tom receives a percentage of the maintenance grant, we give him money each month for living expenses and rent, and he also works.
He has a job at home in a local pub but also works for the University as a Senior Student Ambassador.
Fortunately, he is very good with money; some students might need parental support in setting up a student bank account or budgeting.
Also, make sure you check if you're eligible for any funding, scholarships or bursaries - and get the deadlines for applying in your diary.
Preparing for life away from home
Learning to cook is a key skill.
When I was at university I lived on pasta and vodka for the first year and I wanted our son to start with slightly better standards!
Fortunately, he is a keen, if slightly creative cook, so this was not a challenge
Other considerations are money management, time management – a biggie for our son who used to see a deadline as slightly fluid and practical things such as how to use a washing machine and decipher a care label.
Arriving in halls is daunting for new students but encourage your son or daughter, not to hide away in their room on moving in day – be brave, grab a drink (be it tea or something stronger), and sit in a common area like the kitchen.
Everyone will pass through, and it is a great way to break the ice and start to get to know your new flatmates.
Moving Tom in to his university accommodation
Packing and arrivals day at Winchester
My husband would love a smaller, sportier car, but until the university days are behind us, this is not going to happen!
Our car was packed to bursting with the family squeezed in around kitchen utensils and bedding.
The longer our son is at uni the more he seems to accumulate, so by the time he finishes in the summer we will need a lorry to get him home!
Despite the sheer number of students arriving on the same day, the process was smooth and stress free.
We were able to park near the accommodation and then were given time to make numerous trips from the car with all of Tom’s belongings and there were lots of students on hand offering help should we have needed it.
One of the wonderful things about Winchester is that everything is within walking distance, so we headed off to the supermarket for provisions and the pub for fortification!
The city centre was a blissful downhill 10-minute walk – I’ll not mention the walk back up.
I’ll be honest, leaving was horrendous.
There was a lot of crying from us all, and for a moment I wasn’t sure that I was able to leave him.
He’s still my baby, even though he’s six foot and has a beard.
However, he had made friends with a couple of other new starters over the summer and one of them was moving into his building.
By the time the lift had dropped us off at the bottom floor, me still sobbing, Tom was opening a bottle of beer with his new friend.
During his first year Tom took part in this photoshoot for the university
Staying in contact
The first few weeks were the hardest for me, in fact probably the first term if I am honest.
During the first couple of weeks, we would speak most days.
It was a big adjustment for us all but as Tom settled in, we fell into a routine of speaking a few times a week.
It is so incredibly easy to keep in touch these days and we use WhatsApp as our favoured form of communication.
We are lucky that Winchester is only a couple of hours away from us, so we are able to pop by and visit for a day as and when we want to.
Tom is now in his final year at Winchester and each year has been different.
There have been ups and downs, both with regards to coursework and friendships, but I have discovered that young people are amazingly resilient and adaptable.
To put it into perspective, many of the phonecalls I get from Tom now are along the lines of “ Mum, I’m in the shop, you know that dip you make, the one with the feta… ” and this is a great type of call to receive.
My final piece of advice
What I can say with absolute certainty is that the University of Winchester was the right choice for Tom, and us all as a family.
It is small enough to be friendly and nurturing and large enough to offer variety and independence.
It is an incredibly welcoming place that provides opportunities that you might not have thought of and may take your child in directions that they had not anticipated.
Top that with an amazing city full of culture, restaurants, bars, shopping and a beautiful Christmas Market and, to be honest, it is incredibly hard to find any negatives.
I really suggest that you come and see for yourself.
Blog kindly written by Clare, mother of third-year Geography student Tom.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/student-life/UWin-Student-Blog/Blog-Posts/Helping-my-Child-Choose-the-Right-Uni.php:
W hich course and which uni to choose ?
Our daughter Maddie was initially interested in studying Criminology at university, which was one of the subjects she took at Level 3.
As her time at college progressed, she realised she was better suited to Business (her other course at college) and was attracted by the idea of Fashion Business and Marketing specifically.
My wife and I felt this was a better fit and helped her look at the way both these courses were taught and assessed.
Seeing the more practical, vocational style of the Fashion Business and Marketing courses cemented Maddie’s decision.
Once she had decided on the course, we then looked at universities locally and slightly further afield.
Maddie’s college organised a trip to a UCAS exhibition at a conference venue but we chose to go to UCAS Hampshire held at the University of Winchester so she could also get a feel for the campus.
Attending this event was really helpful as she could collect prospectuses and chat to staff from many different universities.
We had helped her prepare beforehand by looking at what her likely grades would be so that she only spent time speaking to universities that were a good match in terms of their typical offer.
This meant she could have more meaningful and longer conversations with these universities.
Once she had narrowed down the course and a few potential universities, we helped Maddie to further narrow down her options by looking at the course content.
As her course was quite niche, we wanted to make sure it was created as a bespoke course as opposed to mainly being general business modules Winchester fit the bill so went to the top of her list!
Open d ays and the UCAS application
Open days were really useful : they really helped Maddie to get a feel for what it would be like to live and study there.
Most prospective students took their parents and supporters with them too , so we didn’t feel out of place and these days were a useful but also enjoyable day out for us as parents!
We encouraged Maddie to make a start on her application as soon as the system opened, and she was surprised by how much information she had to include.
The personal statement section was tricky for her and s he didn’t find it easy to write about her skills , so we helped her with ideas of what skills she had been developing at c ollege and in her part - time job.
We encouraged her to use the information and tips on UCAS .com , to speak to her college tutor and to look at university websites to see what skills the course required .
Commuting
Maddie wasn’t sure whether she wanted to live in uni accommodation or commute from home .
We said we would support wh ich ever decision she made , and w e helped her work out her budget for both scenarios .
If she lived away , she would need to work three days per week and she wasn’t sure that would give her enough time to study and to relax.
We also looked at transport between the university and likely places of employment (she works at a high street store so was hoping for a term - time transfer to the local branch) .
We explained that we would not be able to give her money towards accommodation or living costs as w e were still paying our mortgage.
L ooking inside student housing at open days was eye opening as it made our daughter face the reality of living with other people and sharing a kitchen and bathroom.
We also talked about shopping, cooking and laundry.
She is doing more of these tasks for herself now but at the time she found the prospect of doing all of this on top of studying a bit overwhelming.
My wife and I both commuted to university in the 1990s so felt confident Maddie would be able to make the most of her university experience even if she wasn’t in student accommodation.
I would always challenge people that say you don’t get the ‘ full experience ’ of university unless you live in student housing .
W e fe lt that Maddie would have time to focus on her studies and enjoy herself while we would be in the background keeping up with the time-consuming household tasks .
Living at home and the subject of rent
The most difficult topic of conversation we had was about how much rent to charge.
R ather optimistically , Maddie believed she should be able to live at home rent free!
We felt her student finance funding meant she could afford a nominal rent and that it would be good to prepare her for the real world.
We considered a variety of factors and came up with a low monthly amount which we are saving with the hope of being able to give it back to her for a rental or mortgage deposit in the future , although it is also useful to have a buffer due to recent increases in the cost of living.
It was a difficult conversation to have but we backed up our decision with what her remaining budget would be , even after paying rent.
Regarding results day, we had Maddie getting her L evel 3 results and our son getting his GCSE results at about the same time which was quite a stressful summer!
We didn’t tell them this , but we researched back up options for them both in case they didn’t get the results they needed for their first choices.
This meant we could immediately help them make calls and look at other options on results day if needed .
We also took a holiday before this, meaning they could relax and enjoy themselves as a distraction.
On results day Maddie had a last - minute wobble about her first choice.
This was a little frustrating , but we made it clear we would support her whatever her decision and offered to take her on another visit.
Thankfully she decided to stick to her firm choice university and has been very happy at Winchester.
Summer preparations and Maddie’s first day
We encouraged our daughter to look out for reading lists so she could buy books with money she had earned over the summer , and s he also did research on which laptop to get and bought one and set it up in time for the start of term .
At the start of term , w e encouraged her to attend Freshers Fayre , social events and orie n tation act ivities during Welcome Week so she would feel more settled and ready to go.
As parents w e felt happy and proud and were confident that Maddie had made the right decision for her , regarding course, her university choice and commuting.
We were all relieved that the waiting for results and decision - making was over , and we also now feel well-prepared to advise our son when he starts looking at his university options.
This blog was kindly written by Stuart, parent of Fashion Business and Marketing student Maddie.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/collaborate/Student-and-graduate-careers:
The University of Winchester’s Careers and Opportunities Team provide professional support and guidance to ensure you find the talent you are looking for .
We strive to ensure that our students and graduates are enthusiastic about their future and well-equipped to succeed.
We collaborate with employers and organisations - whether you are a small to medium-sized enterprise (SME) or a large national recruiter - to prepare graduates who meet w orkforce needs .
At Winchester, our students graduate with more than just a degree.
We encourage them to demonstrate a passion for social justice, engage in environmentally friendly practices and recognise that individuals matter.
The development of both subject-specific and soft skills is embedded in our courses.
We ensure that students are in the best possible position to go on to thrive in their chosen career and lead a life full of purpose.
We help our students to become independent learners, compassionate and resilient and confident in both themselves and what they have to offer the world.
You can find the most recently published data on our student population on this page.
Use our free vacancy advertising service, CareerConnect, to promote a variety of opportunities:
To advertise your opportunities, please create a Company Profile to which you can link your vacancies.
To get started, click here.
Throughout the academic year, we run a series of activities where we invite organisations to c ontribut e to events - such as 'Careers in…' talks or 'Preparing for I nterview' workshops - to help prepare our students for life beyond their degree .
These may be within the curriculum or part of a central session - p lease email to register your interest.
Would you like your business to benefit from the latest industry knowledge and the freshest talent?
Would your staff like to develop their supervisory and mentoring skills?
Our students are full of ideas and energy, and they can’t wait to put their academic abilities to the test with a work placement or volunteering opportunity.
By offering a placement, you will be able to help a student to further their employability skills whilst utilising their knowledge and perspective to meet your business needs.
You may even find your future employee!
A work placement is defined as a period of assessed learning in a workplace, included in a course (lasting up to a year).
It is a chance for a student to gain valuable practical experience in a real working environment.
Taking on a work placement student from the University of Winchester can offer a range of benefits to your company:
“Lauren joined us at the event – she was fantastic!
She really got stuck in and helped us prep everything ahead of it.
It’s like she’s been in the team for a few months, not just four days!”
“It was fantastic to have Lucy on placement with us at the Winchester Health Clinic during an important period of growth.
Lucy was a fantastic part of our team, understanding the service and then using her creative initiative to develop marketing systems for the clinic and plan a local running event.
We wish Lucy all the best with her career.”
The length of the work placement will depend on the course of study and your requirements.
Typical placement types include:
Student semester dates
For Winchester students’ current semester dates, please click here.
What we will do for you
Our dedicated Placement Co-ordinators are here to support you throughout the placement process.
We can help with the following:
Volunteering while at university
We encourage all of our students to take part in volunteering, and we offer the opportunity to gain experience with a charity or not-for-profit organisation as part of a volunteering module.
If you would like to enquire about this – and how your organisation can get involved - please contact volunteering@winchester.ac.uk.
Please view the Organisations' Guide to Placements for further details.
Our Placements Team would be delighted to discuss this or opportunities for future collaboration.
To get in touch, please email workplacements@winchester.ac.uk or call 01962 827232.
Why should I employ a student?
If you are looking for a part-time employee who is passionate about Winchester and the local community, students are the perfect candidates.
They have actively chosen to work, live and study in Winchester for a minimum of three years, and during this time, they will actively contribute to both the local economy and the city’s cultural landscape.
You can become part of their development by advertising your roles now on CareerConnect.
Register your Company Account here.
Students attend University to become experts in their field, to improve themselves and their future potential.
They are striving to be the best they can be, and this translates into their part-time employment.
Their willingness to learn, attention to detail, and desire to work to the best of their ability could mean they are just what your organisation needs.
We recommend that students work no more than 15 hours a week (during term time), to avoid any negative impact on their studies.
However, students can often be extremely flexible with their hours, often choosing to work less during exam periods but more during peak periods, such as Christmas and Easter.
This can be beneficial to both the student and you, the employer.
In taking on a student, you can positively impact their career:
For more information, please contact jobs@winchester.ac.uk .
Why should I employ a Winchester graduate?
In 2023, the University of Winchester has moved into the top 10 in the UK for the percentage of students going into employment or further study.
The latest figures show that 92.8% of 2021 graduates progressed to one or both paths within 15 months of graduating – this is the eighth best result in the country, and the fourth best among English universities.
We therefore create driven graduates who are supported by our Careers Advice for Life service, and can bring a range of benefits to your business:
Advertise your vacancies on CareerConnect now by creating or logging into your Company Profile here.
Contact us at jobs@winchester.ac.uk for any further information.
We welcome interest from prospective mentors who want to participate in our Student Employability Mentoring Programme.
Mentors work one-to-one with a student to give them an employer’s insight into future graduate career paths.
The scheme aims to help students develop the skills and confidence they need to succeed in the graduate job market, to achieve their ambition of starting a business, or to go into further study.
Email mentoring.careers@winchester.ac.uk to find out how you can get involved.
Email: jobs@winchester.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)1962 827305
The Careers & Opportunities Team Student Support & Success University of Winchester Sparkford Road Winchester Hampshire SO22 4NR

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/collaborate/Winchester-Cultural-Strategy:
The University is proud to be a partner in the development and delivery of the Winchester District Cultural Strategy for 2030.
At the University of Winchester, we believe in the transformative power of culture and creativity.
As a local anchor institution, we are dedicated to building a thriving and dynamic community where art, celebration of our heritage, and innovation flourish.
We believe in the power of collaboration to create meaningful societal, civic, and community-based benefits.
By embedding ourselves with our local community and businesses, we aim to facilitate opportunities for mutual growth and innovation.
By supporting local businesses, attracting talented individuals, and enriching the lives of our students and staff and residents, we are confident that we can help make Winchester flourish for the future.
The Winchester Cultural Strategy was formally launched at a celebratory launch event for all stakeholders at the University on 9 Sept 2024.
M arking the end of our annual Research & Innovation Day, the celebration event was hosted by the Research & Innovation team.
Jo Stark, the University of Winchester's Head of Innovation and Collaboration, said: " We're proud to be supporting the district's cultural strategy.
We will be working in partnership with the community to ensure that we do as much as we can to support opportunities for sustainability and growth.
I am confident we will achieve the ambitions laid out in the strategy, and we’re committed to playing our part.
As a civically minded anchor institution, we have expressed a commitment to developing a Civic University Agreement.
These are place-based strategies that identify how we will connect and interact with our local community.
The key is focussing on not just what we’re good at, but what we’re good for!"
Some of the key stakeholders at the launch event.
Front row: Winchester City Council representatives Emalene Hickman, Cllr Lucille Thompson and Ellen Evans, and Shian Hunter from Play to the Crowd.
Back row: Andrew Gostelow (WCC), Rachel Gander (WCC), Prof.
Dan Ashton (Winchester School of Art), Jo Stark (University of Winchester Head of Innovation and Collaboration), and Paul Spencer (Winchester BID).
Photo credit RCM
Read the Executive Summary of the Winchester Cultural Strategy:
As the partnership developed the strategy, a number of areas emerged that required further discussion and data in order to shape the implementation.
We commissioned and worked with local agency Worthwhile Works to complete this deep dive for the partnership.
Our collaboration with Worthwhile Works on these reports is a significant step towards realising our vision.
By commissioning this research into key areas of cultural development, we aim to gain invaluable insights that will inform the future direction of Winchester's cultural strategy, helping us to shape a city that is recognised for its cultural excellence, economic prosperity, and strong sense of community.
We have produced a report centred around three core areas:
Read the Executive Summary of the Report:
For more information on the strategy, a copy of the full report or to find out more about how the University is supporting the implementation of this strategy, contact Jo Stark, Head of Innovation & Collaboration.
Find out more about collaboration at Winchester
Image top: Visualisation of Winchester in the 1700s by University of Winchester digital heritage specialists

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/collaborate/TEDx-Winchester:
The University of Winchester has been the proud host of TED x Winchester since 2020.
The 2024 edition saw University experts delighting the audience alongside external speakers for the first time, making TED x 2024 the most successful yet.
Bookings now open for TED x Winchester 2025!
6 June 2025, 9.00 - 16.00
West Downs Auditorium, West Downs Campus, Romsey Road, Winchester SO22 5HT
To find out more about what TED x is and for information on previous years, explore www.tedxwinchester.com.
Senior Fellow in Sports Coaching
Professor of Banking and Economics
Watch all TED x Winchester 2024 talks
Our wonderful students play a key role in the success of TED x Winchester.
Last year our School of Film and Media provided a four-person student camera crew to record and edit the event footage, while Event Management students helped ensure a smooth running and welcoming vibe of the event.
Read our case study about our student-led creative agency and how they helped make TED x a success.
The student camera crew - left to right: Oliver Trowern, James Rouault, Benjamin Dunks and Toby Parker
See all TED x Winchester 2024 photos
“A sincere thank you to the amazing University of Winchester students who volunteered their time and expertise to help bring TEDxWinchester to life.
They played a pivotal role in making this event a memorable experience for everyone involved.
We are incredibly grateful for their hard work and dedication and we look forward to working with students again in 2025.” 

Simon Howes, TEDxWinchester team

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Our-faculties/LCJ/Law/Legal-Advice-Centre:
A free community service offering legal advice in family law
The University of Winchester has teamed up with a firm of local solicitors to offer free legal advice sessions to the community.
Following a successful pilot, the Centre was established thanks to a partnership between the University of Winchester and the Winchester office of Dutton Gregory LLP Solicitors.
Members of the community can book an advice session with a qualified lawyer who will provide initial oral legal advice on family law matters for free, ‘pro bono’.
Our Law students volunteer to be on hand to assist and observe.
The University has become a full member of the national solicitors pro bono charity, LawWorks, which provides guidance and support to free law clinics.
The focus is on Family Law, specifically:
Advice sessions last 30-40 minutes and must be pre-booked.
No drop-in facility is possible.
Currently, the sessions will only provide initial oral legal advice.
No representation or case work service is possible at this stage.
Advice sessions are term-time only; Mondays: 13 Oct 25, 20 Oct 25, 27 Oct 25, 3 Nov 25, 17 Nov 25, 24 Nov 25, 1 Dec 25, 8 Dec 25 and 15 Dec 25
All appointments take place in person at the King Alfred Campus of the University.
Sessions are available to University staff and students as well as members of the public.
Please see our Legal Advice Centre - Privacy Notice .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Education-and-the-Arts/Research-Centres-and-Institutes-in-Education-and-the-Arts:
Centres and institutes in our Faculty of Education are centres of excellence in a wide range of subjects, from philosophy of education to the history of women's education, and from climate change education to refugee education.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Humanities-and-Social-Sciences/Research-centres-groups-and-networks/Centre-for-Religion-Reconciliation-and-Peace:
A high-impact centre dedicated to fostering peace and reconciliation across the world.
The University of Winchester’s Centre of Religion, Reconciliation and Peace (CRRP) was established in 2010 to help advance knowledge and understanding in the areas of religion and peacebuilding, and reconciliation.
As a high-impact research centre dedicated to helping make a tangible difference to those affected by structural violence and armed conflict, our work is particularly focussed on examining the crucial links between theory and practice in religious peacebuilding and reconciliation processes, and how each informs, challenges and enhances the other.
We strongly believe in the power of collaboration, and the importance of cultural and contextual forms of peacebuilding, and we work with academic partners; secular, religious and faith-based organisations; and government and multi-national institutions worldwide.
We offer training and consultancy in many areas of peacebuilding and reconciliation, and highly commended postgraduate courses.
Explore the tabs below to find out more about who we are, our work and our impact.
If you are interested in collaborating with us, please email CRRP Director Prof.
Mark Owen .
Sign up to our mailing list to receive our quarterly newsletter and term-time programme of events.
Follow us on Twitter
One of the primary areas of focus for CRRP is enhancing our understanding of the role of religion in driving conflict and how it can support effective and sustainable peacebuilding processes.
Over recent years, Dr Mark Owen and Professor Anna King have been working in a variety of contexts to systematise understandings of the role of religion in conflict and peacebuilding, and to devise a theoretically informed yet practical and accessible framework for peacebuilding practitioners worldwide.
Find out more about the Religion and Conflict Analysis project.
The project has led to a REF Impact Case Study .
CRRP carries out religion and peacebuilding research in three Asian countries: Myanmar, Nepal and India.
Find out more about CRRP's work in Asia.
A multi-religious approach to integration
Since 2016, in partnership with the European Council of Religious Leaders, CRRP has been carrying out a project examining multi-religious approaches to integration.
The project is designed to test anecdotal assumptions that in some circumstances there are tangible benefits to faith-based organisations and religious communities working together on integration projects and initiatives.
It also examined the benefit of multi-religious participation host communities.
Drs Lyck-Bowen and Owen have published an article detailing the results of the first phase of the project: Lyck-Bowen, Majbritt & Mark Owen (2018) A multi-religious response to the migrant crisis in Europe: A preliminary examination of potential benefits of multi-religious cooperation on the integration of migrants, Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies , 45:1, 21-41.
Read the article 'A Multireligious Response to the Migrant Crisis in Europe' online .
Based on the findings, guidelines on how different religious organisations/communities or individuals can collaborate consciously and proactively  on integration were also developed.
Read the guidelines to a Multireligious Approach to Integration.
Find out more about the University's research and knowledge exchange around forced migration
Whilst as a concept reconciliation is contested, it is also recognised as an essential element of the process of bringing individuals and communities back together after violent and/or structural conflict.
Our work on reconciliation is intended to critically examine the theories and practices of reconciliation in diverse contexts.
The main aims of this project are to support groups and organisations who wish to become engaged in reconciliation processes and work to:
Keyes, Dr Lyck-Bowen and Dr Owen have conducted workshops and training with groups from Rakhine and central Myanmar; Syrian refugees in Gaziantep, Turkey; the South Caucasus, examining the protracted conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh; the Sami in Finland.
They are also supporting the design and implementation of a National Reconciliation Framework in Somalia.
In 2018, Prof.
Keyes facilitated a workshop for representatives of the Afghan Embassy in London.
The Centre is also developing a comprehensive database on Truth and Reconciliation Commissions.
Once launched it will be the largest of its kind in the world.
In collaboration with the Muslim women-led international development charity Global One , we have been examining the beliefs and practices of communities from 6 major world religions and the work of numerous Faith-Based Organisations (FBOs), to understand how religion influences approaches to clean energy, and consumption and waste.
You can read our findings in the documents below:
CRRP Religion and Sustainability Evidence Review
CRRP 2021 Religion and Sustainability Policy Recommendations
Global One is a UK faith-based international NGO focussed on sustainable development, the improvement of women’s livelihoods, and Islamic faith-based principles.
Since its inception, Global One has promoted interfaith collaboration, working with people of all faiths and beliefs to establish constructive dialogue and action in the field of sustainable development.
This project is part of a broader programme of work at the Centre of Religion, Reconciliation and Peace (CRRP) and we would be pleased to connect with further potential collaborators in this area.
Exploring the relationship between Buddhism and conflict transformation is of particular interest to CRRP staff Prof.
Anna King and Dr Mark Owen.
Both have presented papers on this subject at conferences in the UK and Asia, including a proposed framework for analysing Buddhist peacebuilding in different contexts; on the holy pilgrimage site of Lumbini and its role in the Nepal peace process; and an analysis of the ‘Tibet Question’ and the Dalai Lama.
Work in this area has informed the design of a curriculum on ‘Buddhism and Conflict Transformation’; which was commissioned by the United States Institute of Peace, and aimed at secondary school students in South East Asian Buddhist communities.
The curriculum was implemented initially in schools in Myanmar in 2018; with the intention of being promoted in other Theravada countries including Sri Lanka, Thailand, Cambodia, and Laos in 2018-19.
The Centre also has a close relationship with the C entre for Applied Buddhism based at Taplow Court, Maidenhead (UK); and in in 2016 we held a joint conference on Buddhism and Conflict Transformation, with Johan Galtung as the keynote presenter.
Future work will focus on systematising different approaches to Buddhist peacebuilding, and examining the apparent advantages and disadvantages of a range of different approaches.
Justin Meyers: Muslim and Christian Theologies of Reconciliation and their Implications in Peacebuilding
Benjamin Lutz: Religious Dialogues: Examining The Power of Reflective Structured Dialogue in Middle East Peacebuilding Processes
Christopher Zefting: Race, Reconciliation, and Radically Different 'Radicals': How contributions from American Buddhism might inform Burmese Buddhist peacebuilding
The Centre of Religion, Reconciliation and Peacebuilding (CRRP) provides a supportive and professional environment for Doctoral students to carry out cutting-edge research, whilst receiving guidance from academics and practitioners working at the forefront of their fields.
Our deep knowledge of peacebuilding and reconciliation, allied to our practical focus and worldwide networks, makes the Centre a particularly suitable environment for PhDs with practical dimension and/or policy implications.
We are a high-impact research centre dedicated to helping to create a free, just and peaceful world.
We aim to do this by sharing excellence in knowledge, understanding, skills, relationships, and best practice in reconciliation and peacebuilding.
The Centre is one of the few academic institutions globally offering an intentional, systematic, and proactive approach to peacebuilding.
We take for granted the assumption that research should impact on the wider society and emphasise theoretical knowledge as a way of bringing greater understanding to practice and policy.
In order to discern and test the reality of such impact we devise evaluation frameworks, engage in reflexive critical scrutiny of our own research and sophisticated analysis of decision-making processes.
Our Centre seeks to create a global community of scholars by its partnerships with other universities, institutions, and non-governmental organisations.
Our research is enhanced through international research projects, visiting fellowships, ethnographic field research, distance-learning programmes, teaching, and continuing professional development and training.
We engage with national governments, multilateral agencies and non-governmental organisations, and work in many areas of the world including Asia, the Middle East, Europe and the USA.
Areas of supervision
Staff have the skills and expertise to supervise doctoral studies in all areas related to:
We especially welcome expressions of interest from applicants anywhere in the world, working with conflict affected communities to address their challenges of peacebuilding and reconstruction.
And we are also keen to receive proposals which encourage the theoretical development of the wider discipline of Reconciliation and Peacebuilding.
For current postgraduate research projects, see above under Research Projects.
Contact us
For enquiries, contact Prof.
Anna King or Prof.
Mark Owen.
For more information on the application process please visit the Research Degrees website.
The CRRP offers training and consultancy services in a range of different areas, and support for peacebuilding and faith-based organisations, and governments and policy makers.
A major focus of CRRP is ensuring that all our practical solutions and workshops are informed by the most up-to-date research and evidence in the areas.
CRRP offers training and/or consultancy services in the areas of:
Our training workshops and programmes are usually designed in consultation with commissioning partners to ensure they best meet the requirements of participants.
With our extensive contacts, we also help build partnerships for research, practical peacebuilding work, and policy formation between government institutions, peacebuilding practitioners, academics, and religious leaders and communities.
Our training and consultancy has helped support peacebuilding and reconciliation processes globally.
Previous partners and collaborators include:
CRRP's founding partners are St Ethelburga’s Centre of Reconciliation and Peace in London and Religions for Peace International in New York .
St Ethelburga’s works to inspire and equip people from all backgrounds to become peace-builders in their own communities and lives.
St Ethelburga’s works for the integration of refugees and asylum seekers by building relationships across differences and by training young people to become allies to displaced people.
They seek to empower young adults to lead and collaborate across faiths and culture, working particularly with sacred activism and spiritual ecology.
And they offer quality training in all their approaches and methods.
Religions for Peace International is the world’s largest and most representative multi-religious coalition advancing common action among the world’s religious communities for peace.
Religions for Peace works to transform violent conflict, advance human development, promote just and harmonious societies, and protect the Earth.
The global Religions for Peace network comprises a World Council of senior religious leaders from all regions of the world; six regional interreligious bodies and more than 90 national ones; and the Global Women of Faith Network and Global Interfaith Youth Network.
The Centre is a key partner to the Religions for Peace regional body, the European Council of Religious Leaders (ECRL) .
The ECRL was established in Norway in 2002 as a platform to enhance communication and cooperation between senior religious leaders of different faiths across Europe.
The Council draws on the rich religious traditions and values that are an integral part of Europe’s history and fabric, in order to support the enhancement of social and environmental harmony, and peace and stability throughout Europe and the wider world.
ECRL remains one of the most representative and respected pan-European collaborations of senior religious leaders in Europe, and is seen by many as an important body for promoting respect, tolerance, justice, and the rule of law.
CRRP has been providing support and expertise to help sustain and develop the ECRL since 2016, including helping implement projects on religion and integration, freedom of religion and constitutions, EU/MENA collaboration on migration, and the establishment and development of interfaith councils across Europe.
Rebecca Bellamy currently serves as ECRL Secretariat Manager, and Dr Mark Owen as Secretary General.
The centre has hosted regular public events for many years, inviting speakers to present on a range of challenging issues, particularly topical issues where the events have required much needed space for critical discussion.
We have explored conflict and peacebuilding in Ireland, Syria, the Balkans, Israel & Palestine and many other contexts.
Events are often organised at relatively short notice in response to requests and availability.
Sign up to our newsletter to stay informed ; see below for details of our most recent events.
Blog: Five tips for talking politics with your family this Christmas without having a row, by Dr Majbritt Lyck-Bowen
Centre Director Professor Mark Owen has attended the Middle East and North Africa Climate Week 2022 , presenting research he co-authored in 2021 with Global One, a Muslim and women-led development charity.
This research was also presented at COP26 in 2021.
This is a new area for the centre and we are pleased to hear from anyone with an interest and open to further collaborators.
Read the CRRP Religion and Sustainability Evidence Review .
Thursday 29 September 2022 saw the tenth Critical Dialogue on Reconciliation.
We considered the levels, outcomes, drivers, and the scaffolding necessary for successful reconciliation.
This event was part of a series of dialogues organised by the Centre of Religion, Reconciliation and Peace (University of Winchester), Embrace Dialogue (Rodeemos el Diálogo, ReD), and OxPeace (Oxford Network of Peace Studies), which seek to prompt a multicultural, interdisciplinary, global dialogue about reconciliation.
Special guest: Carl Stauffer (Senior Reconciliation Expert, United States Institute of Peace) Convener: Andrei Gomez-Suarez, (Senior Research Fellow, Centre of Religion Reconciliation and Peace, University of Winchester, Co-founder of Embrace Dialogue, and member of the OxPeace Steering Committee.
On 13 June 2022, CRRP and Rodeemos el Diálogo ('Embrace Dialogue') had the honour to host a dialogue between Bertha Fries, a victim of a FARC terrorist attack, and Rodrigo Londoño, the last chief in command of the FARC.
Chaired by Dr Andrei Gómez-Suárez (Senior Research Fellow at the Centre of Religion, Reconciliation and Peace, and co-founder of Embrace Dialogue), the event came at a key moment for Colombia, a week before the second round of presidential elections and ten days before the release of the final report of Colombia’s Truth Commission.
This event was part of the conference Impact in Reconciliation and Peacebuilding (13-15 June)
On 10 March 2022 we learned how how the Truth Commission is working in more than 20 countries to document the voices of Colombians outside Colombia.
This event was the eighth in Critical Dialogues on Reconciliation, a series of dialogues co-organised with Embrace Dialogue that seek to prompt a multicultural, interdisciplinary, global dialogue about reconciliation.
The Colombian Truth Commission will publish its final report in June 2022; this dialogue focussed on its reconciliation work with the Colombian diaspora.
The Speaker was Peter Drury, Representative of the Colombian Truth Commission in the United Kingdom; the event was chaired by Andrei Gomez-Suarez, Senior Research Fellow at the Centre of Religion, Reconciliation and Peace and co-founder of Embrace Dialogue.
Ginkgo seeds from a tree that survived the nuclear attacks on Japan at the end of World War Two have been sown at the University of Winchester as part of an international peace project.
The Ginkgo Tree Project, a collaboration between the University, the Winchester Mayoralty and Winchester members of SGI-UK (Buddhism in Action for Peace) , was launched in August 2021 to promote peace, anti-bullying and sustainability in schools.
Read the full news story and watch the YouTube video
In 2020, as the Covid-19 pandemic began to take hold and public gatherings became impossible, CRRP decided to move its regular seminars online, to enable the continuation of its public engagement programme.
The Talking Peace seminars are being published as a series of podcasts.
Listen to the Centre for Religion, Reconciliation and Peace's Talking Peace, Exploring Conflict podcasts
Rethinking Reconciliation is a series of panels running from May to July in collaboration with the Global Insecurities Centre, University of Bristol and Queens University Belfast.
The panels discuss reconciliation in practice, reconciliation and gender, and the local, national and international intersections and dimensions of reconciliation.
Wars formally end and combatants lay down their weapons, yet what follows rarely amounts to a clear-cut, unambiguous ‘peace’.
After formal hostilities have ended, citizens experience poor quality peace, in which intergroup antagonism and mutual distrust persist, and poverty and exclusion blight the lives of the population.
Coexistence is tenuous after historical violence, and, at worst, peace agreements may collapse, and the cycle of violence recommence.
Academic debates addressing reconciliation and the corollary notion of dealing with the past have escalated over recent years, and reconciliation has been increasingly employed to understand the quality and durability of peace settlements.
Practitioners and policymakers have accordingly begun to consolidate strategies that are situated within the framework of reconciliation.
However, little consensus over the scope, breadth and meaning of and limitations to reconciliation exists and there remains a theoretical and empirical lacuna in terms of the concept’s validity.
The first panel, 'Understanding Reconciliation in Practice ', asked what practitioners and academics mean by reconciliation, and how it plays out in specific contexts.
Professor Lars Waldorf (University of Essex) asked whether the role of arts and the localisation of justice in Rwanda and Sri Lanka have facilitated more transformative social relations.
Dr Gráinne Kelly (University of Ulster) discussed how reconciliation is defined and measured in Northern Ireland, and whether it is possible to reshape vertical and horizontal narratives without undermining peace.
Dr Andrei Gomex-Suarez (CRRP) concentrated on the Colombian context, and Professor Valérie Rosoux (UC Louvain) spoke to her extensive knowledge on Africa and Belgium, and the dynamics of inter-generational reconciliation.
Dr Roddy Brett (University of Bristol) was the discussant
The second panel, ‘ Gender and Reconciliation ’, explored the form in which gendered power relations are impacted by and have an impact upon post-conflict and transitional scenarios.
The different forms in which women and men experience conflict and transition were discussed, and the extent to which reconciliation processes are capable of generating a transformative change in gender relations reflected on.
Given the need to acknowledge the relational nature of gender, the role played by masculinities in transitional contexts was also debated, paying specific attention to the multiple forms in which masculinity can be understood in these scenarios.
Speakers were Senior Gender Advisor Nahla Valji (United Nations), Professor Brandon Hamber (Ulster University), Senior Researcher Elise Feron (Tampere University), and Associate Professor Johanna Mannergren Selimovic (Södertörn University), with Dr Gwen Burnyeat (University of Oxford) as discussant.
Recent Developments in Transitional Justice in Colombia , Thursday 29 July 2021
A public dialogue on the impact of the national strike and other recent developments in transitional justice in Colombia, with Giovanni Álvarez, director of the Investigation and Accusation Unit (IAU) of Colombia’s Special Jurisdiction for Peace (JEP).
In collaboration with Embrace Dialogue.
Conflict Dynamics and Challenges for Peace with the National Liberation Army of Colombia, 25 March 2021
After a landmark peace agreement between the Colombian government and the FARC, Colombia continues to face an internal armed conflict.
Senior Research Fellow Andrei Gómez-Suarez chaired a public dialogue between Elizabeth Dickinson (Senior Analyst Colombia, International Crisis Group) and Kyle Johnson (Co-founder of Conflict Responses) to reflect on the conflict dynamics and prospects for peace with the ELN insurgency.
Find out more about the webinar Conflict Dynamics and Challenges for Peace with the National Liberation Army of Colombia
The Centre has participated in both of the University's Images of Research exhibitions held so far.
In the inaugural IoR in 2017, we focussed on our peace and reconciliation work in Myanmar, and in the 2018 edition, the focus was on the implementation of the Prevent duty in primary schools.
Both exhibitions can still be enjoyed online as virtual exhibitions:
Images of Research 2018
Images of Research 2017
Our peace and reconciliation work in Myanmar was the focus of our contribution to the 2017 Images of Research exhibition.
Religion and Culture in Conflict and Peace
In June 2018 the Centre launched its first international conference on ‘Religion and Culture in Conflict and Peace’.
The conference is an annual event, and is intended to be participative and collaborative.
If you are interested in partnering with us or hosting the conference, please contact Dr Mark Owen to discuss further.
In 2018 we welcomed two excellent keynote speakers for our inaugural conference: Susan Hayward from United States Institute for Peace, and Professor Mohammed Abu-Nimer Senior Advisor to the King Abdullah Centre of Interreligious and Intercultural Dialogue.
In 2019, we partnered with the Lumbini Development Trust and the Nepalese Government to deliver our 2nd International Conference on Religion and Culture in Conflict and Peace in Lumbini, Nepal.
The conference focussed on Reconciliation and Peacebuilding in South-Asia and included esteemed keynote speakers Professor Hugh Miall from the University of Kent, and Steve Killelea, founder of the Institute for Economics and Peace.
The 2022 Religion and Culture in Conflict and Peace conference focussed on impact and outcomes and took place 13 to 15 June 2022.
For further details, visit the conference page.
Peace Jam
In partnership with Peace Jam UK, the University of Winchester holds an annual conference for children and young people who are committed to developing themselves as young leaders, and bringing about positive change in their communities, and around the world.
PeaceJam is a global organisation that works closely with Nobel Peace Laureates to encourage young people to build peace in their communities and get actively involved in making a positive difference in the world (www.peacejam.org.uk).
Every year we have been honoured by the presence of an inspiring speaker, including Nobel Peace Laureates Rigoberta Menchú Tum, Leymah Gbowee, Betty Williams, Tawakkol Karman and Jody Williams.
The conference is attended by over 300 children and young people, from schools across the country.
Many of our own students also support this excellent cause.
They participate in numerous workshops and social action projects on the environment, development and peacebuilding.
University of Winchester students are given the opportunity to train and act as ‘mentors’, which involves learning how to facilitate reflective discussions, lead ice-breaker activities and mentor younger attendees.
Every year up to 40 students can volunteer.
Winchester students and ex-students also sit on the planning committee, giving them valuable experience of project and event planning.
In 2016, the University welcomed the Nobel Peace Laureate Rigoberta Menchú Tum, an indigenous woman from Guatemala who was awarded her Nobel Peace Prize "in recognition of her work for social justice and ethno-cultural reconciliation based on respect for the rights of indigenous peoples".
View photos from PeaceJam 2016 here (with thanks to the Jersey Rotary Club).
Nobel Laureate Rigoberta Menchu Tum, centre, with CRRP Director Dr Mark Owen and Vice-Chancellor Prof.
Joy Carter
In 2017, we welcomed Leymah Gbowee, the Liberian peace activist responsible for leading a women's nonviolent peace movement, Women of Liberia Mass Action for Peace , that helped bring an end to the Second Liberian Civil War in 2003.
Peacejam 2018 was cancelled due to snow but in March 2019 we were delighted to welcome Betty Williams, co-founder of the Community of Peace People, who energised the young people with her stories of creating change in Northern Ireland and across the world.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Our-faculties/hss/School-of-Psychology-and-Social-Sciences/psychology:
We are a forward-looking and energetic team combining excellence in learning and teaching with a strong and active research culture.
We strive to provide the best educational experience and take pride in doing so within a friendly, intimate and supportive learning environment.
Previously a department, we recently joined forces with the Department of Social Sciences to form the School of Psychology and Social Sciences within the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences .
We offer a growing portfolio of Psychology programmes at undergraduate and postgraduate level.
Our British Psychological Society -accredited degrees explore every aspect of human behaviour, from biological, social and developmental psychology to psychological disorders and cognitive neuroscience.
We organise an annual seminar series with internal and external guest speakers.
These events are open to all staff and students, and students are actively encouraged to attend.
Our research feeds directly into our teaching, ensuring a fresh, vibrant learning experience with academics who have an international reputation in their specialist area.
What’s more, there are opportunities for students to get directly involved with our research during their degree.
Our research activity is organised into four research groups and one research centre, focussing on Brain and Cognition, Social and Organisational Psychology, Childhood and Youth Psychology, Health Psychology and Forensic and Investigative Psychology, and reflecting our research strengths.
See below for more information on each.
PhD opportunities in Forensic Psychology
From vulnerable witnesses to interviewing children in a hospital setting, the Centre for Forensic and Investigative Psychology (CFIP) is delighted to announce a fascinating array of postgraduate research supervision opportunities.
Visit the CFIP website to find out more and get in touch .
May 2025: Psychology experts help develop 'Creativity Navigator' for teachers
Academics in the University's Creativity Collaborative have developed a ‘Creativity Navigator’ to help teachers to plan and teach in ways that inspire creative thinking.
Find out more about the Creativity Collaborative
We offer consultancy services and has cutting-edge facilities and laboratories for psychology research, as well as cubicles for experimental work.
We have also been able to invest in state-of-the-art software and equipment.
follow Psychology at Winchester on Twitter
Eleanor Phillips
Eleanor studied BSc Psychology at the University of Warwick and graduated with a First in 2019, before joining the Psychology Department at the University of Winchester as a Research Assistant.
In March 2020, she joined the Psychology Technicians Team, supporting teaching and research in the Department.
Her role includes providing technical support to teaching on modules, creating practical experiments for use in workshops, and helping our students conduct their own research projects.
She have specialist knowledge of methods such as Electroencephalography (EEG) and Transcranial Electrical Stimulation (TES).
In addition to her work as a Psychology Technician, she is undertaking a PhD in cognitive neuroscience and psychopathology.
Specifically, her research is centred around investigating electrical brain activity involved in Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder and associated traits.
Grant Davis
Grant holds a BSc Hons in sport science from the University of Winchester and an MSc in exercise physiology from the University of Chichester.
Grant has many years technical experience, having previously worked at Southampton Solent and Portsmouth Universities.
Within these roles, he supported research and teaching activities in the psychology, physiology and biomechanics laboratories.
Also, he was involved in many consultancy projects involving premier league football teams and Olympic para-athletes, in addition to projects of a more occupational nature.
While at Portsmouth University, he gained experience working in specialist environmental chambers; aimed at researching the physiological and cognitive responses to all manner of extreme environmental conditions.
Neale Samways
Neale's desire to understand and be able to explain both natural and synthetic systems started at an early age through his interest in mathematics and the natural sciences.
With over 25 years’ experience of involvement within higher education, Neale holds a Bachelor’s degree in Psychology and Computing as well as a Master's degree (with Distinction) in Natural Computation.
Recently, he completed a Postgraduate Certificate in Learning and Teaching in HE, becoming a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
Additionally, Neale has spent several years conducting postgraduate research.
During his time in academia, Neale has worked as a Technician in five Psychology departments across the country, supported high-impact research projects, taught and assisted on a wide variety of course modules and has received and been nominated for a number of awards.
Joining the Psychology department in December 2022 as a Technician, Neale brings a wealth of experience including psychophysiology, eye tracking and experimental psychology.
Andy Myers , Walnut Unlimited
Research themes in Psychology connect research with wider society to bring about positive change.
Our overarching themes are:
Find out more about each theme.
Psychology has a vibrant, inclusive research environment organised around four research groups and two research centres.
The aim of the Centre for Forensic and Investigative Psychology is to encourage and develop research opportunities, as well as dissemination of such research with interested parties, both within the University of Winchester and externally.
Find out more about the Centre for Forensic and Investigative Psychology and meet the team
Our newest research and knowledge exchange centre, developing psychologically and community-informed solutions to contemporary social issues.
Find out more about the Engaging Communities Research Centre
This group conducts work on fundamental cognitive processes and on brain and cognition in relation to a range of settings including health, education and the criminal justice system.
Find out more about the Brain and Cognition Research Group and meet the team
This interdisciplinary group is interested in individual and population health across the lifespan and across different contexts and cultures.
Much of the research undertaken by group members is focussed on 'behaviour', whether in terms of typical health behaviours such as physical activity, or aspects such as patient decision-making or health organisations’ working practices.
Find out more about the Healthy Lives Research Group and meet the team
This group conducts research to understand children’s and adolescents’ social, emotional and cognitive development, with the aim of improving psychological wellbeing, relationships at home and school, and academic achievement.
Find out more about the Childhood and Youth Psychology Research Group and meet the team
This group specialises in social psychology, organisational psychology, political psychology, personality and individual differences, and media study, aiming to delineate individual and social behaviours in social and organisational contexts.
Find out more about the Social and Organisational Research Group and meet the team
A collaboration of practitioners and academics working in the field of criminal justice, led by University of Winchester forensic psychology, criminology and policing experts.
Find out more about the Criminal Justice Research Network
The Department offers research supervision in a wide range of subjects.
We currently support nearly 20 research students.
To find out more about supervision, explore our academic staff profile pages above for individual areas of supervision.
Find out everything you need to know about studying for a research degree at the University of Winchester.
Our excellent facilities comprise:
Find out more about Psychology reseach, teaching and Knowledge Exchange facilities
Find out more about our courses in Psychology

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Business-and-Digital-Technologies/Community-of-Enterprise-Design-and-Innovation:
The Community of Enterprise, Design & Innovation (CEDI) is focussed on building collaborative networks with the highly innovative creative and digital industry sectors.
The University’s four academic development themes of Student Engagement, Technology, Design & Innovation and Employability provided the impetus for the creation of CEDI, linking University and student activities with creative, innovative and design-led organisations.
CEDI supports the research, analysis, design and innovation processes that provide a distinct competitive advantage within innovative, creative and digital enterprises.
CEDI supports start-up and scale-up activities, developing strong support networks that link the academic, student and creative digital communities.
CEDI has designed and developed a physical space within the University of Winchester Business School to support:
To find out more about our work, contact Dr John Richardson , Director and Senior Lecturer in Innovation Management.
Visiting Fellows

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Humanities-and-Social-Sciences/Research-projects:
From conflict to cognition and creativity, from the Caucasus to the Caribbean, researchers in Humanities and Social Sciences carry out transformative research and knowledge exchange.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Press-Centre/Media-Articles/Scouting-out-who-dunnit-at-the-University-of-Winchester.php:
A group of Winchester District Explorer Scouts became real life forensic investigators solving crime at the University of Winchester, at a special event inspired by the popular board game Cluedo .
Over twenty Explorer Scouts aged 14-18 years from the Beacons Unit, based in Colden Common, took part in a murder mystery ‘who dunnit’ evening in the University’s state-of-the-art Forensics Laboratory, which features a range of industry standard equipment.
The event was run by scout leader and University of Winchester researcher and laboratory technician David Ashby .
“The session is a bit like a murder mystery evening,” explains David.
“We read them a scenario, outlining that a ‘body’ has been found.
The Explorer Scouts then analyse the scene as Hampshire Constabulary’s Crime Scene Investigation team, wearing scene suits to get in to their roles.”
The case under investigation was the recent disappearance of the fictional Professor Peter Ock, who has been declared a missing person.
Three suspects – his wife, a porter and a cleaner, all from the university – were in the frame.
The sessions featured three activities: first, an examination of the ‘crime scene’ with the deceased in place and the scene undisturbed for analysis.
Forensic evidence was planted for the Explorer Scouts to find.
The Explorer Scouts then interviewed all three suspects based on background information about their lives and careers.
Finally, they used their Forensic Investigation skills in the Lab: looking at finger prints, using liquid samples to test for chemicals and gunshot residue, analysing documents recovered from the scene for hidden information and messages using Forensic multispectral light sourcing, and analysing a copy of the mobile phone records and employment history of the three suspects and victim.
At the end of the session, the Explorer Scouts were asked to identify who the murderer was and why, based on the evidence they uncovered, before the criminal was revealed.
David explains: “These forensic evenings provide a safe learning environment for both Scouts and Explorer Scouts to learn some practical forensic skills in a unique way, getting a taste of investigative forensics, which engages curious minds.
It’s an excellent way to inspire young people and help support the community flourishing through unique, practical, hands-on learning experiences .
“It’s also a chance for local scout groups to find out what it’s like to study at university level, with lots of scouts who have taken part in these sessions coming back to the University for both work experience and to study here.
These sessions are also tailored to help scouts fulfil badge criteria, as well as learn and perform as part of a team.”
Louis, Winchester Explorer Scout and Young Leader, said: “I have undertaken these forensics nights for almost five years and each time we come back, I have learnt even more than last time.
These sessions are unique to our District and provide an incredible insight into a very exciting potential career in forensics and policing, and are also great fun.”
After running the sessions for four years, David has now developed a large-scale session, which ran for over 100 scouts on a District Scout Camp to Pinsent Scout Campsite just outside Winchester last year.
This project was so successful, scout groups from across the country and world have since been in contact to find out more about the sessions and how to run their own similar event.
The University’s Forensics Laboratory which hosted the event was formally opened in September 2019 by actor David Suchet CBE , who portrayed Agatha Christie’s fictional detective Hercule Poirot in the popular adaptation of famous novel series.
Press Office  |  +44 (0) 1962 827678  | press@winchester.ac.uk | www.twitter.com/_UoWNew s

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Richardson-2.php:
Return to the Staff Directory
We encourage our staff and students to be enterprising in all they do and we maintain close ties with regional employers
Dr John Richardson joined the Busines School at the University of Winchester in 2012 as a Senior Lecturer in Innovation Management, delivering Innovation, Creativity and Entrepreneurship Modules at both UG and PG levels.
He is an experienced Innovation Advisor/Consultant with a passion for Knowledge Transfer between universities and business.
He has an MBA (Distinction) from Southampton University, a PhD in Computer Modelling (Fluid Dynamics) and a Degree in Digital/Mechanical Engineering.
A position as a Senior Visiting Fellow at the University of Southampton led to a move into academia and to the University of Winchester where he is Programme Leader for the Executive MBA, a Director of the Centre for Enterprise, Design & Innovation (CEDI) and a Head of Department (Marketing) within the Busines School.
John's PhD led to 4 journal and 4 conference papers in Computational Fluid Dynamics.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Our-faculties/ea/mediaandfilm:
The School is a community with a friendly and informal atmosphere where staff and students study, research and produce media together.
The School of Media and Film is a thriving and energetic department that offers multiple undergraduate ad postgraduate programmes dealing with both practice and academic study in the fields of journalism, music production and performance, media, film and cinema, public relations and advertising.
The philosophy of the School rests on the principle that academic, professional and vocational study are complementary and the department strives for excellence in both academic scholarship and professional media practice.
We aim to provide the best educational experience for you and take pride in doing so within a friendly, intimate and supportive learning environment.
We are also proud of our strong research culture with a growing number of PhD students registered to study a variety of topics.
This research feeds directly into our teaching, ensuring a fresh, vibrant learning experience with academics who have an international reputation in their specialist area.
Many staff in the School continue to work as practitioners in journalism, film, advertising and documentary production, digital design, and photo-journalism.
This helps us to maintain and foster enduring relationships with local, regional and national media organisations, including those located in the digital design, corporate communications, news, television, and film industries.
These links provide opportunities for you to gain work experience and an in-depth understanding of the contemporary challenges faced by film and media organisations.
The School is supported by outstanding industry-standard facilities, including a brand new sound studio and newsroom, as well as professional television studios, radio studios, and a multimedia centre with both Macs and PCs.
Find out more about our facilities .
Our Culture-Media-Text Research Centre co-ordinates work on literature, film, media and other forms of culture within and across disciplinary boundaries.
The centre hosts visiting lectures and performances, including an annual symposium exploring a topic of current critical interest from interdisciplinary perspectives.
The department produces graduates who are equipped to not only meet, but exceed employers’ expectations and many of them have found rewarding positions in the relevant sector locally, nationally and internationally.
Shira Pinczuk
For the Film Studies team, see the English and Creative Writing team.
Dr Marilene Cardoso Ribeiro , Visiting Research Fellow
Dr Riberio's expertise is in photography and research exploring image-making in relation to the environmental and political agendas of Latin America.
Find out more about Find out more about Dr Marilene Cardoso Ribeiro .
Dr Ribero has been collaborating with Julio Molina on Open Fire, an award-winning immersive exhibition about climate change and wildfires.
The exhibition ran at The University from 2 Oct.
until 16 Nov.
2024.
Oliver Wilson-Smith
The Culture-Media-Text Research Centre coordinates work on literature, film, media and other forms of culture within, and especially across disciplinary boundaries.
Find out more about the Culture-Media-Text Research Centre
We offer research supervision in a wide range of subjects.
To find out more, explore our academic staff profile pages above for individual areas of supervision or use the Find an Expert search bar below.
Visit the Research Degrees section to find out everything you need to know about postgraduate research degrees at Winchester.
Find out more about our courses in Media and Film

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Husted.php:
I am Reader in Psychology.
Having had a previous career in the financial services and banking industry and knowing that it was not going to be my passion for the remainder of my working life, I made the decision to change direction.
I first read Psychology at the Open University achieving 1st Class BSc (hons) in psychology.
Having chosen to specialise as a Health Psychologist I undertook a MSc Health Psychology at the University of Surrey before continuing on to undertake a PhD alongside my health psychology Stage 2 training Postgraduate Certificate in Health Psychology Practice.
In addition to undertaking a number of consultancy positions I have been a teaching fellow at the University of Surrey before moving to the University of Winchester in 2016 to take up a lectureship.
I am Convener of the Engaging Communities Research Centre and a member of the Healthy Lives Research Group .
Higher Education Teaching Qualification: Higher Education Academy Associate Fellowship (FHEA).
Health Psychology
Husted, M., & Naylor, L.
(2020) Constructs of sleep disturbance and mental well-being in older adolescents in the UK.
Health Psychology Update .
27-36, Volume 29 Spring Ed.
Husted, M., Seiss, E., & Banks, A.
(2019) The relationship between dietary restraint and deficits in reasoning about causes of weight-gain.
Psychology & Health.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/08870446.2019.1623890
Abdin, S.,Lavallée, J., Faulkner, J., & Husted, M.
(2019) A Systematic Review of The effectiveness of physical activity interventions in adults with breast cancer.
Psycho-Oncology .
2019 https://doi.org/10.1002/pon.5101
Lavallée, J., Abdin, S., Faulkner, J., & Husted, M.
(2019) Barriers and facilitators to participating in physical activity for adults with breast cancer receiving adjuvant treatment: a qualitative meta-synthesis.
Psycho-Oncology.
Vol 28 (3).
468-476.
https://doi.org/10.1002/pon.4980
Bowles, K., & Husted, M.
(2019) Understanding what influences people’s attitudes towards individuals with dementia, Health Psychology Update, Vol.
28 Spring 2019.
ISSN 0954-2027.
As a chartered health psychologist I specialise in behaviour change intervention design and evaluation as well as research that focuses on the wider aspects of behaviour within a health context.
My research interests include patient experience and decision making; sleep; adolescent health, and health inequalities.
I am a mixed-method researcher and enjoy using a range of research methods to investigate ideas and interventions.
Above all I am interested in the science of behaviour change and health and therefore will be open to discussing ideas and potential collaborations within this field.
If you would like to discuss opportunities for research collaboration and consultancy, please do get in touch.
Supervision of research students
I welcome enquiries about research supervision; my areas of supervision are: the science of behaviour change and health: behaviour change intervention design and evaluation; behaviour within a health context (with a particular focus on patient experience and decision-making); sleep; adolescent health, and health inequalities.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Jones-1.php:
I am Senior Lecturer in Psychology, specialising in Cognitive Neuroscience.
I joined the then Psychology Department at Winchester in November 2013, following a postdoctoral research and teaching position at the University of Westminster.
I gained my PhD and MSc from Goldsmiths, University of London, and my BSc from Bangor University.
Higher Education Teaching Qualification: Higher Education Academy Fellowship (FHEA).
My primary research interest is the biological basis of cognitive biases in psychopathology, for example those found in obsessive-compulsive disorder and depression.
My current research focuses on thought-action fusion and thought suppression, and I study these using a variety of techniques including electrophysiology, transcranial electrical stimulation, and genetic association studies.
I am available for research supervision; my areas of supervision are: electroencephalography (EEG), including ERPs and oscillations; obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and OC symptoms in non-clinical populations; cognitive biases associated with psychopathology, especially thought-action fusion; thought-suppression and overgeneral autobiographical memory.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Kontogianni.php:
I am a Senior Lecturer in Psychology.
My work has focused on the use of information elicitation techniques in forensic and security settings.
I completed my PhD at the University of Portsmouth, as part of the Information Elicitation programme of the Centre for Research & Evidence for Security Threats (CREST - www.crestresearch.ac.uk).
I previously completed my MSc in Forensic Psychology at the University of Maastricht, the Netherlands, and my BSc in Psychology in Athens, Greece.
Hillner, L., Hope, L., Kontogianni, F.
& Conchie, S.
(2025).
A Click of Faith: How Perceived Trustworthiness Affects Online Risk-taking in Unfamiliar Dyads.
Journal of Social Psychology 1-15
Journal of Social Psychology 1-15.
Hope, L., De La Fuente Vilar, A., Kontogianni, F., (2025).
‘Eliciting Information in Online Interactions: Development of a Rapport-based Approach for Security Contexts’.
Short report published on CREST website: https://crestresearch.ac.uk/resources/eliciting-information-in-online-interactions-development-of-a-rapport-based-approach-for-security-contexts/
Hope, L., Kontogianni, F.
, De La Fuente Vilar, A., (2025).
‘Getting Information Quickly: The Time Critical Questioning (TCQ) Protocol’.
Briefing note published on CREST website: https://crestresearch.ac.uk/resources/getting-information-quickly-the-time-critical-questioning-tcq-protocol/
Hope, L., Kontogianni, F., Thomas, W., & De La Fuente Vilar, A.
‘Development and testing of a Time-Critical Questioning protocol for eliciting information in time-sensitive contexts’.
Scientific Reports , 15(1), 14855.
Kontogianni , F ., Rubinova, E., Hope, L., Taylor, P.
J., Vrij, A., & Gabbert, F.
(2021).
Facilitating recall and particularisation of repeated events in adults using a multi-method interviewing format.
Memory , 1-15.
https://doi.org/10.1080/09658211.2021.1903508
Hope, L., Kontogianni, F ., Geyer, K and Thomas, W (2020) Eliciting Information From Memory About Criminal Gangs And Terrorist Cells.
Published on CREST website: https://crestresearch.ac.uk/resources/eliciting-information-about-terrorist-cells/
Kontogianni , F ., Hope, L., Taylor, P.
(2020).
“Tell me more about this…”: An examination of the efficacy of follow-up open questions following an initial account.
Applied Cognitive Psychology , 34 (5), 972-983.
https://doi.org/10.1002/acp.3675
Hope, L., Kontogianni , F ., Geyer, K., & Thomas, W.
(2019).
Development of the Reporting Information about Networks and Groups (RING) task: a method for eliciting information from memory about associates, groups, and networks.
Journal of Forensic Practice , 21 (4), 240-247.
https://doi.org/10.1108/JFP-04-2019-0011
Hope, L., Gabbert, F., Kinninger, M., Kontogianni , F ., Bracey, A., & Hanger, A.
Who said what and when?
A timeline approach to eliciting information and intelligence about conversations, plots, and plans.
Law and Human Behavior , 43 (3), 263-277.
https://doi.org/10.1037/lhb0000329
(2018).
The Benefits of a Self-Generated Cue Mnemonic for Timeline Interviewing.
Journal of Applied Research in Memory and Cognition , 7 (3), 454-461.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jarmac.2018.03.006
I am primarily interested in the use of memory-enhancing techniques in interviewing and in the effects that cognitive, social and cultural factors have on reporting information.
During my PhD I tested the effectiveness of mnemonics and reporting formats to facilitate retrieval for single and repeated multi-perpetrator events.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Parsons.php:
01962 675147
Dr Beth Parsons studied Psychology at the University of Southampton, graduating in 2012.
Following this, she completed her MSc in Research Methods and Statistics at Southampton and went on to work as a Research Assistant within the Faculty of Health Sciences at Southampton General Hospital.
In 2019, she completed her PhD under the supervision of Dr Rachel Wilcock and Dr Wendy Kneller at the University of Winchester, focusing on the effects of mental health on eyewitness memory and identification.
While completing her PhD, Beth taught on various undergraduate modules and held the position of student representative for the International Investigative Interviewing Research Group (iIIRG).
She now holds the position of Deputy Web Editor and Communications Officer for the iIIRG.
Beth has published research within the areas of ear and eyewitness memory.
In January 2020, she was appointed as a Lecturer in Psychology at the University of Winchester.
Higher Education Teaching Qualification: Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (FHEA).
Stevenage, S.
V., Neil, G.
J., Parsons, B., & Humphreys, A.
A sound effect: Exploration of the distinctiveness advantage in voice recognition.
Applied Cognitive Psychology, 32, 526-536.
J., Barlow, J., Dyson, A., Eaton-Brown, C., & Parsons, B.
(2013).
The effect of distraction on face and voice recognition.
Psychological Research, 77, 167-175.
Parsons, B., Wilcock, R., & Kneller, W.
Criminal justice practitioners’ perceptions of eyewitnesses with anxiety and depression.
Journal of Police and Criminal Psychology.
(in prep).
Accuracy of evidence provided by eyewitnesses with sub-clinical anxiety and depression, and sub-clinical anxiety.
Cross-examination performance of eyewitnesses with sub-clinical anxiety and depression, and sub-clinical anxiety.
Mock jurors’ perceptions of eyewitnesses with sub-clinical anxiety and depression, and sub-clinical anxiety.
Beth’s main research interests relate to the investigative interviewing of witnesses with a mental health problem with a particular focus on how such witnesses perform at interview, on identification line-ups, and at cross-examination.
She is also interested in the perceptions of mental health from the perspective of legal professionals working at different stages of the criminal justice process and mock jurors.
Her research draws on various methodologies ranging from mock juror studies and experimental studies to online surveys.
Deputy Web Editor and Communications Officer for the iIIRG and member of the Executive Committee.
Member of the Centre for Forensic and Investigative Psychology .
Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Satchell.php:
Research and Innovation
@lpsatchell
Dr Liam Satchell is Director of the Service Children's Progression Alliance Impact Centre.
Until July 2025 he was a Senior Lecturer in Psychology in the University's Department of Psychology.
Liam leads on the Alliance’s evaluation and research support.
Through the Impact Centre, his role is to help equip the community to take evidence-based action.
This is through the identification and delivery on the evaluation and training needs of organisations trying to make best use of their data to evidence meaningful change.
This role has been kindly funded by the Forces in Mind Trust.
Liam is an experienced researcher, psychologist, and data analyst with over a decade’s experience in academia and consultancy.
He has published over 40 books and journal articles on a variety of topics related to using psychology and data science to understand and address everyday problems.
He remains active in scientific research on topics related to education, mental wellbeing, and pro/antisocial behaviour.
Find out more about the Service Children's Progression Alliance Impact Centre .
Mahmud, A., & Satchell, L.
(eds) (2022).
Mental Wellbeing in Schools: What Teachers Need to know to Support Pupils from Diverse Backgrounds.
Routledge
Personality, psychopathology and measurement
Satchell, L.P., Corr, P.J, & Latzman, R.
D.
(2022) Pirates with Psychopathic Personalities?
The role of sub-clinical and normative traits in illegal streaming and downloading of media.
Journal of Research in Personality https://psyarxiv.com/gucr5
Satchell, L., Kaaronen, R.
& Latzman, R.
(2021) An ecological approach to personality: Psychological traits as drivers and consequences of active perception.
Social and Personality Psychology Compass.
15(5) https://doi.org/10.1111/spc3.12595
Satchell, L., Fido, D., Harper, C., Shaw, H., Davidson, B., Ellis, D., Hart, C., Jalil, R., Bartoli, A., Kaye, L., Lancaster, G.
& Pavetich, M.
(2020) Development of an Offline-Friend Addiction Questionnaire (O-FAQ): Are most people really social addicts?
Behavioral Research Methods.
https://psyarxiv.com/7x85m
Harper, C.A., Satchell, L.P, Fido, D & Latzman, R.D (2020) Functional fear predicts public health compliance in the COVID-19 pandemic.
International Journal of Mental Health and Addiction (1) https://psyarxiv.com/jkfu3/
Satchell., L., Johnson, H., Hudson, C.
& Harper, C.
(2019) Dispositional disinhibition and disordered drinking: Personality, alcohol abuse and risk appraisal.
Substance Use and Misuse .
https://psyarxiv.com/45u7x/
Satchell, L., Bacon, A., Firth, J.
& Corr, P.
Risk as Reward: Reinforcement Sensitivity Theory and Psychopathic Personality Perspectives on Everyday Risk-Taking.
Personality and Individual Differences .
128(1), 162-169.
doi:10.1016/j.paid.2018.02.039
Satchell, L., Hoskins, S., Corr, P., & Moore, R.
(2017).
Ruminating on the Nature of Intelligence: Personality predicts Implicit Theories and Educational Persistence.
113, 109–114.
doi:10.1016/j.paid.2017.03.025
Bacon, A., Corr., P., Satchell, L.
(2018) A reinforcement sensitivity theory explanation of antisocial behaviour.
Personality and Individual Differences 123, 87-93.
Piotti, P., Satchell, L.
P., & Lockhart, T.
S.
Impulsivity and behaviour problems in dogs: A Reinforcement Sensitivity Theory perspective.
Behavioural Processes, 151, 104–110.
doi:10.1016/j.beproc.2018.03.012
Person perception and first impressions
Satchell, L., Jaeger, B., Jones, A., López, B., & Schild, C.
(2023).
Beyond Reliability in First Impressions Research: Considering Validity and the Need to “Mix It Up With Folks”.
Social Psychological Bulletin , 18, 1-21.
https://doi.org/10.32872/spb.10211
Satchell, L.P, Hall, J.
& Jones, A.
L (accepted Stage One Registered Report) Do we look at a threatening person’s face?
The relationship between perception and observation of walking strangers.
Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology
Satchell, L.P., Mayes, H.S., Lee, A.J., O'Reilly, L., Akehurst, L.
& Morris, P.
(2020) Is threat in the way they move?
Influences of Static and dynamic information on threat judgments of unknown people.
Evolutionary Psychological Science.
https://psyarxiv.com/rjfcm/
Satchell, L.P.
(2019) From photograph to face-to-face:Brief interactions change person and personality judgments.
Journal of Experimental Social Psychology.
82.
266-276.
https://psyarxiv.com/f9xzy
Satchell, L., & Pearson, D.
The Social Salience of Students’ Sub-Clinical Psychopathic Personality.
Current Psychology.
doi:10.1007/s12144-017-9758-6
Satchell, L.P, Davis, J.D., Julle-Danière, E., Tupper, N.
& Marshman, P.
(2019) Recognising faces but not traits: Accurate personality judgment from faces is unrelated to superior face memory.
Journal of Research in Personality, 79.
59-58.
Doi:10.1016/j.jrp.2019.02.002.
https://psyarxiv.com/63whf
Satchell, L.
P., Akehurst, L., Morris, P.
H., & Nee, C.
Staying streetwise: Accurate judgments of approaching aggression in older age.
Europe’s Journal of Psychology , 14(1), 44–53.
doi:10.5964/ejop.v14i1.1369
Satchell, L., Morris, P., Mills, C., O’Reilly, L., Marshman, P., & Akehurst, L.
Evidence of Big Five and Aggressive Personalities in Gait Biomechanics.
Journal of Nonverbal Behavior .
41(1), 35–44 doi:10.1007/s10919-016-0240-1
Satchell, L., Akehurst, L.
Learning to Be Streetwise: The Acquisition of Accurate Judgments of Aggression.
Psychiatry, Psychology and Law, 2 4(3), 356–364.
doi: 10.1080/13218719.2016.1247420
Satchell, L., Morris, P, Akehurst, L.
& Morrison, E.
Can Judgments of Threat Reflect an Approaching Person’s Trait Aggression?
doi: 10.1007/s12144-016-9557-5
Investigative and legal psychology
Orthey, R., Rechdan, J., Satchell, L.
P., Kyo, A., Matsuda, I., & Walsh, D.
(2024).
Applications of Legal Psychology in Japan: Current Practice, Research Knowledge, and Future Directions.
Collabra: Psychology , 10(1).
P.
Discriminability in deception is not d: Reporting the Overlap Coefficient for practitioner-accessible audiences.
I nvestigative Interviewing: Research & Practice, 13(1).
Vernham, Z., Vrij, A., Nahari, G., Leal, S., Mann, S., Satchell, L., & Orthey, R.
Applying the verifiability approach to deception detection in alibi witness situations.
Acta Psychologica , 204, 103020.
Hudson, C.
A., Vrij, A., Akehurst, L., Hope, L., & Satchell, L.
Veracity is in the eye of the beholder: A lens model examination of consistency and deception.
Applied Cognitive Psychology.
A., Satchell, L.
P., & Adams-Quackenbush, N.
It Takes Two: The Round-Robin Methodology for Investigative Interviewing Research.
Frontiers in Psychology, 9.
doi:10.3389/fpsyg.2018.02181
Easton, S., Akehurst, L., Satchell, L., Turtle, S.
(2017) An Evaluation of an Abbreviated Version of a Checklist to Aid Judgements of Credibility 1 in the Medico-legal Setting.
Open Access Journal of Forensic Psychology
Alogna, V.
K., Attaya, M.
K., Aucoin, P., Bahník, Š., Birch, S., Birt, A.
R., [.
.] Satchell, L [...] Zwaan, R.
A.
(2014).
Registered replication report: Schooler and Engstler-Schooler (1990).
Perspectives on Psychological Science, 9, 556–578.
doi:10.1177/1745691614545653
Other applied topics (education, non-human animal, sports, technology)
Satchell, L.P., Mahmud, A., Warren, F.
&  Hoskins, S (2024).
A personality approach to understanding disruptive behaviour in the classroom.
Current Psychology .
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12144-024-06053-x
Mayes, H.
S., Navarro, M., Satchell, L.
P., Tipton, M.
J., Ando, S., & Costello, J.
T.
The effects of manipulating the visual environment on thermal perception: A structured narrative review.
Journal of Thermal Biology, 103488.
Shaw, M.
P., Satchell, L.
P., Thompson, S., Harper, E.
T., Balsalobre-Fernández, C., & Peart, D.
J.
Smartphone and Tablet Software Apps to Collect Data in Sport and Exercise Settings: Cross-sectional International Survey.
JMIR mHealth and uHealth, 9(5), e21763.
Piotti, P., Karagiannis, C., Satchell, L., Michelazzi, M., Albertini, M., Alleva, E., & Pirrone, F.
Use of the Milan Pet Quality of Life Instrument (MPQL) to Measure Pets’ Quality of Life during COVID-19.
Animals, 1 1(5), 1336.
Frick, A., Schleihauf, H., Satchell, L.
P., & Gruber, T.
Carry-over effects of tool functionality and previous unsuccessfulness increase overimitation in children.
Royal Society Open Science, 8(7), 201373.
Riley, L.
M., Satchell, L., Stilwell, L.
M., & Lenton, N.
Effect of massage therapy on pain and quality of life in dogs: A cross sectional study.
Veterinary Record, e586.
Knight, A., & Satchell, L.
Vegan versus meat-based pet foods: Owner-reported palatability behaviours and implications for canine and feline welfare.
Plos one , 16(6), e0253292.
Jones, A.J., Satchell, L.P., Jaeger, B.
& Schild, C.
(2020) Misunderstanding COVID-19 and digit ratio: Methodological and statistical issues in Manning and Fink (2020).
Early Human Development.
https://psyarxiv.com/ht74e
Satchell, L., Corr, P & Krupić, D (forthcoming) Personality and Intelligence in Action: Context, Controversy, and Challenge.
(2022) What do teachers need to know about mental wellbeing in young people?
In Mahmud, A., & Satchell, L.
(Eds) Mental Wellbeing in Schools: What Teachers Need to know to Support Pupils from Diverse Backgrounds.
Mahmud, A., & Satchell, L., (2022) Conclusion: What can we do to support the mental wellbeing of pupils from diverse background?
(Eds) Mental Wellbeing in Schools: What Teachers Need to know to Support Pupils from Diverse Backgrounds .
(2020) Psychology of perceptual error in forensic practice.
In Birch, Nirenberg, Vernon & Birch (Eds).
Forensic Gait Analysis Principles and Practice.
(2019) A primer on children’s personality and performance.
In Hoskins, S (Ed.).
Growth Mindset for Teachers (pp 21-39) London: SAGE.
Interviewed on podcast 'You are not "addicted" to technology'
Interviewed on podcast ‘Every step you take.
How walking and walkability shape our lives’
The Young Researcher Programme appeared in the British Psychological Society’s ‘the psychologist’
Featured on Business South after speaking at the Workforce South conference on the future of understanding bias
I have broad interests focussed on individual differences and research methodology in psychology:
Research supervision:
Liam welcomes PhD enquiries about first impressions, interpersonal interaction and rapport, in particular looking at naturalistic methodologies and applied foci in this area.
Research that explores how we meet and interact with people in forensic, security, educational, sports, job interview, mental health and non-human animal contexts are welcome, as well as research on improving theory and measurement in this area (especially coming from ecological and probabilistic frameworks).
Relatedly, research looking at how personality and individual differences - personality, empathy, psychopathic traits, anxiety, mental health - impact interpersonal experience is welcome too.
Member of the editorial board for the journal Psychology, Crime, and Law
Committee member for the British Society for the Psychology of Individual Differences

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Bradley-Cole.php:
I am a Registered and Chartered Psychologist specialising in leadership and organisational behaviour.
Following a long and successful marketing career working in senior roles across a number of iconic household brands, I decided to retrain as an occupational psychologist in 2005.
My decision was motivated by a genuine interest in the development and support of individuals and teams at work, as well as an affinity with research at all levels.
My PhD was funded by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) and used constructivist methods to bring greater clarity and depth to an important, but contested, academic field by exploring managers implicit beliefs of authentic leadership, and the meaning and relational contribution of authentic behaviour at work.
As an occupational psychologist, my areas of interest are centred around the social psychology of organisations, including utilising occupational psychology skills to build performance cultures that facilitate wellbeing and collaboration, deliver ethical and responsible leadership, and engage employees in sustainable organisational change.
Working at an individual, team and organisational level, I am committed to both enhancing the experience of work for individuals and improving organisational performance through more effective relational networks.
As a constructivist researcher and coach, I am interested in the notion of the 'storied life'.
I work across a broad range of contexts to understand how people (individually and in groups) make sense of their lived experiences, and how the narratives they are told and tell themselves shape their lived reality and society more generally.
Research supervision
I welcome enquiries about research supervision.
My main areas of supervision are:

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Ross-1.php:
Dr Ross was awarded a MA (Hons) Psychology (First Class) at the University of Glasgow before pursuing a career in marketing and market research.
While working, she completed a PgDip Management Studies at Templeton College, University of Oxford.
Since returning to academia, Dr Ross completed a MSc Research Methods in Psychology (Distintion) at Univeristy of Reading and a PhD in Psychology at University of Portsmouth.
Her PhD, supervised by Professor Kim Bard, was an observational study of joyful emotions in infancy across cultures and species.
Dr Ross joined the University of  Winchester in November 2011 and subsequently completed a PgCert (Distinction) Learning and Teaching in Higher Education.
Higher Education Teaching Qualification: Higher Education Academy Fellowship (FHEA)
Dr Ross is a developmental psychologist with research interests in comparative psychology, cultural psychology and educational psychology.
She has been involved in observational research into human and chimpanzee infants' joyful emotional expressions.
Dr Ross has also conducted research with Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
Dr Ross was one of the Principal Investigators of the EmoRead study , together with Dr Jordan Randell and Dr Rachel Pye.
The EmoRead study examined the impact of touch-screen devices and interactive book apps on children's reading comprehension, as well as the emotional aspects of parent-child shared reading experiences.
Dr Ross welcomes enquiries about research supervision.
Her areas of supervision are infancy and child development, particularly social and emotional development and observational methods.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Warhurst.php:
01962 675132
@childwinch
?I am a Senior Lecturer in Psychology.
I completed my BSc and PhD in Psychology at the University of Hull, before returning to Hampshire to work as a Research Psychologist for Hampshire County Council’s Children’s Services department, based mainly within the Educational Psychology Service.
My role included conducting various research studies alongside working with educational psychologists, school staff and other colleagues within Children’s Services, helping them to understand psychological research, evaluate their own work to a rigorous level and plan future research and evaluation according to their requirements.
Since joing the University of Winchester Psychology Department in 2016 I have taught at all levels of the undergraduate BSc and supervised doctoral students.
My reseach interests inform my teaching and recent studies have investigated some of the impacts of COVID-19 on pupils, staff and families; young carers in schools; and individual differences in learning motivations in school pupils.
Module Leader for Topics in Educational psychology (Final Year Undergraduate)
Final Year Project supervision across the following broad areas: reading; maths; learning motivation, social and emotional difficulties and education; bullying.
Research methods: quantitive; qualitative and mixed methods research.
?My primary research interests are broadly in the areas of educational and developmental psychology.
I am interested in all aspects education, and especially in examining barriers and enablers, to improve the outcomes for all pupils and students.
Much of my research focuses on exploring the disadvantages many school pupils face, what types of support are most beneficial for them and their schools, and how this can build on exisitng support.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Crossland.php:
Dr Deborah Crossland is a Lecturer in Psychology and graduated with a first class BA (Hons) Psychology with Education Studies degree from the University of Winchester in 2008.
Between 2008 and 2013, she was a research assistant on multiple eyewitness projects, a collaboration between the University of Winchester and London South Bank University.
In 2010, she completed her MSc in Psychological Research Methods and attained a BPS Certification of Competence in Occupational Testing (Level A).
Between 2011 and 2016, Deborah conducted her PhD (part-time), titled Investigating the Effects of Alcohol on Eyewitness Memory, supervised by Dr Wendy Kneller and Dr Rachel Wilcock.
During her PhD Deborah taught on the Psychology undergraduate and postgraduate degrees.
She was appointed as Lecturer in Psychology in February 2018.
Crossland, D., Kneller, W., & Wilcock, R.
Improving intoxicated witness recall with the Enhanced Cognitive Interview.
Psychopharmacology , 237, 2213-2230.
Intoxicated eyewitnesses: prevalence and procedures according to England's police officers.
Psychology, Crime & Law, 24 (10), 979-997.
(2016).
Intoxicated witnesses: testing the validity of the Alcohol Myopia Theory.
Applied Cognitive Psychology , 30 (2), 270-281.
(2015).
Association of Psychological Science Annual Convention.
New York, June 2015.
Crossland, D., & Kneller, W.
(June 2011).
An investigation into the interaction between cognitive style and suggestibility to central and peripheral misinformation.
SARMAC Biennial conference, New York
Deborah's primary research interest pertains to improving the recall of eyewitnesses.
Her focus is predominately on the investigative interviewing and line-up decisions of individuals who are under the influence of alcohol at the time of witnessing a crime.
This research draws on multiple methodologies including questionnaires, field and laboratory studies and mock-juror studies.
Memberships

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Gill.php:
I am a Senior Lecturer in Psychology.
I hold a BSc in Physics (Magna cum laude) from Ben-Gurion University, Israel; an MSc in Computational Neuroscience  and a PhD in Statistics from The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel.
I have also been a Postdoctoral Research Associate at the Institute of Neuroscience and Psychology, University of Glasgow, UK.
My main research interest is in the cognitive mechanisms of social perception and cognition, with a particular emphasis on the social inference from faces.
I use a variety of psychophysical methods to study the role of facial morphology, coloration and dynamics in social interaction.
Typically, my research methods are based on original self-developed techniques.
At an earlier stage of my career I developed machine learning methods for several applications such as shape recognition, automatic facial expression recognition and analysis of biomedical signals.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Our-faculties/hwb/sporthealthcommunity:
We are a multidisciplinary department with programmes designed to support the development of academic and professional skills, which meet the needs of employers within a range of organisations working in Health, Wellbeing and Sport.
The School of Sport, Health and Community sits within the Faculty of Health and Wellbeing.
We endeavour to provide the best quality educational experience for all our students within a friendly and supportive learning environment.
We are very pleased that our programmes consistently achieve good overall satisfaction in the National Student Survey.
Our values echo the University; as a department, we are a community committed to making a difference, passionate about seeing individuals and communities flourish.
Staff and students are empowered to change the world for the better.
We learn and teach to challenge convention with compassion and stand up for what we believe to be true.
At the heart of the department is wellbeing, we explore the role it takes and how it can be enhanced as a resource that permits people to lead individually, socially and economically productive lives.
We seek to nurture compassion and embody social justice for people, animals and the planet.
Our department members excel in teaching, research and service in their respective fields, and their valuable perspectives of the industry can help you select the course of study best suited to your interests.
Whether you are a potential student, researcher or client, please feel free to get in touch with us to discuss what we can offer.
Dr Rachel Locke , Senior Lecturer in International Development (Global Health)
Research is coordinated by the department's Sport and Exercise Research Centre.
Visit the SERC website to find out more.
We have state-of-the-art research, teaching and knowledge exchange facilities, and are excellently equipped for Biomechanics, Physiology, Strength & Conditioning, and Sport Psychology.
Find out more about our facilities.
Find out more about our courses in Sport, Health and Community

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Wilkinson.php:
+44 (0)1962 827444
I am Professor of Geoarchaeology and Director of ARCA geoarchaeology services.
I set up ARCA in 2004 and now run its geoarchaeology and geomatics programmes.
I have been a Lecturer, Senior Lecturer, Reader and now Professor at Winchester since 1997, before which I was in charge of environmental archaeology at Cotswold Archaeology.
I obtained my undergraduate degree (1989) from the Institute of Archaeology, University College London, and went on to complete a PhD (1993) at the same institution titled The influence of local factors on palaeoenvironment and land-use: evidence from dry valley fills in the South Downs .
At the University of Winchester I teach on BA, BSc and MA programmes in Archaeology and Geography, as well as supervising research students.
I lecture on environmental archaeology, geoarchaeology, geomorphology, climate change, Pleistocene geology and Palaeolithic archaeology.
My main research focus is the sub-discipline of geoarchaeology, i.e.
the application of earth science methodologies to archaeological research questions.
I have four particular interests in this field:
I am Director of Studies for a number of research students, as well as co-supervisor.
I welcome enquiries about possible supervision.
My areas of supervision are: geoarchaeology; Mediterranean landscape archaeology; Palaeolithic archaeology; archaeological field techniques.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Cheetham.php:
Richard Cheetham MBE is Senior Fellow in Sports Coaching.
He has worked at the University of Winchester since 2005, following three years spent teaching and coaching in New Zealand.
His research focus centres on a more holistic approach to coaching with time spent since 2013 at Saracens RFC within the Academy programme and more recently at Fulham Football Club.
Richard also has developed a strong reputation on creative thinking and innovation within coach education and development.
Alongside publications he has also presented his applied research at the UK Coaching Summit, Project500 coaching initiative, Nottinghamshire Talented Coaches Programme and the English Institute of Sport.
He has gained recognition nationally and internationally within coach education and has been an invited speaker for British Cycling, Cycling Ireland, England Handball and the England Cricket Coaches Association.
Since May 2014 he has worked with the UCI World Cycling Elite Coach Education Programme in Switzerland.
In addition, a key focus of his work is establishing links with local and national sports organisations to strengthen the degree programme and therefore enhance student employability through providing opportunities for volunteering, mentoring and community coaching placements.
As a result of this he received the 2014 Vice Chancellors award for Community Engagement in recognition of this work.
In 2010 Richard completed the Atacama Desert Ultra-marathon and he regularly competes in other endurance races such as Ironman and the UK coast to coast challenges.
Richard is an experienced Rugby Union Coach Educator for London South region and Hampshire RFU as well as a Tutor for SCUK on the Talent Foundation Series.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Richardson.php:
Main: 01962 827199
drajrichardson
Dr Alasdair Richardson is a Reader in Education in the Institute of Education.
Alasdair has taught extensively across the school age range, from Key Stage 1 to A Level.
Trained as a Special Needs teacher in Key Stage 1, he has been a Leading Maths Teacher and an Associate Numeracy Consultant for Surrey County Council.
He has held a variety of leadership roles in schools, including two Deputy Headships.
He has taught Religious Studies in Primary, Middle and Secondary school settings and Philosophy of Religion at A Level.
He has been a school Governor in 3 schools, and is a co-opted member of Hampshire SACRE, for which he is a member of the monitoring sub-committee and the South Central SACRE Hub.
He has been an external examiner at the University of Birmingham (Secondary RE PGCE) and is curently external examiner at the University of Lincoln (PhD Professional in Education), and has acted as an external panel member at the universities of Worcester, Roehampton and Liverpool Hope.
He is a Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (SFHEA), a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society (FRHistS), and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts (FRSA).
Alasdair joined the University as a Senior Lecturer (RE), became a Senior Fellow (Knowledge Exchange) in 2021, and a Reader in 2022.
He is currently the Postgraduate Research Student Lead for the Faculty of Education (FPGRSL) and was previously Faculty Co-Head of Research & Knowledge Exchange (with Dr Vicky Randall).
He also led the Professional Doctorate in Education & Masters in Social Research in Education programmes (2016-20), and the University's Secondary PGCE programme (OFSTED Outstanding, 2017), managing the Secondary RE and School Direct routes (2013-2016).
In these roles he was a member of the ITE Management Team for 3 years.
He teaches mainly on the Primary & Secondary initial teacher education (ITE) programmes, the MA (Ed), the Assessment Only route to QTS, and leads various modules on the EdD.
Alasdair is a member of the University's Postgraduate Research Education Committee, Senate Research & Innovation Committee, and the Centre for Professional Learning in Education.
He was fomerly a member of the University Ethics Committee and together with Rhiannon Love he co-hosted the RE Reading & Research Group with Hampshire Inspection & Advisory Service (HIAS).
Alasdair has peer reviewed for a number of journals, publishers and grant committees - in the UK and internationally.
Alasdair is broadly interested in learning and teaching in RE and the role teachers play in the formation of students' views and opinions, particularly when learning about sensitive or controversial issues.
Within this, Alasdair's research specialism is Holocaust Education.
His particular interest concerns how students emotionally engage with the potentially traumatic discourses of Holocaust narratives and how we as educators guide and support them through this process.
This was the focus for his doctoral research in 2008, paving the way for similar studies in the field.
He is also interested in how we create memory spaces within society and at memorials and museums.
Alasdair also researches the Nazi persecution of Catholics - he is currently writing a second monograph on this topic for publication in 2024.
Alasdair is an Educator with the Holocaust Educational Trust and is a graduate of The International School for Holocaust Studies at Yad Vashem in Israel.
He is a member of the Education Consultative Group for the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust (HMDT) and is a member of the British & Irish Association for Holocaust Studies (BIAHS).
In 2021-22 he was President of the BIAHS, and is currently serving on the BIAHS Board as immediate past President (2022-23).
He is also a member of the National Association for Teachers of RE (NATRE) and the International Network of Genocide Scholars (INGoS).
Alasdair was awarded the University Early Career Research Fellowship for 2016-17.
His project focussed on emotional learning in Holocaust Education, specificaly during visits to authentic sites.
In 2019 he completed the University's Vice Chancellor's Futures Programme, with a project focussing on Knowledge Exchange within the Institute of Education.
Richardson, A.
(2022) "Introduction: Close-to-Practice research in Holocaust Education.' Holocaust Studies , DOI: https://doi.org/10.1080/17504902.2022.2058724 (open access)
(2021) “’We too find it difficult’: A consideration of site-based Holocaust education as emotional labour.” History Education Research Journal 18 (2), 247-263 Link Here (open access)
(2021) "Lighting Candles in the Darkness: An Exploration of Commemorative Acts with British Teenagers at the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum." Religions 12 (29).
https://doi.org/10.3390/rel12010029 (open access)
(2021) "Touching Distance: Young People's Reflections on Hearing Testimony from a Holocaust Survivor." Journal of Modern Jewish Studies .
https://doi.org/10.1080/14725886.2021.1874692 (open access)
(2019) Site-seeing: reflections on visiting the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum with teenagers, Holocaust Studies, DOI: 10.1080/17504902.2019.1625121
(2022) 'Close-to-Practice Research in Holocaust Education' Special Edition of Holocaust Studies, A Journal of Culture & History.
Richardson, A (2021) "The Salesian Martyrs of Auschwitz" Don Bosco Publications
Love, R & Richardson.
A (2020) "Religious Education - What is it trying to do?" In Debates in Primary Education , edited by Virginia Bower.
Routledge.
Richardson, A (2019) 'Playing devil's advocate: Classroom encounters with Holocaust perpetrators' in The Routledge International Handbook of Perpetrator Studies , edited by Susanne C Knittel and Zachary J Goldberg.
Richardson, A (2018) ‘Transformative transition: the case for Religious Education (RE) in cross-curricular Holocaust Education across the Primary / Secondary divide in English schools’ in Holocaust Education in Primary Schools in the 21 st Century.
Current Practices, Potentials and Ways Forward , edited by Claus-Christian W.
Szejnmann, Paula Cowan and James Griffiths.
Teaching Citizenship in English Primary Schools: a case of mistaken identity?
Politische Bildung in der Primarstufe - Eine Internationale Perspektive .
Mittnik.
Innsbruck, Wien, StudienVerlag : 95-108.
Richardson, A (2019) 'One Amongst Six Million: An exploration of young people's identity formation within the contested space of the Auschwitz Birkenau State Museum', Conflict & Identity Conference, 17-18th October, Lincoln College, University of Oxford.
Richardson, A (2019) ‘Testimony in the Classroom’ as part of the ‘British Values & Narratives of the Holocaust: A Cross-Disciplinary Discussion’ panel, British Association for Holocaust Studies Conference, 17 th -19 th July, Roehampton University.
Richardson, A (2018) ‘Asking Too Much?
A pragmatic reflection on Holocaust Education in England, from past, to present, to future…’, British Association for Holocaust Studies Conference, 24 th -26 th July, University of Leeds.
Richardson, A (2018) ‘Which Shoes Are Mine?
Re-imagining the journey towards Level 8’, Society for Research in Higher education (SRHE) Seminar, 26 th October 2018, SRHE London.
Richardson.
A (2018) ‘Who Am I?
Exploring our sense of citizenship in a Brexit world…’, 17 th International Students’ Research Conference, 15 th -17 th May 2018, Riga, Latvia
Richardson, A (2017) ‘Encountering Auschwitz: Visitors’ experiences of Oswiecim and Auschwitz Birkenau’, European Association for Holocaust Studies ‘2 nd International Conference: Current Research on Auschwitz History & Memory’, 14 th -16 th November 2017, Krakow
Richardson, A (2017) ‘How Can I Tell People Your Story, Because It’s Not My Story?
– Young people navigating the memory landscapes of the Holocaust’, Second Annual Conference of the Memory Studies Association, 14 th -16 th December 2017, Copenhagen, Denmark
Richardson, A & Jackson, T (2017) ‘”Hearing Is Not Like Seeing” – Students’ encounters with the archive on the Lessons from Auschwitz project’, British Association for Holocaust Studies ‘Interpreting Archives’, 24 th -27 th July, University of Sheffield
Richardson, A (2017) ‘Traveling Witnesses – Students encountering Jewish narratives at Auschwitz-Birkenau’, British Association for Jewish Studies ‘Jews on the Move: Exploring the movement of Jews, objects, texts, and ideas in space and time’, 10 th -12 th July, University of Edinburgh
Richardson, A, Jackson, T & Michaldo, T (2017) ‘Learning on Site: A Tripartite Perspective on the Lessons from Auschwitz Project’, Awareness – Responsibility – Future: International Education Conference at the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum, 4 th -5 th July, Oswiecim, Poland
Richardson, A (2017) ‘Holocaust Education & Emotional Learning’, 8 th International Week of Professors, 8 th May, University of Latvia
Richardson, A (2017) ‘Images of Research Exhibition’, UoW Research & Engagement Week, w/c 24 th April, UoW
Richardson, A (2016) ‘The impact of emotion on learning about the Holocaust in schools’ Engaging with the Holocaust in Secondary RE, 7 th -8 th December, University of Exeter
Richardson, A (2016) 'Empowering Transformative Transition: Making a case for RE in supportive Holocaust Education across the Primary – Secondary divide in UK schools', A Primary or Secondary Concern?
Holocaust Education in Schools in the 21 st Century: Current Practices, Potentials and Ways Forward, 7 th -8 th July, Loughborough University / National Holocaust Centre & Museum
Richardson, A (2016) 'Who Owns My Story…?
Holocaust survivors and their testimony over time', Bearing Witness More Than Once – How Institutions, Media and Time Shape Shoah Survivors' Testimonies ' , 14 th -16 th March, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin.
Richardson, A & Walden, V (2015) ‘Playing with Perpetrators – an academic workshop’, Encountering Perpetrators of Mass Killings, Political Violence and Genocide Conference, 1st-3rd September, University of Winchester
Richardson, A (2015) ‘The Shifting Sands of Memory: Students’ Encounters with the Landscapes of Holocaust Memory’, 14th International Students’ Research Conference , University of Latvia
(2014) ‘Textbooks, Tales, Testimony and Trauma: The Holocaust as a ‘contested space’ in UK schools’, Britain and the Holocaust (First Conference of the British Association for Holocaust Studies) , 1st-2nd September, University of Edinburgh
(2015) ‘Geographies of Trauma: Teenagers encountering the ‘landscapes’ of the Holocaust’ Tracing Topographies: Revisiting the Concentration Camps Seventy Years after the Liberation of Auschwitz, 6th-8th January, University of Kent & The Jewish Museum, London
(2014) ‘The Case for PSHE+C in UK Primary Schools – a teacher’s perspective’, International Conference on Political Education at the Primary Level , 25th September, Pädagogische Hochschule Wien (Vienna)
(2014) ‘Textbooks, Tales, Testimony and Trauma: The Holocaust as a ‘contested space’ in UK schools’, Britain and the Holocaust (First Conference of the British Association for Holocaust Studies), 1st-2nd September, University of Edinburgh
(2014) ‘Beyond Belief: The challenge for students encountering the Holocaust at the edge of living memory’, Education, War & Peace (International Standing Conference for the History of Education 36), 23rd-26th July, ISCHE & IoE, University of London
(2014) ‘Meeting with Disaster - Students’ experiences of learning about the Holocaust’, 5th International Week of Professors 12th-16th May, University of Latvia
(2014) ‘Learning about the Holocaust: Confronting a violent past for a peaceful future’, Why War?
Peace Studies in the 21st Century Conference, 1st-3rd May, University of Bradford
(2013) ‘Holocaust Education – The Students’ Perspective’, The Future of Holocaust Studies, 29th-31st July, University of Southampton & University of Winchester
Richardson (2021) ‘Holocaust & Genocide: Issues for Religious Education?’, Hampshire Secondary RE / HIAS webinar keynote, 9 th February, Online.
Richardson (2020) ‘Young People Encountering the Holocaust: Emotional learning in classrooms and at authentic sites’, Holocaust Educational Trust UK Residential CPD Event, 16 th February, Online.
Richardson (2020) ‘The Salesian Martyrs of Auschwitz’, Holocaust Educational Trust – Mosaic of Victims Study Day, 29 th July, Online.
Richardson (2020) ‘Teaching & Learning About the Holocaust in Schools’, Holocaust Schools’ Symposium, 15 th January, Heathfield School, Ascot
Richardson (2020) ‘Young People Encountering the Holocaust: Emotional learning in classrooms and at authentic sites’, Holocaust Educational Trust UK Residential CPD Event, 19 th February, University of Leicester.
Richardson (2020) ‘A Boy and a Diary: Thinking about the Holocaust as an individual experience’, Cams Hill School Holocaust Memorial Day Event, 4 th February, Cams Hill School, Fareham
Richardson (2019) ‘Emotional Aspects of Learning About the Holocaust’, Holocaust Learning UK training event, 1 st & 8 th December 2019, Northwood Synagogue
Richardson (2019) ‘Neighbouring Narratives: Visiting two national narratives at the Auschwitz Birkenau State Museum’, Holocaust Educational Trust Teacher Study Visit to Yad Vashem – Follow-up Weekend, 23 rd November 2019, University of Leicester.
Richardson (2019) ‘Teaching the Unspeakable: Talking About Genocide’, Edinburgh Festival Fringe, 20 th August, PQA Venues, Edinburgh Festival Fringe
Richardson (2019) ‘Young People Encountering the Holocaust: Emotional learning in classrooms and at authentic sites’, Holocaust Educational Trust UK Residential CPD Event, 19 th February, University of Leicester.
Richardson (2018) ‘Young People Encountering the Holocaust: Emotional learning in classrooms and at authentic sites’, Holocaust Educational Trust UK Residential CPD Event, 18 th February, University of Leicester.
Richardson (2018) ‘Supporting Students Through Tough Subjects – Teaching Difficult Histories’, TMSouthHistorians TeechMeet, 23 rd June, Poole High School, Dorset.
Richardson, A (2017) ‘Cross Curricular Approaches to Teaching & Commemorating the Holocaust – what can RE offer?’, Hampshire & Wessex Secondary RE Leadership Conference, Hampshire Inspection & Advisor Service, 13 th October, New Place Hotel, Southampton
Richardson, A (2017) ‘Encountering Difficult Histories: Presence, absence (…and the Muppets)’, Holocaust Educational Trust Educator Forum / Teacher CPD Event, 26 th November, University of Leicester
Richardson, A (2017) ‘The Holocaust as a Learning Space in Schools’, Teachers’ UK Residential Conference, Holocaust Educational Trust, 14 th February, Leicester University
Richardson, A (2017) ‘Holocaust Memorial Day in Schools – Finding a place in RE for teaching about the Holocaust’, 18 th January, Hampshire RE Reading & Research Group
Richardson, A (2016) ‘Emotional Engagement with the Holocaust in Classrooms’ Engaging with the Holocaust in Secondary RE, 7 th -8 th December, University of Exeter
Richardson, A (2016) 'British Values in UK Schools – What are they?', 15th International Students' Research Conference, University of Latvia
Richardson, A & Gray, M (2016) 'Making the Most of Your Doctoral Experience – a workshop for doctoral students in Holocaust Studies / Holocaust Education', The British Association for Holocaust Studies, The Jewish Museum London (2016)
Richardson, A (2015) 'Holocaust Education: What types of learning take place in our classrooms?', Teacher Study Seminar, Holocaust Educational Trust, Stranmills University College, Belfast
Richardson, A (2015) 'Emotional Teaching & Learning at Auschwitz Birkenau', Holocaust Educational Trust & Museum Guides from the State Museum at Auschwitz Birkenau, London
Richardson, A & Walden, V (2015) 'Playing with Perpetrators – an academic workshop', Encountering Perpetrators of Mass Killings, Political Violence and Genocide Conference, University of Winchester
Richardson, A (2015) 'Training RE Teachers for the Future', The Role of Faith in British Schools, South East England Faith Forum & UoW
Richardson (2015) 'Student Responses to the Holocaust', Holocaust Educational Trust UK Residential, College Court, University of Leicester
Richardson (2015), 'Dilemmas & Choices – Using the Resource in the Classroom', Holocaust Educational Trust UK Residential, College Court, University of Leicester
Richardson (2014), 'The (un)intentional emotional challenges for students on a Lesson from Auschwitz Visit', Holocaust Educational Trust Educator Forum, College Court, University of Leicester
Richardson (2014), 'Textbooks and Tears', Holocaust Educational Trust Yad Vashem Teacher Study Visit Follow-Up Weekend, College Court, University of Leicester
Richardson (2014), 'The Holocaust and Religious Education: Me, you, us', Holocaust Educational Trust Teachers' Summer School
Richardson (2014) 'Beyond Belief: The challenge for students encountering the Holocaust at the edge of living memory', Empowering Young People to Change the World Conference, Royal Wootton Bassett Academy & the Centre for Holocaust Education at the IoE, University of London
Richardson (2010), 'Teaching the Holocaust: Psychological Aspects?
Teaching & Commemorating the Holocaust in 21st Century Britain', IWM North 3rd Conference
Additionally, Alasdair has chaired panel discussions with the Holocaust & Genocide, Pop Culture & the Digital online research forum, and for the Association of Jewish Refugees at their conference Connecting the Generations of the Holocaust: A First, Second and Third Generation Gathering.
Alasdair is keen to hear from any potential research students within the field of education broadly, or specifically within RE or Holocaust/genocide education.
He is / has been Director of Studies for:
He is Second supervisor for:
He is / has been supervisor for the following Professional Doctorate Pilot Studies:
Membership:
Funding & Consultancy:

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Nottingham.php:
Emma Nottingham LLB PhD FHEA is a Reader at the University of Winchester.
She researches the legal and ethical aspects of children’s rights within a range of contexts.
She has published in leading law journals including the Journal of Media Law, Medical Law Review and the Journal of Professional Negligence and regularly provides expert comment for the media including the BBC News channel, BBC Breakfast, BBC 5Live, BBC Radio 4, BBC Radio 2, ITV Meridian News and LBC Radio.
Emma has a particular interest in bioethics and the rights of children in healthcare.
She is a member of the Institute of Medical Ethics Research Committee and sits on the Clinical Ethics Committee at University Hospitals Southampton.
Emma also has expertise in the intersection of law, ethics and digital technologies, particularly in relation to the impact of the digital world on children.
She is co-director of the Centre for Information Rights and is currently researching the protection of children on broadcast and digital media.
Emma has experience of teaching the law of torts, family law, child law, medical law and value studies.
She was shortlisted for the Winchester Students’ Union award of Lecturer of the Year 2019.
Dr Nottingham welcomes enquiries about postgraduate research supervision.
Emma Nottingham, 'Digging into Legal Archaeology: A Methodology for Case Study Research' (2022) Journal of Law and Society (forthcoming)
Caroline Stockman, Emma Nottingham, 'Surveillance Capitalism in Schools: What’s the Problem?
(2022) 14(1) Digital Culture & Education' 1–15
Emma Nottingham, 'Imogen Goold, Cressida Auckland, and Jonathan Herring, Medical Decision-Making on Behalf of Young Children: A Comparative Perspective, Hart, 2020, hardback, 390 pp,£85.00, ISBN 978-1-5099-2856-9' (2022) Medical Law Review
Emma Nottingham, ‘LGBT teaching in primary school: equality, discrimination and freedom of expression’ (2020) 42(2) Journal of Social Welfare and Family Law 243-245
Emma Nottingham, ‘Experience as a Legal Blogger at the Tafida Raqeeb Case’ (December 2019) [2019] Family Law 1476
Emma Nottingham, ‘Dad!
Cut that Part Out!’ Children’s Rights to Privacy in the Age of ‘Generation Tagged’: sharenting, digital kidnapping and the child micro-celebrity’ in Jane Murray, Beth Blue Swadener and Kylie Smith (ed) The Routledge International Handbook of Young Children’s Rights (Routlegde 2019)
Emma Nottingham and Karolina Szopa, ‘“Try Some Net Curtains” the protection of privacy under the tort of private nuisance’ (2019) Journal of Professional Negligence
Alexander Chrysanthou and Emma Nottingham, 'Conferences as a Tool for Interdisciplinary (Postgraduate) Learning in Bioethics' (2018) 9(2) European Journal of Bioethics 235-246
Emma Nottingham, Book section on Gillick v West Norfolk and Wisbech Area Health Authority [1986] 3 AC 112 in Erika Rackley and Rosemary Auchmuty (ed) Women's' Legal Landmarks Project (Hart Publishing 2018)
Lucy Frith, Carwyn Hooper, Silvia Camporesi, Thomas Douglas, Anna Smajdor, Emma Nottingham, Zoe Fritz, Merryn Ekberg, Richard Huxtable (on behalf the Institute of Medical Ethics) ‘Institute of Medical Ethics Guidelines for confirmation of appointment, promotion and recognition of UK bioethics and medical ethics researchers’ (2018) Journal of Medical Ethics https://jme.bmj.com/content/44/5/289.full
Emma Cave and Emma Nottingham, `Who Knows Best (Interests)?
The Case of Charlie Gard' (2018) 26(3) Medical Law Review 500–513 https://academic.oup.com/medlaw/article/26/3/500/4748889
Marion Oswald, Helen Ryan, Emma Nottingham, Rachael Hendry, Sophie Woodman, ‘Have ‘Generation Tagged’ Lost their Privacy?
A report of workshop findings' (2017) https://winchester.elsevierpure.com/en/publications/have-generation-tagged-lost-their-privacy-a-report-on-the-consult-3
Emma Nottingham, Commentary on Re W (A minor) (Medical treatment court's jurisdiction) in Helen Stalford, Kathryn Hollingsworth, Stephen Gilmore (ed) Rewriting Children’s Rights Judgments From Academic Vision to New Practice (Hart Publishing 2017)
Marion Oswald, Helen James, Emma Nottingham, 'The Not-so-Secret Life of Five Year Olds': Legal and Ethical Issues Relating to Disclosure of Information and the Depiction of Children on Broadcast and Social Media’ (2016) 8 Journal of Media Law 198-228 https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/17577632.2016.1239942
Emma Nottingham, ‘The posthumous use of sperm - a sorry tale’ (2016) BioNews 858 http://www.bionews.org.uk/page_667327.asp
Emma Nottingham, ‘Vicarious Liability for the acts of foster carers: NA v Nottinghamshire County Council [2014] EWHC 4005’ (2015) Journal of Professional Negligence
Emma Nottingham, Book review.
Children’s Socio-Economic Rights, Democracy and the Courts, Aoife Nolan.
(2013) 25(1) Child and Family Law Quarterly 96-98
Sarosh Khan, Jennifer Lavelle and Emma Nottingham, (2012) Maritime Labour Convention: an overview.
Britannia News, supplement Conventions, 3-10
Emma Nottingham, Update on the Archie Battersbee Case (August 2022)
Emma Nottingham, Archie Battersbee Case – The hearing in the Court of Appeal (June 2022)
Emma Nottingham, We Should all Get our Hands Dirty: Reflections on Why Lawyers Should Become Archaeologists | Frontiers of Sociolegal Studies (ox.ac.uk) (March 2022)
Emma Nottingham, 'Bell v Tavistock - The Court of Appeal hearing' (June 2021) The Transparency Project Blog
Emma Nottingham, ' Sharenting in a socially distanced world' (August 2020)
Emma Nottingham, 'Transgender man loses appeal and remains recognised as ‘mother’ on child’s birth certificate' (May 2020) The Transparency Project Blog
Emma Nottingham, ‘Tafida Raqeeb: Costs Judgment’ (January 2020) The Transparency Project Blog
Emma Nottingham, ‘Transgender man must remain registered as child’s mother’ (October 2019) The Transparency Project Blog
Emma Nottingham and Peta Coulson-Smith, ‘Tafida Raqeeb Judgment Summary: Continuation of Life-Sustaining Treatment in Italy held to be in Child’s Best Interests’ (October 2019) The Transparency Project Blog
Emma Nottingham, ‘Tafida Raqeeb: First Day of the High Court Case’ (September 2019) The Transparency Project Blog
Emma Nottingham ‘Tafida Raqeeb Case: Day 2 in the High Court’ (September 2019) The Transparency Project Blog
Emma Nottingham, ‘Tafida Raqeeb Case: Day 3 in the High Court’ (September 2019) The Transparency Project Blog
Emma Nottingham, ‘We need to Protect Children who appear on Social Media: ‘Generation Tagged’ and the YouTube Kidfluencer’ (July 2019) University of Winchester Blog
Emma Nottingham, ‘Fight for Life: Best interests, sick children and the Battleground’ (June 2019) The Transparency Project Blog
Emma Nottingham, ‘Coronation Street Child Abortion Storyline: What is the law?’ (2019) The Transparency Project Blog
Emma Nottingham, ‘Surrogacy arrangement breakdown: surrogate ordered to hand child over to intended parents’ (2017) The Transparency Project Blog
Emma Nottingham ‘Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children -v- Gard’ Family Court Reporting Watch , Transparency Project (2017)
Oswald Marion, James Helen, Nottingham Emma, (2016) ‘The not-so-secret life of ‘Generation Tagged’ Information Law and policy Centre at IALS Blog http://infolawcentre.blogs.sas.ac.uk/2016/04/21/comment-the-not-so-secret-life-of-generation-tagged/ ; The UoW Blog http://www.winchester.ac.uk/blog/Pages/The_not_so_secret_life_of_'Generation_Tagged'.aspx
Emma Nottingham, ‘Innovating at the Frontiers: The Postgraduate Bioethics Conference 2014’ (2014) HEAL UoS Blog
Emma Nottingham, ‘Injecting contraception in schools?’ (2012) Health Ethics and Law University of Southampton Blog
Emma Nottingham, ‘Case of the week: October 17, 1985’ (2011) Health Ethics and Law University of Southampton Blog
Children’s Rights
Healthcare Law, Medical Ethics and Bioethics
Law and Ethics of Digital Technologies
Test Cases, Public Interest Litigation and Strategic Lawmaking
Legal Archaeology and Legal History
Socio-legal research methods
Tort Law
2021-2022- BILETA Research Seminar Award, ' The Right to Object: Supporting Children and Schools in the Digital Learning Environment, £500, PI.
2020-2021 - Association of Law Teachers, Innovation in Teaching Practice Scheme 'The Online Courtroom: Preparing Students for the Digital Legal Environment' , £360, Joint PI.
2020-2021 - Grant for research project ‘Creating Learner Awareness of the Right to Opt Out’ funded via ‘Human Data Interaction,  Learning Skills and Social Justice Theme, £6024.00, Co-I.
2020-2021 - Grant for research project ‘Who, then, in law is my neighbour?
- Judgment, responsibility, and expectations of the onlife reality’ funded via ‘Human Data Interaction, Agency and Privacy in the development of IoT systems’, £2456,40, Co-I
2019 - Grant to host Trilcon2019, the Centre for Information Rights' annual conference, Womble Bond Dickinson £1500.
2018 - Senate Award for Learning and Teaching (Team Award), University of Winchester.
2014 - Grants to host the Postgraduate Bioethics Conference 2014, The Wellcome Trust Small Ethics Grant £3000, Society of Applied Philosophy £2000 , The Analysis Trust £500.
Member of the Clinical Ethics Committee, University Hospitals Southampton.
Member of the Urgent Ethics Council 2020, University Hospitals Southampton, set up in response to ethical issues relating to Covid-19
Committee member of the Transparency Project http://www.transparencyproject.org.uk/group/
Research Committee member of the Institute of Medical Ethics
Co-founder and alumni member of the Institute of Medical Ethics Postgraduate Student Committee.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Law-Crime-and-Justice/Centre-for-Information-Rights:
The CIR is an interdisciplinary research and knowledge exchange centre based in the Department of Law in the Faculty of Law, Crime and Justice .
CIR recognises that the term 'information rights' spans a wide range of live issues, including: machine learning, artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, the 'Internet of Things', information sharing, freedom of information (FOI), privacy, data protection, cyberlaw, intellectual property, e-disclosure and Government open data.
It therefore draws its membership from Digital Technologies and Educatio n as well as Criminology and Forensics , and integrates the Winchester Cybercrime and Cybersecurity Network.
The CIR is pleased to endorse the syllabus of Act Now's Data Protection Practitioner Certificate .
The syllabus is focussed on providing practitioners with a practical understanding of data protection and knowledge of how the law may change in the future.
NB: this endorsement does not imply any guaranteed progression onto University of Winchester programmes, nor does the certificate give you any advanced standing for University of Winchester Programmes.
On 7 Dec.
2023, CIR hosted its annual lecture.
This year we welcomed John Clarke, a lawyer with a rich legal heritage.
John talked about his life and career and one landmark case in particular.
Read the full story.
Virtual Reality Can Help Emergency Services Navigate The Complexities Of Real-life Crises, an article in The Conversation by Forensic Science expert Selina Robinson and criminologist Brandon May.
On 1 August 2022, CIR Convener Dr Emma Nottingham appeared on BBC 2 Newsnight , speaking about the Archie Battersbee case .
Watch the programme.
The implications of family use of technology for children's privacy
Today's children are 'Generation Tagged' - born into a world where social media sharing and data exploitation have become the norm.
However, a backlash is brewing: children increasingly take legal action against their parents for sharing images of their offspring on social media without their consent.
In a recent interview for Glamour magazine, Dr Emma Nottingham calls for better regulation around 'sharenting' .
For her latest topical blog post on the LSE website, Sharenting in a socially distanced world , CIR Director Dr Emma Nottingham has teamed up with former CIR Director Marion Oswald and Claire Bessant from Northumbria University to discuss the impact of COVID-19 on family use of technology.
With families actively encouraged to share images of their personal life during lockdown, are COVID-19 response measures altering public attitudes and cultures towards the sharing of data and information about children?
What are the possible future implications for children’s privacy?
For more blog posts, see below.
Dr Emma Nottingham, CIR Co-Convener
Christine Rinik, CIR Co-Convener
Follow us on X
Explore our YouTube Channel
Members of the Centre are involved in networks, committees and organisations focussed on Information Rights issues such as the British and Irish Law and Education Technology Association (BILETA), British Educational Research Association, Socio-Legal Studies Association (SLSA), and they regularly present on Information Rights matters.
The Centre is looking to build greater connections in areas of growth and potential, including Artificial Intelligence, human-computer interaction and digital rights.
Members are currently working with:
Former Centre Director Marion Oswald instigated a major participatory research project titled Children in the Media, which explores the long-term effects on young people of having been depicted in the broadcast media as children.
Currently led by Child and Family Law specialist Dr Emma Nottingham under the overarching title 'Generation Tagged', it had broadened its scope to also include a focus on parental posting of children’s lives on social media ('sharenting').
Find out more about the Children in the Media/Generation Tagged Project
This interdisciplinary project considers the pervasive nature of data collection about the individual underage learner through digital means within the schooling context.
Since the global outbreak of Covid-19, learners rely more than ever on digital systems to be educated.
Education is a basic human right (Articles 28 and 29 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child) yet while UNICEF states that the purpose of education is ‘the preparation of the child for responsible life in a free society’, we question whether the commercialised power structure of learner data processing for the purpose of formal schooling will indeed instil taught freedom.
In addition, children today are born into a society in which privacy intrusion appears to be a social norm and where digital platforms have always featured within their school learning experience.
We seek to directly and effectively educate underage learners to be aware of their legal right to opt out, and why they might want to exercise this.
Funded by Human Data Interaction (Learning Skills and Social Justice Theme), this project is a collaboration between Dr Caroline Stockman (Education Studies), Dr Emma Nottingham (Centre for Information Rights) and Professor Maria Burke (Faculty of Business and Digital Technologies).
Find out more about the Right2Object project
Recent projects
Artificial Intelligence and Algorithms within Criminal Justice
This project explored the potential impact of introducing machine learning algorithmic support tools into criminal justice decision-making.
Led by Marion Oswald, Christine Rinik and Centre research student Petros Terzis.
Covid-19 and the implications for children's privacy of family use of technology
For her topical blog post on the LSE website, CIR Director Dr Emma Nottingham teamed up with former CIR Director Marion Oswald and Claire Bessant from Northumbria University to discuss the impact of COVID-19 on family use of technology.
With families actively encouraged to share images of their personal life during lockdown, are COVID-19 response measures altering public attitudes and cultures towards the sharing of data and information about children?
Read the blog Sharenting in a socially distanced world .
For more blog posts, please see Dr Nottingham's academic profile
July 2019: We need to protect children who appear on social media: 'Generation Tagged' and the YouTube 'Kidfluencer'
Dec 2018: Women, Equality and the Legal Profession
April 2017: Algorithmic tools - grasping reason's full potential or 'suppression of what we know'?
Sherlock Holmes vs Father Brown
January 2017: The funny thing about science: five minutes with Timandra Harkness.
Until 2019, the CIR organised the annual high-profile Trust, Risk, Information and the Law Conference (TRILCon), which has featured such high-profile keynote speakers as John McNamara, Senior Inventor and Innovation Centre Technologist Lead at IBM, Renate Samson, Chief Executive of Big Brother Watch , and Professor Sir David Omand GCB, former Director of GCHQ.
The 2019 conference took place on 1 May and was convened by Dr Emma Nottingham , Senior Lecturer in Child and Family Law.
This year's theme was 'Caring for critically ill children in the glare of digital media'.
TRILCon 2018 was held on Wednesday 25 April.
The overall theme was: 'Public Law, Politics and the Constitution: a new battleground between the law and technology?'
We welcomed keynote speakers Michael Barton, Chief Constable of Durham Constabulary, and Jamie Bartlett, Director of the Centre for the Analysis of Social Media for Demos in conjunction with the University of Sussex and author of several books, including Radicals and The Dark Net .
Watch videos of TRILCon 2017
Dr Emma Nottingham (Co-Convener)
Christine Rinik (Co-Convener)
Dr Amelia Shooter (Law)
Anat Scolnicov (Law)
Dr Caroline Stockman (Education)
Tim Hall (Criminology)
Petros Terzis : 'Who, then, in law is my neighbour: privacy, tort law and the design of intelligent systems'
Supervisors: Dr Emma Nottingham; Dr Ben Sanders
Petros' interdisciplinary research mainly focusses on liability issues arising from the ‘actions’ undertaken by systems of Artificial Intelligence.
He has presented his research findings at national and international conferences including, Symposium on Data Ethics 2019 at the Centre for Translational studies University of Sydney, WeRobot 2019 at the University of Miami, the Socio-Legal Studies Association Annual Conference 2019 and the British and Irish Law and Education Technology Association Annual Conference 2019.
Petros worked as a Research Associate on the 2018-19 Artificial Intelligence and Algorithms within Criminal Justice Project - find out more.
Petros' latest publication, 'Shaping the State of machine learning algorithms within law enforcement' co-authored with Marion Oswald and Christine Rinik, is a workshop report exploring the implications of machine learning in a police context.
Petros has also received grant funding from HumanDdata Interaction for a research project exploring 'Judgment, responsibility, and expectations of the onlife reality', alongside Dr Emma Nottingham and Dr Martina Hutton.
Petros is a member of the Research Board of the European Law Observatory on New Technologies (ELON) and a Research Assistant at Legal Utopia Inc .
In 2019 he was awarded the Outstanding Commitment to Research Award by the Director of PGR studies at University of Winchester.
John Northam : ' An examination of the correlation between informational data privacy expectations and specific social contexts'
Supervisors: Prof.
Maria Burke; Dr Emma Nottingham
Supuni Perera : 'Mafia Women and Artificial Intelligence - What You See is Not What You Get: a diagnostic enquiry of a lost femininity in the judicial reasoning.
What does the technological modern court hold?'
Supervisors: Dr Vicenzo Scalia, Professor Tim Hall, Dr Emma Nottingham
Supuni has extensive experience of collaborative and peer reviewed legal research projects.
She has presented research findings during conferences at Harvard University (US), University of Wroclaw (PL) and the University of Southampton (UK).
She has also served on the organising committees for academic conferences hosted by the University of Southampton, and as Editor-in-chief of the University of Southampton Law Review.
Supuni's recent publications include a contribution to Women's Legal Landmarks: Celebrating 100 Years of Women and Law in the UK and Ireland (Hart Publishing, 2018).
Supuni also has experience of teaching law to undergraduates and international postgraduates.
Supuni works at Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP in the commercial law team, with direct experience of legal practice and support in the UK, Italy and Sri Lanka.
She commenced a training contract with them in September 2020 and qualified as a solicitor in 2022.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Everill.php:
01962 827126
@PaulEverill
I have pursued a career in archaeology since first exploring my growing interest in the discipline through a 5th form work experience opportunity at Wroxeter in 1989.
I have co-directed the Anglo-Georgian Expedition to Nokalakevi in western Georgia since 2002, an archaeological collaboration with colleagues at the Georgian National Museum, Tbilisi, and have been at the University of Winchester since 2008 where I teach on the BA, BSc and MA programmes, as well as supervising PhD research students (see below).
In addition to the archaeology of western Georgia, my research also concerns understanding the social implications of archaeology, such as working conditions and employment, and the impact that engagement in archaeology and heritage can have on mental health and wellbeing.
I am a lead collaborator on the AMPHORA project, funded by the UKRI MARCH Network, which produced a series of toolkits to support the delivery of therapeutic heritage-related activities.
Alongside over 40 peer-reviewed publications on a variety of topics I am the author of "The Invisible Diggers" (2009; 2nd Edition 2012); editor of "Nokalakevi-Tsikhegoji-Archaeopolis: Archaeological Excavations 2001–2010" (2014); and co-editor of "Rescue Archaeology: Foundations for the Future" (2015), "Archaeology, Heritage and Wellbeing: Authentic, Powerful, and Therapeutic Engagement with the Past" (2022), and "On the shoulders of Prometheus: International collaboration and the archaeology of Georgia" (2023).
I was Undergraduate Programme Leader for Archaeology from 2013 to 2018, before being appointed Research Excellence Framework Unit of Assessment Lead for Archaeology (C15) in 2018, and for Social Work and Social Policy (C20) in 2022.
Books/Monographs
Articles
Chapters in books
Current research projects:
AMPHORA: Authentic and Meaningful Participation in Heritage Or Related Activities (for mental health and wellbeing)
Anglo-Georgian Expedition to Nokalakevi (Samegrelo, Georgia)
Heritage for Heroes
Archaeology of the Royal Hunting Lodges, New Forest
I welcome enquiries about research supervision.
My areas of supervision are: archaeology of the South Caucasus;  Archaeology and Wellbeing; cultural heritage management; commercial archaeology; public/ popular archaeology; history of archaeology; excavation techniques and approaches.
Current Grant Holder:

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Humanities-and-Social-Sciences/Research-projects/-Heritage-for-Heroes-project:
A pioneering interdisciplinary research project that has sought to evaluate the physical and mental benefits for military veterans of participating in archaeological fieldwork.
Heritage for Heroes is a pioneering interdisciplinary initiative aiming to help former service personnel develop new skills as they recover from injuries and illnesses, and as they make the transition from military to civilian careers.
The initiative was conceived by Dr Paul Everill, Senior Lecturer in Applied Archaeology, and Giles Woodhouse, an archaeologist and retired Lt Colonel, then Head of Recovery South at Help for Heroes’ Tedworth House Recovery Centre in Wiltshire.
The idea was inspired by the Ministry of Defence initiative Operation Nightingale, which has used archaeological fieldwork to aid the recovery and skills development of service personnel and veterans injured in conflict since 2011.
While claims have long been made that participation in archaeological fieldwork can improve the wellbeing of military veterans, most of the evidence offered in support of these claims has been anecdotal.
There is a clear need for the disciplines of Archaeology and Psychology to engage critically with these initiatives, to assess rigorously the benefits and potential risks both to those participating and to the fragile historic environment, and to inform best practice.
Dr Paul Everill has therefore also teamed up with Dr Karen Burnell, a psychologist from Solent University, and Richard Bennett, a former Royal Marine and Director of Breaking Ground Heritage .
They have carried out an interdisciplinary study of the wellbeing benefits of archaeology for veterans.
The publication of this study, the largest of its kind to date, are forthcoming; see below.
The results show clear decreases in the severity of the symptoms of depression and anxiety, and of feelings of isolation and lack of self-worth, along with an increase in mental wellbeing and sense of value.
This may in part be explained by the fact that certain aspects of archaeological fieldwork, such as cameraderie and inclusiveness, working together outdoors in all weather, keen observation of the site and the landscape, and taking pride in working towards an overarching aim, will be familiar to veterans.
Importantly it also provides opportunities for peer support – the sharing and processing of traumatic experiences with people who understand what they have been through.
Further research into the mechanisms and investigation of clinically significant change are needed.
The next phase of work is supported by grants awarded by the Society of Antiquaries of London and the MARCH Network.
Qualitative data from veteran participants in archaeological excavations will be collected and analysed, and a ‘sandpit’ event, bringing together a wide range of stakeholders and experts working in veterans’ mental health will set the agenda for future research.
This builds on an initial meeting in 2018 when key stakeholders, including the Ministry of Defence, the Defence Archaeology Group, the National Trust, Breaking Ground Heritage, the NHS, the Council for British Archaeology, Step Together, the British Archaeological Jobs Resource, the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists and the Universities of Cardiff, Solent and Winchester met to discuss best-practice guidelines for veteran-focussed archaeology.
Postgraduate research
Under the supervision of Dr Everill, research student Zoe Umpleby is currently assessing the impact of museums and cultural heritage on the rehabilitation process of military personnel and veterans recovering from trauma.
The University of Winchester offers fee-waiver studentships to veterans and in 2016, we welcomed the first cohort of Heritage for Heroes students on undergraduate degree courses in Archaeology.
Thanks to their commitment to and enthusiasm for studying at this level, they overcame their initial perception that Higher Education was out of reach for them.
Since then the initiative has gone from strength to strength.
In summer 2017, three veteran studentship-holders joined Dr Everill's Anglo-Georgian Expedition to Nokalakevi project , working alongside other students as well as five Georgian veterans; the need for innovative recovery/rehabilitation pathways for veterans is particularly acute in Georgia.
In 2019 a total of 12 veterans lived and worked alongside Georgian, British, and American staff and students over the course of the expedition’s month-long field season in Nokalakevi, western Georgia.
The University of Winchester has been awarded the Armed Forces Covenant Employer Recognition Scheme Bronze Award in recognition of its support for the armed forces community and their families.
The award is given to organisations whose values are in line with the Armed Forces Covenant and which support those men and women who serve, or have served, in the armed forces and their families.
Read more about the award .
Dr Paul Everill, Senior Lecturer in Applied Archaeology , Department of Archaeology, Anthropology and Geography
Forthcoming June 2022: Archaeology, Heritage and Wellbeing: Authentic, Powerful and Therapeutic Engagement with the Past , edited by Paul Everill and Karen Burnell (Taylor & Francis Ltd)
Everill, P., Bennett, R.
& Burnell, K., Dig in: an evaluation of the role of archaeological fieldwork for the improved wellbeing of military veterans.
Antiquity Vol.
94, Issue 373 February 2020, pp 212-227
Events
On 5 July 2024, Dr Paul Everill will be a keynote speaker at the event Using Archaeology for Recover y, a Seminar/Training Day organised by Bournemouth University.
S peakers with experience of running projects that assist those who have suffered from trauma, especially on the battlefield, will share their knowledge with those who wish to run similar projects.
Find out more and book your place.
Media
'Soldiers dig deep to defeat their demons', The Times , Monday 23 March 2020
Background image: Dr Paul Everill (third from left) with the international team at the Nokalakevi site in western Georgia, during the summer 2019 field season.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Humanities-and-Social-Sciences/Research-projects/Anglo-Georgian-Expedition-to-Nokalakevi-Georgia:
A collaborative project investigating an ancient fortification in the land of the Golden Fleece.
Nestled by the picturesque river Tekhuri, on the northern edge of the Colchian plain in Samegrelo, western Georgia, lie the impressive ruins of Nokalakevi.
Occupying some 20ha, the site was known to early Byzantine historians as Archaeopolis, and to the neighbouring Georgian (Kartlian) chroniclers as Tsikhegoji.
The fortress is located 15km from the modern town of Senaki and would have commanded an important crossing point of the river Tekhuri, at the junction with a valuable strategic route.
The early Byzantine defensive fortifications of Nokalakevi-Archaeopolis take advantage of the site's position within a loop of the river Tekhuri, which has carved a gorge through the local limestone.
The steep and rugged terrain to the north of the site made the citadel almost unassailable.
Excavations have revealed substantial stone buildings dating to the fourth to sixth centuries AD.
Beneath these late Roman-period layers there is evidence of several earlier phases of occupation and abandonment, from the eighth to the second centuries BC.
Formed in 2001 as a collaborative research project, the Anglo-Georgian Expedition has trained more than 100 Georgian and British archaeology students in modern excavation and recording techniques.
Dr Everill, who has been Co-Director of the expedition to Nokalakevi since 2002, is responsible for managing the excavation strategy and the training element.
In 1833-34, Swiss philologist Frédéric Dubois de Montpéreux identified the ruins as the Archaeopolis of Byzantine historians and argued that the site was Aia, the ancient Colchian capital of the Greek myth of Jason and the Argonauts.
A century later, a joint German-Georgian team carried out the first excavations.
Their findings, including an impressive hoard of late 6th to early 7th-century gold solidi, confirmed Dubois de Montpéreux's identification of the site with Archaeopolis, without settling the question of Aia.
Most scholars continued (and continue) to prefer the traditional identification of Aia with Kutaisi.
The political upheavals of the 1930s and the onset of war interrupted further investigation.
Nevertheless interest in Georgia's history continued to grow, prompting various scholarly visits and articles about Nokalakevi from the 1930s to the 1960s.
Finally in 1973 a major state-sponsored expedition was set up, which undertook major excavations and conservation work at Nokalakevi until the early 1990s, when the collapse of the Soviet Union and the civil disturbances of Georgia's early years of independence caused funding to be stopped and which inflicted serious damage to the expedition's infrastructure.
Large-scale excavations were resumed in 2001 with a collaborative project, headed by Professor David Lomitashvili, of the S.
Janashia State History Museum (now the Georgian National Museum) and the newly formed Anglo-Georgian Expedition to Nokalakevi (AGEN).
In 2009 the British Ambassador to Georgia at the time, Denis Keefe, praised the UK team for helping to strengthen international ties, following the recent outbreak of war in the country.
Over the past few years the Ambassador has been a regular visitor at Nokalakevi.
As part of its commitment to supporting British military service personnel, veterans and their families, the University of Winchester offers studentships to military veterans.
The Archaeology team is at the forefront of this initiative and in 2016, we welcomed the first cohort of Heritage for Heroes students on undergraduate  courses in Archaeology.
In summer 2017, three veteran studentship-holders joined Dr Everill's Nokalakevi project, working alongside other students as well as Georgian veterans.
In 2019 a total of 12 veterans lived and worked in Nokalakevi alongside Georgian, British and American staff and students.
Find out more about the Heritage for Heroes project.
For more information, visit the expedition website , follow the project on Facebook or read the latest publications:

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Humanities-and-Social-Sciences/Research-projects/AMPHORA-Project:
Exploring the health and wellbeing benefits of participation in archaeology and heritage-related activities
Archaeology, heritage, and the historic environment more broadly, are increasingly recognised as powerful non-medical tools in the delivery of benefits for community mental health and wellbeing.
Archaeology as a therapeutic intervention for veterans achieved significant public profile through the work of Operation Nightingale from 2011, and the first large-scale study of psychological results from veterans participating on archaeological excavation (Everill, Bennett, and Burnell 2020) demonstrates clear decreases in the severity of the symptoms of depression and anxiety, and of feelings of isolation and lack of self-worth, along with an increase in mental wellbeing and sense of value.
The Heritage for Heroes initiative , established in 2016 at the University of Winchester by archaeologist Dr Paul Everill, saw fee-waiver studentships in archaeology for wounded veterans, and Georgian and Ukrainian veterans working alongside British archaeology students through the Anglo-Georgian Expedition to Nokalakevi .
Building on the encouraging findings from the abovementioned initiatives, Dr Paul Everill teamed up with Dr Karen Burnell , Associate Professor of Applied Psychology at Solent University, and embarked on innovative interdisciplinary research, termed AMPHORA (Authentic and Meaningful Participation in Heritage Or Related Activities).
It began with an initial 2019 grant from the UKRI-funded MARCH Network to hold a ‘sandpit’ event on the subject of archaeology and heritage-based interventions to support mental health in February 2020.
The discussion brought together a range of stakeholders, including service providers, heritage professionals, mental health professionals, representatives from local government, social prescribers and, crucially, beneficiaries as experts through lived experience.
Among the results of that day-long workshop was the expression of support for a set of best-practice guidelines, to ensure that potential beneficiaries of new initiatives would be fully supported - and the best possible outcome achieved for them - and that the expertise of those working in the historic environment and those working in mental health would be embedded in the project.
Building on this, a much larger grant from the MARCH Network supported a nine-month Delphi consultation in 2021, with a significantly expanded stakeholder panel, through which a consensus view of the key elements was achieved over three rounds of questionnaires and feedback.
The AMPHORA guidelines produced through the consultation are intended to:
The intention is that by following the guidance in AMPHORA, projects can demonstrate that they are following best practice and that the logo can be used as a form of quality assurance.
This means that potential participants, social prescribers/link workers, and funding bodies can also be reassured that projects are fully able to provide the best possible outcomes for both the participants and the historic environment.
AMPHORA is designed to unlock the full therapeutic potential of heritage-based activities, allowing participants to contribute fully to projects which, in turn, are able to provide the right support and safeguarding.
The collaboration between Drs Everill and Burnell has also resulted in the publication of the co-edited volume Archaeology, Heritage, and Wellbeing (Everill and Burnell 2022), which includes a range of different perspectives that highlight the many ways in which the historic environment can support mental health/wellbeing, including among indigenous and marginalised communities.
The three AMPHORA guidelines, or ‘toolkits’, can be downloaded via Solent University's AMPHORA project website , which also hosts a checklist for project providers to support their decision making.
The researchers are keen to hear from organisations that adopt and implement the AMPHORA guidelines for their projects.
Disclaimer
The guidance document provided on the above website is for informational purposes only and reflects general best practices as of the date of publication.
Whilst every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy and reliability of the information contained therein, the content is provided 'as is' without any guarantees, representations or warranties of any kind, either express or implied.
By downloading or using this document, you acknowledge and agree that the author(s) and publisher(s) shall not be held liable for any loss, damage or other consequences that may arise from the use or misuse of the information provided.
It is your responsibility to evaluate the applicability of the guidance to your specific situation and to seek professional advice where appropriate.
User Responsibility
Users of this document are solely responsible for how they interpret and implement the guidance provided.
It is the user's duty to ensure that any actions taken based on this document comply with applicable laws, regulations, and organisational policies.
The author(s) and publisher(s) do(es) not assume any responsibility for outcomes resulting from the application of this guidance in real-world scenarios.
Use of this document is at your own risk.
Under the supervision of Prof.
Everill, research student Giselle Kiraly is undertaking doctoral research on the role of archaeological human remains as a potential facilitator for improved wellbeing, and Zoe Umpleby is currently assessing the impact of museums and cultural heritage on the rehabilitation process of military personnel and veterans recovering from trauma.
Dr Paul Everill, Reader in Archaeology , University of Winchester
Dr Karen Burnell, Associate Professor of Applied Psychology, Solent University
Everill, P.
and Burnell, K.
(eds) 2022.
Archaeology, Heritage and Wellbeing: Authentic, Powerful and Therapeutic Engagement with the Past (Taylor & Francis Ltd)
Everill, P., Murgulia, N., Bennett, R., Lomitashvili, D., and Burnell, K.
2022.
Authentic and therapeutic engagement with the past for veterans at Nokalakevi, Georgia, and on Breaking Ground Heritage projects in the UK.
Arheologia
& Burnell, K., (2020) Dig in: an evaluation of the role of archaeological fieldwork for the improved wellbeing of military veterans.
In February and March 2025, Drs Everill and Burnell were invited to present talks for the Ukrainian Association of Archaeologists.
Dr Burnell talked about the development and implementation of excavation rehabilitation programmes, while Dr Everill highlighted the work of the UK veterans' programme in Sakartvelo, Georgia.
On 5 July 2024, Dr Paul Everill was a keynote speaker at the event Using Archaeology for Recover y, a Seminar/Training Day organised by Bournemouth University.
S peakers with experience of running projects that assist those who have suffered from trauma, especially on the battlefield, shared their knowledge with those who wish to run similar projects.
'Winchester Archaeology toolkit used to support Ukraine war veterans' - University of Winchester press release 20 Feb 2025
Background image: students digging at the Nokalakevi archaeological site in western Georgia.
Visit the Nokalakevi project page to find out more.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Goto.php:
Love, R., and Goto, E.
(2023) Embedding Philosophy for/with Children in Initial Teacher Education: A Stealth Model.
In: Kizel, A.
(ed.) Philosophy with Children and Teacher Education: Global Perspectives on Critical, Creative and Caring Thinking.
London: Routledge, 117-125.
Audain, J., Goto, E.
& Dalton, T.
(2018) Debates in the Use of Tablets in Secondary Classrooms.
In: Younie, S.
& Bradshaw, P.
(eds.) Debates in Computing and ICT Education .
Abingdon: Routledge, 181-194.
Emma’s research interest is in the field of computational thinking, computing and the use of IT to enhance teaching and learning in primary education.
The majority of her work has centred around learning in Key Stage One and Early-Years environments.
She has explored the use of virtual learning environments in infant schools and the impact these have had on children’s learning.
This led to an interest in ways to use technology to enhance parental engagement with children’s learning.
Emma has a growing interest in ways technology can be used to overcome barriers to children’s learning.
2021 to 2025 Emma is the Education Consultant for the CBeebies Television Programme Wonderblocks - https://www.bbc.co.uk/cbeebies/shows/wonderblocks.
In 2019-2020 Emma was a MESH project lead for the VSO Numeracy for All Project and MESHGuide.
In 2014 Emma contributed to the BBC Bitesize Key Stage One Computing Guides , writing the text for 12 of the guides.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/collaborate/Schools-and-colleges/Meet-the-team:
Head of UK Student Recruitment
jim.calcutt@winchester.ac.uk
Hi, I’m Jim Calcutt and I am the Head of UK Student Recruitment at the University of Winchester.
My role is to manage the Recruitment Events and Schools and Colleges team and to oversee the recruitment of UK students to the University.
Student Recruitment Events Manager
emma.cleaver@winchester.ac.uk
Hello I’m Emma and I am the Student Recruitment Events Manager so have overarching management for all our Recruitment Events including Open Days, PG Open Evenings, Campus Tours and UCAS Hampshire.
I also help to oversee the Student Ambassador Scheme and I am responsible for our large-scale exhibition logistics.
Contact Emma for: UCAS Hampshire, Open Days and on campus events
Student Recruitment Events Officer
emily.jordan@winchester.ac.uk
Hi I’m Emily!
I am a Student Recruitment Events Officer, my role focuses on organising the Student Ambassador Scheme, our weekly campus tours, August Advice Days and Postgraduate Open Evenings.
Contact Emily for: Student Ambassadors, Campus Tours and Recruitment Events
Student Recruitment Events Officer rosie.lewis1@winchester.ac.uk
Hello, I’m Rosie and I am a Student Recruitment Events Officer.
My role focuses on the planning and running of recruitment events such as undergraduate open days, postgraduate open evenings, and applicant days.
Contact Rosie for: Undergraduate Open Days
Senior Schools and Colleges Development Officer
lucy.mcdonagh@winchester.ac.uk
Hi, I’m Lucy, I am a Schools and Colleges Senior Development Officer at the University of Winchester, my role takes me far and wide visiting schools and colleges speaking with students interested in exploring all that higher education has to offer as well as delivering on-campus activities.
Contact Lucy M for: event delivery and mature student activities
alix.hickman@winchester.ac.uk
Hello, I’m Alix and I am one of the Schools and Colleges Senior Development Officers within the UK Student Recruitment Team.
My role involves providing information about the University of Winchester and HE in general to students in schools and colleges across the region.
Contact Alix for: event delivery, commuting students and students from groups under-represented in higher education
katie.bizley@winchester.ac.uk
Hi I’m Katie and I am a Schools and Colleges Senior Development Officer with a regional focus covering London, specifically west and south along with Slough, Kent and Hertfordshire.
Contact Katie B for: Kent, London and Borough, Slough and beyond.
Supporting parents and carers with children considering university.
Schools and Colleges Partnerships Manager
eleanor.price@winchester.ac.uk
Hi, I’m Ellie and my role is to manage the University of Winchester Partnership, collaborating with a number of local schools and colleges.
I also support Faculty specific recruitment and outreach, as well as supporting the wider UKSR team with exhibitions and events.
Contact Ellie for: Partnership Queries, Academic specific talks and workshops, Teacher and Adviser Support and Resources.
Schools and Colleges Co-Ordinator
lucy.dixon@winchester.ac.uk
Hi, I’m Lucy and I am the Schools and Colleges Co-Ordinator.
My role is primarily to go out and about to the events (such as HE Fairs/Exhibitions, Personal Statement clinics, presentations etc.).
However, I also have other responsibilities, including the social and content creation for our team and overseeing the schools and colleges in Jersey and Guernsey.
Contact Lucy D for: Content and resources, Channel Islands and event
Student Recruitment Administrator
katie.mitchell@winchester.ac.uk
Hi, I’m Katie and my role is primarily administration based with a focus on co-ordinating the central inboxes, curating the monthly newsletters, diary management and much more.
Being office based most of the time, I am the key contact for schools and colleges.
Contact Katie M for: all schools and colleges general enquiries, signing up the newsletter, and booking our team for events.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Access-and-Participation-Statement:
We are a thriving university with a deep commitment to transformational education.
We have seen this transformation for over 180 years in our own University and continue to see it every day in our students, the partners we work with and in the communities we serve.
We are proud to consider ourselves a widening participation university.
It is part of our DNA, stemming from our origins training teachers to educate poor children in the local region.
In more recent years, we have been recognised for our sector leading work to support the access and participation of emerging under-represented student groups, in particular Care Leavers, Young Adult Carers, Service Children, and Asylum Seekers.
We will continue to enhance our activities, develop our understanding through research, share best practice and encourage collaboration through networks, and promote transformational education, not just at Winchester but across the many communities we serve.
At Winchester, we recognise that many of our students may come from backgrounds that make them more likely to be at risk of equality of opportunity.
For example:
The University is committed to ‘Our Vision for Transformational Education’ as outlined in our new Strategic Plan (2023-2028) .
The Access and Participation Plan is fundamentally guided by our strategic vision, deeply rooted in our original mission and purpose ‘ To educate, serve the common good and advance knowledge ’, guided by our reimagined values ‘ love of learning, individual and shared endeavour, and making a difference ’, and driven by the importance of people, place and partnerships .
We have identified a series of strategic aims to ensure equity in access and participation, as outlined below.
Access
Success (on-course)
Progression (further study and graduate employment)
The University continues to work in partnership with a range of agencies and organisations to achieve its widening participation goals, including (but not exclusively):
We consider our students as key partners in our activity to widen access and participation.
We value the benefits of working collaboratively and are proud to be associated with the following groups and networks:
We are proud to have been awarded the following acknowledgements in recognition of our commitment to widening access and participation, equality and diversity, social justice and impact:
We review this Access and Participation statement annually as part of our regular review of policies.
We will update and re-publish this policy annually as required by condition A2 of the Office for Students Regulatory Framework.
This version of the Access and Participation Statement was published on Tuesday 28 November 2023
Annual Fee Summary:
University of Winchester Fee Summary 2022-2023
University of Winchester Fee Summary 2025 -26
2024 -2028 Plan:
Access and Participation Plan (2024-28) Executive Summary
2020-2025 Plan:
University of Winchester Access and Participation Plan 2020-2025 (June 2023)
University of Winchester 2020-2025 APP Summary (Approved Variation June 2023)
2019/20 Plan:
University of Winchester 2019-20 Access and Participation Plan
University of Winchester 2019-20 APP Impact Report

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/collaborate/Widening-Participation/UWIN-Aspire:
As a university committed to widening access and participation, we recognise the value and importance of high-quality careers information, advice and guidance on supporting young people to make informed decisions about their future educational opportunities.
Unfortunately, due to a lack of age-appropriate inspirational careers advice and guidance, this means many of our young people are writing themselves off attending university before they have had the opportunity to make an informed decision.
We have designed the UWIN Aspire Booklets and Resource Pack for upper Key Stage 2, and Key Stage 3 & 4, for teaching and pastoral staff to support their learners navigate key transition points in their educational journey.
The activities within the packs will assist teaching staff to support their learners explore the world of universities and careers through a series of fun and interactive pre-planned lessons.
The UWIN Aspire Primary Booklet and Resource Pack is designed to be used as a series of four sessions but can equally be used as stand-alone lessons or individual activities within a school’s wider careers curriculum.
Together, your Key Stage 2 learners can address some key questions that will help them inform their future aspirations including: W ho can attend university?
W hat gender stereotypes exist in the workplace?
H ow different subjects can support future career pathways?
and What are skills and how do these link to dream jobs?
From years of experience of delivering impartial careers-based outreach in our local secondary schools, we have designed the UWIN Aspire Secondary Booklet and Resource Pack for Key Stage 3 & 4 staff to support their learners navigate key transition points in their educational journey.
We know that under the Gatsby Benchmarks secondary schools are provided with a framework to help ensure that their learners have access to a wide range of careers provision and that this is embedded across the curriculum.
The resources in this pack are underpinned by growth mindsets and draw upon the importance of learners having a broad and informed understanding of the different routes and options available to them.
Each session will guide staff on how to introduce key terms, facilitate discussions about educational pathways and challenge learners’ concepts of their future ‘possible selves’
Session 1 - People Profile Descriptions PDF
Session 1 - People Profile Descriptions PowerPoint
Session 1 - Who goes to university - Jamal’s story presentation PDF
Session 1 - Who goes to university - Jamal’s story presentation PowerPoint
Session 2 - Men and Women at Work - 'Can you draw' worksheet PDF
Session 2 - Men and Women at Work PDF
Session 2 - Men and Women at Work PowerPoint
Session 3 - Subject and Jobs worksheet PDF
Session 3 - Subjects and Jobs PDF
Session 3 - Subjects and Jobs PowerPoint
Session 4 - My Skills worksheet PDF
Session 4 - Skills or Subjects worksheet PDF
Year 7 Successful Starts PowerPoint
Activity 3 - Case Study statements sheet PDF
Activity 5 - Mindsets worksheet PDF
Activity 7 - New Starts information sheet PDF
Activity 8 - Postcard template PDF
Activity 1 - The Starting Line PowerPoint
Activity 1 - The Starting Line PDF
Activity 2a - The Detective Challenge PDF
Activity 2b - The Detective Challenge PDF
Activity 3 - Pathways Practice PDF
Activity 3 - Pathways Practice PowerPoint
Activity 4 - Beyond the Classroom PDF
Activity 1.
A-Levels - Tips to help you decide PowerPoint
Activity 2.
Your Degree - Choosing the right course PowerPoint
Activity 3.
Degree Apprenticeships PowerPoint
Activity 4.
Skills for Future Success PowerPoint
Activity 4a.
Skills for Future Success worksheet PDF
Activity 4b.
Activity 4c.
Plan - Putting this into Practice PDF
Monitor and Evaluate - Putting this into Practice PDF
Activity 4d.
Marginal Gains Theory worksheet PDF
Activity 4f-g - Your Action Plan PDF
Year 11 pre-recorded workshop PowerPoint

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/collaborate/University-of-Sanctuary:
In 2018, The University of Winchester received a 'University of Sanctuary' Award from UK charity City of Sanctuary in recognition of its initiatives to welcome refugees and asylum seekers and support them in Higher Education study.
University of Sanctuary awards recognise and celebrate organisations' commitment to providing a welcome to asylum seekers and refugees and seeking to foster a culture of awareness and inclusivity.
Winchester was the first university in the south of England to become of University of Sanctuary, and we are represented on the national steering group that produced the Universities of Sanctuary resource pack.
Watch the award ceremony video:
Formerly the Forced Migration Network, the University of Sanctuary Network is a diverse group of University staff and students and external practitioners engaged in knowledge exchange, research, teaching, outreach and support relating to asylum seekers and refugees.
Academic members come from disciplines across our faculties, including Performing Arts, Education, Geography, Psychology, Law and Peace & Reconciliation, as well as Widening Participation and Outreach, the University Library, Volunteering, and Research & Knowledge Exchange.
External members include the Wessex Global Health Network, and we work closely with the Rural Refugees Network.
We are members of the Council for At-Risk Academics (CARA) Fellowship programme, which helps academics in immediate danger and those forced into exile.
For further links and partnerships, see below.
Email us
Follow the University of Sanctuary Network on Twitter
We offered a vibrant programme for Refugee Week 2024 .
For details of this and all our other forthcoming and most recent events, explore our Latest news and events page.
Background image: a refugee camp with 14,000 refugees waiting for aid.
Image: Dutch Aid Organisations Collective (Flickr)
The University of Winchester is a community committed to making a difference, passionate about seeing individuals and communities flourish.
Over the last decade we have built up considerable experience and expertise in providing access and support for students who are forced migrants, as well as establishing active collaborations with local and national agencies who work with refugees and people seeking sanctuary in the UK.
The University of Sanctuary Network is a natural extension and embodiment of this work.
Our mission is to follow the key principles of Cities of Sanctuary ‘Learn, Embed, Share’; our 3-year Action Plan is organised around these three principles.
Read the Univ of Winchester Universities of Sanctuary 3-year plan Oct 2021
We will:
The University has been working closely with partner organisations and volunteers to establish the ‘Winchester City of Sanctuary’, having hosted preliminary meetings and contributed to the development of governance documents.
A key strand of activity identified within the City of Sanctuary-themed areas of work revolves around refugee education and ‘Schools of Sanctuary’.
The University will be actively leading on this.
We host an annual Asylum Seekers and Refugees Summer School for young asylum seekers and forced migrants.
This 3-day residential experience aims to provide information and support with educational progression and success, as well as an enjoyable social experience.
Participants work with current Winchester students, including students who are forced migrants, as well as staff from a range of disciplines.
Most participants are unaccompanied asylum seekers with limited English skills and who come to us through contacts with local Children's Services departments.
The residential provides an insight into higher education through taster sessions and focusses on the future, exploring their hopes and dreams through the creative arts.
The participants get to meet our Sanctuary Scholars, hear their stories and find out how they overcame the many obstacles forced migrants face in reaching higher education.
See below for details of the 2019 Summer School.
For information on the latest Summer School, see below under News and Events.
We organise annual Fun Days for Syrian families, in partnership with the Rural Refugee Network and timed to coincide with national Refugee Week.
The University will be hosting free ESOL classes at the University's West Downs Centre every Wednesday afternoon.
The sessions are delivered by a local ESOL tutor in partnership with the newly established ‘Winchester City of Sanctuary’.
The 10-week course is open to all but primarily targeted at local refugees and asylum seekers.
Staff volunteers also offer English language tuition for Syrian families settled in Winchester.
In 2010, Winchester was one of the first universities in the UK to offer financial support for students seeking sanctuary in the UK to undertake a degree course.
Winchester's Sanctuary Award waives tuition fees and offers a bursary of £5000 a year to support the costs of study.
The Award is offered to two new students each year.
Find out more about our Sanctuary Awards
"The University of Winchester Sanctuary Award changed my life": Listen to the experiences of our Sanctuary Awardees .
The Student Union has a student-led 'Action for Refugees' group that works closely with the University’s Forced Migration Network and other local organisations, including volunteering with the Southampton and Winchester Visitors Group.
In October 2021, the group is (re)launching following the return to campus with a free student film screening of The Good Lie , starring Reese Witherspoon, in the new West Downs Centre auditorium.
The event seeks to raise awareness of the plight of those facing forced migration and increase student membership.
The group will then be planning a series of events and activities throughout the year, including fundraising, awareness-raising and volunteering.
In November 2019, the University of Winchester joined other UK universities in a new commitment to increase access to Higher Education for refugees and asylum seekers.
Find out more about our Widening Participation
University of Sanctuary Network conferences are timed to coincide with World Refugee Week.
They are aimed at schools, colleges and universities.
The inaugural UoSN conference took place on 21 June 2023 and focussed on the Refugee Week 2023 theme of Compassion; the 2024 conference revolved around the WRF24 theme of Our Home.
An interdisciplinary academic team of University of Sanctuary Network members have received funding from the University's Research & Innovation team for a participatory project aiming to help mental health service providers to support Ukrainian refugees.
The project will generate a set of recommendations and the project team will host an event to share their findings; format and timings TBC.
European Early Childhood education (EC) services and schools have to develop deeper knowledge of the complex needs of refugee pupils.
Research emphasises that a holistic educational approach can ensure effective enrolment and transition of refugee youth, and that teachers play a key role in implementing it.
However, this poses a professional challenge to teachers, as Refugee Education cannot be considered just as a variation of the usual intercultural education programmes.
Consequently, both future and in-service teachers need to receive specific training and continual professional development to cope with the new challenges involved in Refugee Education.
Stemming from well-grounded experiences developed in countries with a long-standing tradition on Refugee Education, this project aims to design, implement and disseminate an effective transnational training programme on Refugee Education addressed to pre-service and in-service teachers.
The international consortium is made up of five partners from Austria, Denmark, Iceland, Norway and the UK.
Led by Dr Wayne Veck, Julie Wharton and Dr Louise Pagden, and supported by Erasmus+ funding.
Read the full report Improving teaching to improve refugee children education - An overview of refugee education in Europe
Refugee Education is also an important strand of the Centre of Research into Educational Action and Theory Exchange (CREATE) , with both the centre and the strand led by Prof.
Wayne Veck.
Since 2016, in partnership with the European Council of Religious Leaders, the Winchester Centre for Religion, Reconciliation and Peace has been carrying out a project examining multi-religious approaches to integration.
Dr Majbritt Lyck-Bowen and Prof.
Mark Owen have published an article detailing the results of the first phase of the project: Lyck-Bowen, Majbritt & Owen, Mark (2018) A multi-religious response to the migrant crisis in Europe: A preliminary examination of potential benefits of multi-religious cooperation on the integration of migrants, Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies , 45:1, 21-41 .
The Rwanda Diaspora Youth Partnership Programme
The Rwanda Diaspora Youth Partnership Programme, launched on 1 October 2019 and now completed, was a one-year project exploring how young second-generation Rwandans in the UK might support young people in Rwanda to generate social enterprise and help build a better future for Rwanda.
The project was led by Dr Jen Dickinson and Prof.
Wayne Veck and funded by the Global Challenges Research Fund.
Evaluating the contribution of Diasporic Mentoring Networks (DMNs) for post-displacement youth entrepreneurship
The 1994 Rwandan genocide and subsequent forced displacement of two million refugees generated ongoing economic challenges for Rwanda’s now-burgeoning youth population.
However, the human capital embedded in displaced diasporic communities could help address this challenge by generating transnational entrepreneurial investments in locally strategic economic areas.
Working with a Rwandan partner and a UK diaspora partner, this project evaluates whether the support and development of DMNs connecting young Rwandan entrepreneurs to the Rwanda diaspora in the UK can contribute to the creation of high-value ‘opportunity’ entrepreneurial ventures, thereby generating further youth employment and contributing to economic growth.
Led by Dr Jen Dickinson and Prof.
The Boat
A high-profile recent project is The Boat.
Designed to engage young minds on the difficult subject of immigration via an illustrated storybook accompanied by a set of teaching resources, this Arts Council England-funded project was a collaboration between the University's Prof.
Andrew Melrose (Creative Writing) and Jonathan Rooke (Education), illustrator Stephanie Morris and a number of primary schools.
Visit the The Boat website
Members of the Network also have the following related research interests:
Forced displacement and the multitude of social, cultural, economic, psychological and educational issues ensuing from it are embedded in our curriculum.
Examples are the modules 'Displaced: Forced migration and refugees today' in our Value Studies programme, and 'Education, inclusion and refugees', part of our Education Studies degree.
Hampshire Universities Together (HUT)
HUT is a collaboration between the four Hampshire universities (Winchester, Solent, Southampton and Portsmouth) on the important role of HE institutions in regional civic engagement.
With all three cities being Cities of Sanctuary and the four HEIs having University of Sanctuary status, the Sanctuary element is one of the HUT's main activity strands.
Winchester City of Sanctuary
Wessex Global Health Network, Refugee Health Group
City of Sanctuary Southampton
Bournemouth and Poole City of Sanctuary
British Red Cross (Portsmouth and Southampton)
Cities of Sanctuary South West
Rural Refugee Network
Universities of Sanctuary
CARA (Council for At-Risk Academics)
Refugee Support Network
Health Education England webinar on modern slavery
University of Oxford Migration Observatory
Birmingham University Institute for Research Into Super-diversity (IRIS)

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/collaborate/Widening-Participation/First-Star-Scholars:
This 4-year ground-breaking programme is designed to create more opportunities for children living in care to enter higher education.
Inspired by the success of First Star Scholars in the USA, this programme works with care experienced young people from the age of 14 to help them develop academically, socially, and emotionally and work towards entering higher education.
First Star was originally set up in the USA by film producer Peter Samuelson to address the education outcomes of young people in foster care, where only 3% of care leavers attend university (6% in the UK).
Inspired by research by Dr Kathleen Reardon, First Star’s approach is to place young people who are in care into programmes on university campuses to support, inspire and belong.
Over 90% of foster youth who attend First Star academies in the USA go on to study at university, compared to the national average of 3%.
The First Star Programme at the University of Winchester is the second Higher Education provider in the UK to host this.
The University of Winchester is passionate about seeing individuals and communities thrive; the University’s values of Compassion, Individuals Matter and Spirituality shape its approach and activities.
The University is sector-leading in its access and participation work, including achieving national recognition for its work with care leavers and was also an early signatory of the Care Leaver Covenant and is a member of the National Network for the Education of Care-Leavers .
We have a long tradition of providing opportunities to those from backgrounds who might not normally have accessed Higher Education, including Care Leavers and Care Experienced scholar.
With this passion and expertise, the University of Winchester is well placed to support scholars to succeed.
This programme benefits 30 looked-after children who join as ‘scholars’ to the programme while studying at secondary school or college.
It also directly benefits at least 30 foster carers, who attend sessions and receive training on how best to support the children through the programme.
The programme combines 2 on-campus residentials per academic year, taking place in April and August on the University of Winchester campus.
In addition, there are monthly Saturday academic sessions throughout the rest of the year.
Academics
The programme is designed to support young people with care experience to access - and flourish in - higher education.
As such we support young people academically throughout GCSE’s, A-levels, and alternative post-16 qualifications, in order that they can get the grades needed to access higher education and go on to obtain a good degree.
Academically, the emphasis of the residentials is to prepare the scholars to fully engage in their education by developing fundamental skill sets required.
Life skills
In addition to the academic programming, we teach valuable life skills such as cooking and nutrition, self-soothing, and emotional regulation, financial literacy, rights, living together and self-advocacy.
Exposure to Higher Education
The third element of the programme is about exposure to, and belonging in, higher education.
The scholars join in with various elements of university life such as sports and recreation.
They get the chance to live on campus in the halls of residence for the duration of the residentials and are immersed in university life.
Taster sessions from a variety of subjects are offered, both at Winchester and in partnership with other universities, to support informed subject and career choices, when the time comes.
The programme started in August 2021 and runs until July 2025.
The commitment needed is one Saturday a month during term-time and two on-campus residentials in April (4 days) and August (2 weeks).
As we still have spaces, you can join the programme straight away and be part of this existing cohort.
To qualify for programme, scholars need to live within traveling distance to Winchester, be in Y11, and meet one of the following criteria;
Referrals can be made by foster carers, Virtual Schools/Teachers or Social Workers.
Applications can be made via our online application form .
Once referred The First Star team will get in touch.
Informal visits can be arranged prior to joining to allow scholars to have a campus tour and find out more; then they will have the opportunity to come along to the next Saturday session and try it out.
Don't worry, the First Star Scholars programme is free!
The costs of the First Star Scholars Programme at the University of Winchester have been covered by several external funders; we are therefore not asking for a financial contribution to be able to take part.
All staff have enhanced DBS checks and attend bespoke safeguarding.
Directors and managers receive additional safeguarding training.
The residential accommodation is in dedicated blocks of University of Winchester student accommodation, composing of separate male and female en-suite rooms and a shared lounge/kitchen.
Programme staff will also live in this accommodation for the duration of the summer & April residentials, including the Programme Director, Youth Coaches and Lead Mentors.
If you have been referred, the programme director will be in contact shortly.
If you want to get in touch, University of Winchester Programme director Will Kelly can be reached at firststarscholars@winchester.ac.uk
‘This programme is brilliant as it is supportive of the scholars, both socially and academically, and the academic teaching is valuable in allowing curious thought, and engagement with important English and Mathematics material.
I joined the programme as a Lead Mentor as I felt welcomed by the staff, and I have built positive relations with the scholars'
University of Winchester First Star Scholars Lead Mentor, Jack Lowe
'Academic wise I have developed more confidence in myself, and I have learnt to not give up, you just have to keep going'
University of Winchester First Star scholar

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/collaborate/Widening-Participation/Military-Service-Children:
The University of Winchester is committed to supporting our armed forces community and to upholding the Armed Forces Covenant.
We lead a number of initiatives to support military personnel and their families and have been awarded the Armed Forces Covenant Employer Recognition Silver Award.
We are proud to be at the forefront of work recognising and supporting Service children.
Over the coming year, we aim to continue working with the Ministry of Defence and a range of other partners to support the educational progression of children from military families, sharing our research and resources across the sector, including leading the Service Children’s Progression (SCiP) Alliance .
Below is a snapshot of the initiatives and research that the University is currently undertaking to support our Armed Forces community:
We deliver a range of activity to support members of the Armed Forces community.
Service children are named as a target group within our Access and Participation Plan and are included within out wider access and outreach work, in addition to the specific activities listed below:
We host annual events for young people from service family backgrounds on campus during the Summer term of the school year.
These events see service children from local primary and secondary schools work with ambassadors to find out about what life at university might be like and share their experiences with peers from similar backgrounds.
At past events, pupils have developed ‘Top Tips’ for supporting service children and shared these with their teachers.
Hampshire County Council have also been involved in delivering CPD sessions for attending staff.
In partnership with Hampshire County Council, we have recently trialled a new model of collaborative activity for supporting service children across the region.
The Festival of Friends project was funded by the Armed Forces Covenant Fund and drew upon the expertise of staff across schools, the local authority and the University to focus on supporting the integration of service children into school communities.
Hampshire County Council led the establishment of a District Service Pupils Network, formed of ten school-based district co-ordinators across Hampshire and the Isle of Wight.
An awards scheme for school projects that supported service pupil integration was launched and promoted through this network which culminated in a celebration and awards event at the University.
As part of the project, the University has developed a toolkit for delivering a similar model of activity to the Festival of Friends.
View the Festival of Friends Toolkit .
For any further information regarding the University’s outreach for service children, please contact wp@winchester.ac.uk for more details.
Our Creative Forces Ambassadors support our many of activities with the Armed Forces community.
This paid employment opportunity is specifically for students from military service backgrounds (either personally or through family).
Our Ambassadors support events such as our annual Creative Forces for Service children and there are opportunities for Ambassadors to attend national conferences and key stakeholder events where they can share their experiences and opinions within wider discussions.
Armed Forces Day is an opportunity to celebrate and demonstrate support for the Armed Forces community.
We held our first annual Armed Forces Day celebration on campus in 2018 to raise awareness of the military community and the work that the University undertakes to support those associated with the Armed Forces.
In addition to raising awareness, staff undertook fundraising activities to support national and local military charities.
The University hosts the SCiP Alliance, a UK wide partnership funded by the MoD Directorate Children and Young People.
The Alliance works to improve educational outcomes for children from military families so that they can make informed and confident transitions through further and higher education into thriving adult lives and careers.
The SCiP Alliance draws expertise from further and higher education institutions, the Service Children in State Schools (SCiSS) network, military family federations, charities and local authorities and operates a UK wide network of regional hubs.
These regional hubs support professionals by linking them with events, resources, policy makers and the latest research.
For more information and to download resources visit the SCiP Alliance website .
We work closely with partners Hampshire County Council and is part of the Hampshire Civilian Military Partnership Education Sub-Group, chaired by HCC.
This Sub-Group draws together a range of partners and key stakeholders to develop practice and policy to support Service children.
The University has worked with Help for Heroes to establish an initiative to welcome wounded, injured and sick serving personnel and veterans to study undergraduate courses in archaeology.
The University was commissioned by the Ministry of Defence in 2016 to undertake research into Service children’s progression to HE.
This research sought to improve understanding of the factors that help or hinder Service children’s educational progression, so that future work is well targeted and achieves better outcomes by:
The research suggested that children from military service families are under-represented in the higher education population.
It is in the realm of up to 4 out of 10 children who, if in the general population would go to university, do not go if they are from a military family.
Read the full research paper .
The findings have precipitated some important impacts on policy and practice in the HE sector, not least the identification of Service children as a priority group for access by the Office for Students.
As a consequence, some 37 HE providers have committed to specific action regarding Service children in their 2019-20 access and participation plans.
The University continues to conduct research into the educational experiences of Service children as part of the Service Children’s Progression Alliance .
The University has also developed a variety of resources for schools and HE providers working with Service children.
The development of these resources was funded by the Ministry of Defence Directorate Children and Young People.
Information, worksheets, templates and practical advice on improving educational progression for children from military service families can be downloaded below for use with service children in schools or in University outreach.
Head of Participation and Success (Deputy Director Student Support and Success), Chair of the SCiP Alliance board
Corianne Gjertsen, Transition Coordinator & Student Advisor
Dr Michael Hall
Dr Amy Warhurst
Meet the SCiP Alliance team
Sophie Ellis
The influence of military culture and educational background on the post-sixteen educational decisions and experiences of students from military backgrounds in higher education

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/collaborate/Widening-Participation/Positive-Pathways-to-Higher-Education-for-Forces-Families:
The University of Winchester is widely recognised for its commitment to being an Armed Forces-friendly employer and the Ministry of Defence Employer Recognition Scheme Silver Award has been granted to the university for our support of the forces community and of the families of military personnel.
We are keen to support the continued learning of ex-forces, military families and reservists as they embark on the next stage of their career journey.
The 'Positive Pathways to HE' programme at the University of Winchester is a two-year long project under the EM3 Armed Forces Veterans and Families Programme which aims to support ex-forces, military families and reservists in exploring pathways into Further Education and Higher Education and build the skills and confidence to do so.
This programme will include targeted outreach activities and tailored transition support for participants, in partnership with the Forces Employment Charity
We are proud to be at the forefront of work recognising and supporting educational progression of military families, sharing our research and resources across the sector, including leading the Service Children’s Progression (SCiP) Alliance .
The programme draws upon our expertise in delivering higher level skills and our links with the SCiP Alliance Hubs and forces charities across the UK and local links with colleges, military basis and resettlement services already established at the University.
The coordination of the activity delivered in the Positive Pathways programme at the University, under the EM3 Armed Forces Veterans and Families Programme led by the Forces Employment Charity, is part funded by the European Social Fund, January 2021 – December 2024.
We spoke with current students who are from military families about their educational journey, how their background and experiences have helped them during their studies, the support available at university, and why individuals in military families should consider higher education as a pathway in their future.
Here’s what they shared with us:
"A huge part of being in the military is having discipline and this can be a huge advantage when coming to study at university.
Undertaking a degree requires a lot of work, and what separates outstanding students from ordinary ones is having that discipline and getting the job done."
"Although it seems that coming from a military background can be nothing but a disadvantage, those exact hardships forge the best and brightest of us and provide you with the skills necessary to help you get the most out of your degree."
"...one piece of advice that I would give my younger self, is to not carry the world on your shoulders.
There are people out there to help."
Corianne Gjertsen (Transition Coordinator and Student Advisor): Programme Coordinator
Sarah Harder-Collins (Head of Participation and Success): Co-Project Lead
Stella McKnight (Director for Employer Partnerships): Co-Project Lead
‘Thrilled to have delivered our first Forces Family Day at the University of Winchester .
A big thank you to our project partners at the Forces Employment Charity for such a wonderful presence and presentation at the event.
It was a pleasure to spend time with the Naval Children's Charity and the Naval Families Federation (NFF) , learning about all fantastic work that is going on in this community to support Forces families.'
‘A fantastic day at the Career Change and Apprenticeship Show in Andover with our Forces Employment Charity colleagues and partners of the EM3 Armed Forces Veterans and Families Programme.’
‘Bespoke support for young people’s positive pathways – a wonderful experience presenting a workshop with our programme partners, Forces Employment Charity , at the 2023 SCiP Alliance conference in Birmingham.
Great to see delegates enjoying discussing strategies for productive partnerships.’

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Press-Centre/Media-Articles/Is-Ukraine-war-undermining-Russias-powerbase-in-Eurasia.php:
Dr Sean P.
Roberts, a Senior Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at the University of Winchester, and Dr Ulrike Ziemer , Senior Lecturer in Sociology at the University of Winchester, look at the stress the invasion of Ukraine is putting on Russia’s relations with its regional partners.
On 7 September 2024, and with the backdrop of war in Ukraine, the Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO)—Russia’s equivalent of NATO—began military exercises in Kyrgyzstan.
While showcasing Russia’s regional leadership, these exercises also raise questions about the state of relations with close partners, in particular as Armenia—a long-standing CSTO member—refused to participate.
Overall, the Ukraine conflict has far-reaching implications for Russia’s regional leadership role; a role steadily rebuilt since 1991.
As argued below, conflict in Ukraine presents Russia’s regional allies with a certain cost-benefit dilemma, while reigniting older fears surrounding Moscow’s intentions.
Russian-led Eurasia refers to the group of post-Soviet states that have coalesced around Russia following the collapse of the USSR.
These states are most readily seen through regional organisations, such as the CSTO, but also the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU), launched in 2015 as an ambitious EU-style trading bloc.
Russia dominates these organisations through a form of consensual hegemony, providing member states with certain benefits in return for loyalty.
Today, Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Kyrgyzstan enjoy overlapping membership in both the CSTO and EAEU, constituting the core of Russian-led Eurasia, sharing a common history (Soviet), culture, and language (Russian).
Given these common attributes, it is perhaps not surprising that loyalty to Moscow has been evident throughout the Ukraine conflict.
While the international community has largely condemned Russia’s war of aggression, Russia’s regional partners have offered tacit political support.
UN voting records show Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Kyrgyzstan consistently abstaining or voting with Russia on key Ukraine resolutions.
In July 2024, for example, the UN General Assembly passed a resolution demanding the return of the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power plant to Ukrainian authorities.
Belarus voted against this resolution, while Armenia, Kazakhstan, and Kyrgyzstan abstained.
This pattern can be seen with all UN resolutions relating to Ukraine, including both the February 2022 invasion and the March 2014 annexation of Crimea.
In addition to political support, Russia’s close partners have (controversially) provided economic support.
There have been persistent reports that EAEU member states are helping Russia by-pass economic sanctions.
In 2022, an estimated US$1 billion in EU exports destined for Armenia, Kazakhstan, and Kyrgyzstan disappeared in transit through Russia.
By 2024, there were claims that Kyrgyz and Kazakh companies were aiding the war effort by supplying electronic components and even drones used by the Russian military in Ukraine.
The explanation for this support is logical when viewed from the perspective of security and economic dependence on Russia.
In January 2022, for example, just weeks before Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the Russian-led CSTO authorised its first ever deployment, sending troops to Kazakhstan in support of embattled president Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, in the face of civil unrest.
Moscow’s ability to provide but also withhold support to ruling groups is a key calculation underpinning regional support.
In the economic sphere, access to the huge Russian market of over 140 million people offers tangible incentives to partners.
This includes access to supply chains, infrastructure, and the Russian labour market.
To put this in perspective, in 2021, remittances from workers in Russia accounted for 30 percent of Kyrgyz GDP.
This access also extends to energy supply, where EAEU member states enjoy gas prices (according to Russian sources) 10 times lower than for EU member states.
Loyalty to Russia has concrete economic advantages that go some way in explaining the leader-follower dynamic.
Despite the tangible benefits of aligning with Russia, the process of re-building Russian-led Eurasia has been difficult.
For each step, Russia has needed to assure partner states that the pronounced power asymmetry between them (measured in terms of state size, and economic and military potential) poses no threat, meaning partners need to view Russian hegemony as benign; an enhancement rather than detriment to their sovereignty.
What is clear is that Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has changed the calculus.
At the surface level, the EU and US have repeatedly threatened to extend economic sanctions to include those helping Russia.
Indeed, in June 2024, Kazakh and Kyrgyz companies were included in over 300 fresh economic sanctions announced by the US Treasury Department.
However, at a deeper level, there is evidence that Russia’s partners—never completely sure of Russia’s intentions—are reassessing their relations.
In short, Russia’s readiness to dismember Ukraine has set a precedent.
Kazakhstan, for example, like Ukraine, has a large ethnic Russian population, and Russian leaders (as for Ukraine) have publicly questioned the legitimacy of Kazakh statehood.
There is also the problem of coordination.
Both the CSTO and EAEU continue to draw criticism from members over Russia’s readiness to ignore commitments.
In June 2024, for example, Armenian leader Nikol Pashinyan announced that his country would leave the CSTO.
While this is a rare public challenge to Russia’s authority, Pashinyan has repeatedly criticised Moscow over its lack of support in Armenia’s ongoing conflict with Azerbaijan.
Likewise, EAEU member states have voiced frustration at Moscow’s lack of consultation in key economic decisions.
In 2014, Russia imposed counter sanctions on European states without consulting partners.
This was also accompanied by a significant currency devaluation that forced both Belarus and Kazakhstan to follow suit.
In March 2022, the Russian government imposed a snap ban on the export of wheat (among other food stuffs), forcing panic buying in Armenia, Kazakhstan, and Kyrgyzstan, and creating a serious economic as well as food security impact.
Any close analysis of relations between Russia and regional partners reveals long-standing coordination problems, underpinned by a deep-seated lack of trust.
In this sense, Russia’s intervention in Ukraine has simply reignited older fears.
It is therefore unsurprising that Russia’s partners are actively using the few levers at their disposal to balance Russian influence.
In terms of internal balancing, some states have attempted to weaken the influence of Russian language, and thus Moscow’s information dominance.
In June 2024, Kazakhstan passed a media law prioritising Kazakh language over Russian for public information purposes.
This follows ongoing attempts to transition the Kazakh alphabet from Cyrillic to Latin.
In 2023, similar moves in Kyrgyzstan aimed at reducing the influence of Russian were labelled “discriminatory” by Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov.
In terms of external balancing or building relations with third states to counter Russian influence, there is less room to manoeuvre.
In recent years, Russia has pressured partners to limit bilateral relations with both the EU and US.
But this has not stopped Russia’s allies from promoting relations with other regional powers.
Kazakhstan, for one, has actively promoted the expansion of the EAEU as part of a “Greater Eurasia,” including deeper cooperation with China’s Belt-Road Initiative and an enhanced regional role for India.
In July 2024, Belarus joined the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO)—a China-led regional security bloc, that includes Russia, India, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
While this move strengthens Belarus sovereignty in the face of pressure along its Ukraine-NATO borders, it also represents a rare move by Belarus to mitigate Russian influence that has grown inexorably following the invasion of Ukraine.
In the final analysis, the future of Russia’s regional leadership is dependent on the outcome of the Ukraine war, but also the ability of Russia’s partners to “nest” Russian-led Eurasia within wider regional initiatives and “open up” the leadership space.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Public-engagement-with-Research/UoW-at-Winchester-Heritage-Open-Days:
University academics and students annually help to enrich the programme of events for Winchester Heritage Open Days, the annual celebration of local and regional history and culture.
We have a wealth of knowledge about the local and regional history, from the prehistoric, Roman and Anglo-Saxon periods to the Modern era.
Our Histor y and Archaeology experts have a well established tradition of contributing fascinating and engaging events.
Dive in and explore our programme of events for this year's festival.
Header image:
In November 2018 the University commemorated the 115 fallen World War I soldiers who are buried in Winchester's historic West Hill Cemetery, which is located adjacent to our campus.
A ceremony took place at the Cross of Sacrifice attended by University, local council, church and military representatives.
Afterwards the names of all the 115 men were displayed at the University, which also hosted a programme of talks and an exhibition on the history of the cemetery, now available as an online exhibition - see below.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Public-engagement-with-Research/Holocaust-Memorial-Day:
University staff and students have broad expertise and research interests in the study, education and representation of the Holocaust, and we annually mark Holocaust Memorial Day on and around 27 January.
University of Winchester staff and students have wide-ranging expertise and research interests around the important topic of the Holocaust.
Research in History focusses on memory and representation of this traumatic period of modern history, while research in Philosophy of Education concentrates on Holocaust education, young persons’ emotional engagement with the Holocaust and the role of women in Nazi Germany.
Staff and students work closely with external organisations such as the Holocaust Educational Trust and the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust, as well as museums such as the Imperial War Museum.
They have published extensively and developed teaching and museum resources.
Holocaust survivor Steven Frank was awarded an Honorary Fellowship by the University, has visited us and spoken to our students - the memorial tree he planted on our campus grounds several years ago is thriving.
To find out more about Steven, see below.
For HMD 2025, our staff, students and partners once again had a busy engagement programme.
Film Production students have been helping the inclusive Blue Apple Theatre company , which is based at the University, to make a video to mark HMD 2025 and the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau.
Journalism Student Francesca Pritchard has produced a video using archival footage provided by the Holocaust Memorials Trust's Lessons from Auschwitz project.
Find out more about our Lessons from Auschwitz collaboration .
Modern History student Raegan Kingett organised a roundtable discussion with leading interdisciplinary academics from the universities of Winchester and Southampton on the study of Genocide across the Twentieth Century.
Topics discussed were how Genocide is represented through Social Media, gender violence, and how we can best teach future generations of past Genocides and keep victims' stories alive.
The discussion is available as a podcast.
In the course of January, Dr Alasdair Richardson took part in a Parliamentary Reception with the Holocaust Educational Trust, was one of the speakers in a Holocaust Educational Trust webcast for schools, organisations and individuals, delivered the session ‘Teaching about the Holocaust in RE’ for Initial Teacher Education in Religious Education trainees across the South, participated in an HMD day for Year 9 pupils at Salesian College, Farnborough, and, with Dr Emily Stiles, delivered a talk for Year 9 pupils at Westgate School in Winchester.
On 5 February, Dr Alasdair Richardson and Dr Emily Stiles participated in a British & Irish Association for Holocaust Studies online conference.
Dr Stiles is the President and Dr Richardson is a Board member.
On 6 February, Dr Alasdair Richardson delivered a paper titled ‘ Looking, but choosing not to see – how educators manage self-care and wellbeing at sites of dark tourism ’ at an evening dedicated to exploring children's mental health and wellbeing at the University.
At this celebration of our ongoing collaborative work across the region with Children’s Mental Health, we welcomed speakers from the Universities of Winchester, Bournemouth and Gloucester and a local primary school teacher, as well as from our partner the children’s mental health charity Stormbreak.
On 18 February, Dr Alasdair Richardson delivered a session on visiting sites of dark tourism with young people at the Holocaust Educational Trust’s annual UK Residential for teachers.
To mark Holocaust Memorial Day 2023, Holocaust Education specialists Dr Alasdair Richardson and Cat Kirkland teamed up with two modern historians, Holocaust memory/representation expert Dr Emiliano Perra and museums specialist Dr Emily Stiles, for a panel discussion around the HMD 2023 theme of Ordinary People.
In a fascinating hour-long meeting of minds, they explored the concept of ordinariness in the context of total war, the ordinary vs the extraordinary, the role of iconic figures (both good and bad) in public perceptions of the Holocaust and in the curriculum, shifts in Holocaust Studies and Holocaust Education, perceptions of victims and perpetrators, and much more along the way.
Watch the full video below.
Background image: Holocaust experts Dr Emiliano Perra, Dr Emily Stiles, Dr Alasdair Richardson and Cat Kirkland explored Holocaust education and representation and the HMD 2023 theme 'Ordinary people' during a panel discussion.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Humanities-and-Social-Sciences/Research-projects/Medieval-Jewish-Winchester:
A collaborative project rediscovering Winchester's rich medieval Jewish history and heritage.
In the thirteenth century Winchester had a thriving Jewish community, concentrated in the area around the street known today as 'Jewry Street'.
However, in 1290 this prominent community was expelled from England, and mentions of it appear to have been wiped from the history books.
The Jews in medieval Winchester experienced increasing persecution in the 13th century; for example, Benedict, son of David of Oxford and the wealthy businesswoman Licoricia (known as 'Licoricia of Winchester') , was hanged for alleged felony, and the community was not given permission to bury him in the Jewish cemetery.
Since 2014, the University of Winchester has been supporting a local group that would like to see Winchester’s Jewish heritage promoted in the city’s museums and through dedicated visitor guides.
However, as the project explores a largely missing aspect of the city's past, rekindling it involves a great deal of detective work.
Initial investigations were carried out in 2014 by four student researchers from the departments of Theology, Religion & Philosophy , Archaeology & Anthropology , and History , as part of the University's WRAP (Winchester Research Apprenticeship Programme), alongside a local Jewish A level student.
The idea stemmed from a journal article* that contrasted the Jewish history of York with a dearth of such in Winchester.
*Griffiths, T.
2012, ‘The State of Jewish Memory in York and Winchester’, University of Potsdam, Institute for Jewish Studies; PaRDeS (2012) 18.-S.67-78
For all the latest event information, see below under the Public Engagement tab.
The map and summary walk leaflet are provided by Winchester City Council.
Find out more and download the Medieval Jewish Winchester trail map.
In adition to the map, a brochure containing further details on each of the locations in the walk has been developed.
Download the Medieval Jewish Winchester brochure or read it online.
We are extremely grateful to Charlotte Andrasi, Adele Beston, Tracey Churcher, Cader McPhail, Toni Griffiths, Rachel Carver, Dr Alex Langlands and Dr Katherine Weikert for helping with the research.
We are also extremely grateful to Danny Habel - see below.
The walk is dedicated to Jack and Gretel Habel, the parents of Winchester entrepreneur Danny Habel, who played a key role in the project.
Jack and Gretel fled Nazi Germany and found a home in Winchester.
Jack came to England on a special agricultural visa; he applied for his girlfriend Gretel to be allowed to join him and a few weeks later, in March 1939, she too left Berlin and arrived in England.
Jack rose to be chairman of the Chamber of Commerce and joined the Rotary; Gretel was on the committee of the Friends of Winchester Hospital and of VSO.
They married in May and were moved out of London to the Hampshire countryside to spend the war working the land to help feed the war effort.
For a young couple who had to leave behind absolutely everyone and everything they knew, going from Europe’s third largest city to a farm outside Winchester was a huge challenge.
At the end of the war, Jack began work for a haberdashery in Winchester, but after a few months there he decided to set up on his own, making mattresses and reconditioning upholstery.
Gretel had learnt skills from her mother who had been a seamstress in Germany so she was able to assist in the production in their small shop in Middle Brook Street, Winchester.
From these beginnings the Habel family became established and both Jack and Gretel became very active in community life in the city.
Gretel’s mother was one of a handful of Jews who survived the war in Berlin.
She came to Winchester in 1946 and lived with her daughter until her death in 1968.
Jack and Gretel's son Danny remained in Winchester to continue the family business.
Jack and Gretel Habel in 1939
Email us or contact Dr Christina Welch , Reader in Theology, Religion and Philosophy.
In addition to the map, a brochure containing further details on each of the locations in the walk has been developed.
Guided tours are given regularly .
The next one will be on 3 August - find out more .
21 May 2023: Licoricia of Winchester: Heritage and Memory of Medieval Anglo-Jewry
A collaborative event celebrating Licoricia of Winchester and Winchester's medieval Jewry, including a £5 walking tour and a free roundtable event.
23 April 2023: Licoricia of Winchester: Power and Prejudice in Medieval England: The Rise and Fall of a Remarkable Jewish Business Woman
A talk by Rebecca Abrams, author of Licoricia of Winchester: Power and Prejudice in Medieval England, as part of the University-sponsored Winchester Books Festival
30 May 2022: The role of money in Jewish-Christian relations, with guest speaker Professor Anna Sapir Abulafia.
A hybrid event in the University's Foundation Lectures series.
MJW guided tours took place in May 2019, and as part of the Winchester Heritage Open Days in Sept.
2019 and 2020.
ITV Meridian 4 Aug.
2015
Hampshire Chronicle April 2014

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Education-and-the-Arts/Research-Centres-and-Institutes-in-Education-and-the-Arts/create:
Uniting the broad range of research interests across Education and beyond
CREATE is a Research and Knowledge Exchange centre in the Faculty of Education and the Arts .
It brings together the broad range of expertise and research interests in educational theory, action research and practice that exists within and beyond the Faculty, for the advancement of excellent research with real-world impacts.
CREATE works closely with Winchester experts in related subject areas, as well as external experts.
For example, we work closely with the children’s mental health charity Stormbreak .
In Holocaust Education, we work with our partner the Holocaust Educational Trust, and we team up with our modern historians specialising in the Holocaust.
Refugee Education is an important strand in the work of the University of Sanctuary Network , which works closely with Winchester City of Sanctuary, and regional Universities and Schools of Sanctuary.
In Climate Education, we work with local and regional schools, and partners such as Gilbert White's House and Gardens and Winchester Action on Climate Change (WinACC).
We are a member institution of the UK Universities Climate Network.
CREATE organises collaboration sessions, undergraduate and postgraduate conferences, talks, seminars and public lectures, book launches, exhibitions and workshops, on topics as wide-ranging as film as education, creative pedagogies, privacy and education, AI and education, Holocaust education, refugee education, and sustainability in education.
Reflections on Digital Childhood and Future Wellbeing
14 May 2025, 16.30 -19.00.
The Stripe Auditorium, Sparkford Road, Winchester SO22 4NR
CREATE is delighted to invite you to a thought-provoking event that delves into the impact of digital technology on childhood and future wellbeing.
Click here for full details and booking information.
Early Years Cluster: Find out what's planned for 2025
Refugee Education Cluster: this cluster engages actively with national initiatives such as the annual World Refugee Week.
Find out what we have done and what's planned for 2025.
6 Feb 2025: Children's Mental Health Week 2025 event
An event to celebrate our ongoing collaborative work across the region with Children’s Mental Health.
We welcomed speakers from the Universities of Winchester, Bournemouth and Gloucester and a local primary school teacher, as well as from our partner the children’s mental health charity Stormbreak.
Like every year, we marked the annual Holocaust Memorial Day in January with a wide range of activities with our students, our colleagues in Modern History, regional schools and colleges and our external partners.
2024
On 16 May 2024, the Clusters for Philosophy of Education and History of Women's Education, sponsored by the Philosophy of Education Society of Great Britain, welcomed Andrew Cooper, Associate Professor of Philosophy at the University of Warwick, who presented a talk on Education and German Enlightenment.
He focussed on Amalia Holst, a school teacher from Hamburg who, at the turn of the 18th century, wrote an early defence of women's education that failed to gain traction in Germany at the time.
If you would like to find out more about CREATE, attend our events or collaborate with us, contact the Convener, Prof.
Wayne Vec k, or any of the strand leads.
For enquiries about business services such as CPD or consultancy, please contact Dr Rhiannon Love.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Humanities-and-Social-Sciences/Research-projects/creativity-collaborative:
Working with schools to enrich children's life chances by developing them into confident and creative problem-solvers.
In October 2021, Arts Council England launched a Creativity Collaboratives programme to build a network of schools across England focussed on developing and testing innovative approaches to teaching for creativity across the curriculum.
This £2,780,000 investment  funded eight collaboratives of schools, each working with a university partner over three years to develop approaches to teaching for creativity and collect evidence on the impact and value of teaching for creativity for children, schools and their communities.
The University of Winchester Academy Trust (UWINAT) Creativity Collaborative is one of these collaboratives.
The collaboratives are unified by two overarching aims:
Find out more about the programme
Read about the work of some of the collaboratives and the different approaches to teaching and learning for creativity.
Our aims and objectives
Our collaborative aims to enrich children's life chances by developing them into confident and creative problem-solvers, engaging them through authentic, meaningful problems, embedded in their schools and lives.
We passionately believe that creativity is a force that enables our learners to develop capabilities that will facilitate them to build successful and rewarding lives, as members of communities in an ever-changing world.
We further believe that creativity must not be limited to specific curriculum subjects and that success as a learner is not defined solely by traditional academic outcomes.
A driving principle underpinning the activities of our collaborative is that change needs to be systemic and multi-level.
Consequently, our project activities have included working with pre-service teachers in education, in-service teachers, headteachers and school leaders, governors and, of course, pupils.
Our work has been focussed around five interleaved streams of activity:
Context for creativity focusses on identifying barriers and enablers of learning and teaching for creativity in our participating schools and their interaction with inequality & disadvantage.
Knowledge for creativity focusses on building learners’, teachers’ and leaders’ knowledge and understanding of creativity.
Agency for creativity focusses on supporting learners and teachers to develop their sense of being able to be creative and to teach for creativity.
Pedagogies for creativity focusses on developing evidence-based pedagogies to foster creativity, working with teachers, and pre-service teachers undergoing initial teacher education.
Leadership for creativity focusses on effective leadership, governance, and collaboration strategies to grow a climate for creativity and sustainable change.
To assess the impact of our project activities we have deployed a range of research tools.
Questionnaires were administered, and interviews and focus groups took place, when each of our schools joined the collaborative.
These are being repeated part-way through and at the end of the project, to assess whether project activities result in measurable changes in the information gathered, thereby providing evidence of project impact.
For all the latest CC news and events, including our major impact report and case examples published in April 2025, explore our News and Events page .
University team
Research Leads: Professor Paul Sowden , Dr Marnie Seymour and Dr Frances Warren
Researchers-in-Residence: Mrs Sandra Mansfield, Mrs Clare Martin and Dr Ellen Spencer
Postdoctoral Research Fellow: Dr Jean-Christophe Goulet-Pelletier
Visiting Specialist: Dr Judy Waite
Schools team
Schools Lead: Mrs Nicola Wells, Co-Executive Leader, University of Winchester Academy Trust
School Creativity Champions:
Bronte Bailey, Stoneham Park Primary Academy
Kelly Sweetnam, Awbridge Primary School
Rebecca Hellings, Barton Farm Primary Academy
For more information on our collaborative, email us at uwinatcreativitycollaborative@winchester.ac.uk
We are currently working with:
Halterworth Primary School Awbridge Primary School Wellow Primary School Stoneham Park Primary Academy Barton Farm Primary Academy Orchard Infant School South Baddesley CE Primary School Droxford Junior School

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Humanities-and-Social-Sciences/Research-centres-groups-and-networks/ecrc:
A research and knowledge exchange centre working at the interface of social, community, health and occupational psychology.
The Engaging Communities Research Centre (ECRC) brings together researchers conducting innovative and world-leading research and knowledge exchange at the interface of social, community, health, and occupational psychology.
Our work seeks to makes a difference to communities and society, by developing psychologically and community-informed solutions to contemporary social issues.
Our aim is to build a research and evidence base that details the ways in which our actions and experiences and our health and wellbeing are not just determined by our individual psychologies but also by the social structures and systems in which we live.
The work of ECRC spans different contexts and communities worldwide, and we have a strong reputation for developing meaningful community involvement and engagement approaches, including amplifying marginalised or silenced voices.
Our work is challenge-led, arising from our strong collaborative partnerships with communities, the voluntary and community sector, health organisations and structures, local government, and other key stakeholders.
As a result, our research is informed, owned and used by our partners, feeding into collaborative research agendas, the development of interventions and solutions, and regional, national, and international policy agendas.
Our aim, then, is to apply our research to real-world challenges to maximise societal impact.
To achieve this, our work seeks to understand the psychological processes involved in the following research strands.
Raising Voices in Research
The ECRC is the lead academic partner for Raising Voices in Research.
This NHS REND-funded programme aims to support underserved communities to increase their engagement with health and social care research, through partnership with voluntary, community and social enterprise (VCSE) organisations who are engaged or embedded in, or led by those communities.
The ECRC has led the programme evaluation, Researcher Development Training, has facilitated community and academic researcher collaboration sandpits, as well as supporting the broader project activities.
For more information, visit the Raising Voices in Research website .
Research Training to improve diversity, inclusion and participation in research
We have developed a series of training for community, academic and public researchers to aid the diversity and inclusion of applied research.
The training has been co-produced with input from community representatives and builds on the findings from the Raising Voices in Research project.
Training can be provided to groups and organisations.
We can provide bespoke tailored workshops depending on your requirements.
Please contact us to discuss your training needs.
Imposter Participants in Qualitative Research
Maintaining the integrity of applied research is important to ensure the voices of individuals and communities are heard and not misrepresented.
In recent years, a phenomenon of individuals falsely representing themselves in research has arisen.
This research aims to understand the impact and drivers of this issue and create solutions to mitigate the problem.
Research methods and approaches to working with small, marginalised, unique or novel populations
Metrics-driven approaches to evaluation of work with small and/or marginalised populations can include quantitative data.
However, given the nature of these populations, the effective measurement and analysis of such data can prove challenging in the context of inferential statistics.
We are interested in ways in which we can analyse such data in the most informative way possible.
Social connectedness is the extent to which individuals and groups feel connected to, and supported by, the people, places and organisations around them.
The presence, or not, of social connection is known to influence many aspects including individual and community health and wellbeing, social integration and engagement.
Research currently undertaken by the ECRC in this area comprises:
Social influences and outcomes on mental health and wellbeing
Personality traits related to disorders such as schizophrenia, OCD, depression and anxiety affect an individual's social interactions through social withdrawal, anxiety in social situations, and social isolation, which in turn can help maintain poor wellbeing and negative life experiences.
We are interested in how these factors are related to one another conceptually and methodologically.
For example, we have recently published research into how sub-factors of schizotypy might relate to different types of loneliness using dominance analysis.
Volunteering and civic participation
In this work, we explore how psychologically meaningful social group memberships (e.g.
to family, community, volunteering group) can be developed to help people feel socially connected (and less lonely), and what is needed improve this work.
This ongoing work is connected to the Volunteering Research Hub , a collaborative partnership looking at ways to build sustainable communities.
Community interventions to alleviate loneliness
Loneliness is more than an individual phenomenon.
It sits at the intersection of individuals, groups, communities, infrastructure and policies, and this makes it hard to know how these can translate into interventions that work.
We are interested in complex and community-based interventions that can work in this space.
For example, we recently evaluated a community transport initiative that looked to address loneliness in vulnerable older adult communities.
Another example is a research project looking at how marginalised communities view and use community assets/spaces to support social connectedness.
The aim of this research is to look at ways social connection can be improved, what can be done to bridge gaps between community assets and marginalised groups - are interventions needed that can help communities see community spaces as 'theirs' and improve their feelings of social connection?
Work is the single most time-consuming aspect of most people's lives, providing a sense of purpose and agency over the adult lifespan.
It should be an enriching experience and a force for good.
Our Future of Work project encompasses three complementary areas that are compatible with the social connectedness research of the ECRC and centre around enhancing productivity by improving the lived experience of work for individuals and teams:
‘The New normal’ and the future of the office
The pandemic has irrevocably shifted many people’s perception of ‘good work’ and how they intend to integrate work within their holistic lives.
Our research and consultancy focusses on helping organisations, teams and individuals successfully navigate the post-pandemic ‘new normal’ of dispersed and hybrid working.
For example, our recent research with desk workers identified several performance risks associated with return to the office schemes.
Our research insights help us build sustainable, positive and evidence-based solutions that enhance productivity and wellbeing.
These can include reimagining leadership and the leader role, redesigning office spaces, promoting creativity and performance in dispersed teams, and driving performance through social connectedness.
Leading authentically
Authentic leadership and genuine work relationships are key performance drivers that strengthen social connectedness and foster collaboration.
Our research is helping identify how leaders can develop authentic connections to create high performing teams.
Women in Leadership
Women face additional barriers to progression.
Our Women in Leadership research focusses on understanding women’s lived experiences of leadership to better enable them to work and lead authentically.
Graduate employability
Developing employable graduates is a key imperative for universities, but employer concerns around the graduate skills gap persist.
The focus of employability provision on the development of a generic set of transferable skills does little to improve social mobility and help young people find personally meaningful careers.
Since 2018, we have been undertaking pedagogical research with undergraduate students to develop a holistic, identity-centred approach to employability that can transform student learning and reduce the graduate skills gap by developing meta-competencies better suited to fluid, protean careers.
Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (enlarged prostate) is a condition affecting approx.
3 million men in the UK.
For this project, we have been working with NHS partners and patients to understand existing provision, processes and patient experience of surgical treatment for the condition.
The work is leading towards the development of an intervention for use in clinical consultations to support and improve men’s surgical treatment decision-making for this condition.
Take part
Do you suffer from BPH (Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia), or an enlarged prostate?
We would like to hear from men with BPH who are willing to share their stories of how they chose their treatment and how it has affected their lives.
Dr Margaret Husted and Dr Lynn McKeague in collaboration with Dr Tamara Everington, Clinical Psychologist at Basingstoke Hospital (HHFT)
This research is adding to our understanding of chronic pain in people with Haemophilia, particularly the influence of pain memories and traumatic experiences, which can impact on individuals’ wellbeing, quality of life and treatment experience.
The work is looking to generate knowledge and recommendations for practice with a goal of driving improvements in service delivery and care.
Academic staff:
Dr Margaret Husted , Centre lead, Reader in Psychology and Chartered Health Psychologist
Dr Kim Bradley-Cole , Chartered Occupational Psychologist and Senior Lecturer in Psychology
Dr Jordan Randell , Senior Lecturer in Psychology
Dr Rhiannon Jones , Senior Lecturer in Psychology
Debra Gray, Professor of Social Psychology (Kingston University), ECRC Co-Founder.
PhD researchers:
Paula Glover
Amanda Hobbs
Charlotte Hollands
Stewart Keating
Anna Wells
Latest news
Feb 2025
ECRC research student Paul Glover asks: are we getting the most out of Employer-Supported Volunteering?
Read the full story and discover Paula's PhD research.
Psychology research
Public engagement with Research

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Law-Crime-and-Justice/Centre-for-Information-Rights/CIR-Generation-Tagged-Projects:
But at what cost?
Generation Tagged explores the medium- and long-term effects on young people of their depiction as children in broadcast and social media, and the legal and ethical implications.
​The project is run by the Centre for Information Rights , part of Law at Winchester .
The growth in the use of social media platforms such as (e.g.
Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube) which has been accompanied by instances of parents exposing the daily lives of their own very young children, often for financial gain, through ‘vlogging’ activities on sites such as YouTube Families.
Some parents are prepared to go to extreme lengths in order to increase the number of ‘hits’ and thus the revenue received from associated advertising and product placement.
Over the last decade or so there has been a significant growth in the number of very young children depicted on broadcast media at the instigation of adults.
Reality programmes such as Channel 4’s ‘The Secret Lives of 4-year-olds’ are illustrative of this.
These programmes are routinely accompanied by live audience interaction via Twitter enabling the viewing public to pass unedited comment about the young child participants.
The focus of the research is the lack of any robust regulatory framework to protect the children involved.
The purpose of the project is to find out how young people feel about their participation in a reality television programme as children.
For example, we are interested in knowing more about the information they were given at the time, their experience of the process at the time, whether their consent was sought, whether they feel they benefited from the experience, and how they feel about their privacy and about any comments that were made on social media.
The project aims to interview older children who were involved in reality television programmes at a young age (and the parents/guardians of those children).
Below you will find information for young people and their parents/guardians who are interested in being involved in the project.
The aim is to publish this research, which also forms a REF Impact Case Study.
Visit the University's REF 2021 page and the Centre for Information Rights page to find out more about the wide-ranging impact this research has achieved.
Principal Investigator: Dr Emma Nottingham, Senior Lecturer in Child and Family Law and Director of the Centre for Information Rights
Co-Investigator: Marion Oswald , Founder and former Director, Centre for Information Rights
Before you decide to participate, it is important you understand what the project involves and what you will be asked to do.
If you are under 18 years old, it is important that both you and your parent(s)/guardian(s) agree to the research.
If you would like to participate in the research project, please contact the Principal Investigator .
She will send you a stamped addressed envelope to return the completed consent form.
The form, as well as an information sheet, are available for download below.
Taking part in the study is entirely voluntary and you are free to withdraw at any time without giving a reason and without penalty or disadvantage.
You are free to decline to answer particular questions.
You can ask for your information to be removed from the project for a period of 3 months from the interview, unless it is no longer practical to do so (for example we have already written up the report).
If you decide to participate in the study, you will be invited to participate in a face-to-face interview with the research team at a location of your choice.
This interview is likely to last between 1 and 2 hours.
The young person and his/her parent(s)/guardian(s) can decide whether to have separate interviews or a joint interview.
We do not expect there to be any risks associated with the interviews.
We will take written notes during the interview and will ask for your consent to make a digital audio recording.
The records of this study will be kept confidential.
Electronic copies of the written notes and the digital audio recordings will be stored in a password protected file in a password-protected part of the researchers' online storage behind the University's firewall.
Any hard copy notes that are retained will be stored in a secure cabinet on University premises.
We will not include any information in any report we may publish that would make it possible to identify the young person or the parent(s)/guardian(s).
We may wish to give academic researchers outside this team access to your interview notes but they will not be given your identity.
All team members have current and relevant criminal records disclosure certificates, which we can produce upon request.
The project has been approved by the University’s Ethics Committee process (reference: RKEEC16013).
If you feel there is something wrong about the study, you can contact either the Principal Investigator or the Chair of the University Ethics Committee on by emailing ethics1@winchester.ac.uk.
You have the right to ask questions about this research study and to have those questions answered before, during or after the research.
If you have any further questions about the study at any time, feel free to contact the Principal Investigator.
You can request a summary of the results of the study.
Your signature on the consent form indicates that you have decided to participate as a research subject for this study, and that you have read and understood the information provided above.
If you are a parent/guardian, your signature on the consent form also indicates that you have decided to allow your child to participate.
You will be given a signed and dated copy of the consent form to keep, along with a copy of the information sheet.
If you incur any expenses as a result of participating in the project (for example travel expenses), you will be reimbursed.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Press-Centre/Media-Articles/Researchers-seek-the-personal-stories-of-prostate-condition-which-affects-3-million-UK-men.php:
A research team led by Dr Margaret Husted from the University of Winchester is conducting research into a medical condition which affects huge section of the male population over the age of 50.
Around three million men in the UK suffer from BPH (Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia) or an enlarged prostate.
Many are relieved they haven’t got prostate cancer, but the condition can still have many painful side effects, psychological and social as well as medical.
Now the University is asking for men with BPH to share their stories of how they chose their treatment and how it has affected their lives.
The most common symptoms of BHP are difficulty in passing water, a frequent need to urinate and difficulty in fully emptying the bladder.
However, as Post-Doctoral Researcher Dr Andrew Marren of the University of Winchester explained there are many other problems beyond the bathroom.
“There are lots of issues relating to BPH which can affect men’s quality of life,” he explained.
But this is a very under-researched area.
“Some men suffer from lack of sleep because they have to keep getting up in the night which affects their work.
“Others worry about loss of libido and sexual function if they undergo surgery.
Some men simply start to drink too little because they are worried they will have to go to the toilet or change plans due to limited toilet access.”
There are a range of lifestyle changes as well as medicines and surgical options to tackle BPH, depending on how badly the symptoms are affecting the sufferer.
The Winchester studies will ask men what factors they considered when they chose their treatment paths and how the treatment and the condition has impacted their lives.
The team are looking for men who are waiting for a surgical BPH treatments as well as men who are around 2-6 months post (after) surgical treatment for BPH about how treatment has impacted their lives.
Both studies should take around 60 minutes to complete.
The study, conducted in conjunction with Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation, is funded by The Urology Foundation and the The Sir James Ratcliffe Charitable Foundation.
Chief Executive of the Urology Foundation, Rebecca Porta said : “We firmly believe that research is key to addressing urology diseases like BPH.
We are committed to seeking interventions that help to improve outcomes for those who experience an enlarged prostate both now and in the future.
"We know that many males will experience an enlarged prostate, particularly as they get older.
We also recognise the significant impact this can have on a person’s quality of life.
We were delighted to fund this important research into enlarged prostate, which is looking to understand what patients consider to be ‘good improvements’ following surgery.
This will help to inform decision making processes and will mean that patients and clinicians can come to the most appropriate decisions for the individual.
We look forward to seeing the outcomes of this much-needed research.”
Anyone wishing to take part in the study can email andrew.marren@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Leggatt.php:
01962 675188
Matthew Leggatt is Senior Lecturer in English and American Literature at the University of Winchester where he has been teaching since 2013.
He is the author of two monographs, Play in Utopian and Dystopian Fiction (Liverpool University Press, 2025) and Cultural and Political Nostalgia in the Age of Terror (Routledge, 2018), and editor of two collected volumes: Was it Yesterday?
Nostalgia in Contemporary Film and Television (SUNY Press, 2021), and the forthcoming Wastelands and Wonderlands: Essays on Utopian and Dystopian Film and Literature (SUNY Press, 2026).
Besides this he has published numerous book chapters and journal articles and co-hosts the Utopian and Dystopian Fictions podcast which can be found on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and YouTube.
Before joining Winchester, he taught English for Academic Purposes at the University of Southampton where he also completed his PhD.
Matthew has been interviewed for the Boston Globe, Business Insider , and has written for The Conversation.
He is also co-editor of the Contemporary: Other Voices, Other Data section of Literature Compass Journal and sits on the Advisory Board for the Journal of Artistic Creation and Literary Research.
He has reviewed for Interdisciplinary Literary Studies Journal, Journal of Popular Film and Religion, Journal of Popular Film and Television, Utopian Studies Journal, Continuum , SUNY Press, Anthem Press, Bloomsbury, and Routledge.
9/11, Terror, Nostalgia, Utopia and Dystopia, Postmodernism and Modernism, 20th and 21st Century American Popular Culture, Literature, Film, and Television.
Monographs
Play in Utopian and Dystopian Fiction (Liverpool University Press, 2025)
Cultural and Political Nostalgia in the Age of Terror: The Melancholic Sublime (Routledge, 2018).
Edited collections
Forthcoming: Wastelands and Wonderlands: Essays on Utopian and Dystopian Film and Literature (SUNY Press, 2026).
Was it Yesterday?
Nostalgia in Contemporary Film and Television (SUNY Press, 2022).
Journal articles
Betty Knight and Matthew Leggatt, 'Daughters of the Dust: 'Rephrasing the African American Experience in Julie Dash’s Film and Novel of the Same Name', Journal of Popular Film and Television (July 2025), https://doi.org/10.1080/01956051.2025.2517586
'Hollow pursuits: Desire, therapy, and 'play' on Star Trek: The Next Generation's holodeck' Eludamos: Journal for Computer Game Culture, vol.
16.1 (2025) DOI: https://doi.org/10.7557/23.7846.
'"Another World Just out of Sight": Remembering or Imagining Utopia in Emily St.
John Mandel's Station Eleven' Open Library of Humanities : Vol.
4.2 Aug 2018.
DOI: http://doi.org/10.16995/olh.256
Deflecting Absence: 9/11 Fiction and the Memorialization of Change Interdisciplinary Literary Studies Journal : Vol.
18.2 June 2016.
'You’ve Gotta Keep the Faith: Making Sense of Disaster in Post 9/11 Apocalyptic Cinema' Journal of Religion & Film : Vol.
19.2 Oct 2015.
Book chapters
"Fungal Imaginaries: The Reconfiguration of Post-Pandemic Society in Severance and The Last of Us," in: Utopian and Dystopian Explorations of Pandemics and Ecological Breakdown: Entangled Futurities , edited by Heather Alberro, Emrah Atasoy, Norah Castle, Rhiannon Firth and Conrad Scott, 69-80 (Routledge, 2024).
DOI: 10.4324/9781003345770-7.
Read it online.
"It's All Fun and Games: Countering the Boring Dystopia with the Exciting Utopia," in: Utopian Possibilities: Methods, Theories, Critiques , ed.
Liam Benison, 209-216 (University of Porto Press, 2023).
" The Pencil is Mightier Than the Kalashnikov: What Cartoons Can Tell Us About Our (Mis)understanding of Terrorist Acts in the Wake of the Charlie Hebdo Massacre," Mediated Terrorism in the 21st Century , eds.
Elena Caoduro, Karen Randell, and Karen Ritzenhoff, 159-179 (Palgrave, 2021).
"Introduction: History in Reverse," Was it Yesterday?
Nostalgia in Contemporary Film and Television , ed.
Matthew Leggatt, 1-11 (SUNY Press, 2021).
""Why Can't We Go Backwards, for Once?" Nostalgia, Utopia, and Science Fiction in Steven Spielberg's Ready Player One ," Was it Yesterday?
Matthew Leggatt, 179-195 (SUNY Press, 2021).
""We Delivered the Bomb": On Jaws , Guilt, and the Atomic Myth," The Jaws Book: New Perspectives on the Classic Summer Blockbuster , ed.
IQ Hunter and Matt Melia, 161-172 (Bloomsbury, 2020).
Melancholic and Hungry Games: Post 9/11 Cinema and the Culture of Apocalypse, Popping Culture 7th Edition , ed.
Murray Pomerance and John Sakeris, (Boston: Pearson Learning Solutions, 2012).
Book reviews
"The Future of the Book: Images of Reading in the American Utopian Novel (Review)," Utopian Studie s, 34 (3), 601-605, Nov 1, 2023.
"Arcadian: Nicolas Cage's post-apocalyptic pastoral is a beautiful mess," The Conversation, June 13th 2024: Arcadian: Nicolas Cage’s post-apocalyptic pastoral is a beautiful mess (theconversation.com).
Recent conference/symposium papers
Keynote Address: "Deadly Dystopian Play" at the Mediating Violence: Popular Culture and Contemporary Adaptations International Conference (June 2025) in Osijek, Croatia.
Association of Adaptation Studies Annual Conference, Birmingham University, UK, " Daughters of the Dust - Rephrasing the African American Experience in Julie Dash's Movie and Novel of the Same Name," June 2023.
Utopian Studies Society Europe Annual Conference (online), "It’s All Fun and Games: Countering the Boring Dystopia with the Exciting Utopia," December 2021.
UDC annual conference (online), Mask the Past, Mask the Future: The Dangers of Prosthetic Memory and Nostalgia in Steven Spielberg's Ready Player One , June 2021.
SCMS annual conference (online), A Stranger Sort of Nostalgia: Texture, Prosthesis, and Politics, March, 2021.
SCMS annual conference, Toronto, CA.
"Utopia and Matriarchy in an Exhausted Future: Ben Wheatley's High-Rise (2015), March, 2018.
Symposium on Terror, War, and Trauma (London).
Panel chair and gave paper: The Architecture of Terror: From the Rubble of the World Trade Center to the Ruins of Palmyra, May 18, 2017.
SCMS annual conference, Chicago, IL.
Panel chair and gave paper: Cold War Nostalgia in Contemporary Television Series (and why it’s not all just politics), March 22, 2017.
JAWS symposium at De Montfort University, Leicester.
Staring into those Black Eyes: Jaws and Nostalgia for the Mechanical Sublime 17/6/2015.
SCMS annual conference, Boston, MA.
The Culture of Apocalypse in Post 9/11 Cinema, March 25, 2012.
Utopian and Dystopian Fiction, Nostalgia, Terrorism, 20th and 21st century American Literature and Film
Funding awards
AHRC PhD scholarship (2010-2013)
Fellow of the Higher Education Academy
SCMS Member

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Nicolson.php:
Caroline registered as a Social Worker in 2008 and worked predominantly within children and families local authority practice.
Caroline’s roles included social worker within an assessment team, as well as an assistant team manager of a team supporting children in need and child subject to child protection plans.
Caroline worked within a workforce development team particularly focusing upon support provided to newly qualitied social workers throughout their assessed and supported year in employment.
Caroline is a qualified Practice Educator and has a keen interest in how supervision and 1:1 support can enhance the experience of social work practitioners.
Prior to joining the university of Winchester in 2022, Caroline obtained experience of strategic development looking at service improvement across a range of Local Authorities.
Since joining the University Caroline teaches across the Social work programmes and is the Programme Lead for the Step-up Programme.
Caroline obtained HE Fellowship in August 2024 and is looking forward to further opportunities to enhance her practice.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Stiles.php:
As a Senior Lecturer in Modern History at the University of Winchester I have a range of teaching interests, focussing (mainly) on Britain and Europe from the Enlightenment to the present day.
I specialise in history and memory of the Holocaust, Jewish history, and cultural memories of war, conflict and forced migration.
My research explores these areas largely through the lens of heritage, memorialisation and commemoration, with my first book, Holocaust Memory and National Museums in Britain .
In 2015-16 I co-wrote the concept paper for the United Kingdom Holocaust Memorial and Learning Centre , which detailed British links to the Holocaust.
My contribution provided a narrative framework for the Learning Centre, emphasising the theme of Britain and the Holocaust.
After undertaking a degree in Media and Cultural Studies at the University of Surrey, Roehampton, I worked in media industries (BBC and GCap Media) before returning to academia to further develop my passion for history.
After completing an MA in History at the University of Southampton, I moved to the University of Winchester to gain a PhD exploring narrative, object and testimony within the Imperial War Museum Holocaust Exhibition.
This formed the foundation of my book, developed further through work with the UK Holocaust Memorial.
My latest research looks at expressions of power within museum narratives of forced migration.
Books
Holocaust Memory and National Museums in Britain (Palgrave Macmillan ‘Holocaust and its Contexts’ series, 2021).
In preparation.
‘Narratives of Hope, Vulnerability and Contribution: Britain’s ‘Myth of Hospitality’ and the Conceptualisation of Forced Migrants in Museums of the Holocaust and Migration’.
Conference presentations
Narratives of Hope, Vulnerability and Contribution: Britain’s ‘Myth of Hospitality’ and the Conceptualisation of Forced Migrants in Museums of the Holocaust and Migration.
Narratives of the Holocaust, BAHS conference, University of Roehampton.
2019.
’You have got a swarm of people coming across the Mediterranean, seeking a better life [] but we need to protect our borders’: Mobilising Holocaust Memory in Twenty-First Century Britain.
Lessons and Legacies Conference on the Holocaust XV, Washington University in St.
Louis, USA.
2018.
"Holocaust Testimonies in Education and Memory: Beyond the Survivor".
Holocaust Testimonies IV , Western Galilee College, Akko, Israel.
2016.
"'...
the dissection table would be because of its concreteness, a very suitable exhibit': The Holocaust object as palimpsest." Another Time, Another Place?
Challenges in commemorating, teaching and researching the Holocaust 70 years on , BAHS conference, University of Birmingham.
2015.
"Narrative, Object, Witness: The Holocaust as told by the Imperial War Museum Holocaust Exhibition." Britain and the Holocaust , BAHS conference, University of Edinburgh.
2014.
they slept naked, in spite of the bitter cold, in cots filled with straw': The place of the Holocaust in a former 'lunatic' asylum." The Future of Holocaust Studies , University of Southampton/University of Winchester.
2013.
"'...the evil they helped to defeat': Exhibiting the Holocaust in Britain's national museum of modern conflict." The Second International Graduate Students' Conference for Holocaust and Genocide Studies , Clark University, Worcester, MA, USA.
2012.
"The Construction of Memory in a Local Context: An analysis of Holocaust museums and their meanings." Jewishness in Contemporary Culture , Institute of SWPS, Warsaw.
2010.
"Auschwitz in the Museum: Constructions of Holocaust memory in Poland." Researching the Holocaust: A Jewish Identities Colloquium , University of Winchester.
President of the British and Irish Association for Holocaust Studies
Member of the Modern History Research Centre
Fellow of Higher Education Academy (FHEA)

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Our-future/Strategic-Plan:
Our strategic plan is all about transformation.
Transforming how we teach and inspire our students.
Transforming how we operate and work together.
Transforming how we work in partnership across our city and region.
This strategic plan is all about transformation.
At its core is our mission to provide transformational education and opportunities for our students.
The seismic events of the past few years have changed the way we think about life and learning.
The next five years are likely to be a time of national and global challenge and change.
We are living in a time of significant economic uncertainty; the realities of climate change; shifting political sands and a pervading sense of social unease and anxiety.
Universities have a key role to play in responding to this with creativity and integrity and a responsibility to ensure that graduates are enthusiastic about their future and well-equipped to succeed.
Although the external environment may be in flux, our unwavering priority, as always, is the success of our students.
This plan sets out a clear direction of travel for the University over the next few years, to enable us to navigate the external challenges ahead and to strengthen and develop the way in which we ensure that our students flourish and succeed.
In the next five years, we will grow the impact of the University’s transformational education by ensuring that graduates have the skills that they need to live successful and meaningful lives.
This will include offering interesting and relevant courses to sustain their love of subject and to stretch them intellectually, whilst embedding the skills that they need to be successful in employment and beyond.
The next five years will see the expansion of our professional education and postgraduate taught provision – responding to regional needs, working in partnership with employers – and an unwavering focus on quality.
To succeed in this endeavour, we need a clearly articulated focus to ensure that our courses, campus and culture can deliver the outstanding experience that we want for our students and achieve positive results for the regional economy and wider society.
The next few years will require us to refocus on delivering transformational education that sets our students up for success and responds purposefully to local needs.
Over the next five years, we will rebuild confidence in ourselves and our students as we emerge from the global pandemic.
We will adapt to the new ways of working we encountered during that time, capturing the benefits of the flexibility that brought us, whilst recommitting to the fundamental importance of human connection, face to face teaching and student support and working alongside our colleagues.
This plan will also allow us to work with and for our students, supporting them to acquire the skills needed to thrive and succeed in the as yet unimagined jobs of the future.
This plan has been developed in partnership with staff, students and external partners.
It encompasses and builds on everything that this institution has already achieved over the past 180 years.
Our previous strategic plan had, as its primary focus, the important work that needed to be done to profile and progress the issues of sustainability and social justice.
This work is now well and truly embedded in everything that we do and will continue to be an important part of our educational mission, woven into the detailed enabling strategies that will underpin this plan.
Above all, this plan is intended to give focus and clarity, anchoring the University community in a shared sense of purpose and direction.
The core focus of this strategic plan is to be clear about what we need to do in order to provide a transformational education for our students – delivering an exceptional education, environment and experience for our students, instilling in them a love of learning and preparing them for meaningful and successful lives.
It will be underpinned by a clear map for growth for the University; to identify and develop new subject areas; build our profile across the UK and globally and embrace new ways of delivery and partnership working.
This is such an exciting moment for the University, as we stand on the firm foundations of our past to reach into a future which will allow us to transform more lives through education, transform the way we work together and transform the communities which we serve.
I look forward to working together as a community with the shared determination to make it happen.
Professor Sarah Greer, Vice-Chancellor
The core focus of this plan is to deliver an exceptional education, environment and experience for our students, instilling in them a love of learning and preparing them for meaningful and successful lives.
Our reimagined values reflect our past and speak to our future.
It is shaped by our original mission – to educate, advance knowledge and serve the common good – and it is guided by our reimagined values.
It focuses on the importance of people, place and partnerships in delivering our mission.
We seek to understand the perspectives of others and we welcome respectful debate, listening to views which may differ from our own with interest and defending our own with reason and humanity.
We are recommitting to our original mission and core purpose: to educate, to advance knowledge and to serve the common good.
We will develop a Winchester student experience which is recognisable for its quality and consistency across the University.
Every student should enjoy a dynamic and interesting active learning experience, underpinned by the unique characteristics and requirements of each subject discipline.
We will enhance our reputation for teaching excellence by refining the balance of support and challenge to ensure that our students develop as independent learners.
We will support timely and effective professional development for staff, to help them grow as reflective practitioners with a clear understanding of the educational gains that we expect our students to achieve and enjoy at each stage of their university journey.
We will map out for our students the possibilities and opportunities that higher education creates.
We will provide them with a clearly articulated route through higher education, and into the world of work, developing their love of learning and supporting them in their career aspirations, whether in employment or self-employment.
This will include a focused suite of high quality, flexibly delivered postgraduate taught courses, onto which our students can progress from their undergraduate study.
Skills development, including the development of both subject specific and soft skills, will be embedded in every academic course.
We will shape our approach to developing and delivering our courses to ensure that studentsare in the best possible place to go on to succeed in their chosen career, and live a life full of meaning and purpose.
We will work to develop the best of the digital environment to enrich our students’ opportunities to learn and build the digital capabilities and cognitive flexibility that will allow them to adapt and thrive in the ever-changing world.
Our graduates will be ready for the evolution of the future workplace and able to seize opportunities presented by the changing economy, green jobs and digital advances.
We will continually evolve the ways in which we engage with our students to build up a sense of learning as a shared endeavour.
We will offer opportunities for our students to explore their subject interests and their interest in the wider world, as part of our approach to support and develop the ‘whole person’.
Working closely with employers, we will further develop our offering of professional education, to meet regional needs.
This will include introducing new subject areas, as well as growing and investing in existing courses.
We will seek to grow and diversify our University community, offering opportunities for home students to explore other countries and cultures and increasing the opportunities for international students to work and study with us.
We will build closer relationships with a small number of high-quality international institutions in order to grow our international profile and offering.
Building on the successful outcome of the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021, we will focus on developing and investing in existing areas of research excellence.
Through an enhanced research infrastructure, a targeted staff recruitment strategy and streamlined process, we will ensure the submission of the highest possible research outputs and impact case studies to the next REF.
All of our research will underpin excellent teaching.
Our research will inspire and inform our students at all levels, and will contribute to the University’s ‘whole person’ approach to higher education.
Through our course approval process, we will ensure that our undergraduate and postgraduate students at every academic level have the opportunity to engage with current, relevant research and that we work with them to develop their own research skills to equip them for their future careers.
We will further develop the Winchester Research Apprenticeship Placements programme, funding undergraduate students to work with academics on their research.
We will increase doctoral student recruitment in areas of research strength and offer a small number of targeted doctoral scholarships in areas of research excellence.
We will improve completion rates in all areas.
We will significantly grow our external research grant income, contract research and consultancy and CPD income, together with our innovation and consultancy work in order to broaden our impact in the community and ensure income diversification and financial sustainability.
Our research focus will support our development of professional education at the University, and where appropriate we will develop new areas of applied research, which will contribute to our mission to serve the common good.
We were founded in 1840 by the Church of England to change the world through education.
Our foundation values and mission are still at the heart of who we are and what we do.
We are in the top 100 universities in the world for reducing inequalities and we are proud to be a University of Sanctuary, providing educational opportunities for some of those students seeking refuge from war and conflict.
We will continue to serve in this way, building philanthropic giving from alumni and others to support us in this important work and to help us grow it.
We believe that anybody with the ability to succeed with hard work and effort should be given the opportunity to benefit from higher education, and should not be held back by their circumstances.
We will continue with our mission to change the world through education, because we know that it improves the lives of our students, their families and their wider communities.
At the University of Winchester we want to see our city and surrounding area grow and flourish.
We will work closely with and for the community and our partners to support our collective vision for Winchester.
We will make an ever-greater contribution as an anchor institution in the city to help meet the needs and aspirations of local communities and support economic growth.
We will work with partners to support economic prosperity, grow graduates who meet workforce needs, and develop a vibrant and entrepreneurial business community and a flourishing cultural life.
We will work hard to ensure that the University of Winchester is a great place to study and work.
Our community of students and staff will be diverse, inclusive and welcoming, recognising and valuing the contribution that every person makes to it.
We will continue to develop our ‘whole person’ approach to studying and working as part of the University community.
We will build on the existing opportunities for students and staff to enjoy good physical and mental health, and to come together as a community, in activities such as recreational sport and creative classes, as well as opportunities to explore conscious and reflective living.
We will develop our students to become independent learners, compassionate and resilient, confident in themselves and what they have to offer the world.
We will underpin this with the support that they may need at each stage of their university journey.
We will reimagine our academic personal tutoring, to ensure that students, with hard work and effort, have the best possible opportunity to succeed.
We will attract and select research students with outstanding potential and will support them to succeed within a culture of intellectual challenge and inclusion.
We will seek to grow our own excellent researchers by offering a small number of targeted doctoral scholarships in areas of strategic importance to the University.
We will deepen connections with our community of alumni, welcoming them back to the University to work with the next generation of University of Winchester students.
We will develop further opportunities for them to give back, by mentoring current students and contributing to employability opportunities as well as philanthropic giving to support our widening participation mission and work as a University of Sanctuary.
We will review and modernise our approach to recruiting, appraising, rewarding and retaining outstanding staff.
We will set ourselves high standards in every area of the University for delivering an excellent experience for our students.
To support our core aim of transformational education, we will develop a comprehensive staff development offering, particularly around delivering and supporting sector-leading learning and teaching.
We will also develop career pathways for both academic and professional services staff, to ensure there are opportunities for outstanding staff to grow and progress within the University of Winchester.
We will work to develop and support strong and effective teams across the University which communicate and work well together for the benefit of our students and staff.
In order to equip the University, our staff and our students for success over the next decade, we will need to focus on how we develop and invest in our campus and infrastructure.
We remain committed to the principles of the green economy, defined by the UN as low carbon, resource efficient and socially inclusive, further embedding our commitment to sustainability and social responsibility, in the way that we work together as a University community.
Underpinned by this commitment, our formal and informal spaces will be reimagined to promote collaboration, support hybrid working and be accessible to all.
We will create a sense of belonging across the campus and its spaces.
We recognise the importance of place in transformational learning and in facilitating engagement and collaboration.
Spaces and technology need to be able to support learning, changing and adapting to the needs of students, staff and visitors.
We will develop our spaces to encourage both action and reflection, enabling us to pause and find balance, recognising that the beauty and functionality of our campus contributes to the wellbeing of everybody who lives and works in it.
We will continue to make progress in the move to a digitally enabled transformation of our processes, practices and services.
We will establish the digital infrastructure and teams needed to use data effectively in decision-making processes and to inform our future growth.
We will review our infrastructure and systems to ensure that processes are more streamlined, and bureaucracy and burden are minimised.
We will become more efficient and cost-effective in the way in which we work and where appropriate, we will continue to move to a sustainable way of hybrid working which supports the needs of students and staff.
We will forge new strategic partnerships with regional employers and educational institutions to develop a coordinated, collaborative and innovative approach to meeting the skills needs of the city and region.
By building strong partnerships with regional and national employers, we will develop a deep understanding of their skills requirements and workforce needs.
We will develop our academic portfolio in response to this, including in ways which directly support employers, such as degree apprenticeships and flexible learning delivery.
We will build on our role as a major provider of professional education delivering teachers, nurses, social workers, and many other health and public services professionals.
We will deliver outstanding graduates to meet the needs of the growing professional services sector in the region.
We will develop opportunities for entrepreneurial growth and development by working with businesses across the region to support a vibrant and thriving business community.
We will establish a central-Winchester presence to provide expert support and advice from our academic and professional services staff for local employers, organisations and individuals.
We will grow our work with the cultural sector and the public services, including health and education, enhancing the University’s cultural, social, and economic impact.
We will continue to develop our strong partnership working with our students and Student Union, creating more opportunities for collaborative working, co-creation and innovation.
As we develop our areas of professional education, we will also grow our knowledge exchange and consultancy contribution to regional professional communities.
This Strategic Plan will bring clarity and focus to our work.
It will simplify how we operate as an organisation.
With the overarching strategic direction set out in this plan, we will establish a suite of enabling strategies in each of the key areas of the University: education and the student experience; research and innovation; people; finance; and estates and digital.
Each of these will have clear targets and success criteria to support the delivery of the aims and ambitions set out in this Strategic Plan.
Together, the Strategic Plan and these strategies will be underpinned by a detailed Operational Plan which will then be delivered by Faculties and Professional Services Departments.
These supporting strategies and operational plans will be developed and agreed by the start of the 2023/24 Academic Year.
“This is such an exciting moment for the University, as we stand on the firm foundations of our past to reach into a future which will allow us to transform more lives through education.
This strategy also enables us to transform the way we work together and transform the communities which we serve.”
Professor Sarah Greer, Vice Chancellor
To Educate,
To Advance Knowledge
To Serve the Common Good.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Business-and-Digital-Technologies/csrg:
Launched in  2023, the Computational Science Research Group (CSGR) brings together world-leading expertise from across the Department of Digital Technologies , the wider University and external partners to undertake research and knowledge exchange projects in the broad field of Computational Science and its applications.
We use computational science to address key societal challenges.
Examples are healthcare (e.g.
effective management of waiting lists and virtual wards, and computer modelling of human anatomy); environmental challenges such as the need for smart homes and green transport; AI and Cybercrime.
Computational science can help provide effective solutions in all these areas and more.
Specifically, we aim to:
To establish a proven research pedigree, including collaborative work with industry and national, European and international research initiatives, and to continue to make a significant contribution to society.
To become a research hub for Digital Health and to further  the University’s strategic partnership with the NHS to set up a UoW-based platform for medical applications of computer modelling.
To become a centre of excellence for large data analysis, statistical modelling and computation to explore ways to address the  UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)  through cybercrime research, Co2 emission reduction etc.
To produce world-class research in relation to the design, development, implementation and evaluation of Technological Solutions.
To stimulate research-informed teaching practices, both to bring research impact into the classroom and to develop innovative practices for Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education.
Background image by Tima Miroshnichenko on Pexels, representing computer hacking.
Dr Mamadou T.
Bah, Reader in Computational Methods
Dr Claire Ancient , Senior Lecturer in Computer Science
Dr Sakib Anwar, Lecturer in Economics and Finance
Tim Hall, Professor of Interdisciplinary Social Studies
Dr Jing Lu , Senior Lecturer in Data Analytics
Dr Paolo Pareti,  Senior Lecturer in Computer Science
Dr Pireh Pirazada, Lecturer in Cybersecurity and Computer Science
Dr Ben Sanders, Reader in Cybersecurity and Computer Science
Cisco Systems, Inc.
BAE Systems
Simpleware
TyreWatch-RLAuto
InPhys Ltd
MathWorks
Ansys Inc.
Clint Styles, University of Southampton
University of Exeter
CSRG members and our partners have given presentations on a wide variety of Computational Science topics, e.g.:

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Education-and-the-Arts/Research-projects:
From refugee education to creativity in the classroom, researchers in Education are engaged in transformative research and knowledge exchange projects.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-and-Knowledge-Exchange-in-Health-and-Wellbeing-/About-HWB:
Our vision is to be nationally and internationally recognised for our distinctive work to progress health and wellbeing for all life.
Health and Wellbeing research and knowledge exchange at Winchester is led by the Faculty of Health and Wellbeing .
Faculty researchers are based in two Schools, the School of Sport, Health and Community and the School of Health and Care Professions.
We are also a hub for research and education collaboration with colleagues across the University such as the Department of Psychology's Healthy Lives Research Group .
The faculty is a dynamic hub for collaboration with with key external partners such as NHS England and NIHR ARC Wessex .
In 2019, the University signed a strategic partnership agreement with Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and in 2023, during the week marking 75 years since the foundation of the NHS, the University and HHFT signed a new partnership agreement, building on and celebrating years of successful collaboration.
This includes sustainable learning and workforce environments, global health, health psychology, animal welfare, diet and nutrition, sport and exercise, medical education, allied health professions, and community-based health and social care.
We aspire to enrich the health and wellbeing of individuals, families, communities and society by translating world-leading research into effective policy and exceptional practice.
In accordance with the University’s values , we aspire to create a research culture that supports staff and students to engage in values-driven research and knowledge exchange activity.
We will address pertinent community, national and global challenges through inter- and multi-disciplinary collaboration internally and with external stakeholders.
We actively contribute to the University's submission to the Research Excellence Framework, the system for assessing the quality of research in UK Higher Education institutions.
Find out more about University of Winchester Health and Wellbeing research and knowledge exchange - our impactful centres, projects and people.
Follow Health and Wellbeing Research at Winchester on X
For any research and knowledge exchange enquiries, contact Penelope Bates , Faculty Research and Knowledge Exchange Coordinator.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-and-Knowledge-Exchange-in-Health-and-Wellbeing-/Research-centres-and-groups:
Explore our high-impact interdisciplinary Health and Wellbeing Research and Knowledge Exchange centres and groups.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-and-Knowledge-Exchange-in-Health-and-Wellbeing-/Hampshire-Collaboration-for-Health-Research-and-Education:
Supporting innovative health research and education opportunities between Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and the University of Winchester.
The Hampshire Collaboration for Health Research and Education is a collaboration between the University of Winchester and Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
Part of the University's wider Health and Wellbeing Research and Knowledge Exchange profile, it aims to increase research and education opportunities for both partners.
Find out more about the Hampshire Collaboration for Health Research and Education
Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and the University’s Sport and Exercise Scientists are:
The NHS and University psychologists are currently collaborating on a number of projects:
University health and social care academics and the NHS

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-and-Knowledge-Exchange-in-Health-and-Wellbeing-/Research-projects:
From animal welfare science to health and sport psychology, researchers in Health and Wellbeing and their partners are carrying out impactful work to improve lives.
For current sport and exercise-related research, explore the Sport and Exercise Research Centre (SERC).
Principal Investigator: Dr Rachel Locke, Senior Lecturer in International Development
Co-Investigators: Dr Lucy Wallis , Researcher; Dr Steve Ryall , Senior Lecturer in Physiotherapy
The aim of this Health Education England-funded project is to find out the motivators for students choosing AHP education/career.
This is to meet the demand for growing numbers of AHPs and to increase future recruitment to this new professional group.
Find out more about the Allied Health Professions project
If you have any queries, please contact a member of the research team.
Current postgraduate research topics in Health and Wellbeing include:
Explore postgraduate research topics in Health Psychology
Find out more about Research Degrees at Winchester
Explore current research projects in the Psychology Department's Healthy Lives Research Group .
To find out what we are working on in Animal Welfare, explore the Animal Welfare Research group page .
Engage, Listen, Act: How to meet the needs of people with learning disabilities in the New Forest and surrounding area
In 2023, Dr Rachel Harriso n, Senior Lecturer in Health and Social Care, and Dr Sarah Earthy, Senior Lecturer in Community and Health, were asked by New Forest Mencap to identify what activities it should be offering its clients and how it could improve its service.
Their study has resulted in a report, published in early 2024.
For the full story and a link to the report, read our press release .
Youth Options - a report into current and future practice of Alternative Educational Provision
A Clinical Research Network-funded project carried out by Dr Rachel Harrison , Senior Lecturer in Health and Social Care, and Dr Craig Johnston (University of the West of England).
Read the full report .
Measures of Wellbeing - a report for Blue Apple inclusive theatre company
In 2023, Dr Rachel Harrison , Senior Lecturer in Health and Social Care, published a report commissioned by Blue Apple Theatre , which is based at the University.
The report aimed to provide information that will help Blue Apple effectively demonstrate their impact on the wellbeing of their participants.
Funded by Southampton Children’s Hospital, in this project parents were asked for their views about a website and leaflets that provide information about common childhood illnesses.
Parents reported feeling that the website was not always easy to use and that some of the wording was too long and complicated.
The findings are being used to improve and adapt the resources.
Principal Investigator: Dr Amanda Lees, Faculty of Health and Wellbeing.
For published outputs, visit Dr Lees's academic profile page.
Find out more about the Wessex Healthier Together initiative .
A study about the educational interventions available for practising doctors to help them prevent stress.
Find out more about the Stress Prevention Amongst Doctors Project
An evaluation of the first year of operation of RPGs for practitioners across Brighton and Hove local authority children’s social work services.
Find out more about the Reflective Practice Groups Project.
Co-Investigator: Emma Wilkinson, Researcher
The General Practice Contract 2019/20 established first contact musculoskeletal (MSK) physiotherapists in primary care.
This study explored the feasibility of using the MSK Core Capabilities Framework and a peer review process to evidence capability.
It considered how this process may be developed to ensure MSK practitioners are able to evidence the level of practice required within the complex environment of primary care.
MSK practitioners were supported to evidence their capabilities against the MSK Framework.
Twenty two participants took part in the evaluation of this intervention via qualitative semi-structured interviews.
A robust and iterative process of qualitative data analysis was undertaken.
The findings are framed in terms of Davis’ Technology Acceptance Model of evaluation (i.e.
user perceptions).
There were a range of perceived benefits of the Framework including as a means of quality assurance, career progression, the promotion of knowledge consolidation and reflective practice.
There were however a number of ‘translation into practice’ issues.
Given the newness of the MSK Framework, it is perhaps not surprising there is a need for refinement.
This evaluation highlighted key enablers for reviewing capabilities of MSK practitioners: a curriculum; educational supervision; and accreditation.
Learning also applies more widely to other emerging role opportunities.
Publications
For published outputs of this project, visit the academic profile of Dr Rachel Locke .
From June 2015 to May 2018, the UK What Works Wellbeing Centre commissioned a 3-year programme of research synthesis and secondary data analysis across three areas: work and learning, community wellbeing, and culture and sport.
Evidence reviews were funded by the Economic and Social Research Council.
Led by the University of Winchester's Centre for Arts as Wellbeing in collaboration with the University of Brighton and the London School of Economics, What works for wellbeing in culture and sport?
Report of a DELPHI process to support coproduction and establish principles and parameters of an evidence review (Daykin et al.
2016) reports the initial consultation process for the Culture, Sport and Wellbeing (CSW) review.
The review sought to determine wellbeing impacts in culture and sport practices in diverse communities and contexts, and to establish how evidence can be used effectively to inform policy and practice decisions.
This article briefly introduces the policy context relating to culture and sport as well as concepts of wellbeing relevant to the sectors and then presents an overview of the methods and findings from a two-stage DELPHI process with key stakeholders that sought to explore and agree principles and parameters of the CSW evidence review programme.
Led by the University of Winchester's Centre for Arts as Wellbeing in collaboration with the University of Brighton the London School of Economics and Anglia Rusking University, What works for wellbeing?
A systematic review of wellbeing outcomes for music and singing in adults (Daykin et al .
2017) reports on the first of the four reviews of Culture, Sport and Wellbeing (CSW).
This paper reports on the key findings from a systematic review of wellbeing outcomes for music and singing interventions for adults across the life cycle.
The range and quality of evidence is discussed.
Find out more about the CSW Music and Singing for Wellbeing review.
This project, which benefited from Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) funding awarded to the University, built on an existing partnership between the University of Winchester and Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (HHFT), known as the Hampshire Collaboration for Health Research and Education (HCHRE) .
The main aim of this project was to incorporate a digital strand to the partnership’s infrastructure to enhance health provision across Hampshire Hospitals alongside further research and education opportunities.
• Design of HCHRE website • Digital media scoping workshops • Installation of a patient-facing electronic health record
In the study on doctors with dyslexia we wanted to be able to explore and account for how qualified doctors (i.e.
post-medical school training) across primary and secondary care manage their dyslexia and whether and how they are supported in the workplace.
This is an area where there is little existing research as the majority of studies have focussed upon medical students or doctors in training.
In this case study we employed three data collection techniques: interviews, surveys and Freedom of Information (FOI) requests.
Research questions
What is the impact of dyslexia on clinical practice?
What are the coping strategies used by doctors with dyslexia to minimise the effect?
Findings
A finding from the research derived from a thematic analysis of the data was that doctors with whom we talked had not all had a diagnosis but were self-diagnosed.
Even where they had a diagnosis, they often did not disclose their dyslexia to their employer.
One of our recommendations was therefore that doctors with dyslexia need to be helped to feel comfortable enough to disclose and to seek help in achieving a formal diagnosis.
Educators need to challenge any negative assumptions that exist as well as promote understanding about the elements that contribute to a positive working environment.
Study participants reported having developed individual ways of coping and devised useful strategies, although from our data we cannot be sure that such adjustments contributed to an ‘enabling’ work environment.
Supportive characteristics included the opportunity to shadow others and extra time and space to complete paperwork on a busy ward.
Impact
The findings informed a practice document guiding future support for doctors with dyslexia.
Principal Investigator: Dr Rachel Locke , Senior Lecturer in International Development
This externally funded research explored the perceptions of educators about how trainee physicians developed their clinical thinking in clinical settings and what they and their colleagues did to provide support.
General recommendations were made as to how medical educators and their managers can support trainee physicians.
For published outputs of this project, visit the academic profile page of Dr Rachel Locke.
Project aims
The aim was to examine assessment processes for Advanced Clinical Practitioner (ACP) trainees in Derbyshire across different health sectors (primary, acute and community care) to be able to share good practice both locally and nationally.
This is the first evaluation of progress in Derbyshire and helps to draw lessons for the future development of the ACP role.
Research methods
An initial scoping exercise comprised conversations with stakeholders to inform further data collection and identify key stakeholders to form a purposive sample.
Case study research consisted of 31 in-depth semi-structured interviews with ACP trainees and individuals implementing training and assessment in the different health sectors.
An assessment process for trainee ACPs is essential to develop trust among all stakeholders and to build the role profile nationally.
Within Derbyshire, we found good practice is exhibited in trainee ACP assessment.
However, the processes, and the degree to which they are established, vary by sector.
Assessment is most established in the acute sector with the highest numbers of trainees; the processes are newer in primary and community care.
A pioneering interdisciplinary research project that seeks to evaluate the physical and mental benefits for military veterans of participating in archaeological fieldwork.
Find out more about the Heritage for Heroes project .
AMPHORA: Authentic and Meaningful Participation in Heritage Or Related Activities
Exploring the benefits of archaeology, heritage and the historic environment as powerful non-medical tools in the delivery of community mental health and wellbeing.
Find out more about the AMPHORA project .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Humanities-and-Social-Sciences/Research-centres-groups-and-networks:
Research and knowledge exchange units in Humanities and Social Sciences carry out transformative work in a wide range of subjects, from forensic psychology to health psychology, and from history and archaeology to animal welfare and peace and reconciliation.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Our-faculties/LCJ/Cold-Case-Unit:
Helping Forensic Investigation students understand the challenges of cold case investigation and training the next generation of leading investigators
Established in 2021, the University of Winchester's Cold Case Unit (CCU) aims to develop the next generation of leading investigators.
Based in the Department of Policing, Criminology and Forensics , the CCU provides an opportunity for our Forensic Investigation students to undertake cold case investigations, supported by the academic team.
The CCU aims to progress cases dealing with outstanding missing persons or unidentified remains, and provide information for families and police investigators.
Through the CCU, students learn to understand the complexities and challenges of cold case investigation.
Students at all levels (undergraduate and postgraduate) are offered the opportunity to work on real cases alongside experienced investigators from a variety of disciplines.
Student members receive additional training as part of this process, and the CCU provides them with a strong foundation to pursue a related career upon graduation.
Students benefit from being able to use our state-of-the-art forensic research facilities .
The CCU works with the organisation Locate International , the Centre for Missing people Investigations , to select suitable cases.
Locate International then provides the unit with case information, training and support, and they liaise with the families on our progress and any additional information the CCU requests.
Student members identify and explore investigative lines of enquiry.
Though student-led, the CCU investigation takes place under close supervision and guidance of the CCU case management group.
Student members are selected from the BSc (Hons) Forensic Investigation and the BSc Cyber Crime and Forensic Investigation programmes, with plans to widen the programmes of study further across the university.
Student volunteers are invited to apply and will sit an interview as part of the recruitment process.
Currently, the CCU has six dedicated student members who give up their time to volunteer alongside studying for their degree here at the University of Winchester.
Read BSc (Hons) Cyber Crime and Forensic Investigation students Oshina Ann Jose and Ingrid Hoff's experiences of being part of the University's Cold Case Unit.
This group looks after the administrative management of the Cold Case Unit; it manages the membership and the growth of the unit.
This group is primarily responsible for case management, setting out the priorities and targets for case volunteers.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Our-impactful-research/Research-in-Law-Crime-and-Justice/Criminal-Justice-Research-Network:
Academics and practitioners working together to foster knowledge exchange in the field of criminal justice.
Founded in 2019, the Criminal Justice Research Network (CJRN) is a formal collaboration of researchers, practitioners and academics working in the field of criminal justice.
The focus is on knowledge exchange, practice change, research collaboration and student engagement.
The CJRN comprises experts from the University of Winchester’s Centre for Forensic and Investigative Psychology (CFIP) , and our Policing and Criminology experts , working alongside colleagues from other universities and criminal justice organisations.
The CJRN aims to accomplish these by assisting with research development, research and knowledge exchange.
If you are an academic, practitioner or researcher working in the criminal justice field and are interested in joining the CJRN, or if you would like further information about the network, please email Dr Beth Parsons .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/research/Winchester-University-Press/About-Winchester-University-Press:
Winchester University Press (WUP) offers a growing number of titles in a wide variety of subjects.
Our mission is to enhance research and spread knowledge through the publication of titles of high academic quality in the fields of the arts, education, humanities and social sciences.
WUP has a special interest in titles that relate to the literature, history and culture of the city of Winchester, the county of Hampshire and the region of Wessex.
WUP is managed by a Management Board and two General Editors:
Professor Inga Bryden , Chair of the Editorial Board
Dr Ellie Woodacre, General Editor
For Series Editors, explore the tabs below.
This series aims to explore new theoretical and methodological directions in educational research.
Education is conceptualised as an ongoing process which occurs both inside and outside the classroom within a range of historical and geographical settings.
Titles will draw on interdisciplinary and transnational methodologies to emphasise the relationship between education and society across time and place.
Series Editor: Dr Sue Anderson-Faithful.
The Dreiser Edition Series publishes scholarly editions of the writings and other primary documents of Theodore Dreiser (1871-1945), who is universally recognised as one of the principal figures of twentieth-century American literature.
His centrality stems from the permanence of his best fiction, his influence on realist fiction, and from his pre-eminence in American cultural life during the first half of the twentieth century.
Dreiser's literary stature and his activist stance toward the major literary, social, and political issues of his day, has made him a focal point in efforts to understand the vital and turbulent period in which he flourished.
Series Editor: Prof.
Jude Davies
The Winchester Series will publish works with a connection to Winchester and the wider historical Kingdom of Wessex, reaching from the Channel to Hadrian’s Wall, and the Diocese from Greater London down to Devon.
This might include new editions of previously published works, accompanied by introductory essays and annotations, works of general, regional interest, or else academic studies in areas such as history, sociology, law, psychology, criminology, archaeology, education, geography, business, and literary and cultural study.
Indeed, the Series remit will consider book proposals in any subject area providing they contribute to the knowledge base related to the city and its wider region.
Christopher Mulvey
The Preface Series stands at the intersection of creative practice and critical interrogation.
Each title consists of an extended piece of writing in a chosen form (prose, poetry, script) alongside a self-reflective commentary on the nature and construction of the piece, written by the authors themselves.
Following in the tradition of writers such as Henry James, who produced insightful commentaries on their own works, Preface Series titles are both innovative, creative works and sophisticated reflections on the nature of the creative process.
The Winchester University Press Iconic Movie Images Series publishes works on indelible film images that have continued to resonate across time and space outside the film text.
Titles might explore iconic images from a single director’s work or instead focus ideas on a theme, examining movie images that convey a particular mood, subject or place.
The Series hails the film image as a valued cultural form that has the capacity to cut across boundaries of art and popular culture.
Studies track the life of the image from its movie origin through to creative reproductions within new contexts, looking at how traditional and emerging arts and technologies breathe new life into film images in a powerful, reciprocal relationship.
Laura Hubner

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Our-future:
We have an ambitious strategy to be the world's leading values-driven university.
We are passionate about providing an outstanding, personalised experience for our students and partners - meeting their needs and the needs of the economy and society at large through high-quality teaching and research.
We build on strong foundations and we are determined to flourish through a continuous drive for excellence.
Find out more about our Strategic Vision.
Find out more about our facts and figures

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Sustainable-Campus-and-Community:
Living in harmony, acting with kindness, caring for the planet and all living things – now and for future generations.
Discover our green campus and curriculum initiatives to embed sustainability
We have always been – and will always be – led and driven by our values
We celebrate diversity and welcome all.
Find out more about our strategic plan.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Press-Centre/Media-Articles/Comedian-and-actor-Hugh-Dennis-installed-as-our-new-Chancellor.php:
Comedian and actor Hugh Dennis was installed as the new Chancellor of the University of Winchester at a special ceremony held this week.
Hugh was presented with his robes of office at the event held at University’s West Down’s Auditorium.
The TV star, best-known for his appearances as the long-suffering dad in sitcom Outnumbered and as a panellist on Mock the Week , succeeds broadcaster and gardener Alan Titchmarsh.
Vice-Chancellor of the University Professor Sarah Greer explained that the role of Chancellor is an especially important one within the University, being the honorary head of the institution and presiding over high-profile events such as graduation.
“There’s been huge amount of pressure to find the right Chancellor and I’m delighted we’ve found him,” said Professor Greer.
“Hugh’s professional accomplishments – and equally importantly his love of life and learning, and belief in the importance of education - make him the perfect choice.
I look forward to working with him.”
Hugh told the audience that he had “known and loved Winchester since childhood” – his grandparents had lived near the cathedral, his mother’s first teaching job had been at St Swithun’s School and his parents had retired to Winchester.
He said: “Winchester is a very special university, and this is helped by the emphasis put on in-person teaching and making sure that students feel that they are part of a wider community.”
Hugh added “All the people I most admire delight in the younger generation and work for, and applaud, their successes and that’s what the University of Winchester does.”
Resplendent in his purple and gold robes, Hugh joked: “This is the most amazing costume I’ve ever had to wear”.
“If this the home kit, I can’t wait to see what the away strip looks like!”
The ceremony also saw the installation of two of the University’s new Pro-Chancellors – Mohamed Bakhaty and Maggie Carver - who will also undertake ceremonial and ambassadorial roles.
All three pledged to uphold the values of the University and commit themselves to serving it in their roles.
A third Pro-Chancellor - soldier and royal commentator Major-General Alastair Bruce - was unable to attend the installation due to broadcasting commitments in respect of D-Day commemoration events.
He will be formally installed as a Pro Chancellor at one of the University’s graduation ceremonies in October.
The distinguished trio are the first Pro-Chancellors appointed by the University.
The Pro Chancellors were escorted by two third-year students who had won Academic Excellence Awards at this year’s Winton Society Awards – Forensics Investigations student Jordan Bushnell and Nursing student Natasha Evans.
In addition to staff, students and alumni, guests at the ceremony included the High Sheriff of Hampshire, Jonathan Whitaker; the Mayor of Winchester, Councillor Russell Gordon-Smith; the Chief Executive of Winchester City Council, Laura Taylor; and the University’s first Chancellor Lady Mary Fagan.
At the beginning of the ceremony the audience was entertained with a choral performance by the King Alfred Singers and while the new Chancellor and Pro Chancellors were being presented with their robes, there were performances by members of the Hampshire Special Music Course at Peter Symonds College.
The 62-year-old TV star is a graduate of St John’s College, Cambridge where he studied Geography, an interest he has maintained as a member of the Royal Geographical Society and the Cloud Appreciation Society.
After Cambridge, where he was a member of the famous Footlights, Hugh combined a career with Unilever with comedy writing and performing for six years before committing to showbusiness full-time.
At Cambridge Hugh met Steve Punt with whom wrote and appeared in BBC Radio 4’s satirical comedy The Now Show which clocked up 57 series.
As well as Geography, Hugh has a love of history and presents Channel 4’s community archaeology show, The Great British Dig .
Hugh has campaigned to raise funds and awareness for Dementia Friends and the Alzheimer’s Society following a storyline in Outnumbered in which his on-screen father-in-law developed dementia.
Hugh knows Winchester well as his parents lived in the city for 20 years following the retirement of his father who was a bishop in the Church of England.
Mohamed Bakhaty
Commercial property developer Mohamed is a leading figure in the Winchester business and civic community and is an Honorary Fellow of the University.
He has worked in Winchester for nearly 40 years restoring and improving many prominent buildings.
Examples of his projects include 32 and 33 Southgate Street and Barclays Bank in Jewry Street.
His redevelopment of a former antiques shop in Jewry Street attracted top chef Raymond Blanc to the city.
In 2008, Mohamed received the Winchester City Council Millennium Egg at the Winchester Business Excellence Awards for his outstanding contribution to the local economy.
Major-General Alastair Bruce of Crionaich OBE DL VR
Alastair Bruce, born in Winchester in 1960, has combined a successful military career with those of an historian and a media commentator.
A senior Army reservist and Officer of Arms in the Royal Household, he has been Governor of Edinburgh Castle since 2019.
Alastair is also Royal, Religious and National Events Commentator for Sky News and has been involved in the broadcasts of several major state occasions including the funeral of Queen Elizabeth II.
In 2011, Alistair was appointed Honorary Professor of Media by the University.
An accomplished historian, Alastair has written several books and has worked on a number of documentaries.
His subjects include the last Tsars of Russia, the British monarchy and the Vatican.
Alastair has also served as historical adviser on films and TV series, including The King’s Speech, Young Victoria, The Greatest Showman and Downton Abbey.
Maggie Carver CBE DL
Maggie Carver is the chairman and founder of the charity Licoricia of Winchester, which since 2018, has been educating the public about city’s Jewish heritage and promoting religious tolerance and understanding.
In 2022 the then Prince of Wales unveiled a statue of Licoricia, a prominent medieval Jewish mother and businesswoman, in Jewry Street.
After reading Biochemistry at Oxford, Maggie’s early career was in banking and strategy before moving into the media sector.
Maggie has served on the boards of around 20 companies and charities, including The Eden Project.
She chaired the boards of ITN, the Racecourse Association and the British Board of Film Classification.
She was recently Deputy of Ofcom, having served as Interim Chair from January 2021 to April 2022.
To see a short highlight video of the ceremony here
Or the full ceremony here
Pictured top: New Pro Chancellor Mohamed Bakhaty, Vice-Chancellor Professor Sarah Greer, Hugh Dennis, and new Pro Chancellor Maggie Carver.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Senior-Management/Greer.php:
Professor Sarah Greer became Vice-Chancellor of the University in January 2022.
Prior to joining the University of Winchester, Professor Greer was the Provost and Deputy Vice-Chancellor at the University of Worcester where she played a key role in developing the strategic vision for the University and was responsible for leading and ensuring excellence in teaching and research.
An English Literature graduate of the University of Cambridge, Professor Greer went on to qualify first as a chartered accountant and then, after a further degree in Law, as a barrister, completing pupillage with the Treasury Solicitor.
She is a Professor of Law and a National Teaching Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
She has published for many years in the area of property and trusts law and most recently on women’s legal history.
She is a firm believer in the power of higher education to change individual lives for the better and to create possibilities for social change to benefit everybody.
Professor Greer is an accredited mediator in workplace disputes.
She has held a series of public appointments including, most recently, as a General Commissioner for the Disabled Students’ Commission.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Senior-Management/Hunter.php:
Gavin became Chief Operating Officer at the University of Winchester in March 2020.
Prior to this, he worked within the transport industry for 17 years, leading him to become Managing Director of six bus companies across several counties in Southern and Eastern England.
Gavin is originally from Troon in South Ayrshire, Scotland where he grew up, and now lives in Bishops Waltham.
He studied for an Honours Degree in Geography and Urban Planning at Strathclyde University and then a Master of Science in Business and Information Technology at Strathclyde Business School.
Gavin is a member of the Institute of Directors and holds a Diploma in Company Direction.
He is also a member of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport.
Outside of work, Gavin is a keen walker and has completed the Three Peaks Chellenge.
He has also climbed the highest peak in North Africa – Mount Toubkal
Within the University, Gavin is responsible for areas including Finance and Planning, Registry, Estates and Facilities, Continuous Improvement Unit, ITS and the Library.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Senior-Management/Paddison.php:
Dr Angus Paddison is Reader in Theology and Pro Vice-Chancellor.
He studied at Cambridge University and the University of Glasgow and held research posts at the Universities of Gloucestershire and Nottingham before coming to Winchester.
Formerly Director of Academic Quality and Development at the University, he was appointed Dean of Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences in 2016 and then Acting Deputy Vice-Chancellor in April 2021.
Higher Education Teaching Qualification: Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (FHEA).
Angus has reviewed over 40 books for journals including Journal for the Study of the New Testament Booklist , Expository Times , International Journal of Systematic Theology , Urban Studies , Augustinian Studies , and Studies in Christian Ethics .
Angus welcomes enquiries about research supervision; his research interests lie in the relationships between theology and Scripture and between the church and politics; he is particularly interested in the theologies of John Howard Yoder, Stanley Hauerwas and P.T.
Forsyth.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Senior-Management/Jones.php:
Sam became Assistant Vice-Chancellor in September 2019.
Prior to this he was Director of Communications and External Relations at the University of Winchester.
Sam joined the University in 2015 after a career in the Civil Service and higher education policy.
Sam was head of the Ministerial Communications Unit where he led a team responsible for delivering strategic communications for various Cabinet Ministers and Government Departments in collaboration with Number 10.
Within the University, Sam is responsible for areas including Marketing, Communications and Engagement,  Student Support and Success and Widening Participation.
Sam studied at Monash University in Melbourne, Australia, majoring in Australian Indigenous Studies.
He is a governor at a local primary school in Winchester where two of his three children go to school.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Senior-Management/Webster.php:
Dr Matt Webster became Pro-Vice Chancellor of the University in September 2022.
Prior to joining the University of Winchester, Matt held academic leadership roles at Anglia Ruskin University.
Matt brings a leadership perspective developed from his time across a range of commercial, charity and health sectors and is proud to be a part of the University of Winchester.
Matt is a fellow of the Royal Society of Biology and a Chartered Scientist.
His scientific career began with research and leadership roles within the pharmaceutical sector- specifically with teams supporting drug discovery and automation.
Matt completed his PhD in Protein X-ray Crystallography with the University of London and was awarded a Research Fellowship at the Cancer Research UK London laboratories focusing on the biological processes of DNA repair and maintenance.
Matt’s passion is for the social mobility that university education can bring and the positive legacy this leaves within families.
To follow this passion, Matt left the bench to establish and deliver accessible science education in low participation areas of Essex.
This role led to academic positions with ARU and progression through the academic career pathway to the senior leadership team.
Matt has devoted significant time to serve the academic and wider community and is most proud of the impact achieved in widening participation, through supporting the Advance HE Aurora project, NHS Governorship and as a founding member of the Inner-London mentorship pathways project.
Support, mentorship and development are key pillars to Matt’s leadership approach, and he believes in providing colleagues with opportunities to be innovative and entrepreneurial in their work.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Governors/Edwards.php:
Mary graduated from London University in 1983 in social policy and nursing before starting her NHS career by working clinically in London.
She completed a MSc in social research methods at Surrey before working in senior management positions at District and Regional Health Authorities and the Department of Health, specialising in nursing development, clinical effectiveness, and research and development.
Mary joined Basingstoke and North Hampshire Hospital in 1995 as Director of Nursing and Patient Services and was appointed as the Chief Executive in January 2003.
She successfully led the integration of Basingstoke and North Hampshire NHS Foundation Trust with Winchester and Eastleigh Healthcare Trust to form Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust on 9 January 2012.
She retired from Hampshire Hospitals and the NHS at the end of December 2016.
Since July 2018, Mary has been Chair of the Board of the Pelican Cancer Foundation.
Pelican is a medical charity that supports clinical staff across the UK to improve the outcomes for patients with colorectal cancer.
Mary joined the Board of the University of Winchester in August 2017, becoming Vice-Chair in August 2020.
She was appointed Chair of the Board in August 2021.
Committees

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Governors/Gaskell.php:
Chris Gaskell is a veterinary surgeon and career academic, and until retiring in 2016 was Vice-Chancellor of the Royal Agricultural University at Cirencester, having previously been at the University of Liverpool.
He is a graduate of the University of Bristol.
Chris has served on the executive of GuildHE, a representative body for smaller and universities of which the University of Winchester is also a member, and as a Board member of UCEA, the university’s employers association.
He has been Chair of the Science Advisory Council (SAC) for DEFRA, and is currently a member of the Welsh SAC and an advisory group for Bovine Tuberculosis control in Wales.
Chris has a wide interest in all things higher and further education and feels privileged to be a member of this university’s Board.
Chris lives in Gloucestershire where he is an officer in the Honourable Company of Gloucestershire; he is married to Rosalind, also an academic vet, and has two grownup children and five grandchildren, whose activities, delightfully, take up any spare time available.
Appointed 1 September 2017

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Governors/Thistlethwayte.php:
Mark Thistlethwayte graduated with a degree in accountancy from the University of Exeter, followed by a career in the City of London working for James Capel, Cazenove and then as the Chief Executive of various Rothschild group companies.
In 2008 he set up Buckland Capital Partners in Winchester, running a diverse portfolio of businesses across the country and seeking to promote a “greener” vision for delivering vital new housing.
He actively engages with all businesses and the property development business is the lead developer of the new 6,000 home Garden Village of Welborne, near Fareham.
Mark also manages the family owned Southwick Estate, to the north of Portsmouth.
Much of what Mark is involved with enables individuals to achieve their entrepreneurial goals.
Whether this is through supporting their long-held business visions or in helping build genuinely sustainable rural communities where there are both jobs and quality affordable homes.
Mark is the Patron of The Rowans Hospice and actively supports various other bodies supporting those with homelessness, severe learning difficulties and long-term challenges.
Mark also acts as a director/trustee for a number of community groups and trusts.
Mark lives in Hambledon with his wife and three children.
Appointed 1 September 2019

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Governors/Rochead.php:
Ed is a mathematician employed by the government, currently commissioning research in AI, Cyber, AI and Data Science for the MOD.
This follows a career in government research and STEM leadership roles, with previous roles including Chief Mathematician at the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory.
Ed has the privilege of being Honorary Professor in the College of Engineering and Physical Sciences at the University of Birmingham, and Visiting Professor of Innovation Strategy at Loughborough University.
Ed is a Fellow of the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications, and holds Chartered Mathematician designation.
Ed is Chair of the Alliance for Data Science Professionals which is setting professional standards for Data Scientists (the science that underpins AI) across the UK and US.
Until recently, Ed was Chair of Blue Apple Theatre, currently Artist in Residence at the University of Winchester, and is a Fellow of the Royal Society for the Arts (FRSA).
Ed's interests include promoting the arts, humanities and sciences working together to create innovation and prosperity, and is also passionate about increasing diversity in STEM, topics on which he writes and speaks on frequently, as well as being an active mentor.
Appointed 1 August 2020

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Governors/Tooth.php:
Rae Tooth brings experience in higher education policy in particular around improving access, progression, and success for socially disadvantaged and underrepresented groups.
She is an expert in effective evaluation of practice and outcomes, and in bringing together practice, policy, and academic discourse in relation to social justice.
Rae is the Founder and CEO of Inclusion Revolution, an organisation that takes transformative approaches to social inclusion and belonging through consultancy, training and coaching.
Rae works predominantly with the Higher Education and Charity Sector.
Prior to this Rae was the CEO of a social mobility charity, supporting children from disadvantaged backgrounds into higher education.
The charity works directly with educational institutions to improve their outreach and influences Government policy.
Rae's previous career spans two decades in the Civil Service leading work on higher education and equality.
She advised successive Cabinet Ministers on developing evidence-led policy aimed at improving outcomes for disadvantaged and historically excluded students.
She is a graduate of the University of Wales, Cardiff and was elected Women's Officer for NUS Wales.
Rae is also a Trustee of The University of Bristol Students Union.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Governors/KT-Win.php:
Thura has been involved in the IT industry since 1985.
He is currently an IT Consultant and previously held many senior positions, including IT Director and Chief Information Officer of a multi-national and multi-£million turnover book publisher, Time Warner Books, which became Little, Brown Book Group, part of Hachette Group.
Thura is also an Accredited Civil, Commercial and Workplace Mediator, as well as an Arbitrator.
He has a Master of Laws degree and is a Fellow of the Chartered Management Institute and a Member of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators.
Thura has been a Magistrate in Hampshire since 2004, where he sits as a presiding justice in adult and youth courts, and was the Chairman of the Bench responsible for around 180 magistrates at the time.
He also sits in Winchester Crown Court for appeals from Magistrates’ Court and is currently the Chairman of Wiltshire, Hampshire & Isle of Wight magistrates’ training, approvals, authorisations and appraisals committee, which is responsible for around 600 magistrates in the area.
Thura’s love of football led to his first experience of football administration when he qualified as a referee in 1981.
Forty years later, he was appointed as a Director of The Football Association (The FA).
He is currently the Chairman of the Women’s Football Conference, and its elected representative on The FA Council, a member of The FA Board, National Game Board, Women’s Football Board, Affiliated Associations Committee, Women’s Football Ambassadorial Panel, Judicial Panel and National Serious Case Panel, where he chairs disciplinary commissions and appeal boards.
He was a member of the Premier League Judicial Panel until his appointment to The FA Board, when he stood down due to possible conflict of interest.
Thura is also a UEFA Match Delegate, FIFA Match Commissioner, Senior Independent Director of Sussex County FA and Chairman of Crawley Town Community Foundation (a charity).
Thura previously served on The FA’s: Women’s Football Committee, Business Development Committee, Sanctions and Registrations (Rules) Committee, National Game IT Committee, Football Development Committee, Inclusion Advisory Board, Race Equality Advisory Group, FA Tutor for Equality and Race Equality; and chaired FA Women’s Premier League and FA Safeguarding Review Panel.
He was also the Deputy Chairman and a Director of Hampshire FA over many years.
Appointed August 2021
Committees:

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Governors/Bashaarat.php:
Magnus attended the King's School, Canterbury followed by Edinburgh University, where he read English Literature.
After a year when he worked in newspapers (the Observer and The London Evening Standard) he completed a PGCE in English and Drama at King's College, London, and then started his teaching career at Sherborne School in 1992.
In 1994 Magnus moved to Eton where he taught English, coached football and cricket and directed house and school plays.
After a one-year teaching sabbatical at Sydney Grammar School he returned to Eton to become a Housemaster before moving to Stowe School as Deputy Head in 2009 and then Milton Abbey School as Headmaster, in January 2014.
Magnus has been Head of Bedales Schools since September 2018.
Committee
Finance and Resources Committee

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Governors/Korea.php:
Deepa has a thirty-year career spanning the public and not-for-profit sectors.
She began her career as a speech writer and media liaison for Paddy Ashdown MP, during his tenure as Leader of the Liberal Democrats before going on to work in the public sector for the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea.
Whilst at RBKC, Deepa was involved in the development and delivery of a £5 million multi-service, faith-based centre, at that time the largest of its kind in London.
Deepa has worked in a number of senior positions within the not-for-profit sector, largely in health and education charities, and has led charities since 2008.
Currently, Deepa is the Director of the RCN Foundation, a grant-giving charity that supports nursing and midwifery across the UK.
She is a member of ACEVO and provides mentoring support to charity Chief Executives.
In her spare time, Deepa enjoys travelling, reading and gardening.
Appointed 1 August 2021

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Governors/Brason.php:
Jonny is Head of Service Delivery for the South East at the Prince's Trust; one of the UK's leading youth charities whose mission is to provide every young person with the opportunity to succeed.
Jonny leads a team of 35 colleagues to directly work with 1,000 young people a year, supporting them to achieve their goals in education, enterprise and employment.
Prior to this, Jonny worked in various roles within the Trust over eight years, working in the Solent, Hampshire, London and the South with a focus on employability, working with local and national stakeholders to reach our goal of getting 75% of the young people we work with into employment.
Originally from London, Jonny fell in love with the community feel of Winchester as a City and a University and both had a strong influence on who he is today.
During his degree in Business Management the University of Winchester, Jonny held a number of volunteer roles within a range if sport teams and societies as well as holding the role of Participation and Volunteering Officer at the Student Union for two years.
Upon completion of his degree, Jonny was Vice-President of Activities for two years.
working to enhance the student experience and providing a wide range of extra-curricular opportunities for all students.
it was here that Jonny discovered his passion for supporting young people to reach their potential and began a career in youth work.
Away from work, Jonny currently lives in Dorset as close to the beach as he can with his wife and two girls, who being under one and three years old - keep him very busy.
Appointed September 2021

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Governors/Evans-.php:
Alison brings extensive experience from a career in the cultural heritage, and the higher education sector.
She graduated from Sheffield University with a BSc.(Hons) in Environmental Science, followed by an MA in Landscape Design, and later a PGCE in Further and Higher Education, and a PGDip in Landscape Conservation and Change from the Architectural Association.
Alison's earlier career was in the landscape and construction sector followed by a Senior Lectureship at Nottignham Trent University, lecturing on both undergraduate and postgraduate courses in landscape and heritage management.
Prior to her current role, she spent 14 years with the National Trust.
Initially, she ran a large property portfolio in Hampshire, then she became an Assistant Director overseeing many and varied house, garden and countryside properties, with a national specialism in curatorship, public engagement and interpretation, and partnerships with HEI.
In her role as the Chief Operating Officer at Winchester Cathedral, Alison leads the activities facilitating the mission of the cathedral, including the tenanted property, commercial and visitor business with their supporting functions, plus the legal requirement to conserve and maintain the historic fabric of the cathedral estate.
She was previously trustee at Painshill in Surrey, and is currently a trustee of the Cathedrals Workshop Fellowship.
Alison is keenly interested in accessibility, particularly intellectual, breaking down the barriers to knowledge, and is deeply committed to the Cathdral's vision of creating a place of welcome for people of all faiths and none.
Alison lives on the Hampshire border near Salisbury and is a member of Salisbury Cathedral, with the resulting split loyalty between two prominent sister cathedrals.
Appointed 14 September 2022
Risk and Audit Committee

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Governors/Fairhead-.php:
Adam retired from the financial services industry in 2020 with 40 years' experience, predominantly in asset management, and is now pursuing a part-time career as a financial services consultant and a volunteer.
Adam's last executive role was Chief Compliance Officer for HSBC Global Asset Management, a position to which he was appointed in 2013.
His main responsibilities were coordinating and driving compliance risk management, providing strategic compliance advice to the senior management and managing the compliance function.
Adam joined HSBC Global Asset Management in 2006 in the role of Global Head of Product Development, where his responsibilities included the management and coordination of product development across the group's product ranges.
Previous to HSBC, Adam worked for JP Morgan Asset Management and Fleming Asset Management (before it was purchased by JP Morgan).
Adam was educated at Pembroke College, Oxford, where he gained an M.A.
in Mathematics.
He lives in Tunbridge Wells with his wife Elizabeth.
They have three adult children.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Governors/Mounstephen.php:
Philip Mounstephen has been Bishop of Winchester since late 2023, supporting churches and chaplaincies across much of Hampshire, Christchurch and Bournemouth, and is a member of the House of Lords.
Previously roles include spending five years as Bishop of Truro, leading one of the Church of England’s international agencies and pastoring churches in both London and Paris.
He served on the Council of the University of Gloucestershire for eight years, latterly as Vice-Chair, and chaired the Audit Committee.
He lives in Winchester, with his wife, Ruth and dog, Noggin.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Governors/Davies.php:
Faculty of Law, Crime and Justice
Bill is the Dean of the Faculty of Law, Crime and Justice .
He joined the University in 2022.
Previously he was the founding Head of the School of Law at the University of Worcester.
A commercial lawyer, Bill has extensive experience of teaching on and designing LLB and LLM programmes and developing outstanding employability provision.
Bill has previously held a senior role in the School of Law and Criminology at the University of Greenwich and has worked at the University of Hertfordshire, teaching on a range of law courses across both undergraduate and postgraduate levels.
Before entering the world of legal education, Bill was a professional violinist, studying first at Chetham’s School of Music and the Royal Academy of Music and then embarking on a 20-year career performing in ensembles such as the BBC Concert Orchestra, the London Concert Orchestra, the National Symphony Orchestra and the Royal Philharmonic Concert Orchestra.
He also worked in musical theatre, first in Manchester on a two-year run of the Phantom of the Opera and then extensively in the West End, holding a position in the Les Miserables orchestra for seven years.
Appointed: January 2024
Human Resources Committee

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Governors/Wilson-.php:
Former Student Governor and Student Governor
Alex is the President of Winchester Students' Union 2024/25, having recently completed her degree at the University of Winchester on BSc Psychology and Child Development.
She has previously worked and volunteered with the Union in a variety of capacities, including being Activities Assistant and Student Officer in 2023/24.
Alex is very passionate about supporting the student experience through being part of the University's Board and the Union, including her remit areas of: Equality, Diversity and Inclusion, Sustainability, Communications and Celebrating Success.
Appointed 1 July 2024

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/University-Committees:
The Board of Governors of the University, which meets formally at least five times a year, are responsible for but limited to the determination of the educational character and objectives of the University, the oversight of its activities, the effective and efficient use of resources, the solvency of the University, for safeguarding its assets and for approving annual estimates of income and expenditure.
The University’s Board of Governors comprises persons appointed under the University’s Memorandum and Articles of Association, which were adopted by the Board of Governors on 16 March 2011.
The Board of Governors is responsible for the appointment and removal of the external auditor and outsourced internal audit providers.
The Board of Governors comprises seven independent diocesan appointed members (non- executive), six independent co-opted members (non- executive), five academic governors, two professional services staff governors, one independent former student governor and one student governor.
The Diocesan Governors of the Board are appointees of the Church of England by the Winchester Diocesan Synod.
The student governor holds office until the end of the academic year in which the student governor is appointed or until their appointment by the students comes to an end, whichever is sooner.
Other Governors (not being Governors ex-officio) hold office for a term of three years and shall be eligible for re-appointment up to a maximum of three terms, of three years each in total.
The Clerk to the Board - Stephen Dowell, Clerk@winchester.ac.uk
Meeting dates for 2024/25: 11 September, 27 November, 29 January, 26 March, 2 July
The Board has delegated to the Finance and Resources Committee governance and review of the University's financial matters, specifically, oversight of financial strategy, review of the annual budget and the five-year financial forecast, monitoring the financial and management accounts, treasury management, the long-term strategy for pensions management.
The Committee also has oversight of the University's estate and infrastructure, the efficient and effective use of all University physical resources, and its fundraising activity.
It may also consider other matters, determined by the Board, to support and develop the culture and behaviour within the institution, and the delivery of the University Strategic Plan.
Committee membership
Meeting dates for 2024/25:  4 November, 3 March,  9 June
Finance and Resources Committee Terms of Reference 24-25
The Risk and Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the audit aspects of the University’s financial statements, reviews the audit plans and the final audit reports.
It considers the appropriateness of the internal auditor's risk assessment and audit plans and reviews reports from them on their investigations.
It monitors the implementation of all agreed audit-based recommendations.
The Committee is responsible for exercising governor oversight and reporting to the Board on the adequacy and effectiveness of the University’s risk management strategy, control and governance, the management and quality assurance of data submitted to the Office for Students, Higher Education Statistics Agency, Student Loans Company, and other funding bodies.
The Committee also satisfies itself that suitable arrangements are in place to promote economy, efficiency and effectiveness.
It considers reports from the Office for Students as they affect the University’s business and monitors adherence with regulatory requirements.
Members of the Committee do not have executive authority and whilst senior managers attend meetings of the Committee, they are not members.
The Committee Chair is not a member of any other sub-committee of the Board.
The Committee meets once a year without the external and internal auditors to consider performance and to advise the Board on the appointment of auditors.
It is entitled to meet at least once a year with the external and internal auditors without any University officers present.
Meeting dates for 2024/25:  19 November, 11 March, 17 June
Risk and Audit Committee Terms of Reference
The Nominations Committee regularly reviews which skills, knowledge and experience the Board requires.
It leads the process for recruiting and recommending candidates to the Board to fill vacant Governor positions on the Board.
It is responsible for developing, implementing and reviewing processes for the recruitment and selection of the Chancellor, independent Governors, the Chair and the Vice-Chair of the Board, the Vice- Chancellor, and members of the Designated Staff.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board about the membership of Board Committees and those University Committees with Governor representation, seeking to ensure that committees have a balanced and appropriate range of members.
It also develops, and oversees the implementation of the induction, training and development of Governors.
Meeting dates for 2024/25:  23 September, 13 January, 19 May
Nominations Committee Terms of Reference
This committee is responsible for the governance of employment-related matters to support and develop the culture and behaviour within the institution, and to monitor compliance with the University's legal obligations as an employer.
It is accountable for ensuring that an appropriate people strategy is established, in accordance with the Governing Body's Statement of Primary Responsibilities and sets the framework for the pay and conditions and development for our staff, as well as the procedures for their appointment.
The Committee also regularly receives and reviews University reports on employment matters including remuneration of staff, recruitment, staff performance, equality, diversity and inclusion, staff wellbeing, and staff development.
On request, it will also provide advice on key human resources, staff development, wellbeing, and equality and diversity policies.
It receives recommendations from management arising from negotiations between the University and the recognised Unions and either acts or submits recommendations to the Board of Governors as appropriate.
Recommendations from the Universities and Colleges Employers' Association on conditions of service and the University's engagement in national pay bargaining processes are received and discussed at this committee.
Meeting dates for 2024/25:  8 October, 11 February, 20 May
People and Culture Committee Terms of Reference
Meeting date for 2024/25:  2 July
Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference 23-24

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Academic-excellence/Winchester-Institute-for-Contemplative-Education-and-Practice:
About the Institute
Launched in September 2019, this innovative project, unique in the UK, is a network of academic and professional staff and students from across the University who are keen to:
The Institute is an independent, extra-departmental unit that warmly welcomes external membership and collaboration.
Aims
The aim of the Institute’s work is to create an inclusive, curious, and sustainable community of practice that welcomes academic and professional staff, students, and external membership.
The Institute enables students and staff from the University’s faculties, and professional services, to work together to develop the presence and effectiveness of contemplative practices and pedagogies in the life of the University community, thereby supporting the University’s mission to educate, advance knowledge and serve the common good.
The Institute promotes:
Membership
Current members come from: Psychology; Archaeology; Business; Education; Performing Arts; Chaplaincy; Learning and Teaching Development; Theology, Religion & Philosophy; Health & Wellbeing; and Music.
The Institute also welcomes external membership including staff and students from across the Higher Education sector; teachers from schools and colleges; staff at local businesses; and members of the public.
Contact Us
WICEP@winchester.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Winter.php:
Academic Quality and Development
Juliet Winter is Senior Researcher in Learning and Teaching Development at the University of Winchester.
Her role includes leading the TESTA assessment enhancement approach; overseeing and developing TESTA's role in the periodic review process and beyond.
Juliet also co-leads on learning and teaching approaches to decolonising the curriculum and oversees the University's participation in the UK Engagement Survey (UKES).
In addition to her learning and teaching role, Juliet is an Associate Lecturer in American Studies.
She teaches primarily in areas of African American history and culture and postfeminist popular culture.
Juliet is working to complete her PhD, which examines constructs of racial and gendered identity in the contemporary U.S.
Her thesis draws upon transatlantic feminist scholarship and critical race theory to analyse representations of race and gender in American popular culture, politics and sport.
Her recent research and publications have considered the cultural significance of Beyonce in relation to contemporary debates surrounding intersectionality, feminism, and representation.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Academic-excellence/A-Quality-Culture/QAA--the-University-of-Winchester:
The Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) owns, maintains and publishes the UK Quality Code for Higher Education (the Quality Code).
The Quality Code sets out the Expectations all providers of UK higher education are required to meet.
Through the process of Higher Education Review (HER) a provider’s engagement with the Quality Code is tested.
The outcomes of the review are publicly accessible.
We underwent a Higher Education Review in February 2016, with the final report published in May 2016.
Engagement with students was central to the review process.
Students were fully involved in the preparations for the review visit in February 2016.
The Student Union wrote a submission detailing the experience of being a student at the University for the reviewers to read before they visited.
Following the review student representatives have been involved in drafting the action plan responding to the report.
During their review visit the QAA reviewers also met with a wide selection of current students and recent graduates.
A student from another University was on the QAA review panel.
The QAA review panel formed the following judgements about the higher education provision at the University of Winchester.
The following features of good practice were identified:
The review team also made the following recommendations to strengthen our provision:

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Academic-excellence/A-Quality-Culture/Academic-quality:
The Quality Office (QO) is responsible for managing our processes to assure the quality and standards of its academic provision.
It is housed within the Academic Quality and Development department, which also houses Learning and Teaching Development .
Key areas of management and responsibility are:
In managing the above activities, the Quality Office is also responsible for:
Act as a central contact for external quality assurance activities and bodies, such as:

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Academic-excellence/A-Quality-Culture/External-examiners:
The information and guidance on this page is intended for both current and prospective External Examiners at the University.
The UK Quality Code for Higher Education requires that 'Higher Education providers make scrupulous use of external examiners' and at the University of Winchester, External Examiners play a key role in assuring the University's academic standards and programme quality.
The formal means for external examiners to report to the University on these matters is through the Annual Report, following Exam Boards.
Programmes are required to respond formally to these Annual Reports.
This response, along with any actions, is contained in the Annual Programme Evaluation.
Senate Academic Development Committee also has an overview of the Annual Reports through an annual summary that both disseminates good practice mapped to the University’s academic development themes and contains an action plan to address issues for institutional action.
Each year, newly appointed External Examiners are invited to an induction session, and the University takes care to ensure External Examiners are well briefed on their role and the reporting mechanism in place.
External Examiners can access the reporting website here .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Academic-excellence/A-Quality-Culture/Collaborative-provision:
We have entered into collaborative arrangements with a small number of partner institutions under which programmes of study leading to University awards will be delivered by the partner institution.
Our responsibility for the academic standards of all awards made in its name, irrespective of whether it delivers the programme itself or whether this is done in whole or part by another organisation, i.e.
through collaborative provision.
Programmes offered through collaborative arrangements are monitored carefully to ensure that they meet threshold academic standards and comply fully with the University's Quality Assurance mechanisms and regulations and policies.
In developing collaborative provision the University must be assured that the student opportunities for learning at collaborative partner institutions are consistent with those provided within the University, that academic standards are equivalent to those of comparable qualifications within the University, and that collaborating partners reflect the ethos, mission and values of the University.
Collaborative provision may be defined as:
‘ an arrangement, secured by a legal agreement, with home or international partners, whereby those partners deliver or provide physical resources for part or whole of a programme to either enable students to qualify for a University of Winchester award or to articulate with advanced standing onto a defined University of Winchester programme ’
There are a variety of types of collaborative arrangements.
These different types of arrangements have different implications for the respective responsibilities of the University and partner organisation.
The individual Memorandum of Agreement will set out arrangements for the administration of the collaborative arrangement and student entitlement in each case.
Below you will find the University’s Quality Assurance of Collaborative Provision Policy - which sets out the University’s processes for approving, monitoring and reviewing collaborative arrangements – and the University’s Register of Collaborative Provision, which details our collaborative partners and awards
For further details, see our policies and procedures section .
ICBS Business College, Greece
​The University has an existing partnership with ICBS based in Athens and Thessaloniki, Greece.
Validated undergraduate and postgraduate awards in business management are taught in either English or Greek and include:
To find out more, please visit ICBS Business College
Sarum College, Salisbury
Sarum College offers flexible, part-time postgraduate programmes in Christian Spirituality and in Theology, Imagination and Culture, located in Cathedral Close on the north side of Salisbury Cathedral.
To find out more, please visit Sarum College

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Academic-excellence/A-Quality-Culture/Programme-approval-and-accreditation:
The purpose of Programme Approval is to validate a new programme of study or revalidate an existing programme to ensure it will provide a high-quality academic experience for students.
We have a well-founded reputation for quality in learning, teaching and assessment and is committed to sustaining an active community of learners with an emphasis on inclusion, diversity and student achievement.
The University seeks to achieve this through the provision of dynamic and progressive learning experiences which emphasise autonomy, independence and life-long learning which give our students confidence, skills and knowledge for life.
At the heart of all the University's learning and teaching activities is its commitment to its Mission Statement which seeks To educate, to advance knowledge and to serve the common good.
The process of Programme Approval is an important contribution to meeting that statement.
Our Programme Approval processes and procedures apply to all programmes awarded by the University of Winchester.
For further details, see our Policies and Regulations .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Academic-excellence/A-Quality-Culture/HEA-Fellowship:
The Higher Education Academy (HEA) is the guardian of the UK Professional Standards Framework (UKPSF) which sets out the dimensions of practice for teaching in higher education.
The UKPSF is a benchmarking tool for those who teach and/or support learning in HE, providing a standardised mechanism for recognition.
HEA fellowships align to the UKPSF and are a recognised way of benchmarking teaching experience and excellence.
Higher education academics gain fellowship either through undertaking an accredited postgraduate certificate in higher education teaching, or through providing evidence of teaching experience and excellence in a written professional reflection.
At Winchester we have an HEA accredited Continuing Professional Development Scheme, called the Inspire Quality (IQ) CPD Scheme, which enables us to provide a supportive and collegiate process for colleagues applying for fellowship.
The IQ Scheme runs four panels per annum to evaluate Winchester applications and is able to award three categories of fellowship (Associate Fellow, Fellow and Senior Fellow).
There are four categories of fellowship:
Associate Fellows are usually early career professionals engaging successfully in a limited amount of teaching, using ideas and methods that promote student learning.
Fellows are experienced and reflective teachers who have familiarity with a wide range of methods and approaches to promote student learning within their discipline, and whose practice is underpinned by strong professional values.
Senior Fellows are highly experienced teachers, familiar with a wide range of methods and approaches to promote student learning within their discipline, whose practice is underpinned by strong professional values.
Distinctively, Senior Fellows lead and mentor other colleagues towards teaching excellence, and influence practice and systems to enhance the learning environment for students.
Principal Fellows are highly experienced teachers, familiar with a wide range of methods and approaches to promote student learning within their discipline, whose practice is underpinned by strong professional values.
Distinctively, Principal Fellows have institutional and/or national impact on teaching and student learning through strategic, scholarly and systemic approaches to learning and teaching.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Abeywickrama.php:
Dr Gaya Abeywickrama is a Senior Lecturer in Community and Health at the University of Winchester.
She holds a PhD in Social Statistics and Demography from the University of Southampton (2021).
Her research focuses on global health dynamics, with a particular interest in social and economic inequalities affecting the health of children, young people, and women in disadvantaged communities.
Specialising in quantitative data analysis, Gaya uses a range of statistical packages and methodologies to explore complex health and demographic issues.
Before joining Winchester, she was a Senior Lecturer in Demography at the University of Colombo, Sri Lanka.
She also worked at the Office for National Statistics (ONS), where she conducted research and provided data-driven insights to support policy decisions during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Gaya has collaborated on several research projects at the University of Southampton, including studies on socioeconomic differentials among South Asians in the UK using longitudinal data, and the Co-Power project focused on empowering Black and other ethnic minority communities.
In addition to her research contributions, she provides statistical consultancy on various projects.
Gaya is also an associate editor for the Frontieres journal on Human dynamics -population and development, and a reviewer for the NIHR.
She is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Acres.php:
Dr John Acres coordinates the Wessex Global Health Network .
He is a Visiting Fellow in the Faculty of Health and Wellbeing's Centre for Global Health and, through his interest in refugee health, a member of the University-led collaborative Forced Migration Network .
After clinical work in hospitals for some years he specialised in public health.
For much of his time in public health he was involved in inter-agency work in Wessex, particularly the WHO Health for All and Healthy Cities initiatives.
Later he became involved in training and was the Head of School for Public Health at Health Education England (Wessex).
He started the Wessex Global Health Network in 2014 in order to provide a way for those involved or interested in global health to connect with each other and to learn more about global health.
Anyone with an interest can become connected to the Network by signing up to receive its newsletter through its website .

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Aldous.php:
Chris has a BA in Modern History (1st Class) from Sheffield University and a PhD from the LSE, titled Resisting Reform: Police and Society in Occupation Japan (1945-52).
He taught history at the University of Derby from 1992 to 1993 before taking up a lectureship in modern Japanese history at the University of Winchester.
He was Head of History from September 2014 to August 2018.
He has written extensively on the post-war occupations of mainland Japan (1945-52) and Okinawa (1945-72) and is currently working on the environmental history of the early post-war period.
Higher Education Teaching Quailification: Higher Education Academy Fellowship (FHEA).
Modern Japanese history
The post-war occupations of Japan (1945-52) and Okinawa (1945-72), particularly with regard to public health and welfare and environmental issues.
Chris welcomes enquiries about possible supervision.
His areas of supervision are: Postwar Japan, particularly US-Japanese relations; history of disease; environmental history.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Ancient.php:
She is currently the programme leader for BSc (Hons) Software Engineering and BSc (Hons) Cyber Security with Law and has previous experience of leading the undergraduate Degree Apprenticeship programmes within the Faculty (including the Digital and Technology Solutions suite).
Currently, Claire is an active member of the Digital and Technology Solutions Trailblazer group working on the renewal of the associated Degree Apprenticeship standard.
Claire is also a member of the Faculty Academic Development Committee and represents the Faculty at the University Academic Regulations, Policies, and Procedures Committee as well as the Technology-Enhanced Learning Advisory Group.
Claire obtained her Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy in December 2017 and is currently working towards her Senior Fellowship application and a Masters in Learning and Teaching in Higher Education.
Claire obtained her PhD in 2016 from the University of Portsmouth, investigating the potential for technology to support people living with dementia to engage in reminiscence activities.
She has since continued to consider how technology can be used to support people in everyday life.
Since 2014, Claire has been a member of the Design, User Experience and Usability (DUXU) Conference Program Board.
In addition, she has organised and facilitated invited sessions at the DUXU conferences in 2014 and 2020, both considering interface design for inclusivity.
Most recently, Claire has worked as part of the University of Portsmouth work packages on the UNITAR-led CommonSensing project ( https://www.commonsensing.org.uk/ ), which obtained from the UK Space Agency.
As part of this, Claire has been using her expertise in Human-Computer Interaction and Software Engineering to propose the use of a mobile application to highlight areas at risk from hydro-meteorological hazards in Small Island Developing States such as Fiji, The Solomon Islands, and Vanuatu?.
Although the CommonSensing project has now reached its conclusion, Claire continues to work with colleagues to investigate how the mobile application can be further developed for wider use to support understanding of Disaster Risk Management and Reduction.
Continuing with a theme of using technology to support people, Claire is interested in researching how she can use technology-enhanced learning to support emancipatory and inclusive education.
She is an advocate of Universal Design for Learning and is always looking for ways to develop her teaching practice to be more inclusive, with the aim of supporting people to reach their full potential both in their studies and in their future careers.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Anderson-Faithful.php:
Sue Anderson-Faithful is an Associate Lecturer in the Institute of Education and former deputy headteacher in the primary sector.
She is the Editor of the Education in Context Series published by Winchester University Press and the joint editor of History of Education Researcher and The Sybil Campbell Collection Newsletter and a member of the Cluster for the History of Women's Education in the Centre of Research for Educational Action and Theory Exchange (CREATE).
She shares her knowledge of local history as the guide and author of the Winchester Women’s History walk, e.g.
at the annual Winchester Heritage Open Days.
http://www.sueanderson-faithful.uk/
Sue's research interests are in Anglicanism, the history of women’s educational opportunities, gendered notions of womanhood informed by religion and women’s activism realised through philanthropy in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
Her analytical approach draws on the work of Pierre Bourdieu and feminist geographies.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Anwar.php:
Before joining Winchester, Sakib worked as a Teaching Associate in the Department of Economics, Lancaster University .
Sakib received his PhD from Lancaster University in November 2020.
His main research interests are Applied Game Theory, Public Economics, Political Economy, and Experimental Economics.
Qualifications:
Sakib is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
Personal Website: www.sakibanwar.com

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Archer.php:
Trudi Archer is Senior Lecturer in Adulting Nursing in the School of Nursing, Midwifery and Social Care, part of the Faculty of Health and Wellbeing.
She joined the University in 2019.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Arndt.php:
Annabel is an Associate Lecturer in Performing Arts.
Annabel was previously Director of Total Theatre Network and the Circus Arts Forum.
Projects included the annual Total Theatre Awards, Total Theatre Magazine and various international training projects and conferences.
She worked as an advisor to the Arts Council on their Circus Strategy.
She also sat on panels at the Arts Council and the then London Arts Office which made funding decisions for circus, carnival and street arts funding.
Previously Annabel has worked as an independent Arts Consultant and for the Independent Theatre Council.
She has been the administrator for various companies including Lambeth Children’s Theatre, Polkatz Theatre In Health Education and Wild Iris, and a board member for The International Workshop Festival, Tall Stories and Pan Centre for Intercultural Arts.
Annabel has a 2:1 from Bournemouth University in Business Management and an MA with distinction in Arts and Cultural Arts Management from the University of Winchester.
Higher Education Teaching Qualification
Associate Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy (AFHEA)
Annabel is interested in the management of team dynamics within small arts organisations.
She is also specifically interested in motivation, engagement and governance.
She has experience in project and core UK and European funding as both applicant and funder.
She was commissioned by the Arts Council to contribute to their circus strategy.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Ashby.php:
​I studied Archaeological Practice (2008-11) then did a Research Master’s degree in Archaeology (2011-13), both at the University of Winchester.
I have also supervised on and taught archaeological fieldwork skills on Oxford University, Marcham/Frilford excavations (2007-11); University of Winchester, St Mary Magdalen Leper Hospital excavations (2009-15) and University of Winchester, St Denys Lodge, Church Place excavations (2016-present).
In 2014 I took up the position of Laboratory Technician for Archaeology and Forensic Studies, with expansion into Geography and Anthropology over the subsequent few years.
I am currently Laboratory Manager.
My role comprises a diverse range of activities including maintaining the laboratories and equipment, enforcing Health & Safety regulations, and supporting staff and students with both laboratory and fieldwork.
I am also a Radiological Protection Supervisor (RPS) within the University.
I undertake lecturing and demonstrating on subjects such as excavation skills, geophysics, site health & safety and research skills, and I carry out work for Archaeology's consultancy arm ARCA Geoarchaeology .
In 2008 I formed the Stanford in the Vale Archaeological Research Project, an ongoing project which I direct.
SVARP examines the formation and development of the Oxfordshire village of Stanford in the Vale from its earliest beginnings to the modern day, combining multi-disciplinary archaeological techniques and community archaeology.
In 2022 I was awarded a PhD for my doctoral research on this project; my thesis, titled ‘Stanford in the Vale in context: a multi-disciplinary approach to rural settlement development in Oxfordshire’, was supervised by Dr Simon Roffey.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Ayres.php:
I have a background in Biological Sciences: BSc (Hons) Ecology and Conservation at the University of Sussex and MSc Palaeobiology at the University of Bristol.
I also worked as a research assistant at the Harrison Institute of Biodiversity and Research, studying the systematics and distribution of bat species.
In 2000, I trained with the Forensic Science Service (FSS) in London as a Body Fluids and DNA Reporting Officer.
I held the position of Senior Forensic Scientist and worked on hundreds of body fluids and DNA cases.
My role comprised:
case assessment, examination strategies, examination of items for body fluids and fibres, blood pattern analysis, evaluation of body fluid examinations; interpretation of DNA profiles (including complex mixtures), preparation of written statements and attendance at court as an expert witness.
I joined the University of Winchester in September 2018 as a Lecturer on the BSc Forensic Investigation programme in the Department of Applied Social Sciences, Forensics and Politics.
I am module leader and lecturer on a number of modules including Practical Skills, Crime Scene Investigation, Biological Evidence and Forensic DNA Evidence.
DNA, body-fluid analysis and blood pattern analysis.
Snowden, P., Paul J.
J., Bates, David L., Harrison and Mike R.
Brown (2000).
Recent Records of Bats and Rodents from Oman Including Three New Species New to the Country.
Fauna of Arabia 18: p.397 - 407.
Schram, F.
R., Hof, C.H.J., Mapes, R H.
and Snowden, P.
(2003).
Palaeozoic Cumaceans (Crustacea, Malacostraca, Percarida) from North America.
Contributions to Zoology 72 (1).

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Baker.php:
Robin Baker is Emeritus Professor of Old Testament and Ancient Near Eastern Studies.
He took his BA at the University of London and his PhD at the University of East Anglia.
He has also studied at Stanford University.
He is a Fellow of University College London and a Senior Visiting Fellow of the Institute of Balkan Studies in Thessaloniki, Greece.
Robin's latest monograph Mesopotamian Civilization and the Origins of the New Testament was published by Cambridge University Press in 2022.
It illuminates Mesopotamia's contribution to the formation of early Christology.
His monograph Hollow Men, Strange Women: Riddles, Codes and Otherness in the Book of Judges was published by Brill in 2016 in the Biblical Interpretation Series.
In this book, Robin examines the use of riddle and parable to convey esoteric meanings in Judges and how Judges explores the question of otherness.
In March 2024, this monograph was the subject of a New Books Network podcast .
Find out more about Hollow Men, Strange Women .
He collaborated with Professor Simo Parpola of the University of Helsinki on Professor Parpola's two-volume Etymological Dictionary of the Sumerian Language , published by Eisenbrauns.
“Mother’s Little Helper: Micah and His Big Idea,” in Characters and Characterization in the Book of Judges , ed.
Benjamin Johnson and Keith Bodner, Library of Hebrew Bible/Old Testament Series (London: T&T Clark, 2023), 189-204.
Robin has been contracted to write the volume Nahum, Habakkuk, and Zephaniah for the New Cambridge Bible Commentary Series (Cambridge University Press, scheduled for 2028).
Robin's primary research is in the Bible and the religious environment and legacy of the ancient Near East.
His focus is particularly on the relationship between the Bible and Assyrian and Babylonian beliefs and cultic practice.
His work explores thematic, linguistic, and rhetorical reflections of Mesopotamian literature in the Bible.
He is also concerned with the way Hebrew writers encoded information through literary structure and with the degree to which the Hebrew Bible should be understood as an esoteric text.
In addition, he researches ancient near Eastern therapeutic theory and practice.
Robin welcomes enquiries about research supervision; he can supervise research on the Bible, Assyriology, and ancient approaches to physical and mental rehabilitation.
Robin was awarded a Personal Research Grant from the British Academy to carry out an anthropological exploration of the religious beliefs of the Csángó minority of Romania and how these have changed over centuries.
He received a Finnish Government Scholarship to carry out research at the University of Helsinki.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Asiatic Society and a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Baldwin.php:
Lisa Baldwin is Senior Lecturer in Education.
She taught in Dorset and the London Borough of Brent before becoming a school improvement advisor for the London Borough of Hillingdon.
In this role she delivered training and provided school support for English teaching and school leadership.
Lisa has experience leading the PGCE primary programme and is currently the English Subject Leader for the Institute of Education.
Lisa has completed a Master's in Educational Research and a Docorate in Education that focused on imaginative writing pedagogy in primary settings.
Primary English
Baldwin.
L.
(2023) ‘Deeper writing: a creative mastery approach’ In: Bushnell, Smith and Waugh, Modelling Exciting Writing: A Guide for Primary Teaching , 2nd Edn.
London, Sage, 224 – 241.
(2018) Leading English in the Primary School: A Subject Leader’s Guide.
London: Routledge.
Primary writing: the links between drawing, making and early writing development.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Ball.php:
Dr Tom Ball is Reader in Geography.
He is a geographer with research interests in climate change, flood risk, functional ecosystem restoration and catchment management.
Although he is primarily a physical geographer, much of his work on flood risk is on the interface between human and physical geography and he has published and taught in both.
His current projects include work funded by Scottish Natural Heritage (SNH) on the restoration of eroded high-altitude blanket bog in the Cairngorm National Park, and hydrological modelling of a catchment in the Scottish Borders undergoing restoration for ecosystem health and flood risk reduction ( The Eddleston Water Project , see below).
The Cairngorms blanket bog restoration work is focussing on the effect of managing deer numbers and monitoring of aquatic carbon export from the Moine Mhor (Glenfeshie).
The goal of the project is to try and quantify the extent to which carbon sequestration by the bog can be optimised through reduction of grazing pressures, in conjunction with reforestation work conducted by the Glenfeshie Estate.
The project is collaborating with the Estate, University of Dundee, SNH (PhD studentship to Emma Bryder), the Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, and with University of Southampton on a related project.
The Eddleston Water project is investigating the benefits of river catchment restoration for flood risk reduction and the health of the water environment.
High-quality and extensive hydrological monitoring (both surface and groundwater) is feeding into the development – by Tom and collaborators – of a comprehensive nested catchment hydrological model.
The goal is to understand the scaling effects of flow attenuation (channel, floodplain and hillslope measures) and river restoration in a medium-scale – ca 70 km 2 – catchment.
Collaboration is with The Tweed Forum, Scottish Government and SEPA (project funders), University of Dundee, University of Edinburgh, Newcastle University and the British Geological Survey.
Tom teaches on the Geography BSc programme at Winchester and is module leader for Global Risks and for Local Environmental Change.
He also contributes to Global Environmental Change, Introduction to Geographical Research and Fieldwork and Exploring Geographical Data.
Climate change, flood risk, functional ecosystem restoration and catchment management.
Dr Ball is available for research degree supervision; his areas of supervision are: sustainable flood risk management, particularly catchment-scale solutions in the context of climate change; general effects of climate change on hydrology and sustainable water supply and food production; effect of grazing disturbance on the ecology and carbon balance of peatlands.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Ballantine.php:
Before moving to academia Steve gained over 20 years’ experience in the field as a youth worker & as a manager of Youth and Careers Service staff across six borough council areas in Hampshire and the Isle of Wight.
He joined The University of Winchester in 2009 to establish the BA (Hons) in Childhood, Youth & Community Studies having previously led a Youth Work Degree at The University of Southampton and having taught at the YMCA National College in London.
During his time at Winchester Steve has held several roles including Programme Leader, Senior Lecturer & Teaching Fellow.
Steve is also the Wellbeing & Employability Tutor for the Department of Interprofessional Studies.
Steve has led or worked with Heads of Department on revalidations for the programme.
Over the last 11 years Steve has been module leader for many modules on the programme.
These Include:
Core Modules
Academic & Employability Skills (Now Skills for HE & Professional Practice)
Understanding Inequality
Communicating with Individuals & Groups
Learning Context
Introduction to Communities (Previously Community & Community Development)
Understanding Childhood and Adolescence (Previously Childhood and Adolescent Development).
Interprofessional Practice
Children & Young People in Transition
Preparing for Professional Practice (Final year employability module)
Childhood Poverty (a new module for the 2020/21 year)
Leadership & Management (no longer running but now incorporated in part within Preparing for Professional Practice)
Optional Modules
Working with Young People
Volunteering
Reflective Practice (& previously the Activity Based Learning module).
Steve also supervises students undertaking their final year dissertations.
Steve has worked with other programmes to replicate modules taught on CYCS/CYS and has acted as an academic mentor to new staff.
Moving forward Steve is keen to teach across programmes in areas where he has developed considerable expertise.
Steve is enthusiastic about blended learning and has recently worked with IT services as an early adopter of Windows 10 & the roll out of the VDI.
Steve has also worked actively with the TEL team on the roll out of New Quizzes in Canvas having been a previous user of Classic Quizzes.
Steve has enabled students to book tutorials on line via Canvas and has delivered both teaching and tutorials via Canvas & Teams.
On several occassions Steve has been nominated by students for the tutor of the year award and was one of four finalists ifor the 2018/19 year.
Steve is a fellow of the Higher Education Academy

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Batey.php:
+44 1962 827069
@DrJoBatey
Dr Jo Batey is a Senior Fellow in Knowledge Exchange (Sport and Exercise Psychology).
She has been teaching at the University of Winchester since 1998.
Her undergraduate degree at Roehampton was followed by an MSc in Sport and Exercise Psychology at the University of Exeter where she also lectured part-time.
Her PhD examined the impact of expectancy effects on the feedback provided on student work.
Specifically it explored whether gender and/or ethnicity (as inferred by the student name on an assignment) resulted in biased feedback.
Jo has been a BASES-accredited Sport and Exercise Scientist since 2005 and became a Chartered Scientist in 2013.
She was integral in driving the creation of the department's Sport and Exercise Consultancy Unit (SECU), which provides sport and exercise science support to athletes of all levels.
Jo is an experienced practitioner who has worked at International level with the Great Britain archery Olympic development squad.
She has also worked extensively with sports teams including the Royal Navy rugby union team and the British Armed Forces Mountaineering team, various football academies, national league hockey, regional netball and regional swimming.
She has also worked with individual performers in professional rugby union, tennis, rowing, archery, swimming, fencing, diving, netball and triathlon.
Jo has published in a diverse number of areas including applied sport psychology, women's experiences in sport, career-ending injury and expectancy effects.
White, A., Batten, J., Robinson, S., Anderson, E., Burns, A., Batey, J., Ryan-Stewart, H., Discombe, R.
Tackling in Physical Education Rugby: An Unnecessary Risk?
Injury Prevention, 0, pp.1-2 doi:10.1136/injuryprev-2017-042672
Wright, A., Stone, K., Lambrick, D., Fryer, S., Stoner, L., Tasker, E., Jobson, S., Smith, G., Batten, J., Batey, J ., Hudson, V., Hobbs, H., & J.
Faulkner (2018).
A Community-Based, Bionic Leg Rehabilitation Program for Patients with Chronic Stroke: Clinical Trial Protocol.
Journal of Stroke and Cerebrovascular Diseases, 27, 2, pp.372-380.
Batten, J., Batey, J., Shafe, L., Wright, J., & Ryan, H.
Physical Activity and the Nintendo Wii: A Psycho-Physiological Approach.
The Sport Journal.
Read it online

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Batten.php:
(+44) 01962 827289
@ JBatz85
John completed a BSc in Sport and Exercise Science and MSc in Psychology of Sport and Exercise at the University of Chichester.
He then later completed a Post Graduate Diploma in Learning and Teaching in Higher Education and a PhD in Expectancy Effects in Higher Education at the University of Winchester.
Senior Fellow Higher Education Academy (SFHEA).
John has been a Professional Member of The British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (BASES) since 2007.
He is an expert reviewer for:

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Bayless.php:
Sarah Bayless is Senior Lecturer in Psychology.
She holds a BSc Psychology (Hons) from University College London, an MSc Neuroscience from University College London, and a PhD Psychology from the University of Southampton.
She was Postdoctoral Research Fellow at the Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Canada before taking up the lectureship at the University of Winchester.
Bayless, S.
J., Harvey, A.
& Keating, S.
(2022) Effects of alcohol and task difficulty on visual tracking and inattentional blindness.
Psychopharmacology,  239, 2605–2617
Warhurst, A., Bayless, S., Maynard, E.
(2022).
Teachers’ Perceptions of Supporting Young Carers in Schools: Identifying Support Needs and the Importance of Home–School Relationships.
International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health.
19(17), 10755; https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph191710755
Aznar, A., Sowden, P., Bayless, S., Ross, K., Warhurst, A., & Pachi, D.
Home-schooling during COVID-19 lockdown: Effects of coping style, home space, and everyday creativity on stress and home-schooling outcomes.
Couple and Family Psychology: Research and Practice.
https://doi.org/10.31234/osf.io/dzh8m
Lancaster, G.L.J., Bayless, S.J., & Punia, R.
(2020) Examining how the presence, absence and numerical value of a grade affects students’ perceptions of assessment feedback.
Psychology Teaching Review, 26(2)
Sarah's main research focus is investigating the effects of alcohol intoxication on face perception and visual attention.
The most recent project examined whether facial composite images constructed by intoxicated witnesses are of worse quality than those constructed by sober witnesses.
Her research in developmental research has addressed aspects of cognitive development such as the intuitive understanding of probability and the impact of premature birth on executive function development.
Sarah welcomes enquiries about research supervision; her areas of supervision are: face and eye-gaze processing; covert orienting of spatial attention; cognitive development, especially of Executive Functions.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Morgan.php:
Dr Marie Morgan is Senior Lecturer in Education Studies and Liberal Arts and Head of the Department of Education Studies and Liberal Arts.
Marie's teaching expertise is in educational theory and philosophy, focussing on:
Marie's main research interests lies within the philosophy of education.
She has a particular focus on Holocaust studies, Holocaust education and the exploration of political, philosophical and sociological issues related to the Holocaust.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Clarke.php:
Laura has worked extensively as a teacher and mathematics consultant in primary schools in Hampshire.
At Winchester, as part of her role as a member of the Mathematics team, Laura oversees the Preparing to Teach Arithmetic project.
She hasecently undertaken research on mastery of mathematics, the role of using specific mathematical language in developing mathematical understanding and on children's solutions to word problems.
Clarke, L (2017) Singapore bar models appear to be the answer, but what then was the question?
Curtis, F.
(Ed.) Proceedings of the British Society for Research into Learning Mathematics 37 (2) June 2017 http://www.bsrlm.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/BSRLM-CP-37-2-09.pdf
Laura's research is in teachers’ and pupils' perspectives on using the Singapore bar model of Mathematics, the development and use of mathematical language and mastery of mathematics
BSRLM

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Stockman.php:
Dr Caroline Stockman is a Senior Fellow in Learning & Teaching at the University of Winchester.
She is also Deputy Head for the Institute of Education.
Her research centres on the triangle of technology, education and culture, with a specific interest in the existential, moral, and spiritual human-technology relationship.
Until 2018 she was Faculty of Head of Quality, and chair for the Faculty Academic Development Committee.
She was Programme Leader for the BA (Hon) Education Studies (including pathways and named combination awards).
Technology in Education
Philosophy of Technology
Interdisciplinary and mixed-methods research.
Invited Keynotes, Talks and Presentations
?Dr Stockman welcomes enquiries about postgraduate research supervision and external examination.
Her areas of interest are:

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Pinczuk.php:
Shira Pinczuk is a free-lance journalist and award-winning filmmaker.
She was the BJTC Journalist of the Year in 2011 and her work has been screened at national, European and international film festivals.
She is currently an AVPHD student at Goldsmith University of London, working on theory of filmmaking and the exploration of realistic documentary in conflict areas.
Her research reflects on borders as physical, psychological and political entities, and filming across borders and boundaries.
Her work has brought her to close contact with several ethno-religious minorities in the Middle–East, such as the Bedouins, the Samaritans and the Druze people.
She continues to maintain both her academic activity at the University of Winchester, where she leads the program in Journalism, and the field activity and academic cooperation in Israel.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Grime.php:
Dr Helen Grime is Senior Lecturer in Drama.
She studied Drama and Theatre studies as an undergraduate at the University of London.
Since when she worked in publishing (at Penguin Books), for Literary Management (at the Orange Tree Theatre in Richmond), as a script advisor (to the playwright Steve Thompson) and in fringe theatre (for companies Tremor Cordis and Centre Forward).
She completed her PhD in 2008 and has been teaching in Higher Education for the last fifteen years.
In conjunction with local theatre company Platform 4, Helen established The Tempest Club a collaborative performance project involving staff and students from 2009-17.
She is an expert judge on the 10x10 playwriting biennial competition.
Helen welcomes enquiries about research supervision; her areas of supervision are:
member of The Society for Theatre Research

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Ferrin.php:
Rob Ferrin received his BA Hons and MA from the University of Winchester.
After graduating, Rob founded his production company, LucoBull Productions, continuing to work as a freelance camera operator, assistant producer, editor and director.
His previous projects include: independent documentaries, online web series productions, promotional political films and corporate and non-corporate promotional films.
He is currently working on the development of a new series of short documentaries exploring social and life issues such as fracking, as well as working on his PhD in Independent Film Marketing.
Film distribution and marketing,
Digital Media practices,
Film production equipment training
Indie filmmaking practices as cinematographer and producer/director.
The distribution and creation of Independant Cinema using online filmmaking communities.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Our-faculties/ea/educationandliberalarts:
Our undergraduate and postgraduate programmes are designed to integrate subject disciplines into a coherent and challenging educational experience, offering breadth and depth.
In addition, the department also provides an academic home for a range of PhD projects supervised by our tutor team who all actively participate in high-impact, values-driven research and write within their specialist areas.
We believe that a course of study in higher education is more than just its content.
In our view, higher education means learning about ourselves at the same time as we learn about academic subjects.
We hope that you, in addition to studying, will also want to embrace learning as a way of life, and that these experiences together will constitute the relevance and substance of what is 'higher' in higher education.
To this end our programmes combine core modules with a variety of optional modules which you can choose according to your own interests.
Putting this vision into practice means:
First, offering you the chance to challenge your ideas about the world against perspectives which try to explain the way we live.
Second, it means support for your learning so that you always know that someone is interested in your development.
Third, it means we will push you to succeed beyond your own expectations of yourself.
If we are successful, you will be aware at the end of your third year of the possibilities that the world offers you and of the ways in which you can serve the wider community.
Many of our graduates tell us that they leave with a faith in learning which lasts them well beyond the institution.
Dr Marie Morgan , Senior Lecturer in Education Studies
Dr Amanda Norman , Senior Lecturer in Childhood Studies
Dr Simon Boxley , Senior Lecturer in Education
Dr Michal Hall, Senior Lecturer in Education
Catherine Holloway , Lecturer in Education
Dr Karen Morris, Senior Lecturer in Childhood Studies
Dr Eleanor Simpson, Lecturer in Education
Dr Adrian Skilbeck , Senior Lecturer in Education
Dr Caroline Stockman ​, Senior Lecturer in Education
Prof Wayne Veck , Professor of Education
The Department of Education Studies and Liberal Arts is part of the Faculty of Education and the Arts.
Explore the Faculty's wide-ranging and high-impact research and knowledge exchange, its centres, projects and people.
Find out everything you need to know about studying for a postgraduate research degree at Winchester.
For more information about courses in Education and Childhood Studies

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Our-faculties/ea/teacherdevelopment:
Our vision is to develop outstanding teachers who are:
We put our vision into action by providing students with lectures and seminars based on the very best in research to challenge your views and enable you to understand the qualities, attributes and knowledge needed to thrive in the classroom.
The programme provides students with:
OfSted has recognised us as a provider of 'Outstanding' Initial Teacher Education in England.
Their report, which states that our students 'display impressive levels of confidence and understanding about how to be effective teachers', is a testament to the expertise, hard work and commitment of our staff, students and partnership schools.
The Complete University Guide ranked us 9th for undergraduate Initial Teacher Education in the UK.
The Institute has an outstanding record of employability in teaching.
It offers undergraduate and postgraduate primary and secondary programmes leading to the award of Qualified Teacher Status.
Campus-based training provides the knowledge, experiences and skills needed to thrive on school experiences.
90% of students judge the course as intellectually stimulating and state that the staff explain things clearly and makes the subject interesting.
Students gain a deep understanding of critical educational theories applied through various school-based experiences.
Our innovative curriculum encompasses each aspect of the Core Content Framework.
It also provides opportunities to develop specialist pedagogical and subject knowledge of a national curriculum subject, or SEN or Early Years.
Students enrich their training through option modules that explore different approaches to teaching in different settings.
Lecturers are experts in their fields, with extensive classroom, research and management-based experience.
Many are active researchers and are regional, national and international leaders in their fields.
Excellent resources enhance students' training and provide hands-on opportunities to learn and rehearse teaching before school-based placements.
School experience is rewarding, challenging and intense.
School placements provide opportunities to extend, apply and enhance campus-based studies.
We have partnerships with over 430 schools providing you with excellent opportunities to gain experience, reflect on your developing practice, learn from your mentors and develop as skilled practitioners.
Each week of your training is carefully designed to develop students' teaching skills, identify strengths and areas for improvement and take steps to meet the Teacher Standards by the end of your training.
We know what it takes for students to be successful, and we provide support and challenge to push you to exceed your expectations of yourself, to understand your strengths and to have the knowledge and confidence to be the best teacher you can be.
We have a dedicated student support team to help you have a positive and rewarding time at university.
Keep up-to-date with the Institute of Education on Twitter: @UOW_IoE
Dr Laura Clarke
Dr Sue Anderson-Faithful , Senior Lecturer in Education
Jon Audain, Senior Lecturer in ICT and Music for Primary Initial Teacher Education
Lisa Baldwin , Senior Lecturer in Education and PGCE Primary Programme Co-Leader
Dr Kerry Ball, Senior Lecturer in Research Methods
Lucy Barratt, Lecturer in Education
Helen Benson, Senior Lecturer in Education
​Jane Borgeaud, Senior Lecturer in Education
Charlotte Bridgeman , Senior Lecturer in Education
​Tim Burgess , Senior Lecturer in Education for Primary Initial Teacher Education
Richard Cole, Associate Lecturer in Education
Tasnim Curtis , Senior Lecturer in Education
Kirsty Davies, Lecturer in Education
Karen Digweed, Senior Lecturer in Education
Victoria Doe , Lecturer in Education
Deborah Falconer, Senior Lecturer in Education
Kim Foster, Lecturer in Education
Emma Goto, Senior Lecturer in Teacher Development
​Dr Malcolm Honour , Initial Teacher Education Quality and Partnership Manager
Nick Hutton , Senior Lecturer in Teacher Development
Dr Alistair Jones , Senior Lecturer in Education
Jane Jones , Senior Lecturer in Education (Mathematics for Primary Initial Teacher Education)
Paul Key , Senior Lecturer in Education
Dr Cat Kirkland, Senior Lecturer in Education
Rebecca Lodge , Senior Lecturer in Education
Dr Rhiannon Love , Senior Lecturer in Education
Matthew Lowden , Senior Lecturer in Education
Sue Luke , Senior Lecturer in Education
Dr Lisa-Marie Martin , Senior Lecturer in Education
Emma Moran, Senior Lecturer in Education
Claire Morse , Senior Lecturer in Education
Joanne Parish , Senior Lecturer in Education
Matthew Prince, Senior Lecturer in Education
Simon Rees, Senior Lecturer in Education
Dr Alasdair Richardson , Reader in Education
Karen Russell , Senior Lecturer in Education
Joanna Seal, Lecturer in Education
Dr Marnie Seymour , Senior Fellow (Knowledge Exchange)
Dr Ellie Simpson, Lecturer in Education
Heidi Snook , Senior Lecturer in Education
Dr Emma Till , Senior Lecturer in Education
Maria Vinney, Senior Lecturer in Education
Dr Miriam Walker , Senior Lecturer in Education
Dr Julie Wharton , Senior Lecturer in Education
Lai Yip , Senior Lecturer in Education
The Institute of Education is part of the Faculty of Education and the Arts.
Explore the Faculty's wide-ranging and high-impact research and knowledge exchange, its centres, projects and people .
For more information about our courses in Education

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Our-faculties/ea/performingarts:
We offer an exciting and varied programme of courses, from Acting to Musical Theatre and Dance, as well as public seminars, lectures and workshops.
The Department has a team of committed and industry active staff, who believe in creating the best possible atmosphere of support and encouragement for students.
You will have access to professional and industry standard facilities, such as our excellent Performing Arts Studios, which provide six bespoke spaces and the latest technology for your productions.
Within the Faculty of Education and the Arts, The Centre for Performance Practice and Research (CPPR) is a focus for researchers in the Department of Performing Arts with a range of research interests in the fields of theatre, dance and performance studies.
Our programmes and research areas emphasise the dynamic relationship between theory and practice, and include dance, theatre and music.
66% of research in music, drama, dance, performing arts, film and screen studies was internationally excellent or world-leading .
The department has successful working partnerships with local venues, festivals and award-winning theatre companies which help to provide you with vital work experience on live productions.
Our graduates are highly sought after within the creative industries sector and many of them have found key positions in the relevant sector locally, nationally and internationally.
Follow us on Twitter and search for Performing Arts Winchester on Facebook.
The planet is on the brink of ecological collapse.
New conglomerates have emerged in the battle to save the planet.
In bunkers around the planet, the next generation are housed safely and re-educated while their parents, the Outsiders, continue to try and keep the world functioning.
Welcome to The Aviary.
Written by Matt Lockitt (lyrics) and Sam Cable (music), this is a bespoke musical theatre project created during the various Covid lockdowns of academic year 2020-21.
Four original short plays focussing on human stories at the centre of the climate emergency.
A collaboration between Creative Writing, Performing Arts and Winchester Theatre Royal, Climate 4 Change 2021 follows two successful shows in 2019 and 2020.
Climate 4 Change 2019 reached the finals of that year's national Green Gown Awards in the Next Generation Learning and Skills category.
Carol Smith
Technical Staff
The Culture-Media-Text Research Centre coordinates work on literature, film, media and other forms of culture within and especially across disciplinary boundaries.
For more information about our courses in Performing Arts

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Our-faculties/bdt/Digital-Technologies:
The Department of Digital Technologies is an exciting department housing Computer Science, Cyber Security and Software Engineering.
Students benefit from access to a wide range of specialist software and tools including our dedicated Cyber Security and Digital Forensics, Enterprise Networks and Software Development laboratories.
The Department of Digital Technologies is an exciting department blending Computer Science, Cyber Security and Software Engineering.
We have dedicated facilities in our West Downs Centre which include specialist labs for Cyber Security and Digital Forensics, Software Engineering and Enterprise Networking.
We tend to favour workshop-style sessions over lectures, so you have the opportunity to apply cutting-edge knowledge and skills to real life scenarios.
Our students have access to a wide range of specialist software and tools to gain necessary skills to develop innovative, and data-driven solutions to solve complex Digital problems involving in the use and protection of systems and data.
Students will have invaluable networking opportunities with industry professionals and opportunities to work on client-based projects to increase experience and develop dynamic online professional portfolios to showcase their achievements to future employers.
All students are also given the opportunity to engage in a year in industry or short-term placement within their programme to support their employability prospects.
The Department of Digital Technologies offers a variety of programmes in:
Explore our courses
Dr Claire Ancient , Senior Lecturer in Computer Science
For more information on courses in Digital Technologies

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Our-faculties/hss/School-of-Humanities:
The home of History, Archaeology, Anthropology, Classical Studies, Creative Writing, English, Ethics, Film Studies, Literature, Philosophy and Religion.
We are a body of cognate subject areas all interested in and collaborating on examining the human experience through time.
We are global in outlook and personal in approach.
We explore the past from a variety of perspectives and we have expertise in a wide range of periods and regions, from the Palaeolithic to the twenty-first century, from Latin America to Japan.
We offer something for everyone, from Foundation degrees to PhDs.
Our degrees offer a broad as well as deep experience that can open up numerous career paths.
Extensive options allow you to either pursue your specific interests or to experience a wide range of time periods.
Over the years we have developed strong external relationships and students have been able to do placements with a wide variety of organisations, in many cases leading to subsequent employment.
There are also valuable extracurricular volunteering opportunities for our students to enrich their course experience and enhance their employability.
Head of School: Dr Katherine Weikert
We are a community of internationally recognised scholar s .
We incorporate our research into our teaching and we actively contribute to current academic debates.
We have research strengths in prehistoric, Classical, medieval and modern history and archaeology, cultural and physical anthropology, and heritage management.
Our  staff are currently working as far afield as the Caribbean and the Caucasus, on periods ranging from the Palaeolithic to the Second World War.
Topics range from indigenous Caribbean contributions to the development of botanical science to the mental health benefits of archaeological fieldwork.
Students have the opportunity to join staff on many of these research projects.
Our students are a valued part of our research culture and we offer opportunities to get directly involved with our research.
The Winchester Research Apprenticeship Programme (WRAP) is a pioneering scheme offering bursaries to undergraduate students to work with an academic on a real research project.
We have a dynamic community of Masters, MPhil and PhD students, and we welcome enquiries about postgraduate study.
Find out more about Research Degrees at Winchester.
Our facilities are of a high standard and continually upgraded.
We have an excellent reputation for a variety of fieldwork types and the department is well equipped to undertake most types of field projects.
Laboratory teaching and research are supported by a dedicated laboratory manager.
Our academics regularly participate in local and regional public engagement activities such as the annual BBC History Weekend, Winchester Heritage Open Days and the CBA Festival of Archaeology, and work closely with organisations such as Hampshire Cultural Trust and the National Trust.
We publish popular articles, give interviews and guided tours, and carry out consultancy.
We also organise free and fascinating research seminars for staff, students and members of the public alike.
Find out more and become part of our vibrant social media communities.
Find out more about our courses in History, Archaeology, Anthropology, Classical Studies and Philosophy

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Our-faculties/hss/School-of-Psychology-and-Social-Sciences:
We offer a stimulating, multidisciplinary environment at the forefront of the study of a range of contemporary social issues.
The School is home to a high-quality range of programmes in the following broad subject areas:
Our undergraduate courses draw on the expertise of staff within our department as well as specialists in areas from across the faculty.
At postgraduate level, we offer several Masters courses, and we warmly welcome enquiries about postgraduate research.
Explore our rich course offering in Environment and Society, and Psychology .
Our dynamic staff have a wealth of experience in teaching, research and practice, to help our students address many questions that are crucial to understanding the rapidly changing world in the 21st century.
We carry out creative, dynamic research that makes a difference in the real world.
All of our staff are actively engaged in research, engagement and the creation of new knowledge which feeds directly into our programmes.
We work collaboratively for positive change in the local, national and global community.
The School has developed strong external relationships and students have been able to do placements with a wide variety of organisations.
In some cases this has led to subsequent employment.
Students are encouraged to be proactive about placements and to seek out their own work experience opportunities within their course; however, a number of staff maintain close links with a range of external organisations and are able to provide advice and assistance.
We have dedicated specialist facilities and are well equipped to undertake both fieldwork and laboratory-based projects.
Explore our facilities.
Graham Ferrier
Technical staff
Meet the Psychology team
Physical/environmental geography:
Human/developmental geography:
Discover research in Psychology, from cognition to creativity.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Bradshaw.php:
I joined the University of Winchester in April 2023.
Previously, I have been Head of the School of Humanities at the University of Worcester (2017-23), and Head of the Department of English, History & Creative Writing at Edge Hill University (2009-17).
I have also worked at Manchester Metropolitan University, Japan Women’s University, the University of Tokyo, Bristol University, and the University of the West of England.
I hold degrees from Cambridge and Bristol.
As Faculty Dean, I have overall responsibility for academic planning and development, and support the Heads of Department in HSS.
But I will also devote as much time as I can to my own teaching and research interests.
I’m a specialist in British Romanticism, especially poetry and drama of the later Romantics.
My published critical work includes authors such as: Thomas Lovell Beddoes, John Clare, George Darley, Thomas Hood, John Keats, Letitia Elizabeth Landon, Walter Savage Landor, Mary Shelley, and Percy Shelley.
I have also published on aspects of Romantic drama, ‘Romantic generations’, Romantic fragment poems, and the periodical press in the 1820s, as well as the contemporary author Alan Moore.
My recent and ongoing work focuses on Critical Disability Studies, applied to Romantic-era and contemporary writing.
I would welcome enquiries about postgraduate research in any of these areas.
· British Romanticism
· The representation of the body in literature, criticism, and theory
· Fragments in theory and practice
· Canonicity, the work and status of ‘minor’ authors
· Critical Disability Studies
· Literature and laughter
· Literary migration and expatriation
La questione Romantica 15, 1/2, special issue ‘Travel, Migration, Exile’, co-edited with Gioia Angeletti
Disabling Romanticism: Body, Mind, and Text, ed.
by Michael Bradshaw (Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan ‘Literary Disability Studies’ series, 2016); includes Introduction, pp.
1-28 https://doi.org/10.1057/978-1-137-46064-6
The Ashgate Research Companion to Thomas Lovell Beddoes, ed.
by Ute Berns and Michael Bradshaw (Aldershot and Burlington: Ashgate, 2007)
Thomas Lovell Beddoes, Death’s Jest-Book: the 1829 text, ed.
by Michael Bradshaw (Manchester and New York: Carcanet / Routledge, 2003)
Resurrection Songs: The Poetry of Thomas Lovell Beddoes (Aldershot and Burlington: Ashgate, 2001)
A New Anthology of Modern English Poetry, ed.
by Michael Bradshaw, Hisaaki Yamanouchi and Hatsuko Niimi (Tokyo: Kenkyusha, 2001)
Thomas Lovell Beddoes, Selected Poetry, ed.
Michael Bradshaw and Judith Higgens, (Manchester: Carcanet, 1999)
Elegy and Exile: Letitia Landon’s The Zenana.
La questione Romantica 15, 1/2, special issue ‘Travel, Migration, Exile’ (2024), edited by Michael Bradshaw and Gioia Angeletti
‘Beddoes Raising Hell in Germany: a Tale of Student Mobility’, in ‘Romanticism Goes to University’, special issue of Romantic Textualities, ed.
by Andrew McInnes (2023)
‘“Its own concentred recompense”: the Impact of Critical Disability Studies on Romanticism’, Humanities, 8(2), 103 (2019) https://doi.org/10.3390/h8020103
‘Alexander’s Expedition: Genre and Conquest in Thomas Beddoes’s Revolutionary Epic’, Essays in Romanticism, 26, 2 (2019), 177-93 https://doi.org/10.3828/eir.2019.26.2.7
‘Loitering on the Threshold: Thomas Hood’s Comical Communities’, La questione Romantica – Nuova Serie, 10, 1-2 (2018), 135-46
‘Romantic Generations’, Chapter 10 of The Oxford Handbook of British Romanticism, ed.
by David Duff (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 2018), pp.
157-72
McInnes, Andrew, Michael Bradshaw, and Steve Van-Hagen, ‘Introduction’ to ‘Romanticism on Edge’, Romanticism, 24, 2 (2018), 113-17 (also co-editor of this issue)
‘The Jew on Stage and on the Page: Intertextual Exotic’, in Staging the Other in Nineteenth-century British Drama, ed.
by Tiziana Morosetti (Berlin, Oxford, and New York: Peter Lang, 2015), pp.
41-60 http://dx.doi.org/10.3726/978-3-0353-0777-1
‘The Miniature Sublime: Later Fortunes of the Cockney Aesthetic’, in Romantic Adaptations: Essays in Mediation and Remediation, ed.
by Cian Duffy, Caroline Ruddell, and Peter Howell (Aldershot and Burlington: Ashgate, 2013), pp.
73-86
‘“The Sleep of Reason”: Swamp Thing and the Intertextual Reader’, in Alan Moore and the Gothic Tradition, ed.
by Matthew J.A.
Green (Manchester: Manchester University Press, 2013), pp.
121-39
‘Thomas Hood and the Art of the Leg-Pull: Laughter, Pain, Disability’, La questione Romantica – Nuova Serie, 3, 1: Body / Anatomy issue, ed.
Tiziana Morosetti and Norbert Lennartz (2011) [actual date of publication 2013], 117-29
‘Centaur Poetics: Interrupted Forms in Thomas Hood’s Lost Classic’, in A Firm Perswasion: Essays in British Romanticism, ed.
by Hatsuko Niimi and Masashi Suzuki (Tokyo: Sairyusha 2012), pp.
213-36
‘Staging Acts of Union in George Darley’s Sylvia; or, the May Queen’, in Emancipation, Liberation, and Freedom: Romantic Drama and Theatre in Britain, 1760-1830, ed.
by Gioia Angeletti (Parma: Monte Universitá Parma, 2010), pp.
147-70
‘Third-generation Romantic poets: Beddoes, Clare, Darley, Hemans, Landon’, Ch.
29 of The Cambridge History of English Poetry, ed.
by Michael O’Neill (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2010), pp.
542-60
‘Reading as Flight: Fragment Poems from Shelley’s Notebooks’, in The Unfamiliar Shelley, ed.
by Timothy Webb and Alan Weinberg (Aldershot and Burlington: Ashgate, 2008), pp.
21-40
‘Bloody John Lacy’: The London Magazine and the Doldrums of English Drama’, in The British Periodical Text, 1797-1832 ed.
by Simon Hull (Tirril: Humanities eBooks, 2008), pp.
122-43
‘The Jest-Book, the Body and the State’, in The Ashgate Research Companion to Thomas Lovell Beddoes, ed.
by Ute Berns and Michael Bradshaw (Aldershot and Burlington: Ashgate, 2007), pp.
67-80
‘Hedgehog Theory: How to Read a Romantic Fragment Poem’, Literature Compass, 5, 1 (2008), 73-89
‘Imagining Egypt: Walter Savage Landor’s Gebir’, in La questione Romantica, 12 / 13 (2002), 49-64 [actual date of publication 2005]
‘Burying and Praising the Minor Romantic: The Case of George Darley’, Poetica, 54 (2001), 93-106 (also guest editor of this issue)
‘Reading and Surface in Keats’s “The Eve of St Mark”’, Studies in English and American Literature (Tokyo), 35 (2000), 97-115
‘Beddoes and the Poetics of Fragmentation’, Agenda, 37, 2-3 (1999), 264-80
‘Resurrecting Thomas Lovell Beddoes’, in The Influence and Anxiety of the British Romantics: Spectres of Romanticism, ed.
by Sharon Ruston (Salzburg Studies in English Literature, Romantic Reassessment vol.
153) (Lampeter: Edwin Mellen, 1999), pp.
139-57
‘Mary Shelley’s Last Man (The End of the World as We Know It)’, in Impossibility Fiction: Alternativity – Extrapolation – Speculation, ed.
by Peter Stockwell and Derek Littlewood (Rodopi Perspectives on Modern Literature 17) (Amsterdam and Atlanta, GA: Rodopi, 1996), pp.163-76
‘Landor, Walter Savage, Imaginary Conversations’, in The Encyclopedia of Romantic Literature, ed.
Frederick Burwick, Nancy Moore Goslee and Diane Long Hoeveler, 3 vols (Oxford: Blackwell, 2012), pp.
772-76
‘Elizabethan Style in Drama’, in The Encyclopedia of Romantic Literature, ed.
by Frederick Burwick, Nancy Moore Goslee and Diane Long Hoeveler, 3 vols (Oxford: Blackwell, 2012), pp.
415-21
‘Walter Savage Landor’, in The Literary Encyclopedia (‘people table’) (2004): http://www.litencyc.com/
‘George Darley’, in The Literary Encyclopedia (‘people table’) (2004): http://www.litencyc.com/
Critical biography of Thomas Lovell Beddoes for Literature Online (Chadwyck-Healey, 2000): http://lion.chadwyck.co.uk/
Bradshaw, Michael et al, Supervising Dissertations at Masters Level: A Guide to Good Practice (University of Worcester, 2021)
Bradshaw, Michael and Suzanne Lawson, Making Feedback Count: Style Guide for Tutors (University of Worcester, 2018)
‘English in the Electronic Age: A World Language?’ English II (Japan Women’s University, 2000), pp.
1-20
British Romanticism; Critical Disability Studies; literature and migration; the body in literature, criticism, and theory

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Weikert.php:
Dr Katherine Weikert is Head of the School of Humanities.
Until August 2025 she was Deputy Head of School; previously she was Senior Lecturer in Early Medieval European History and the 2018-19 University Early Career Research Fellow.
She has published extensively in Anglo-Norman and early English history, with her first monograph, Authority, Space and Gender in the Norman Conquest Era, c.
900-c.
1200 , released by Boydell & Brewer in 2020.
Her main areas of research examine the connections between gender, space and authority in England and Normandy ca 900-1200, female hostageships in the central Middle Ages, and the political uses of the medieval past.
Katherine gained her degrees at Evansville (USA) (BA with minors in Classical Archaeology and Music), York (MA) and Winchester (PhD).
She has also worked in Collections capacities at the Indianapolis Museum of Art and the Portland (Oregon) Art Museum.
Previous academic roles include at the Department of Continuing Education at Oxford University, Bath Spa University, and Harlaxton College, University of Evansville.
Katherine's areas of teaching are in both History and Classical Studies, including
Katherine enjoys sharing her research and love of history and archaeology with a wider audience.
She regularly appears on television sharing her research, including for the Channel Four series Britain's Most Historic Towns (2018) ( Find out more ), Smithsonian UK's Mystic Britain ( 2019) and BBC Four's Bone Detectives (2020).
Her research featured prominently in the recent University exhibition Images of Research, held in June 2018 in the Winchester Discovery Centre.
( Find out more .) In Sept.
2018, she was one of the University experts joining Prof.
Michael Wood for the event 'The Legacy of Alfred: the Anglo-Saxons and the birth of England'.
In October 2019, she delivered the Keynote Lecture at the annual King Alfred Weekend in Winchester ( find out more ).
She also regularly gives historic tours for Winchester Heritage Open Days and BBC History Weekends.
'More than Material: Inventories as a Signal of Distress at Ely in the Post-Conquest Period,' for Laura Cleaver and Kathryn Geary (eds), Lost Medieval Materiality (Boydell, 2022)
'A more noble edifice: Eadmer's Canterbury,' for Charles C.
Rozier and Giles Gaspar (eds), Companion to Eadmer of Canterbury, Anselm Studies series (Brill, 2022)
'Eadwig has a Threesome: Gender and the Breaking of Authority in the Tenth Century,' for Christopher Riedel and Mary Blanchard (eds), Edmund, Eadred and Eadwig: Forgotten Kings of the Tenth Century (Boydell, 2022)
'Landscape and Settlement,' for Benjamin Pohl (ed) Companion to the Age of William the Conqueror (Cambridge University Press, 2022)
‘Of Pots and Pins: The Households at Late Anglo-Saxon Faccombe Netherton, Hampshire,’ in Ben Jervis (ed) The Middle Ages Revisited: Studies in the Archaeology and History of Medieval Southern England Presented to Prof.
David A.
Hinton (Archaeopress, 2018), 58-70.
'Creating a Choreographed Space: Anglo-Norman Keeps ca.
1100-1250,' in L.
Thomas (ed.), Buildings in Society: International Studies in the Historic Era (Archaeopress, 2018), 127-40.
'Feminism, Fiction and the Empress Matilda,' in J.
North, K.
Alvestad and E.
Woodacre (eds), Premodern Rulers and Postmodern Viewers: Gender, Sex, and Power in Popular Culture (Palgrave, 2018).
I welcome proposals for postgraduate research; my areas of supervision are: Anglo-Saxon and Anglo-Norman social history and archaeology; gender history and archaeology; museum and collection history.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Fosbraey.php:
Glenn Fosbraey is Associate Dean in the Faculty of of Humanities and Social Sciences.
He has published a number of books, journal articles and chapters on the subjects of song lyrics, drama and pedagogical processes in HE.
Glenn has been a member of the Creative Writing team since January 2009, during which time he has received a number of Learning and Teaching Awards and a National Green Gown Award for student engagement.
He became a Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy in 2016.
As well as his academic work, Glenn has published a number of poems and short stories.
Before coming to The University of Winchester, Glenn worked as a copywriter, PR Officer, and proofreader.
Books of Blood: Horror Writing and Why We Love to Be Afraid .
Reaktion Books.
(Due 2025)
Creative Learning, Teaching, and Assessment for Arts and Humanities Higher Education.
Bloomsbury Academic (2024)
Exploring Personality and Performance in The Beatles.
Becoming the Fab Four.
With Daniel Ash.
Cambridge Scholars Publishing (2024).
Breaking Barriers: 100 personal accounts of mental ill health, recovery, and connection .
Co-edited with Katie Pether.
Valley Press.
(2024)
Creative Approaches to Higher Education Pedagogy in the Arts and Humanities (editor).
Bloomsbury (2024)
Reading Eminem: A critical, lyrical analysis .
Palgrave Macmillan (2022)
Viva Hate: An exploration of hatred in pop music.
Cambridge Scholars Press (2022)
Lost Horizons: Song Lyrics and the Coast (editor).
Routledge (2022)
Misogyny, toxic masculinity, and heteronormativity in post-2000 popular music.
C o-edited with Nicola Puckey.
Palgrave Macmillan (2021)
Writing Song Lyrics: A Creative and Critical Approach .
Palgrave Macmillan.
With Professor Andrew Melrose (2019)
Chapters
‘Enhancing the Post-Uni experience via graduate ‘writing weekends’.
In Creative Approaches to Higher Education Pedagogy in the Arts and Humanities (2024)
'From Endless Summer to Endless Bummer: The Californian ‘beach song’ from 1962–2020’.
In Lost Horizons: Song lyrics and the coast (2022)
'Manipulation and truth in The Final Cut.' In Pink Floyd.
A Multi-disciplinary Understanding of a Global Music Brand .
'Featuring...
Nicki Minaj'.
In Fosbraey and Puckey (eds) Misogyny, toxic masculinity, and heteronormativity in post-2000 popular music (2021)
'I’m (not) your man’ 'Songs of Leonard Cohen'.
In: Billingham, P.
ed.
Spirituality and Desire in Leonard Cohen’s Song and Poems .
Cambridge Scholars Press 2017
The Conversation articles
Explore all Glenn's articles in The Conversation
Other articles and media
‘Five ways to beat the procrastination monster’.
Times Higher Education .
December 2023
‘If I redesigned UK higher education, I would…’.
January 2023
‘Full circle: using the cycle of teaching, module design and research’.
‘Two of us: Co-teaching in the HE classroom’ (with Daniel Ash).
Juice Journal .
2022
‘Same old thing: The Streets and the importance of the everyday’.
What, like it’s hard?
Podcast .
2021
‘Exploring Song Lyrics’.
The English Review magazin e.
31.2.
2020
‘Morrissey and The Carnivalesque’.
AXON .
2019 ‘Why Study Creative Writing in HE?’ The English Review magazine .
2019
'Living Inside and Outside songs.' AXON .
2018 ‘Engagement, partnership, and collaboration in Higher Education.’ Education Developments.
19.4 .
2018
'Disrupting Status Quo: Pedagogical Approaches to Song Lyrics.' Creative Academic , 2.
'Approaches to low budget theatre making.' National Drama Journal.
2014
This Changes Everything: 11 songs about Climate Change [online].
[CD].
iTunes; Google Play; Spotify: Splendid Fred Records.
2016
Performances, Exhibitions and Installations
Curated exhibitions
'This Changes Everything' - Multi-Media Art Exhibition about Climate Change.
UoW Stripe Studios/Univ.
of Southampton Hansard Gallery.
The critical study of popular music Horror Fiction (inc.
the psychology of Horror)
Creative Pedagogies in Higher Education
Higher Education Funding Council For England funding for social entrepreneurship for Splendid Fred Theatre Company
Member of National Association of Writers in Education

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/McKelvie.php:
I am Senior Lecturer in Medieval History.
I am a graduate of the Universities of Glasgow (MA and MLitt) and Winchester (PhD) and have more than a decade's experience of teaching in Higher Education.
I have also worked on various research council funded projects relating to inquisitions post mortem and the Victoria County History in Hampshire and Wiltshire.
I am the programme leader for the Foundation Year across the university and teach on several of the core modules designed to develop the academic skills of Foundation Year students.
I also contribute to BA and MA teaching within the History Department, including the second year Option A module HS2310: The First English Empire.
My research has focussed on the nature of political society in late medieval England which has underpinned latest book examines cases of illegal livery giving and retaining in England over a 130 year period, examining the effectiveness of new laws on social relations and how ‘bastard feudal’ ties facilitated many of the rebellions and acts of noble violence in the long fifteenth century.
I am currently working on a number of inter-related articles on the nature of political society and warfare in both England and Scotland throughout the later middle ages.
I am a Convenor of the University's interdisciplinary Centre for Medieval and Renaissance Research and the reviews editor for Southern History .
Book s and book chapters
Editions of primary sources
Essays
Popular history articles
News articles
Online publications
Interviewed by the BBC as historical expert for Entertainment & Arts feature ‘ Game of Thrones: Who is the true heir ’ in August 2017.
Selected conference papers

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Iglesias-Rogers.php:
Dr Graciela Iglesias Rogers is Senior Lecturer in Modern European and Global Hispanic History.
Her broad fields of interest are the political, cultural and social history of Europe (including Britain), the Americas, Africa and Asia from a transnational perspective, with particular attention to developments relating to Spanish-speaking  communities from the eighteenth to the twentieth centuries.?
She embarked on academia after life as a Reuters fellow with a long career in journalism, including as Chief European correspondent for the Argentine broadsheet La Nacion .
At the University of Oxford, she read for a BA degree in Modern History (St.
Hilda's College) followed by a doctorate (Lady Margaret Hall).
She subsequently held various positions as tutor, lecturer and researcher (Hertford College, St.
Peter’s College, Faculty of History) and established the interdisciplinary research network ‘Translations in Transnational Contexts’.
She joined the Department of History at Winchester in October 2014.
She was made a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society "in recognition of her contribution to historical scholarship” in 2023.
Currently, she is co-convenor of the Modern History Research Centre (MHRC) and the Principal Investigator in the AHRC-funded international research network project 'The Hispanic-Anglosphere: transnational networks, global communities (late 18th to early 20th centuries) in partnership with the National Trust Tyntesfield.
F ind out more about the Hispanic-Anglosphere Project.
She has peer-reviewed grants for The Council for the Humanities of the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research and The National University of Ireland's Post-Doctoral Fellowships in the Humanities and is one of the external examiners for courses in the Humanities of the Oxford University Department for Continuing Education.
Dr Graciela Iglesias-Rogers has been consulted by many media outlets including BBC Radio 4, BBC World Service, The Independent , Radio Nacional de España (National Radio of Spain) and the Dutch newspaper Algemeen Dagblad on issues as varied as Catalan separatism, royal abdications, the history of European and Latin American elections, the development of anarchism in the Hispanic world and the Falklands War.
(Please note that a few words in foreign languages may show spelling errors due to IT issues)
'What is the Hispanic-Anglosphere?
Concepts, Methods and Public Engagement' in Graciela Iglesias-Rogers, ed.
The Hispanic-Anglosphere from the Eighteenth to the Twentieth Century - An Introduction (New York and London: Routledge, 2021) , pp.
1-17.
with José Brownrigg-Gleeson Martínez, "Spanish 'Colonies': A Term Forged in the Hispanic-Anglosphere" in Graciela Iglesias-Rogers, ed.
27-46.
“Love, Prejudice, Pandemics and Global Entrepreneurship: William 'Guillermo' Gibbs's Long Route to Tyntesfield” in Graciela Iglesias-Rogers, ed.
101-36.
‘From Philos Hispaniae to Karl Marx: the first English translation of a Liberal Codex’ in D.
Hook and G.
Iglesias-Rogers (eds.), Translations in times of disruption: an interdisciplinary study in transnational contexts (Basingstoke: Palgrave, 2017), pp.
45-73.
Iglesias-Rogers, ‘Translations in times of disruption: the way ahead’, in D.
Iglesias-Rogers (eds.), Translations in times of disruption: an interdisciplinary study in transnational contexts (Basingstoke: Palgrave, 2017), pp.1-28.
'Soldiering abroad: the experience of living and fighting among aliens during the Napoleonic wars', in Kevin Linch and Matthew McCormack (eds) Britain’s soldiers: rethinking war and society, 1715 - 1815 (Liverpool University Press, 2014).
‘Una promesa de «felicidad, libertad y prosperidad»: la primera traduccion inglesa de la Constitución de Cadiz de 1812’, in Fernando Durán Lopez (ed.), Hacia 1812, desde el siglo ilustrado (Gijon: Sociedad Española de Estudios del Siglo XVIII - Ediciones Trea, 2013), pp 857-871.
'«Libertadores británicos»: voluntarios en las fuerzas españolas durante la Guerra de la Independencia (1808 - 1814)', In El Comienzo de la Guerra de la Independencia , ed.
by Emilio de Diego and José Luis Martínez Sanz (Madrid, 2008), 1-14
Current research
Dr Iglesias Rogers is the lead researcher for the international research network project 'The Hispanic Anglosphere: Transnational networks and global communities (18th - 20th centuries)' in partnership with The National Trust (Tyntesfield), funded by the AHRC (see below).
Find out more about the Hispanic-Anglosphere project.
Other major research collaborations
Translations in Transnational Contexts
Founder and interim coordinator of this interdisciplinary research network supported by The Oxford Research Centre in the Humanities (TORCH), The Modern European History Research Centre (MEHRC) and The Society for the Social History of Medicine (SSHM).
Visit the Translations in Transnational Contexts website .
Chile in the 1820s
A new look at the post-independence period, an initiative of the Centro de Estudios de Historia Política, Universidad Adolfo Ibáñez (Chile) and the Centre for the Study of Colonial and Postcolonial Societies, University of Bristol (England).
Soldiers and Soldiering in Britain 1750 - 1815
An AHRC project based at the University of Leeds and the University of Northampton.
Dr Iglesias Rogers provides thesis guidance to postgraduate students and acts as examiner for various Masters Programmes on 'Modern British and European History' and 'Global and Imperial History', including the 'Europeaum', the European Masters programme organised by the universities of Leiden, Paris and Oxford.
She welcomes proposals for postgraduate research at Winchester.
Her areas of supervision are:  the social, cultural, political and environmental history of Europe (including Britain) and the Americas in the 18th to 20th centuries and particularly their entanglement with the global Hispanic world (Spain, the Americas, North and West Africa and the Philippines) as well as any projects that may take a  transnational approach.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Our-faculties/hwb/Short-Courses-and-CPD:
Creating lifelong learning opportunities for people working across health and social care systems.
In the Faculty of Health and Wellbeing, we offer a growing range of flexible, accessible courses intended to create lifelong learning journeys for people working across health and social care systems.
Our courses have been developed to offer a broad range of opportunities for upskilling and progression through professional education.
Our courses are both attendance-only and credit-bearing, and can be taken as stand-alone or used to build towards academic awards.
Find out more information about our short courses
Email hwbshortcourses@winchester.ac.uk for queries about any of the courses.
Leading Integrated Care Systems
Digital Health
Clinical Decision Making
Research and Evaluation Methods

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Our-faculties/hwb/Health-and-Care-Professions:
We are a dynamic and expanding team offering a range of exciting courses for aspiring health professionals.
We are growing our list of undergraduate programmes, having launched Nursing in September 2019.
All our programmes are designed to support the development of your academic and professional skills to meet the needs of employers and build your leadership and teamwork skills.
Our staff excel in teaching, research and service in their fields, and their valuable real-life experience of the industry and community can help you select the course of study best suited to your interests.
Amanda Pike, Head of Department
Anita Atwal , Senior Lecturer in Occupational Therapy
Louise Barlow , Lecturer in Sports Therapy
Nicky Bassett-Burr, Senior Lecturer in Occupational Therapy - email Nicky
Karen Chapman , Lecturer in Physiotherapy
Dr Katherine Cook, Senior Lecturer in Physiotherapy
Neil Duncan , Lecturer in Sports Therapy
Sophie Gay , Head of Practice Learning, Physiotherapy
Jaana Jeffery , Senior Lecturer in Nutrition and Dietetics
Joy John, Senior Lecturer in Occupational Therapy - email Joy
Jason Laird, S enior Lecturer in Physiotherapy
Dr Shawn McLaren , Senior Lecturer in Dietetics
Rosan Meyer, Visiting Professor in Paediatric Dietetics - email Rosan
Josephine Morris , Senior Lecturer in Physiotherapy
Dr Steve Ryall, Senior Lecturer in Physiotherapy, Student Experience Lead
Henry Tellwright, Lecturer in Dietetics
Dr David Wilson , Senior Lecturer in Physiotherapy
Dr Chris Gale, Senior Lecturer in Mental Health Nursing
Wayne Arnett, Senior Lecturer in Nursing
Dave Clark, Lecturer in Learning Disability Nursing
Hannah Connell, Lecturer in Nursing Skills & Simulation
Lisa Cox, Senior Lecturer in Midwifery
Lois Doel, Senior Lecturer in Child Nursing
Carly Green, Lecturer in Child Nursing
Kathryn Hallam, Lecturer in Adult Nursing
Stacy Hutchins, Senior Lecturer in Adult Nursing
Gloria Mancuso, Lecturer in Midwifery
Dr Kate Nash , Lead Midwife for Education
Vikki Pragnell, Senior Lecturer in Midwifery
Matt Radcliffe, Lecturer in Mental Health Nursing
Jessica Redway , Lecturer in Health & Wellbeing (Expertise by Experience)
Ginny Roberts, Lecturer in Adult Nursing
David Voegeli, Professor of Nursing
Jo Welch, Senior Lecturer in Learning Disability Nursing
Ian Winkworth, Senior lecturer in Adult Nursing
Katy Winkworth, Lecturer in Nursing Skills & Simulation
Becky Williamson, Lecturer in Learning Disability Nursing
Claire Hollywell, Senior Lecturer in Nursing Apprenticeships
Penny Marsh, Senior Lecturer and Programme Lead in Nursing Associate Apprenticeships
Ian Llewellyn-Nash, Senior Lecturer and Programme Lead in Nursing Apprenticeships
Faye Powell, Senior Lecturer and Programme Lead for Mental Health Nursing
Kathleen Butler, Lecturer in Social Work
Leah Cox, Senior Lecturer in Social Work
Jackie Chrysta l, Senior Lecturer in Social Work
Richard Murphy , Senior Lecturer in Social Work
Caroline Nicolson , Senior Lecturer in Social Work
Jane Peacock , Senior Lecturer in Social Work
Sue Taplin, Senior Lecturer in Social Work
find out more about our courses in Health Care

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Brown.php:
Hazel's undergraduate studies were completed at Chichester Institute of Higher Education culminating in a BSc (Hons) in Sport Studies, awarded by the University of Southampton.
The institute then gained the status of University College and Hazel obtained an MSc in Sport and Exercise Science, completing a physiology pathway.
From Chichester she transferred to Canterbury Christ Church University in order to undertake research into the myogenic and neurogenic constraints to increasing joint range of motion.
From this research position she then transferred onto the lecturing staff in order to become field leader in Biomechanics and Movement Analysis, within the department of Sport Science, Tourism & Leisure.
At this time she registered with British Gymnastics as a practising coach educator.
Alongside this she undertook a Postgraduate Certificate in Learning and Teaching which has led to research interests within higher education.
Hazel joined the University of Southampton in 2004, teaching biomechanics and research methods (sport, education and psychology).
At this time she undertook a PhD investigating the expectations and perceptions of undergraduate students studying sport degrees, focussing on the student experience.
In 2013 she transferred to the Faculty of Health Sciences and focussed on teaching quantitative methods to postgraduate students but in 2014 returned to her home subject and took up a position within the University of Winchester to undertake teaching and research in the science of sport coaching.
She became the Programme Leader for the Coaching degrees in 2015, and in 2017 became the Head of Department.
She is now the Associate Dean (Academic Experience and Student Outcomes) in the Faculty of Health and Wellbeing.
Hazel holds a variety of research interests and has published in sport coaching, executive coaching, wellbeing and education.
Higher Education Academy Senior Fellowship (SFHEA)
Supervision of Research Students
Hazel is a UK Council of Graduate Education (UKCGE)-accredited research supervisor.
She welcomes enquiries abour postgraduate research supervision.
Her areas of supervision are:

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Jessop.php:
Dr David Jessop is Senior Lecturer in Sport and Exercise Science in the School of Sport, Health and Community, and the current Director of Winchester Wellbeing and Sport Consultancy (WinWell)
David is a seasoned sports biomechanics expert with nearly 20 years of experience.
Specialising in biomechanics and data analysis, David has worked with elite athletes from various sports including athletics, diving, motorsport, speed skating, and wheelchair rugby.
At WinWell, he offers biomechanics workshops and provides detailed technique analysis to help athletes improve their performance.
With his expertise and keen eye for movement patterns, David is dedicated to helping athletes optimise their skills and achieve their goals through refined biomechanical analyses.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Our-faculties/LCJ/Law:
The Law Department strives to create a supportive environment in which students can get to know their lecturers on an individualised basis.
Regardless of which route you choose, we pride ourselves on embedding practical legal skills into the degree experience; you will be assessed via a variety of methods, such as mooting, negotiation, client interviewing, presentations, conference posters, as well as traditional exam-based and written assignments.
Research in Law at Winchester is wide-ranging and firmly rooted in the modern-day world.
We have research strengths in many areas including Criminal Justice; Child law and the law of Tort.
Law at Winchester is home to  the Centre for Information Rights , which examines the overlap between information and privacy law, and new technologies and methods of data analysis.
For more information on our research, see below.
We enjoy strong partnerships with a range of regional and national employers within the legal profession, providing you with the opportunity for enhanced employability and professional development.
The LLB (Hons) Law degree is recognised by the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA) and the Bar Standards Board ; these are known as ‘Qualifying Law Degrees’ and involve the study of seven key subjects, known as the 'Foundations of Legal Knowledge' (FLKs).
Some of the modules we offer will be compulsory if you are studying for a Qualifying Law Degree, others will be optional.
For those who are not considering becoming a barrister or solicitor, we also off a range of pathways which will provide you with a valuable opportunity to study different optional modules alongside Law.
There are plenty of opportunities for you to become involved in social and extracurricular activities through departmental events, and the Student Law Societies.
The University of Winchester has launched a Legal Advice Centre, providing free initial legal advice to members of the public in relation to Family Law matters.
All advice will be free and given by local qualified lawyers, assisted by Law students.
To find out more and book an advice session, visit the Legal Advice Centre page .
Dr Emma Nottingham , Reader in Law and Co-Convenor, Centre for Information Rights
David Chalk
Kristina Brown , No 5 Barristers Chambers
Business law; Criminal law; International Criminal Law; Criminal Justice; Commercial litigation; Constitutional law; Dispute resolution; Employment law; Family law; Feminist legal theory; Healthcare law; Human rights; International law; Law and religion; Legal Philosophy; Medical law and Ethics; Privacy law; Public law; Tort law.
The Centre for Information Rights examines the overlap between information and privacy law, and new technologies and methods of data analysis.
CIR organises the annual Conference on Trust, Risk, Information and the Law (TRILCon), open to academics, postgraduate students, policy-makers and practitioners.
To find out more, explore our academic staff profile pages above for individual areas of supervision.
Find out everything you need to know if you are thinking of studying for a postgraduate research degree at Winchester.
Find out more about our courses in Law

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Our-faculties/LCJ/Policing-Criminology-and-Forensics:
As a nation we cannot help but become obsessed with true crime podcasts, police drama shows or forensic investigation programmes.
It is an area that fascinates the human mind and offers an exhilarating and rewarding area of study.
Our Department is home to a range of high-quality programmes covering a range of subject areas within:
We offer an exciting and welcoming environment, designed to give students interactive and practical experience to build the knowledge and skills that will allow them to make a real-world difference, whilst being at the forefront of the study of a range of contemporary issues such as identity, investigation, and insecurity.
Our expert teaching team have a wealth of first-hand experience and use this to bring their subjects to life, as well as drawing on the expertise of specialists from across the University such as from Philosophy, Law, Psychology and beyond.
The Department of Policing, Criminology and Forensics hosts state of the art facilities, combined with real-world experiences and examples, developed through strong external relationships to allow students to work a develop collaboratively for positive change in the local, national, and global community.
The department has specialist facilities and a dedicated Laboratory Manager.
Our Cold Case Unit helps Forensic Investigation students to understand the challenges of cold case investigation and trains the next generation of leading investigators.
At postgraduate level we offer an MSc in Applied Criminology , and we warmly welcome enquiries about postgraduate research.
Find out more about doing a postgraduate research degree at Winchester.
Our courses are designed to equip students with all the skills, knowledge, and confidence they will need to pursue successful and fulfilling careers in the future.
Simon Fox
Dr David Ashby , Laboratory Manager
Eleanor James , Forensics Laboratory Technician
Find out more about our courses in policing, Criminology and Forensics

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Davies.php:
Bill is the Dean of the Faculty of Law, Crime and Justice.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Hull.php:
Chris is the Associate Dean for Academic Experience and Student Outcomes within the Faculty of Law, Crime and Justice and Senior Fellow (Learning and Teaching) within the Department of Law.
He is an experienced academic and leader, having worked in Further and Higher Education since 2000.
He has held various leadership roles overseeing quality, learning and teaching functions, law and business programmes, a Law Department and a multi-disciplinary School.
His current role as Associate Dean focuses on working towards achieving strategic goals concerning students' academic experience, portfolio review, and student outcomes.
He has taught a variety of law modules at different levels during his career, predominantly within private client/commercial law.
He has a particular interest in Employment Law, which he has taught at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels and externally to HR professionals and corporate leaders from national and International organisations.
Christopher is also an experienced external examiner and external reviewer.
He is a non-practising Barrister and a past Chair of the Association of Law Teachers.
For further professional memberships, see below.
You can link with Christopher via LinkedIn at linkedin.com/in/cwdhull
Hull, C.
(2008) The Practice of Employment Law (UQ13).
ILEX Tutorial College.
Panel Member, ‘Authenticity: From a popular buzzword to a meaningful concept’.
Advance HE Teaching and Learning Conference, Northumbria University, 2-4th July 2019
Panel member, ‘Managing and Developing your Faculty’.
Chartered Association of Business Schools Annual Conference, International Convention Centre Birmingham, 6-7 th November 2017
(2015) ‘Viva voce as an assessment method in undergraduate legal education’.
Association of Law Teachers, 50 years of assessing legal education, ICSL, 29 th January 2015
(2010) ‘Podcasting: Defining, Valuing and Embedding’.
UKCLE Enhancing Legal Education in Wales, University of Glamorgan, 29 th April 2010
(2009) ‘Podcasts: embedding into a module’.
UKCLE How to Podcast training event, Park Inn Hotel, Southampton Row, London, 15 th September 2009
(2009) ‘E-learning, M-learning, Pods and Vods: A legal education study’ BILETA, University of Winchester, 21 – 23 April 2009.
(2008) ‘PodLaw: A portable interactive learning environment for the study of law’.
HEA, Mobile Learning in HE: The Discipline Dimension, University of Wolvehampton 2008.
(2008) ‘PodLaw: Developing a portable interactive learning environment to enhance the study of law’ Learning in Law Conference, Warwick, 3-4 January 2008.
(2007) ‘Age Discrimination in the Workplace – Is the new law working?’ paper given as part of the MBE Research Seminar Programme, St Mary’s University, 23 rd May 2007.
(2005) ’It’s so much fun it can’t be legal: teaching methods that enhances the student learning experience in the lecture theatre’ 40 th Annual Conference of the Association of Law Teachers, Edinburgh, 20-22 March 2005.
(2004) ‘Equality Challenge: Religion, Belief and Sexual Orientation Anti-Discriminatory Practice’ University of Plymouth, 2004.
(2003) “Comparison of UK and Dutch Employment Law’ HES Amsterdam Business School, 2003.
42 nd Annual Conference for the Association of Law Teachers: ‘Legal Education: fit for purpose?’ University of Plymouth, 1-3 April 2007.
Chris is currently undertaking his Doctorate in Education and is looking at creativity in legal education from his perspective as a neurodiverse law teacher.
He has a keen interest in Higher Education pedagogy in legal education; in particular curriculum design, skills development, assessment methodology and technology-enhanced learning and teaching.
Chris has been part of a variety of institutional projects involving Audio Feedback, m-learning, authentic assessment, student retention and success, and employability.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Shooter.php:
@amelia_shooter
Amelia joined the University of Winchester in January 2020.
She is the faculty lead for postgraduate research, and currently teaches criminal law and evidence law.
Before joining Winchester, Amelia completed her PhD at Birmingham City University, where she was also a visiting lecturer.
Her thesis is titled “100 Years of the National Research Council: A Critical Examination of Judicial References to Forensic Science NAS Reports” and which assessed judicial decision-making in the US criminal justice system in cases where forensic science evidence is challenged.
As part of her PhD research, Amelia undertook a residential scholarship at the Law Library of Congress in Washington D.C.
Amelia’s main research interests lie in the interaction between law and science, specifically in the way that legal actors understand and interpret scientific evidence.
Within this, she has studied the cultural norms and conventions governing the treatment of evidence and courtroom actors.
She is currently working on further research examining the interaction between legal professionals, juries and scientific evidence in the criminal justice system.
Shrey Jhalani, Ruth M.
Morgan, Amelia Shooter & John Cassella, 'UK Parliamentary Inquiry Reports in Forensic Science - Plus Ca Change?' [2024] 9 Forensic Science International: Synergy.
Available HERE.
Sarah Cooper & Amelia Shooter, 'A Case for Conceptualizing Science Literacy for Lawyers' [2022] 13 Crim L Prac 3
Amelia Shooter & Sarah L.
Cooper, 'A Template for Enhancing the Impact of the National Academy of Sciences' Reporting on Forensic Science' [2019] 8(3) BJALS 441

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/About-Us/Leadership-and-governance/Staff-Directory/Staff-Profiles/Harding.php:
Natacha is the Academic Head of Department of Policing, Criminology and Forensics, having started as an Associate Lecturer in January 2013 and progressing to Lecturer in January 2015 and Senior Lecturer in September 2018.
Natacha is the current lead of The Justice Project at the University of Winchester.
She received her LLB (Hons) from the University of Surrey in 2008 and continued there to complete her LLM in International Law in 2010.
Alongside this study, she completed the Bar Vocational Course at City Law School in 2010.
Natacha’s research interests focus on victim experience in the criminal justice system, the politics of victims of crime and victim policy.
She is currently completing her PhD exploring victim of crime symbolism under Conservative rule in England and Wales.
Natacha has written and presented on teaching sensitive topic areas and effective pedagogy around skills development and teaching theoretical subject areas.
Her teaching interests focus on miscarriages of justice, victimology, crime fiction and criminological narratives.
She supervises undergraduate and postgraduate dissertations.
Natacha teaches across the criminological provision at Winchester from foundation year to the MSc in Applied Criminology.
Higher Education Teaching Qualification: Higher Education Academy Senior Fellowship (SFHEA).
Teaching responsibilities:
· Introduction to Criminology
· Understanding Crime, Law and Justice
· Criminological Narratives and Stories
· Criminological Investigations: The Justice Project (both undergraduate and postgraduate)
· Undergraduate and postgraduate dissertation supervision
Victims - policy and participation Miscarriages of Justice Teaching practice - student development and sensitive topics
Harding, N (2018) Participant or Spectator?
Victim-Focused Political Activity since 2010.
Political Quarterl y.
89(2) 237-245
Harding, N (2023) Reasonably Uncomfortable: Teaching Sensitive Materials Sensitively.
In Young, S and Strudwick, K (eds) Teaching Criminology and Criminal Justice: Challenges for Higher Education .
Switzerland: Palgrave MacMillan pp199-224

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Press-Centre/Media-Articles/Wonderful-night-of-Winton-winners.php:
The third annual Winton Society Awards celebrated achievements of the University of Winchester’s students and staff, past and present.
The Winton Society is the University’s alumni community, comprising more than 35,000 people who have studied or worked at the University of Winchester, or previously, King Alfred’s College.
The awards mark their achievements and contributions within the University and the wider world.
The 2024 ceremony was held at the University’s King Alfred Quarter and was compered by Angus Scott, well-known sports broadcaster and journalism lecturer at the University who is also an alumnus.
Guests were welcomed by the Vice-Chancellor of the University and President of the Winton Society, Professor Sarah Greer.
Professor Greer said: “These awards demonstrate that our values – the love of learning, individual and shared endeavour and making a difference – are at the heart of the University of Winchester, past and present.
"The awards celebrate some remarkable individual achievements, but also recognise those who have worked  quietly and conscientiously over many years to support students and other communities, changing the lives of others for the better.
They embody Winchester’s aspiration to ‘make a difference’ - and we are both very proud of them and grateful to them.”
Natasha Montagu, Head of External Engagement and Partnerships at the University said: “These awards are presented to individuals who have empowered growth in themselves and others, engendering change to make the world a better place, and enriching the lives of others through their relationships and work within their local communities.”
Tiereny McGuire accepts the Lifetime Achievement Award which was presented posthumously to her mother Lorette Keys.
Tiereny is pictured with Vice-Chancellor Professor Sarah Greer and Pro Vice-Chancellor Sam Jones.
The Lifetime Achievement Award went posthumously to Lorette Keys, who worked at the Student Union and the University for more than 18 years before her sudden death in September.
Most recently, she was the Finance and Commercial Services Manager at the Student Union.
Lorette was described as a beacon of support to all, who could always be relied upon for advice and guidance, professional or personal.
Her support for the Student Union through difficult times, particularly the Covid pandemic, was recognised.
Former colleagues said that “Lorette was a true friend to those that she worked with and created a warm and welcoming environment for staff and students.”
Lorette’s family attended the ceremony and her daughter, Tiereny McGuire accepted the award.
The runner-up in this category was Professor Jude Davies for his contribution to the University in teaching and research.
After more than 30 years of service to the University, Jude retired in 2023.
He was described as a ‘tireless mentor’ and ‘champion of research informed teaching’.
The other winners were:
The Force for Good Award - Mohamad Bashar Mahrousa.
Mohamad was honoured for his outstanding contribution to the Bahar Organization which which provides humanitarian aid to displaced people in Syria, Northern Iraq and Turkey.
He played a pivotal role helping to fundraise in the wake of the Turkish earthquake crisis in 2023.
Outstanding Contribution Award – Caroline Johnson
Caroline who works for Boomtown, Stonehenge, and the Hampshire Cultural Trust was recognised for her huge contribution to heritage and culture in the area.
Runner-up: Harry Drymott for his volunteering with Winchester Scouts
Services to the University - Antosh Wojcik
Antosh has achieved great success as a poet and takes part in numerous university projects including the recent Winchester Poetry Festival Day on campus.
He regularly organises and takes part in writing and performance workshops for children of all ages in the south.
Runner-up: Natacha Harding was recognised for her dedication to the Law, Crime and Justice Faculty, supporting her department colleagues, and increasing the University’s visibility through the highly successful “murder mystery” events.
Emerging Talent Award - Henry Marks
Henry has become a well-known figure in the business and food community thanks to his burger bar, the Hotbox.
Henry was honoured for his hard work, ambition and desire to help others.
Runner-up: Heath Virgoe, for their success as a film maker and for being accepted on to a New Talent Development Scheme, which supports underrepresented film makers through a six-month mentorship programme.
Clive Cook, Community Partner Award winner, with Vice-Chancellor Professor Sarah Greer and Mary Edwards, chair of the university's board of governors.
Community Partner Award – Clive Cook
As CEO of St John’s Winchester, Clive Cook has led substantial and impactfull change that has directly enabled older people to live well in Winchester.
Runner-up: Andrew Loretto, director of the Hat Fair for the joy he and his team bring to the city each year.
Winton Values Award winner Jane Peacock, Senior Lecturer in Social Work, with Vice-Chancellor Professor Sarah Greer and Andrew Robinson, Vice Chair of the University of Winchester Board of Governors
Winton Values Award – Jane Peacock
Jane has been a strong advocate for the voice of lived experience in her role as senior lecturer within the Social Work programmes.
Her passion and commitment to ensure those voices are heard resonates strongly with the values of the University and those of artists in residence, Blue Apple Theatre, whose members Jane has invited into the learning space to talk with students.
Runner-up: Flis Pitman for her inspirational leadership in arts and cultural organisations across Hampshire whose work has inspired many Winchester students to pursue careers and further study in Youth Music and Arts Project Management.
Academic Excellence Awards:
Winner of the Academic Excellence Award (Business & Digital Technologies) Duncan Guthrie with Vice- Chancellor Professor Sarah Greer and Niki Swinnerton, BA (Hons) Marketing Programme Lead
Business & Digital Technologies – Duncan Guthrie
Mature student Duncan has taken on many leadership and mentoring roles throughout his time at Winchester and currently chairs the Student Staff Liaison Committee for BA(Hons) Marketing.
He has been a Student Academic Representative throughout his time at Winchester and championed the university at open days, experience days, and other on-campus events.
Winner of the Academic Excellence Award (Humanities & Social Sciences) Alastair Eager with Vice- Chancellor Professor Sarah Greer and Dickie Bennett, former Royal Marine and founder of Breaking Ground Heritage
Humanities & Social Sciences – Alastair Eager
Alastair (Al) served in the Royal Marines for 15 years, including front-line tours of Iraq and Afghanistan.
He discovered a passion for archaeology through the Waterloo Uncovered project following medical discharge.
He was offered a veteran studentship in archaeology in 2020.
After completing his professional placement year, host company - Pre-Construct Archaeology - were so impressed they offered Al further work and he continues to work part-time for them.
Al also took part in the Nokalakevi dig in Georgia, supervising a trench, directing and training first year Winchester students and other volunteers.
Winner of the Academic Excellence Award (Law Crime and Justice) Jordan Bushnell with Vice- Chancellor Professor Sarah Greer and Dean of the Faculty of Law, Crime and Justice Bill Davies
Law Crime and Justice – Jordan Bushnell
As well as achieving great grades, Jordan has gone above and beyond in her undergraduate dissertation, which involves a collaborative effort with Hampshire and Isle of Wight Fire and Rescue.
She is tackling a critical issue in our criminal justice sector around recovering footwear marks from arson scenes.
To do this Jordan has explored innovative use of coding and AI.
Winner of the Academic Excellence Award (Education and the Arts) Emma Antrobus with Vice- Chancellor Professor Sarah Greer and Dean of the Faculty of Education and the Arts Cathy Gower
Education and the Arts – Emma Antrobus
Emma is an outstanding student.
Her dissertation, that explores sex education and disability, is shaping up to be a most ambitious, incisive, and intelligent study.
Her contributions to seminars always move conversations to greater depths.
Emma is also undergraduate representative of Winchester’s new research centre, CREATE (Centre of Research for Educational Action and Theory Exchange).
Winner of the Academic Excellence Award (Health and Wellbeing) Natasha Evans with Vice- Chancellor Professor Sarah Greer and Julia Lake, Deputy Chief Nurse and Hampshire Hospitals Foundation Trust (HHFT)
Health & Wellbeing – Natasha Evans
Natasha takes every opportunity to go over and above her studies and has had a huge impact on the Nursing course at Winchester.She has been part of the Royal College of Nurses student council, Chair of the Student Staff Liaison Committee and helped set up the University’s Nursing Society.
Winton Society Fellowships:
Dee Sayers and Stephen Baldwin were recognised for their tremendous contributions to alumni and the Winton Society, over many years.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Press-Centre/Media-Articles/Mum-Liana-emerges-from-abusive-relationship-to-win-Student-Social-Mobility-Award.php:
University of Winchester student Liana Wilson’s remarkable journey back into education has reached another high spot after she received a national award.
Mother-of-five Liana, aged 39, was one of three winners in the Academic Success category at the upReach 2025 Student Social Mobility Awards.
The awards recognise sixth form students and undergraduates who have overcome significant obstacles on their path to success.
Liana was in abusive relationship for seven years until 2020.
The following year she was assaulted violently at her home by her ex-partner and became involved in a long and arduous series of legal proceedings to protect herself and her family.
It was while seeking to make sense of the criminal justice system that Liana discovered she had a talent for research and rediscovered a love of learning which led her back to college and eventually university.
Liana is excelling in her studies and this year Winchester Students’ Union Recognition Awards was named Outstanding Student Academic Representative for the Faculty of Law, Crime and Justice.
She was also part of the Commuting Student’s Network Committee which won Network of the Year.
The Student Social Mobility Awards citation praised Liana and her fellow winners’ “… truly outstanding profile, characterised by consistent academic excellence, impactful leadership and commitment to their university community.”
Speaking after the awards ceremony, held at London’s Mansion House, Liana said: “I was holding back tears.
I genuinely didn't think they'd say my name.”
Liana added: “My further and higher education journey has helped me to grow individually and external to my parenting role.
“I feel like what I am doing now will help me to provide a better life for my children, inspire them to pursue their own goals - and, as they all grow up, I will have created a full life for myself.
“I do feel that University has provided me with ample opportunities to support, advocate for and inspire people.
“Being at Winchester has had a huge impact on my confidence and self-belief - I've realised that some of my biggest challenges beforehand have provided me with skills that have helped me to excel.”
All of Liana’s children were delighted with their mum’s achievement.
Sofia, 9, said:  "I'm so proud of my Mummy for winning her award, she works so hard taking care of us and going to University as well."
Harrison, 10, said: "I'm really glad my Mum got this award because she works really hard and gets such good grades at Uni, as well as being our full-time parent and looking after the house.
I'm really proud to have her as my Mum."
Vice-Chancellor of the University of Winchester, Professor Sarah Greer said: “Many congratulations to Liana.
I am delighted that she has won this award - it is so well-deserved.
Her story is inspirational, showing that with determination, hard work and good support it is possible to overcome very challenging circumstances to succeed in achieving your dreams.
“I am sure that Liana will go on to make a real difference in the world – something that we always try to support our students to do at the University of Winchester.
We are very proud of her."
Dr Simon Fox, head of the University’s Department of Policing, Criminology and Forensics, said: “Liana’s journey, determination, and commitment to making a difference reflect the very best of our student community, and we are delighted to see her achievements celebrated in this way.”
Read Liana’s inspiring story here Media Articles - University of Winchester

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Press-Centre/Media-Articles/University-and-County-Council-celebrate-collaborative-success-through-BRIDGE-project.php:
A special event brought together staff from Hampshire County Council and the University of Winchester to promote the power of strategic partnerships in solving public health issues.
The event celebrated the success of the BRIDGE (Building Relationships, Inspiring Development, Growing Excellence) project.
This joint initiative focuses on building stronger, reciprocal connections between academics and health and wellbeing professionals.
Almost 50 staff from both organisations gathered at the University’s Business School recently to learn about the impact of collaborative working, share examples of good practice, and look towards future alliances.
Lightning talks celebrated the importance and success of key initiatives in joint research, collaborative curriculum development, innovative teaching opportunities and suicide prevention work.
The event showcased four key themes driving the partnership:
Establishing Reciprocal Student and Staff Placements – providing mutual learning and understanding across education and wellbeing settings.
Teaching and Curriculum Support – ensuring the next generation of the workforce is co-developed and fit for the future.
Collaborative Research – co-producing evidence about what really works in practice.
Anchor Institution Support – working together for shared leadership and community benefit.
This win–win model of partnership was praised by attendees as a blueprint for cross-sector collaboration.
Building on this momentum, a series of next steps were agreed, including the creation of shared Steering Groups and Communities of Practice to bring together colleagues from both organisations, fostering ongoing learning, collaboration, and innovation around areas of mutual interest.
At the start of the event the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Winchester, Professor Sarah Greer, welcomed the visitors from Hampshire County Council and cited EM Forster’s famous epigraph ‘Only Connect’.
“There’s something incredibly powerful about connecting as people together - when we connect, we create fantastic ideas and a shared commitment to realising them.”
Dr Rachel Harrison, Senior Lecturer and NIHR (National Institute for Health Research) Research Lead, said: “This project is a living example of what’s possible when people are given the time, space and trust to learn about each other’s worlds.
Together, we are growing a culture of mutual benefit, rooted in real-world impact.”
Simon Bryant, Director of Public Health for Hampshire commented, “Our partnerships with organisations across Hampshire are key to creating lasting change.
By building trust, surfacing shared priorities, and working together in new and innovative ways, we can shape a healthier future for everyone.
"These collaborations help us prepare the future workforce and support local communities by bringing to life evidence-based practice in real-world settings, making sure the wellbeing of Hampshire’s residents is at the centre of everything we do.”
Pi ctured top at the inaugural meeting of the BRIDGE project are (from left): Dr Rachel Harrison, Senior Lecturer and NIHR Research Lead; Johanna Jefferies, Associate Director of Public Health, HCC; Vice-Chancellor of the University of Winchester Professor Sarah Greer; Simon Bryant, Director of Public Health HCC; and Elizabeth Davies-Ward, Dean of the Faculty of Health and Wellbeing at the University.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Press-Centre/Media-Articles/Brief-encounters---the-ten-best-songs-under-one-minute-long.php:
It only takes a minute to fall in love, according to the first line of a song which carries on for another four minutes to labour the point!
Here, r espected pop guru and Associate Dean of Humanities & Social Sciences at the University of Winchester, Glenn Fosbraey, picks his favourite sixty-second masterpieces...
Life is busy these days, so when you manage to get some well-earned free time, it’s important to use it wisely.
You could, for example, invest a spare ten minutes listening to King Gizzard & The Lizard Wizard’s song Crumbling Castle (2017) or Taylor Swift’s All Too Well (Taylor’s Version) (2021).
Alternatively, you could listen to these ten songs, each less than a minute long, and each a masterpiece in brevity.
Brian Wilson may have taken more of a back seat on Beach Boys albums following the abandonment of his magnum opus Smile, but he was still capable of coming up with extraordinarily beautiful music.
At just 39 seconds, Meant for You is over in a flash, but it’s a flash of Wilson’s genius.
Seemingly in defiance of its running time, Tierra Whack takes her time on Black Nails with the slow, relaxed keyboard solo taking up almost a third of the song before the vocals come in.
I could have chosen any of the tracks from Whack’s 2018 album Whack Life, but this is perhaps the one where she makes the best use of the super-short format.
John Lennon fans in 1970 were a confused bunch.
The year began with their idol still a Beatle (he had, in fact, quit in September 1969 , but it was kept quiet), and still sporting the long hair and beard from the Abbey Road album cover.
By its end, The Beatles were officially no more, Lennon had shaved his head , and had released the soul-baring album John Lennon/Plastic Ono Band complete with f-bombs (Working Class Hero), denouncement of his former band (God) and literal screams of anguish at his childhood trauma (Mother).
The final body-blow comes via final track My Mummy’s Dead, which, through its 51 seconds of simplistic, stripped-back, devastating music, signalled that Beatlemania was officially over.
The opening track of Green Day’s epic album 21st Century Breakdown, Song of the Century’s primary function is to set the scene (and tone) for what’s to come.
But it’s a fine song in its own right, with the lo-fi production making Billie-Joe sound like he is singing to us through a transistor radio we’re desperately trying to keep tuned in.
Just before the start of the century that so troubled Green Day, American indie band The Magnetic Fields released the spectacularly ambitious album 69 Love Songs which contained, yes, you’ve guessed it, a whopping 69 tracks spread over a near three-hour running time.
Among the many tracks are a few delightfully understated vignettes, including this one, with Shirley Simms taking lead vocals.
I almost excluded this track – the first on 1957 album Monk’s Music – for it being an instrumental, but in the end decided it was simply too good to leave out.
With only the horn section of the septet playing, Thelonius Monk himself doesn’t appear, but John Coltrane does, which means at least one jazz legend is present and accounted for.
Now forever associated with the FA Cup final (having been played before every one since 1927 ), this version knocks spots off any other I’ve heard and is a fittingly brilliant interpretation of one of music’s truly beautiful melodies.
You could be forgiven for thinking Trouble was just another of Eminem’s skits.
But it’s actually a bonafide song, and one which tackles the dynamic between Eminem (pictured) and his alter egos Marshall Mathers and Slim Shady head-on.
Although the track does begin with the spoken-word set-up so familiar from his skits, it soon moves into rap.
The Slim Shady alter ego launches one of his most offensive tirades yet to deliberately get himself, Marshall and Eminem “cancelled”.
This one’s not for the faint of heart.
At the dawn of the new millennium, while other hip-hop artists rapped about money, women, and violence, Deltron 3030 (comprised of Del the Funky Homosapien, Dan the Automator, and Kid Koala A ) had their eyes on something altogether different: a dystopian hip-hop space opera set over a thousand years in the future.
This vignette comes midway through the narrative and sees Icelandic singer Hafdís Huld delivering a spoken word piece in her native tongue over a drum and harp backing track.
It’s as spectacular as it sounds.
Appearing toward the end of third studio album Never for Ever, Night Scented Stock is Kate Bush at her ethereal best.
With her wordless layered vocals seeming to joust with one another as they soar and fall, this is the perfect palate cleanser before the final two tracks.
Almost the polar opposite of Night Scented Stock, 50% is a distorted, in-your-face, assault on the senses, where singer-songwriter Jason Lytle challenges himself to write a song with “Fifty per cent less words”.
Less than what, exactly, remains unclear as the song comes to an abrupt end, but it scarcely matters.
And yes – the song’s running time is technically 1m 02s, but who’s really counting?
This article was first published in The Conversation.
See more University of Winchester contributions at our TC homepage

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Press-Centre/Media-Articles/Pioneering-conference-looks-at-love-hate-relationship-between-UK-and-Argentina.php:
An online conference organised by academics at the University of Winchester will examine the long and chequered relationship between the UK and Argentina.
September’s online event, titled Re-thinking 200 Years of Anglo-Argentine Relations , seeks to highlight new research into the many areas of common ground between the two nations whose recent dealings have been framed by the South Atlantic conflict.
For more than a century the two countries had very close links – a fact often overlooked.
In 1825 Argentina became the first South American country to have its independence recognised by Britain.
At that time thousands migrated from the British Isles to Argentina, and it was home to the largest expat community outside the British Empire.
Through the 19th century Argentina was Britain’s main overseas supplier of wheat and beef while British firms built railways and tramways in Argentina and many middle-class aspirational families emigrated there.
Buenos Aires was regarded as a glamorous piece of Europe transplanted to the southern hemisphere,  Argentina’s polo stars were famous society figures on both sides of the Atlantic, and the only branch of Harrods outside of London was at 877 Florida Street, Buenos Aires (the store opened in 1914 and closed in 1998 having traded through the Falklands/Malvinas War).
Conference organiser Dr Graciela Iglesias-Rogers said: “We hope this event will open eyes to this very intense relationship.
There is a lot of interest in the South Atlantic war but learning about the incredible connections the countries had before is necessary, and may give us greater understanding of that conflict as well.”
The five-day conference (8-12 September) - billed as the first in living memory in the UK to examine Anglo-Argentine relations beyond the scope of the South Atlantic conflict - has been organised by University’s Modern History Research Centre (MHRC) and the Hispanic Anglosphere project.
It aims to foster reflection on present-day issues such as international trade, freedom of expression, migration and equal access to resources in learning, housing, healthcare, sports and the protection of biodiversity.
In addition to examining diplomatic and commercial links, topics covered will include the story of Punjabi labourers who migrated to the UK via Argentina, how British women brought hockey to Argentina, the love-hate relationship between Argentina and the British press, the influence of British governesses on Argentine society, and the Argentine impact on nature and wildlife activism in Britain.
A full programme, including abstracts, and how to book a place can be found here .
For external attendees conference tickets include a year’s free subscription to MHRC giving access to all its hybrid events.

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Press-Centre/Media-Articles/Sports-Coaching-student-Megan-joins-F1-legends-at-Downing-Street-.php:
A University of Winchester student was in pole position to meet some of the most important figures in motor racing when she attended a special event at 10 Downing Street to celebrate the 75th anniversary of Formula 1.
Megan Weeks, who hopes to become a human performance coach for drivers, was invited to the event by Tom Hartley, Head of Competitor Development at Motorsport UK.
At the event Megan, 21, met Susie Wolff, former racing driver and head of the F1 Academy and representatives of the Sauber soon to be Audi F1 operation.
“It was great opportunity to connect with so many people,” said Megan, who studies Sports Coaching at the University.
Megan first met Tom Hartley at Thruxton race circuit earlier this year, when she and fellow second year students took part in a go-karting session with lecturer Richard Cheetham.
After speaking to Tom about her career goals, Megan was invited observe several Academy and Team UK days with Motorsport UK.
She met future drivers from a range of racing series and coaches from Porsche Human Performance, who asked her to assist with some of their activities.
Megan hopes to one day join the fast-growing ranks of performance coaches and sports psychologists working for racing teams and their drivers.
“Driving is hugely physical, the drivers need to be fit.
On some corners, drivers are subject to huge G forces, and they can lose several kilos in weight during a race,” explained Megan, from Tichborne.
The Number 10 event, hosted by Prime Minister Keir Starmer, emphasises the huge role FI has to play in the UK economy.
Six of the 10 F1 teams are based in the UK.
As well creating jobs they drive technical development for the whole motor industry.
Present at the celebration were team managers James Vowles (Williams), Flavio Briatore (Alpine), Andy Cowell (Aston Martin Aramco), Jonathan Wheatley (Sauber) and Ayao Komatsu (Haas) current drivers, Carlos Sainz, Oliver Bearman, Alexander Albon and Esteban Okon, and former world champions Sir Jackie Stewart, Damon Hill and Jenson Button.
Parked outside Number 10 were Lando Norris’s black and orange McLaren and Alex Albon’s Williams.
Richard Cheetham, Senior Fellow in Sports Coaching at the University of Winchester, said: “The external links we establish in our sports coaching work continue to be so beneficial to our course.”
“This is a great example of a Winchester student earning and taking the opportunity at the highest level.
We are very proud of Megan.”

New sentences found on https://winchester.ac.uk/News-and-Events/Press-Centre/Media-Articles/Summer-Schools-give-Winchester-students-chance-to-explore-ancient-Greece-and-Rome.php:
Two students from the University of Winchester will explore the treasures of ancient Greece and Rome after gaining places at prestigious summer schools.
Ancient, Classical, and Medieval Studies students Will Best and Jane Miller have been accepted by British Summer Schools at Athens and Rome, respectively.
In Athens Will and his fellow students are set to attend a series of lectures and take tours of the major archaeological sites and museums in Athens, Attica and Central Greece, before leaving the city for six days of travel around the Peloponnese.
He said: “I visited Athens as a teenager with my family and I’m incredibly excited to be going back to experience the places and archaeology that I have been studying at first hand.”
William Best
Will said he was particularly looking forward to visiting the site of Mycenae, the ancient city which dominated much of southern Greece between 1600 BC to 1100 BC.
Mature student Will, 31, decided five years ago that he wanted to study for a degree in ancient history despite having no A levels and came to the University after completing an access to HE course at City College in Southampton.
He said he hopes to a study for a Master’s and then a PhD on Bronze Age Mediterranean civilisation.
Dr.
Katy Soar, Senior Lecturer in Classical Archaeology at the University, said: “I am delighted for Will.
He’s been an excellent student with a clear passion for the subject.
It will be a fantastic experience, and he should be justifiably proud of being accepted on such a competitive course.”
Jane’s trip to the British School at Rome involves an intensive ten-day programme of visits to the sites, monuments and museums of ancient Rome and the surrounding area, accompanied by experts in the field, which will be integrated with evening lectures.
The 21-year-old from Petersfield says she is particularly interested in visiting Baths of Caracalla (pictured above) which were the subject of one of her assignments.
Jane Miller
“It’s going to be really exciting to see it in person, and I’m also looking forward to visiting the port of Ostia,” said Jane.
Jane has just completed her BA (Hons) in Ancient, Classical and Medieval Studies and has received a conditional offer to return to the University in September to start a Master’s in History.
“My primary focus is the start of Augustus’s reign to the end of the Flavian dynasty at the end of the first century AD,” she said.
“This trip is going to be really useful for my studies.”
Carey Fleiner is Senior Lecturer in Classical (Romans) and Early Medieval History said: “Jane is our third of three students to apply and be accepted to the BSR’s City of Rome Summer School, a highly competitive and prestigious placement.
“Jane will be another fine representative for what we are doing here at the University in Classical Studies, and I’m sure all here at the University support her in this wonderful opportunity.”
This is the third year running Winchester students have gained place at the popular Summer Schools whose intake is usually restricted to around 15.