# Site: https://www.wlv.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 493
# --------

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk:
There’s still time to apply – Call us on 01902 968555!
Find out more.
Ukraine: Statement from the Interim Vice-Chancellor
WLV News
Read More
University of Wolverhampton welcomes over 1,000 students to annual SciFest
Better together: How co-creation is shaping the future of elite sport
CLASS OF 2025: From Wolverhampton to the World Stage: UN Leader awarded Honorary Professorship
Funded initiatives increase cybersecurity awareness across the region
Beyond Futures Research & Enterprise Festival Returns: Showcasing innovation and collaboration
Lord Swraj Paul of Marylebone, University of Wolverhampton Chancellor
Announcement
Call 01902 968555
We're ready to welcome you to our next University of Wolverhampton open evening – Virtual Event.
Talk to us about Postgraduate courses.
of our graduates are employed or in education 15 months after graduation 1
in the UK for teaching first generation students two years' running 2
satisfaction with course teaching 3
research rated as world-leading or internationally excellent 4
1 Graduate Outcomes Survey, 2025, Class of 2022–23 2 Daily Mail University Rankings 2024, 2025
3 National Student Survey 2025, for full-time, first degree students taught at UoW 4 Research Excellence Framework 2021.
Already a student at the University of Wolverhampton?
Take advantage of our Fast Track Scheme and seamlessly progress to a postgraduate course in your area.
Apply quickly, receive a faster offer, and benefit from a 20% tuition fee discount.
22/08/2025
21/08/2025
Wulfruna Street Wolverhampton WV1 1LY

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/clearing:
Call us on 01902 968555
Get an instant, provisional offer right here.
Our AI-powered chat service, 'Wolfie' can quickly tell you if you're eligible for a place and guide you on your next steps.
Through our Clearing support centre open daily 5th July - 20th October, we aim to support you to find your place on the right course and start your university story this September.
(1) Graduate Outcomes Survey 2024 (2) Daily Mail University Rankings 2025, 2024 (3) Higher Education Policy Institute, Social Mobility Index 2024 (4) National Student Survey 2025, for full-time, first degree students taught at UoW
Clearing is a UCAS process that allows students without a university offer to find remaining places on available courses after the main UCAS application deadline has ended .
Whether you’ve changed your mind, didn’t meet your expected grades, or are applying late r , Clearing offers a great chance to secure your place at university.
Clearing takes place from 5 July to 20 October and is designed to help students who have not yet secured a place at university to find a course that’s right for them.
If you're interested in applying to the University of Wolverhampton through Clearing, you can apply from 5 July .
Simply use our Clearing course search tool to browse our available courses for September 2025 and apply online.
If you’d like to find out more about how Clearing works, see our clearing support page for more info.
Alternatively, you can speak to one of our friendly advisors on the Clearing hotline or live chat who will be happy to answer any questions you may have and guide you through the application process.
Our Clearing Opening times for 2025 are:
Monday 11th to Wednesday 13th August – 9am-5pm
Thursday 14th August – 7am-11:59pm
Friday 15th  August – 12am – 7pm
Saturday 16th August – 9am – 5pm
Sunday 17th August – 9:30am – 2:30pm
Monday 18th – Friday 22nd August – 9am – 6pm
Saturday 23rd August – 10am-4pm
Sunday 24th August – 10am-2pm
Tuesday 26th August – Monday 20th October:
Monday to Friday – 9am-5pm
Saturdays – 10am-4pm
Sundays – 10am-2pm
Check your eligibility now
We offer a wide array of courses across various disciplines, including:
Start your story and find the right course for you
The WLV Wallet bursary is designed to help students make the most of their time studying at the University of Wolverhampton.
Eligible students will receive up to £300 to spend in a dedicated online store, plus live events, student blogs and more.
Hear from students who joined us through Clearing.
Our university stands out for its commitment to student success.
Cutting edge equipment
Get employed
Join our diverse community
See the facilities
Join a university that prioritises your growth and future.
Clearing is a period where universities fill the remaining places on their courses.
It is an opportunity for people to apply late into the summer months to start university in September.
Applying through Clearing is ideal for those who have not been offered a place at their chosen universities, or are simply considering options outside of their original university selection.
Clearing is a popular option for prospective students who have reconsidered course and career paths since their initial university applications.
Clearing is a UCAS process that matches students without university offers to available course vacancies.
It's typically used by those who didn't receive any offers, didn't meet the conditions of their offers, applied later, or wish to change their course or university choice.
You can apply through Clearing if:
- you’re applying on and after 5 July - you've previously applied but didn’t receive any offers (or none you wanted to accept) on UCAS - you've previously applied but didn’t meet the conditions of your offers - you’ve declined your firm place using the ‘decline my place’ button in UCAS Hub
Some of our courses, such as part-time routes and postgraduate courses, do not require you to apply through UCAS and adhere to the guidelines set by UCAS.
However, we continue to recruit to these and you can either apply directly through our website or contact us through our Clearing channels.
Clearing opens on 5 July and ends in early October.
You can contact us here at the University of Wolverhampton by requesting a call to discuss applying through Clearing.
If you are currently studying for a Level 3 qualification, such as A-levels, you will likely receive your results on results day, which will be 14th August 2025.
Once you have your results, you can call our university Clearing hotline.
We offer extended phone line hours on results day, where you can contact us if your results are not as expected.
If you already have the results of your qualifications, you can contact us from 5 July.
If you have an offer at another university (conditional or unconditional) but you have changed your mind and would like to apply to us through Clearing, you can decline your place under UCAS Hub.
We advise that you contact us regarding an informal offer before you do this.
Clearing is available to anyone who has applied to universities through UCAS Undergraduate but has not received any offers or any that they wish to accept.
It is also available to anyone who has not yet applied.
If you apply to us after 5 July (the last standard UCAS application deadline date) for an undergraduate course, you will apply through Clearing.
If you have applied to us before 5 July but have not received any offers, then your UCAS Hub account will tell you if you are eligible for Clearing.
Our list of available courses in Clearing will be published on our website and via the UCAS Clearing+ tool from 5 July.
The University of Wolverhampton Clearing hotline will open on 5 July, where you’ll be able to find out the full details about available courses.
All other courses such as part-time or postgraduate courses will be listed and available via our course pages across our website.
You can use our handy course finder to look for these.
You can still apply through Clearing if you haven’t applied through UCAS.
Many of our courses can be applied for using our direct applications, including part-time routes and postgraduate courses.
A direct application does not require that you to apply through UCAS, and you can either apply directly through our website or contact us through our Clearing channels.
There are some courses, such as Nursing, for which you must apply through UCAS, so please see our course pages or contact us directly for more information.
If you don’t get the results you expected, then Clearing could be a perfect option for you!
Don’t worry – there are many other people who are in the same situation.
When calling or chatting with our Clearing hotline, you’ll speak to a trained operator who will let you know if the course you are interested in applying for still has places available.
If it does, the operator will help you apply or put you in touch with someone from the right department who can give you more information.
If the course isn’t available, or if you don’t meet the entry criteria, the operator may recommend an alternative course, or the course you originally wanted plus a foundation year.
Being positive and deciding which courses you are interested in is a great start.
If you make a list of universities, courses, and contact details, you’ll be ready to start calling as soon as the time comes.
Not at all.
The Clearing period is a very busy time for universities across the country, and if you don’t get through to an advisor immediately, you’ll need to be patient while you wait.
Don’t worry – it will be well worth your time, once you’ve signed up to your life-changing course!
You can still apply for University-run accommodation at the University of Wolverhampton if you've applied through Clearing.
Be proactive, and do some research as soon as you receive your offer – or even before.
Visit our University Accommodation page to learn more.
If you are applying for student finance for the first time, and you live in England, you will need to apply through the Student Loans Company via Student Finance England as soon as possible for a student loan to help cover tuition fees and living expenses.
The initial deadline will have passed but your application will still be processed.
If you already applied for student finance, but have changed your course and/or university through Clearing, you will need to advise the Student Loans Company as soon as you have confirmed your choice.
It is important that the correct university and course are showing on your account.
Details on how to make any changes can be found at Student Finance: how to apply: Change an application - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk).
If you live in Wales then applications for funding are made through Student Finance Wales at www.studentfinancewales.co.uk, for Northern Ireland go to Student Finance NI at www.studentfinanceni.co.uk and for Scotland the Student Awards Agency
If you have previously applied for a course to start this September and you were unsuccessful with your application you will be unable to reapply for the same course through Clearing.
However, you will be able to apply for a different course that is available in clearing.
You will not necessarily need to make a new clearing application.
We have all your information and can transfer your application for you, so please contact our Clearing support team to discuss your options.
You can apply for Clearing if you are not a UK resident.
To learn more, you can contact the University of Wolverhampton’s Global Opportunities Office.
Yes, mature students (age 21 and above) can apply to university through Clearing.
Yes, it is possible to apply to university without formal qualifications, especially if you are a mature student.
We will look at your relevant experience and skills which you may have gained through work.
We also offer a range of foundation programmes that do not require formal qualification, but you will need to pass a Prepare for Foundation assessment day.
It is an opportunity for people to apply late into the summer months to start their university course in September.
The first level of study in higher education.
If you graduate from an undergraduate degree, you can move on to postgraduate study.
The second level of study in higher education.
If you have already studied an undergraduate degree, postgraduate study is the next level of education you may take.
A foundation year at university is an additional year of study added to the beginning of your undergraduate degree, to help provide the academic skills a student will need to succeed in the course.
It is especially useful for students who haven’t met the entry requirements for a course, who have not studied for a while, or want to change subject.
If you have applied to study a degree course with a foundation year at the University of Wolverhampton, then in many cases you will be invited to attend a Prepare for Foundation Assessment Day.
This assessment day will help us assess if you are ready to start your programme and provide useful insights to make sure you are prepared to succeed on your course.
A contextual offer is a degree offer that considers an applicant’s circumstances beyond their academic achievements, including their socio-economic and educational background.
This kind of offer aims to promote fairer access to higher education.
If you meet any of the contextual conditions, you may be approached by our Conversion and Admissions departments and offered the opportunity of a contextual interview.
The aim of this interview is to assess whether an applicant can be given a conditional offer that requires fewer UCAS points, or potentially progress an application directly to an unconditional offer.
Clearing Plus is a tool where UCAS will suggest courses in Clearing you might be interested in, which you can select from the list of suggestions on your UCAS Hub.
The university may then contact you if we still have vacancies and you meet the entry criteria.
To defer an offer is to request that the offer is changed to the next available intake.
For example, this could mean that an offer for September would be changed to September the year after.
However, for most undergraduate courses applied through UCAS, you must have met all conditions before a deferral request can be granted and processed.
Confirmation is where we as a university will be able to make a final decision on your application.
For example, this can mean if you have a conditional offer based on grades, and when these are met we can give you an unconditional offer.
When you contact us, following discussion around your qualification we may offer you a place verbally/through social media, but until you add us as your Clearing choice on UCAS Hub, this offer is not confirmed.
This gives you the opportunity to research the course further first.
If you have an offer but then change your mind, you can self-release yourself into Clearing.
We recommend that you contact us to ensure we are happy to offer you an informal offer first, before you risk losing your firm offer.
UCAS is an abbreviation for the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service in the UK.
They offer different services to allow you to apply for undergraduate degrees, amongst other services.
UCAS Hub is an online tracking system which allows you to see how your application is progressing.
This is the online platform where you can reply to offers and make amendments.
UCAS Tariff points are a way to convert your post-16 qualifications (like A-Levels, BTECs, etc) into a single numerical value score.
Universities use UCAS Tariff points to assess and compare applications, helping them to determine which applicants to offer a place on their courses.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses:
Search our university courses, postgraduate programmes and apprenticeships.
The University of Wolverhampton offers a wide variety of courses for prospective students.
We have been providing quality education to our student body for nearly 200 years, and applicants can choose from a range of undergraduate and postgraduate degrees , with specialisations in areas such as business , engineering , law , computing and media .
The University also offers distance learning programmes as well as traditional on-campus courses.
At the University of Wolverhampton, we take pride in the quality of teaching and research that we provide to students.
We strive to provide an engaging learning environment while offering the necessary support to ensure student success.
We also offer vocational qualifications in line with industry standards so that students have the best possible prospects after graduating.
With access to the latest technology and resources, our facilities help students gain valuable practical knowledge which is essential for their future professional careers.
Explore our university courses today to find a programme in your chosen subject area.
You’ll also find part-time courses , apprenticeships , online courses and CPD courses .
View our courses starting in May
View our courses starting in January
Students studying at the University of Wolverhampton gain valuable knowledge and skills, supporting them in further study or employment.
We have graduates pursuing successful careers in a wide range of fields, including teaching , medicine and law .
We also have strong links with employers, providing graduates access to internships and work placements throughout the UK.
Book an open day or apply for your place today to take the first step towards your dream career.
Our prospectus provides a helpful overview of our facilities, support options, and subject areas.
Find out more about university life at our open days.
Discover what it’s like to study with Wolverhampton.
Find out how to apply for our university courses.
Get the right information to prepare and submit your application.
Understand everything you need to know about fees and funding.
From how much courses cost and how to fund them.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate:
We offer a wide range of undergraduate courses designed to inspire learning, and have a vibrant history of academic excellence.
Undergraduate students will develop academically as they prepare for a future career or further study in their desired field.
Over the course of their degree, they’ll take advantage of unique opportunities, grow personally, and gain invaluable knowledge and skills to help them flourish in life.
Order a prospectus or book an undergraduate open day today to find out more.
Find out more about undergraduate study at our on-campus open days.
Explore facilities, and speak to staff and students.
We can help ease you back into learning when applying for our undergraduate degrees.
Find out about undergraduate fees and funding: the cost of courses, funding options, and more.
At the University of Wolverhampton, we provide the right support, opportunities, and facilities to help every undergraduate student achieve their potential.
We are committed to helping students thrive and pave the right path for their future.
As an undergraduate student, you can study in the ways that suit you.
We provide flexible and personalised learning routes to meet your needs.
As well as our commitment to study success, we are passionate about making life as a University of Wolverhampton undergraduate fulfilling and inclusive.
Take a look at our award-winning support services , quality accommodation and university life to find out more.
Everything you need to know
We welcome students from all over the world.
At the University of Wolverhampton, we have students from over 130 nations join us to study at our UK campuses every year.
Our courses are designed to fit around your lifestyle, with a range of Part Time undergraduate courses available.
Already applied for an undergraduate course?
Find out more about university life and undergraduate study at our applicant events.
Book an Applicant event today.
Undergraduate degrees are typically the next academic qualification students achieve once completing their A-levels or equivalent, and the first degrees students can study.
They provide students with the foundational understanding of a subject which will support them when looking for a career in their desired field.
Students may also decide to develop their knowledge in a postgraduate course.
Undergraduate degrees usually last three years.
There are several types of undergraduate degree, including:
Learn about the differences between a Bachelor of Arts (BA) and a Bachelor of Science (BSc) in our guide.
Certificate of Continuing Education (CertCE): CertCEs equate to 60 undergraduate degree credits at level 4 or 5.
Designed for those looking to get some higher education, CertCEs can develop into a full undergraduate degree.
Undergraduate degrees, such as Bachelor's degrees, are the first degrees students will study for in higher education.
Postgraduate degrees, such as Master’s courses, postgraduate certificates, and postgraduate diplomas, are courses students can study for after completion of their undergraduate course.
Learn about the difference between undergraduate and postgraduate study .
We are here to help and welcome your comments and suggestions.
You can contact us in lots of different ways:
You can talk to us via Chatify, our online chat service – Just click the 'Ask' button in the bottom right of this page to start chatting.
Email - enquiries@wlv.ac.uk
Phone - Call us on Tel: 0800 953 3222* (UK local call rate).

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate:
Find a postgraduate course in your chosen subject area.
We offer a range of different postgraduate programmes.
Explore Master’s degrees, PhD programmes, part-time courses and more.
Unlock a world of new opportunities with postgraduate courses at the University of Wolverhampton.
Whether you're looking to retrain, boost your employability, enrich your CPD, or take the next step in your career, our postgraduate programmes are designed to open doors.
At the University of Wolverhampton, we focus on developing our postgraduate students' leadership skills and knowledge to not only enhance their career prospects, but give them the confidence needed to lead the pack in their area of postgraduate study.
We recognise the need to be flexible and supportive, to put each student first and encourage their full potential.
We offer a range of postgraduate study options including full-time and part-time courses , conversion courses, 100% online courses , and accredited CPD courses .
Take a look at our postgraduate courses and start your journey with us today!
We offer a range of postgraduate programmes, including Master’s degrees, PhD programmes, part-time courses and more.
Popular courses include:
View our full range of Postgraduate courses .
Find out more about postgraduate life at the University of Wolverhampton at our open day events.
From disability support, funding and finances, mental health and more.
Find out how we can help.
Get the right information to prepare and submit your application, and understand your next steps.
Learn more about courses costs, how to fund them, and where to find funding.
At the University of Wolverhampton, we ensure that every postgraduate student is included, with the right support, opportunities and facilities to help every student achieve their potential.
We are committed to flexible and personalised learning routes for postgraduate students, helping you study in ways that best suit your life.
As well as committing to study success, we concentrate our efforts on making life as a University of Wolverhampton postgraduate fulfilling and inclusive.
Our academic schools deliver compelling postgraduate degrees in a variety of subjects.
Learn more about where you’ll be learning during your postgraduate course.
Students study a postgraduate degree after they've completed an undergraduate degree .
Postgraduate courses encompass a range of qualifications, including Master's degrees, conversion courses, postgraduate certificates, and more.
There are several types of postgraduate courses, including:
Postgraduate research courses focus on independent research and deep insight into a specific subject area, while postgraduate taught courses are more structured, classroom-based courses that provide a broader understanding of a topic.
Undergraduate degrees are level 4-6 qualifications, and are the first degrees students will study for in higher education.
An undergraduate degree is required for students looking to study a postgraduate degree, a level 7 qualification.
Learn about the difference between undergraduate and postgraduate study in our helpful guide.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/research/research-degrees:
We offer a range of research degrees designed to empower scholars and drive innovation.
With a strong tradition of academic excellence, our research programs foster critical inquiry and prepare students for impactful careers in academia, industry, or beyond.
Throughout their journey, postgraduate researchers gain advanced knowledge, hone their skills, and contribute to solving real-world challenges.
Order a prospectus or attend a Postgraduate Open Day to learn how a research degree at the University of Wolverhampton can help you achieve your goals.
Browse our range of research degree types to find out more.
The PhD is a programme of independent, self-directed academic research, supported by a team of supervisors that makes an original contribution to knowledge written up in a thesis.
The PhD programme also supports the development of research and generic skills to equip you to operate successfully as a professional researcher in any setting.
By studying for a PhD, you will gain extensive knowledge and expertise in a specific area of your choice.
The MPhil is a research degree that focuses on independent, self-directed research reviewing or surveying, collating and evaluating existing knowledge on an approved topic .
Students will then present the findings in a thesis for examination including a viva exam .
Like the PhD, the MPhil develops your research and generic skills and is pursued under the guidance of a team of expert supervisors.
It differs from the PhD in that it is a smaller scale of work, conducted over a shorter period of time and does not create new knowledge in the field.
The Doctor of Medicine (MD) is a doctoral research degree undertaken by medical graduates.
An MD project is of more focused scope and therefore shorter in length than PhD study but is of comparable depth and the work should also make an original contribution to medical knowledge.
It may be laboratory- or clinically-based and will focus on a specific clinical research topic.
Practising UK-based GMC-registered clinicians may undertake a full- or part-time MD to work on a research question that arises from or is part of their clinical duties and interests.
Professional doctorates are structured doctoral research degrees with taught elements that address aspects of theory, practice and research.
They are equivalent in time, intellectual demand and academic outcomes to those of a traditional PhD.
Professional Doctorate students make a contribution to both theory and practice in their field, and develop professional practice by making a contribution to (professional) knowledge primarily through advanced supervised research written up as a thesis.
The PhD by Published Work route is intended primarily for mid-career research-active academics who, for one reason or another, haven’t had the opportunity to undertake a research programme leading to a PhD.
Submissions for this award will consist of coherent body of work which is of the same quality, rigour and volume as required of a standard PhD in your field and which constitutes an original contribution to knowledge.
At the University of Wolverhampton this route is only available for academic staff of the University appointed to a full-time contract or occupying a substantive part-time post equivalent to at least 0.2 of a full-time contract.
See ' Part D: Regulations for the degree award of PhD by Published Work ' for more information:
Higher Doctorates are awarded to individuals who have demonstrated a command over a field of study and who have made a significant original contribution to the advancement of knowledge or to the application of knowledge (or to both).
Applications may be made for the following higher doctorates:
Higher doctorates are awarded based on a submission of a substantial portfolio of research-based work.
The applicant must have published research outputs in the accepted media within their field of significant quality and quantity, and be involved in peer reviews of their subject.
The work submitted must be of high distinction and must establish that the applicant is a leading authority in the field or fields of study concerned.
Applicants must evidence a sustained and coherent contribution in their field over a number of years that is consistent with the applicant playing a leading role in their subject area.
Applicants must demonstrate leadership in their field, the nature of which must be set out clearly in the applicant’s statement.
See ' Part E: Regulations for the award of Higher Doctorate ' for more information.
It is important to consider a wide range of factors before undertaking a research degree.
All applications are assessed on an individual basis and in some cases the University may require you to meet higher entry requirements than the minimums outlined below.
More detailed information is available in the relevant research degree regulations on the Research Degree Regulations webpage .
To apply for a research degree, you should normally hold one or more of the following:
Applicants holding alternative qualifications, including professional qualifications, shall be considered on their merits and in relation to the nature and scope of the programme of work proposed.
In exceptional circumstances, the University may permit entry to research degree programmes to applicants who do not hold typical academic qualifications.
Professional experience, publications, written reports, or other appropriate evidence of previous research shall be taken into consideration.
The University may place additional entry requirements, including written or oral submissions, on applicants who do not meet the criteria to ensure an ability to study at the required level.
For a Higher Doctorate
The following shall be eligible to make application for the Higher Doctorate degree:
Applicants should be holders, of at least seven years’ standing, of a doctoral degree awarded by a UK University (or equivalent body), or of a qualification of equivalent standard.
Applicants must demonstrate proficiency in English at least to the level of an IELTS score (or equivalent) of 7.0, with no individual element less than 6.0.
The only exemption to this is for students who are not required to do so as per UKVI regulations .
For an applicant wishing to pursue a research degree in the areas of built environment , chemistry , computing and mathematics , computer science , or engineering , applicants must demonstrate proficiency in English at least to the level of an IELTS score of 6.5 (Writing - 6.5 and no less than 6.0 in any other component).
The fees charged for our postgraduate research degrees depend on whether you are a home student or an international student.
Have a look at our Research Degrees Fees page for how much your programme will cost per year*.
*Research Support Fees: In addition to course fees, you may be liable for other charges, such as Research Support Fees (RSF).
RSFs are a fee charged to provide funding to cover research-related items/activities which are essential in order to carry out the research.
RSFs are detailed alongside our fees and these will be confirmed at the time of offer.
As a research student, you could self-fund or apply for funding from an employer or other organisation.
Prospects.ac.uk has detailed information about funding postgraduate study.
Before applying, you should consider carefully how you will finance your studies for the duration of your programme, including tuition fees, research support fees and living costs.
We are able to take payments in instalments, to spread out the cost of your studies, and it is possible to switch between full-time and part-time modes of study.
For more information go to www.wlv.ac.uk/howtopay .
From 2018, the government is making loans available for postgraduate research students of up to £25,000, to cover fees and living expenses.
More information can be found at www.gov.uk/doctoral-loan .
Please note : If you are intending to make an application to Student Finance England (SFE) to fund your studies, before applying to SFE, you will need an offer letter from the University with a formally agreed start date for your doctoral research.
An offer will only be made following successful completion of the application process, therefore your start date may be at least 3 months from the date you submitted your research application to us.
The University offers a 20% Loyalty Discount to students progressing from an undergraduate programme and/or a taught postgraduate programme to a postgraduate research programme, where both courses are University of Wolverhampton Awards.
There is no time limit on how long ago you completed your degree and/or Masters level qualification, as long as the new award is at a higher level.
For full terms and conditions (PhD and MPhil) please see: Loyalty Discount for Postgraduate Research Students
For Professional Doctorates please see: Postgraduate Loyalty Discount - University of Wolverhampton
The UK Research and Innovation funds postgraduate study in all subject areas on a discretionary basis.
The University offers a very limited number of research stipends, formerly known as bursaries, to research students.
Stipends are designed to support specific projects as determined by the Research Institute rather than individual student-led projects.
Funds are accessible from the relevant Research Centre - please contact them directly.
The Dennis Turner Opportunity Fund
Wolverhampton has been voted the cheapest UK student to live in and ideally located for travel around the UK.
Find out more about living in Wolverhampton by clicking here.
If you are a national of a country that is not within the European Economic Area (EEA) and you do not have a passport issued by an EEA country, it is very likely that you will need to apply for a Tier 4 student visa before you leave your home country.
What type of visa you will need, and the process for applying for it, will differ based on the type of course you plan to study, the duration of your course and several other criteria.
As part of the application process you will need to obtain the relevant entry clearance before you can travel, ensure you have sufficient funds and pass any health checks before you arrive in the UK.
For more information applicants should refer to guidance from our Visa & Immigration team
All of our postgraduate research students belong to both their Faculty and The Doctoral College .
The Doctoral College delivers a comprehensive programme of research training and development, as well as social events for you to meet with others and exchange ideas.
Additional support for all of our research students includes:
Find out more about some of the recent research projects undertaken by our research students.
Wolverhampton is vibrant and exciting place to live and study, find out more.
We offer a wide range of support services to help you keep on track with your studies.
Discover what The University of Wolverhampton has to offer.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/open-learning:
Parents, carers, and full-time workers often assume they can’t study a degree because they don’t have the free time.
However, online courses via distance learning can help you to strike a balance between living a full life and completing your studies.
Choose from a wide range of open learning online courses covering subjects such as business, computing, healthcare and many more.
If you are confident with computers and passionate about studying an online Bachelor’s degree, online Master’s degree, or online short course, distance learning could be the answer.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/apprenticeships:
WLV apprenticeships combine on-the-job training with academic learning to produce capable and competent employees.
Our higher and degree apprenticeships aid the development of skills and help grow the local skills base for employers' current and future needs.
Whether you are an aspiring apprentice or an employer looking to create apprenticeship opportunities or upskill your existing employees, we can help.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/continuing-professional-development-cpd-short-courses:
Short and online Continued Professional Development courses
Elevate your skillset with our expansive offering of Continuing Professional Development ( CPD ) courses at the University of Wolverhampton .
Our CPD courses are designed to provide students with an opportunity to enhance their career prospects, gain new qualifications or simply learn something new.
We offer a diverse range of CPD courses that cover a wide array of topics from management and leadership; finance and accounting; marketing; IT and software engineering; as well as health and safety.
All our courses have been developed by industry professionals to ensure that our graduates have all the necessary tools for success in their chosen professions.
CPD (Continuing Professional Development) courses are short, online or part-time courses that provide the opportunity to gain new skills, learn about industry changes and network with like-minded professionals.
CPD is essential for anyone wishing to stay up to date with their career or profession, as well as those wishing to make a switch or progress in their field.
CPD courses come in many different forms and can include attending seminars, conferences, training workshops and webinars.
These courses help keep professionals up to date on changes in technology, regulations and best practices within their respective fields.
They also provide access to international industry experts who can offer guidance and knowledge on specialised topics, and many CPD courses are also structured such that they count towards certification requirements upon completion.
This is particularly beneficial for individuals looking to expand their qualifications.
Studying a Continuing Professional Development (CPD) course is an excellent way to improve your qualifications and knowledge in any profession.
CPD aims to bridge gaps between the theoretical expertise of academic qualifications and the practical requirements of professional life, ensuring that individuals remain up-to-date with the latest developments in their chosen field.
The benefits of studying a CPD course are extensive:
CPD courses ultimately allow participants to acquire new skills and gain valuable experience.
Additionally, CPD courses provide opportunities for networking with other professionals in the same area as well as offering insight into current trends and advancements within the sector they work in.
This online 12-week Canvas course is brought to you by the University of Wolverhampton and is designed for Registered or Trainee BSL/English Interpreters who would like to further their knowledge and skills in the domain of healthcare interpreting.
Subject Area: Nursing
This course will enable nurses, whose registration has lapsed, to return to the NMC register and practice as a registered nurse following successful completion of the course in both academic work and practice placements.
We offer opportunities to
Subject Area: Midwifery
This course will enable midwives, whose registration has lapsed, to return to the NMC register and practice as a registered midwife following successful completion of the course in both academic work and practice placements.
We offer opportunities
Subject Area: Healthcare
This is a theoretical module that is delivered at undergraduate level.
During the 10-week module, you will study different body systems and the recommended method for assessing patients.
Throughout the module, you will be supported to combine each
Subject Area: Community health
We look forward to receiving your application for V150.
You will need to provide / upload the following in addition to your application form: A completed Professional Entry Requirements (PER) form.
Please upload as one single document, fully
Fee: &pound;1,050
This module explores relevant theories, concepts, policies, and overarching principles that underpin a holistic understanding of long-term conditions delivery in England.
Contemporary systems and models of healthcare delivery will be explored and
Subject Area: Social work
The course aims to equip candidates to demonstrate to the relevant statutory supervisory bodies that they have the relevant skills, knowledge and values to act as Best Interest Assessors.
This role is defined under the Mental Capacity Act 2005 and
The module is suitable for any healthcare professional with an interest in developing their leadership skills and the role that leadership has in the provision of high-quality care.
The aim of this module is to enhance your self-knowledge and
Subject Area: Teaching
The focus of this programme is the provision of opportunities for yourselves as current English teachers in Post Compulsory Education to develop your understanding of literacy theories and frameworks.
We will cover grammatical approaches to
This module aims to encourage a problem-solving approach to improving efficiency and innovation within the health and care setting.
You will use a recognised improvement model and relevant tools to plan, implement and evaluate the change process.
A
The recognition of CPD courses depends on various factors.
In the UK, some accrediting bodies such as the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) recognise CPD activities as part of their qualifications process so that professionals can demonstrate they have been able to maintain continuous learning.
It is also important to note that other organisations may also choose to recognise different types of activities including conferences or seminars which can help people demonstrate ongoing development within their respective field.
CPD courses can be taken onsite or online, depending on the provider, and usually vary in length from several days or weeks, through to several months.
It is important that professionals select a course that meets their specific needs and requirements as not all CPD courses are created equal.
When selecting a course it is important to consider factors such as its relevance to the profession, qualification level, cost and duration.
It’s also crucial to find the provider and if they can be flexible enough with your required learning arrangements.
Continuing Professional Development is a term used to refer to the activities, training, and learning that professionals engage in to develop and maintain their knowledge and skills, and this can be done through a training course.
It is an integral part of professional practice, as it allows practitioners to stay up-to-date with industry changes and advancements.
You can apply directly through our website.
Simply find the course that you’re interested in and you’ll find the application process for each course.
If you need assistance or have any questions during the application process, our admissions team is readily available to help.
Get in touch
The University of Wolverhampton offers specialised CPD courses in several key areas such as art and design; community health; family and community; health and social care; midwifery; nursing (including adult, children's, learning disability, and mental health nursing); occupational therapy; paramedic science; physiotherapy; pharmacy; pharmaceutical science and pharmacology; social work; and teaching.
Each course is designed to meet the specific needs of professionals in these fields.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/build-a-career-in-construction:
Taking a construction-related course with the University of Wolverhampton means benefiting from studying at Springfield , Europe’s largest architecture and built environment campus.
The UK’s construction sector is one of the largest in the economy, bringing in £117bn which is 6.6% of the UK’s GVA and employing around 2.4 million people.
It underpins everything in our society and economy, touching everyone’s life in countless ways, from home to work to education to social activities, and everything in between.
There are many different and varied careers involved in the construction industry, so the roles listed are not extensive but provide an overview of different career paths.
As a construction manager or site manager, you'll be responsible for ensuring that a building project is completed safely, within an agreed timeframe and budget.
Quantity surveyors manage all costs relating to building and civil engineering projects, from the initial calculations to the final figures.
An architect designs buildings and spaces, restoring or renovating existing structures or designing new ones.
A building control surveyor or officer makes sure that building regulations are in place and observed throughout construction projects.
They may also survey damaged structures to decide whether they need to be demolished or if they can be repaired safely.
Project managers plan and coordinate projects, from inception to delivery - managing resources, budget and people to achieve a desired outcome.
A structural engineer is responsible for making sure that structures are stable and can withstand the pressures of the environment and day-to-day use.
A structural engineer’s input ensures that the right materials are used for a project.
The construction sector is at an exciting time.
The Clean Growth Grand Challenge set by the government is focused on bringing together government, business, and organisations across the UK to ensure that at least halve the energy use of new buildings by 2030.
This creates both challenges and opportunities for the sector across the country, with a focus on making buildings more energy-efficient and ensuring that they use smart technologies.
In 2021, it was reported that the West Midlands will need to recruit 25,000 new workers to meet demand, having bounced back from the Covid-19 pandemic.
The Construction Skills Network 2021-25 forecast that the amount of construction work in the region will grow 4.8% each year (above the UK average of 4.4%) until 2025.
A plan to develop 5,000 new homes and 35,000 square metres of commercial space has been detailed by the NEC Group, and 1,300 residential homes in Longbridge in Birmingham, which will join 1,450 plots already developed on a brownfield site that is undergoing a £1bn investment project.
Construction is a healthy industry everywhere, but especially so today, in the West Midlands, where there is a gap of 17,500 people required to complete construction plans over the next three years.
The School of Architecture and Built Environment at the University of Wolverhampton is housed at our brand-new, dedicated construction “super-campus” on a 12-acre city centre brownfield regeneration site, Springfield Campus .
Our courses are developed in close consultation with industry practitioners, this means we provide up-to-date technical knowledge and design flair to work in today’s ever-changing industry.
Our facilities are industry-standard, and include the latest apparatus for inspecting and testing land, material, soil, and foundations.
Students can also use drones, 3D laser scanners, ground-penetrating radars and VR tools.
This and much more equipment at our students’ disposal, alongside our team’s expertise, provides a unique and world-leading learning experience
We collaborate with a wide range of businesses in all areas of our work: in course creation and delivery; to provide placements and work experience for our students; in the cutting-edge research in areas of national importance, such as brownfield research.
Every year we hold a 'Meet The Employer' event which gives students the opportunity to meet employers and make connections that can help further their career prospects.
Our research supports and enhances the activities of industrial, commercial and public sector organisations.
Whichever area of the industry you want to pursue your career in, you can rest assured that your degree is accredited by the relevant professional body, including:
Our libraries offer helpful support and resources to aid your studies including: social learning and quiet study areas, bookable spaces, and 24/7 opening at key times in the year.
We’re got plenty of study spaces around campus – so you can find the ideal place to suit your style, wherever – and whenever – you get your best ideas.
Your studies are informed by the latest research from our Brownfield Research and Innovation Centre, on-site at Springfield Campus.
We have the latest equipment for inspection and testing land surveying, material testing and computerised soil and foundation design testing apparatus.
Springfield Campus is the inspiring new home for the School of Architecture and Built Environment.
Frequently Asked Questions
There is no single method of getting into a construction job, but routes include entry-level roles, apprenticeships, and qualifications such as undergraduate and postgraduate degrees relevant to the sector.
Large construction companies sometimes offer graduate programmes which they grow each year, providing on-the-job training to grow your skills as you work.
One of the best ways to enter a construction career is to study a qualification with an institution that provides chartered courses, such as the University of Wolverhampton.
These will often give you access to partnered companies in the industry looking to employ apprentices, new-starters, and freshly-qualified graduates.
If you plan to work on a construction site in any capacity, there are a number of qualifications, certificates, and cards you may need before even setting foot on the premises.
These often relate to health and safety, such as the CSCS Card certification, SSSTS, SMSTS, and asbestos awareness.
Alternatively, even if you don’t plan to work on site, such as if you train as an architect, you may be required to have certain qualifications to prove that you are able to do the job.
Which qualifications you need will depend on what your role entails.
Working in construction can be a highly rewarding career with many benefits and satisfying elements.
People depend on construction in every area of their lives – the industry is responsible for the building of everything from their home to the roads that take them to whichever shops, workplaces, or learning institutions they need to visit, to the structures that home the public services that clean their water, provide their electricity, and supply their gas.
When you work in the construction industry, the structures you help build matter to the community and society itself.
The amount of experience you need to work in construction depends on the job you want to do.
A labourer, for example, would not necessarily need any qualifications to be accepted into their job and could learn safety standards and procedures during their job; an architect or quantity surveyor will likely need a firm foundation of qualifications before taking up their position.
If there is a particular role in the construction industry that interests you, research that job to find out which qualification(s) will be most beneficial to helping you achieve your ideal role.
Studying a construction course with the University of Wolverhampton will give you access to a course team as well as other experts from across the university who can help you find work experience in your chosen field.
If you study a sandwich degree course, you will have a full year to spend working in industry, learning how the workplace actually functions and feels.
First-hand experience is key when you are looking to enter an unfamiliar role, and a chartered degree is an ideal way to explore your professional potential.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/start-your-career-in-business-or-law:
The business, professional, and financial sector is a highly diverse and economically significant to both the Black Country and the UK as a whole.
It incorporates banks, insurance companies, management of all kinds, accountancy, legal services and beyond.
In 2020, the financial services sector contributed £164.8 billion to the UK economy , which was 8.6% of the country’s total economic output.
In the first quarter of 2021, there were 1.1 million financial services jobs in the UK, making up 3.3% of all jobs.
Today, social media and online marketing is essential to almost every business, and there is a need in most companies for accountants, HR personnel, and managers.
Legal services alone are reported to be worth £60 billion to the UK economy, and account for over 1% of the UK’s labour force .
Small businesses play a big role in the health of the UK’s economy.
In fact, the UK is the leading start-up nation in Europe.
At the beginning of 2021 there were 5.5 million small businesses operating and by the end of 2021, UK start-ups had raised a record £29.4bn from venture capital.
According to these figures , SMEs (small & medium sized enterprises) account for an amazing 99.9% of all businesses in the UK.
There are many different careers involved in the Digital and Cyber industry, so the roles listed are not extensive.
Financial accountants are responsible for managing and reporting on the accounts of a business, while managerial accountants are responsible for analysing and communicating financial data to managers so that they are better prepared to make business decisions based on those figures.
*Average, according to Indeed
A human resources officer develops, recommends, and implements policies that help ensure the effective use of staff.
Responsibilities of HR officers include working practices, pay, employment conditions, equality, recruitment, and more.
* Average, according to Reed
A business manager supervises and develops numerous aspects of a business, and is responsible for ensuring that a company runs smoothly in order to make sales.
This can include developing business plans, enhancing customer service and satisfaction, sourcing new business, interviewing new candidates, and ultimately being accountable for both business success and failure.
This can include management in areas as varied as tourism management, marketing management, event management, hospitality management, and beyond.
Solicitors provide expert legal support and advice, helping clients to take the legal course of action that is right for them.
Solicitors can focus their careers on commercial work, personal issues, and protecting personal rights with regard to be treated fairly, while areas of expertise may include employment, property, tax, family and children, immigration, human rights and more.
*Starting salary, according to Prospects
Marketing roles can vary from entry-level positions such as a marketing executive up to heads of content and directors of marketing, and involve promoting a product, service, company, or idea through a multi-channel approach.
Economic forecasts show further growth in financial services over the next decade, and London was ranked second in the world for its financial market’s competitiveness.
While jobs and business have likely been lost to other financial centres as a result of the UK leaving the European single market, it appears that the impact may not be as severe as many initially feared.
Marketing is essential for every business, and as work has moved online for many people and companies, meaning that the need for marketing experts will continue.
In the UK, digital marketing spend grew by 9.6% between 2020 and 2021.
Out of all the main industries, the professional and financial services is the most significant contributor to the West Midlands’ regional economy, and the most significant employer of high-quality jobs, with 15% of the jobs in the Black Country – that’s 73,000 roles – belong to this sector.
Wages for jobs in the professional sector (including human resource managers, finance officers, management consultants, business analysts and office managers) remain competitive in the region and comparable to the national average for the sector.
The University has provided over 80 years of business education.
Our lecturers aren’t just academics – they have worked and owned businesses in the industry.
They use their practical and professional expertise when teaching and illustrating different professional, financial, and business scenarios.
Courses are underpinned by a vision made up of four pillars: sustainability; responsibility and professionalism; entrepreneurship; and innovation.
While our priority is with or students, our vision extends to local businesses and community.
The University of Wolverhampton Business School, based at the Lord Swraj Paul Building, is a six-storey centre home to an executive education suite, innovative teaching and learning spaces, and IT suite, consulting rooms, and a central social space and café.
Our courses are also accredited by prestigious professional bodies, meaning that your qualification is internationally recognised by employers, helping you to progress in your chosen profession.
A Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) approved centre, we offer degrees accredited by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM), Chartered Management Institute (CMI), and Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) among others.
We have excellent partnerships with industry and strong links with professional bodies such as the Institute of Directors (IoD) and the Institute of Leadership and Management ILM .
Whether you’re looking to study law as a useful tool for your future plans, or are intent on qualifying as a solicitor or barrister, you’ll find Wolverhampton Law School will support your ambitions.
By getting involved with many of the initiatives to help boost your employability, including our DWF mentoring scheme and working in our Legal Advice Centre , you’ll find you’ll be well prepared for roles including auditor, paralegal, probation officer, solicitor, and more.
Practise the art of litigation in our custom-built moot courtroom, complete with judges’ bench and witness box.
Law students provide free legal advice to members of the local community in this drop-in centre located in the Mander Centre.
Named after our Chancellor, the Lord Swraj Paul Building offers six floors of purpose-built student space, and is our Business School’s impressive multi-million pound home.
In the Lord Swraj Paul building, you’ll find our computer labs with specialist business simulation and management tools software.
You can access the computers and dedicated study spaces located on each level of the Lord Swraj Paul building from 8am to 9pm, Monday to Friday.
Your FAQs about pursuing a career in Business, professional, and financial services.
Many people who work in professional services join in junior roles and work their way up, becoming more trained as they progress, often studying part-time courses combined with work, or with work placements.
Alternatively, you can study for an undergraduate degree in the area you’re interested in – many have accreditation from the appropriate professional organisation, such as the CIPD, or CMI.
There are an increasing number of apprenticeships available in professional services, where you’re employed in an organisation, and study for an apprenticeship whilst working.
Each professional area will require sector-specific qualifications – however most will require you to prove you have basic literacy and numeracy skills at entry/junior level as a minimum.
To enter into many professional careers eg.
in law or accounting, you will need degree-level or professional qualifications, such as our LLB (Hons) qualifying law degree, or multi-accredited BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance.
There are many different roles within professional services, in many industries.
Almost every organisation or company you can think of will have roles to fill in HR, finance and marketing.
There are excellent opportunities for progression, and opportunities in both the public and private sector.
Many professional roles, such as those in law, or working for charities can allow you to make a positive difference in people’s lives.
If you’re an aspiring entrepreneur, there are also excellent opportunities to be your own boss and set up your own business.
For the majority of professional roles you will gain most experience either on-the-job working in a company, or through work placements during your studies eg.
working in our Legal Advice Centre if you’re studying law with us.
When applying for any job or course, having some work experience in the area you’re interested in is a useful way to prove your enthusiasm and commitment to your studies or career ambitions.
You could try arranging work experience through your school or college, through someone you know, or by approaching companies directly.
Some may offer paid or unpaid internships as well as work experience.
If you’re at school or college, you may be able to arrange a work experience placement in a suitable company or sector.
If you’re one of our students, most courses include relevant placements and experience, however you can also explore all the opportunities, including part-time jobs, sandwich placements, work experience, international opportunities, graduate and volunteering positions from Careers, Enterprise and the Workplace.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/how-to-launch-your-creative-industry-career:
The foundations of the University of Wolverhampton are built upon creative subjects – and from an original portfolio of creative arts, we now offer a wide range of subjects that can lead you into roles in the exciting and growing creative industries sector.
Whether you’re interested in gaming and esports, fashion and photography, film and tv, architecture or publishing, our courses can help your career goals.
Careers in the creative industries can include a wide variety of businesses and organisations; from libraries, museums and art galleries; theatre, music, TV and film production; to software, IT and gaming.
Did you know?
The creative sector now contributes over £111 billion to the UK economy.
It’s one of the fastest growing within the UK – just think of the popularity of Minecraft and Fortnite ; films like Frozen and all its spin-off events; the rise of platforms like Netflix and Disney Plus.
Graduates of our creative courses enter a wide variety of roles, regionally, nationally and internationally.
Find out some of their stories below.
An appealing aspect of working in the creative industries is the opportunities for working abroad, or with a wide range of international partners.
Our links with industry
Placements and work experience are an integral part of many of our courses to help you hit the ground running in your career in the creative industries.
Our annual degree shows provide experience in exhibiting your work, as well as a platform to showcase it to potential investors, sponsors and employers.
You can explore and research roles available in the creative careers on the creative careers website, from account manager to VFX editor, you can explore the wide variety of roles, as well get further information from the organisations supporting those careers.
This list is not extensive.
Game artists use software packages to create the visual elements of a game in either 3D or 2D for one or more platforms, such as mobile, PC, arcade or console.
As a graphic designer, you'll create eye-catching visuals for a variety of products and activities, such as:
After agreeing a brief with the client, creative director or account manager you'll develop appropriate creative ideas and concepts that meet the client's objectives.
The work demands creative flair, up-to-date knowledge of industry software and a professional approach to time, costs and deadlines.
Journalists research and write news articles and features for a wide variety of publications, increasingly online as well as for traditional printed magazines.
If you love taking photos and have an eye for a picture, you can put your photography skills to use in a variety of areas from advertising to social events.
One of the fastest growing sectors within the UK, this growth is forecast to increase
with £150 million of funding from the Creative Industries Sector Vision (CISV), which is prioritising support for the growth of micro-businesses.
In February 2022, the government announced details of £50 million of investment for creative businesses across the UK from the CISV, including £21 million on three-year UK Global Screen Fund to promote UK films internationally and £8 million to help entrepreneurial start-up game developers to grow their businesses and create new games.
The creative industries sector as a whole has been growing above the UK average since 2011 and is growing faster in the West Midlands than the rest of the UK.
There are over 10,000 creative businesses active in the region.
Creative industries are adding new posts at twice the rate of the rest of the economy, according to
the Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport’s (DCMS) Sector Economic Estimates Employment report (2018), with an over two million jobs estimated in the sector, three-quarters outside London.
The sector contributes over £4 billion to the regional economy and this is forecast to increase through a sector deal between government and the creative industries sector to unlock growth for creative businesses into future:
There is wide-ranging support at governmental level for the development of the sector, for example from the West Midlands Combined Authority.
Schemes such as the West Midlands Creative Scale Up programme, are supporting screen, gaming, VR, AI, performing arts, marketing and events, PR and design businesses with ambitions to grow and ‘scale up’ through the £1.3 million two-year programme from the DCMS.
We have a lot of success stories from graduates forging careers in the creative industries, as well as those whose careers took them in unexpected directions.
When it comes to expertise in the creative arts, the University of Wolverhampton’s foundation are built on it, with the founding of our School of Art in 1851.
Our students join a creative community of academics, industry professionals, expert technicians and internationally recognised researchers – all contributing to an inspirational and collaborative learning environment.
We celebrated the opening of our brand-new Screen School in March 2022.
New industry-standard facilities include a green-screen, three-camera TV studio and radio studio which reflects the layout of BBC local stations, complemented by edit suites, staff offices and new Mac labs to support your career ambitions.
The iconic George Wallis building contains nine floors of workshops, specialist equipment and dedicated studio spaces, including some of the best equipped ceramics and glass facilities in the UK and Europe.
It is here our students are provided the tuition and resources that aid their advancement as artists.
It’s also home to expert teaching staff, who provide both inspiration and practical support as aspiring practitioners explore the beauty of form and materials, solving practical challenges in subjects rooted in a contemporary curriculum.
Within this creative community, students further benefit from live briefs, exhibitions and placement opportunities – an integral part of the student journey to becoming independent, successful graduates.
Your FAQs about pursuing a career in The Creative Industry.
Most jobs in the creative sector are taken by applicants who have studied a relevant degree.
While a portfolio of creative work can be helpful, becoming a graduate is a more structured way to make yourself a desirable applicant – and a postgraduate qualification can increase your knowledge and understanding to even higher levels.
As previously mentioned, it isn’t entirely necessary to have a qualification to enter a creative career, but it can increase your chances of success.
Courses such as the University of Wolverhampton’s BA Creative and Professional Writing and more can all equip you with the skills and experience you need for a successful and rewarding creative career.
The satisfaction of earning your money through your passions is enormous.
It may seem like a riskier choice than taking a “normal” job, but the rewards can be huge and the sector is growing.
There is money to be made in creativity, and in a time when automation is becoming a factor in many industries, it’s less likely to impact creative roles for the time being, due to the innovation required being difficult to replace.
Like many careers, the more experience you have the better equipped you’ll be to tackle a future role and the more desirable a candidate you will be.
Companies from all areas of the creative sector may provide work experience for people willing to volunteer their time, but you will generally need to contact them directly rather than reply to an offer as they are unlikely to post notice of volunteer positions.
If you study a course with the University of Wolverhampton, you will have access to our Careers, Enterprise and the Workplace teams who may be able to help you find experience.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/careers-in-digital-and-cyber:
2020 saw the UK’s tech sector achieve its best year ever, making the combined value of UK tech companies founded since 2000 at £540 billion.
While Cambridge is the leading regional tech city in the UK, tech jobs in Manchester increased by 164.6% in 2021 and Edinburgh offered the highest advertised average salaries outside of London, at £58,405.
£29.4 billion went into UK tech in 2021, which rose by 2.3 time from the previous year’s £11.5 billion figure.
Tech is continuing to create opportunities for both qualified employees and business start-ups, as the number of unicorns (businesses valued at £1 billion or more which aren’t listed on the stock exchange) is higher than ever, with 29 created last year.
As technology continues to advance, and smart technology extends from small products to larger ones, and eventually to the smart cities of the future, the opportunities in tech have never been more promising, varied, or populous.
Computer Science graduate makes use of AI to develop a new chat bot
There are many different and varied careers involved in the Digital and Cyber industry, so the roles listed are not extensive but give an overview of possible career paths.
Cybersecurity analysts safeguard organizations by utilising various technologies and processes to mitigate, identify, and handle cyber threats.
A web developer will write code for building, updating, and maintaining websites and applications, planning and creating them as required, while deciding the most appropriate technologies and languages for each project.
Software engineers analyse the needs of users, writing and testing code as needed.
You will also develop existing systems, investigate new tech, and maintain systems already in operation.
You'll need a passion for games, technical skills and the ability to work on your own and with a team to succeed as a games developer.
Forensic computer analysts investigate computer-related crime (cybercrime), including data breaches, security incidents and other online criminal activities
Data scientists turn raw data into meaningful information that organisations can use to improve their businesses.
The Covid-19 pandemic has highlighted the urgent need for improved understanding and implementation of digital skills, meaning that there has never been a better time to enter a job in the digital and cyber sector.
Large parts of society have been forced to adjust to remote working and distance learning, making digital skills an essential part of most modern careers.
For this and other reasons, the demand for technology-related skills is growing, with an estimated annual increase of 4% according to the European Commission , and last year the European market had a deficit of 756,000 ICT experts.
Software engineers and associated roles were the most sought-after, with up to 128,000 in demand last year.
There is also a strong and growing demand for cybersecurity specialists and system administrators.
The West Midlands’s digital sector has been named the UK’s fastest growing region , as it is on track to create an additional 52,000 digital tech jobs and grow by £2.7 billion by 2025.
Between the years 2014 and 2019, the region’s tech sector grew by an average of 7.6%, and shows no sign of slowing.
They were on track to raise more venture capital investment in 2021 than the previous year during the government’s last released figures, while tech vacancies came close to doubling when comparing December 2020 and October 2021.
The rise of remote working is likely to see more tech entrepreneurs starting and running businesses from anywhere in the UK, as well as employment opportunities spreading further across the country for those wishing to work from home.
The West Midlands benefits from having the country’s highest proportion of households with internet access at 97%.
We pride ourselves on the breadth of expertise and specialisation the University has in the areas of digital, cyber, and tech.
If you study a related course with us, you will be based at the impressive Alan Turing Building on City Campus.
This specialist, state-of-the-art research and teaching space offers the use of over 600 PCs, each of which has a bespoke portfolio of over 140 mathematical and statistical applications including SPSS, Minitab, and Maple.
Courses at the School are accredited by prestigious professional bodies, such as the British Computer Society, Chartered Institute for IT, and the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications.
Our School staff include both research-active academic staff and experienced academic professionals who collaborate with international institutions, consult for multinational business, and lead international research projects.
Mike Thelwall, computer scientist and mathematician at the University’s School of Mathematics and Computer Science, has been listed as one of the world’s top cited social scientists for three years in a row for his work in the department.
Our Computer Science (Games Development) degree is accredited by the BCS, the Chartered Institute for IT.
Bring your performance to life in this purpose-built theatre space containing a range of LED and intelligent lights to provide maximum performance flexibility.
Religious Studies students will benefit from teaching informed by the research of our Centre for Sikh and Panjabi Studies, the first of its kind in the UK, and its links with Sikh Studies scholars worldwide.
Need a quiet place to read, write or contemplate the big philosophical and religious ideas?
The Chaplaincy, a stone’s throw from Housman Building, offers a quiet place to reflect.
Our dance science researchers are national award-winners – and so our biomechanics laboratory, furnished with the very latest technology, will help to take your dancing to the next level.
Home to School of Creative Industries, the George Wallis Building’s many storeys are full of specialist kit to help you tell YOUR stories.
The home of Humanities courses is City Campus’s Housman Building which features a large lecture theatre, dedicated social learning spaces, computers and the Conservatory coffee shop.
Need to borrow some hardware?
No worries!
Check out the media store to borrow cameras, microphones, mixers and more to support digital media and photography.
We’ve got outstanding 3D design workshops for wood, metal, engineering, welding and plastics – so you’ll learn to use some interesting new machines.
Over 90% of our piano stock is Steinway-approved - so you can be assured you're playing on the best keys
Our multi-million pound Performance Hub at Walsall offers music students dedicated space to practice, as well as ensemble rooms and two high-end professional recording studios.
Named in honour of the brilliant wartime code breaker, the Alan Turing Building is the home of our computing and mathematics courses and offers specialist facilities and equipment for both areas.
Our high-spec, high performance computing lab is the perfect environment for shaping innovative ideas.
Our state-of-the-art software laboratory provides you with all the essentials for software games development.
Work like the professionals do on industry-standard mathematical and statistical software packages such as Maple, Minitab and SPSS.
There are numerous routes to starting a career in IT, including studying at university or earning while you take an apprenticeship.
It’s possible to get into an IT career with a non-specific degree or even without one, but by graduating from a relevant course you will increase your desirability as an applicant.
Studying a related degree will also mean that there are more tech jobs available to you once you graduate, as more technical job roles are likely to require you to have studied a specific course.
To get onto a degree in a digital- or cyber-related degree, your course requirements will depend on the course and the university you apply to.
If you want to study at the University of Wolverhampton, for example, you will need 96 UCAS points or grades CCC/BCD at A-level for Computing and Information Technology BSc, or Computer Science (Software Engineering), or Computer Games Design.
When you qualify in an area as desirable as the digital and cyber sectors, you are far more likely to find a job than you might in other sectors with fewer available roles.
In cybersecurity, for example, there is low-to-no unemployment for qualified jobseekers.
There are also opportunities to continually develop, adapt, and apply your skills, keeping up to date with new technologies and constantly learning.
Jobs in IT are among the best-paid in the world, and as technology continues to grow as an essential career field, pay rates will likely increase too.
CNBC also revealed that a survey showed that 90% of tech workers are satisfied with their jobs.
That depends on the job you plan to apply for.
There is a significant skills shortage in IT, meaning that many employers are very keen to employ digital and cyber staff quickly.
While you will usually need a qualification to work in IT, you may be able to get your qualifications while you work if you become an IT technician.
While a qualification or course in a specific area of the digital or cyber sector is likely your best route towards getting a role in IT, there are other ways to gain experience too.
Working on projects at home using equipment you will have in the field will allow you to develop your knowledge and skills first hand, working at your own pace outside of the confines of an organised course.
You may also take on freelance clients by creating your own website, or a profile on a freelance website, or even reaching out to businesses.
If you are not yet advanced enough in your understanding, you could even volunteer to work for a non-profit organisation or a start-up.
All of these can provide your CV with worthwhile experience that demonstrates why a company should hire you, or why a college or university should accept you onto their course.
*52,000 extra digital tech jobs by 2025 in West Midlands - Souce: Department of Digital, Culture, Media and Sport, Assessing the UK’s regional digital ecosystems report, Oct 2021

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/start-your-career-in-health-and-social-care:
The health and social care industry provides vital services and care to vulnerable, injured, or ill people throughout society.
The courses we provide in this area include qualifications in social work, nursing, midwifery, paramedic science, physiotherapy, and more.
Carving a career in health and social care means that you will earn your wage by helping people who need assistance, as well as entering an industry filled with varied roles and fulfilling opportunities.
There’s lots of crossover within the sector, with staff working together or even working roles that cover both health and social care.
The UK’s social care sector employs over 1.5 million people, while the health sector also employs over 1.5 million, with over 350 different roles available in the NHS alone.
Social care is a catch-all term for “personal care given by public or private organisations to help people in society who need specialised assistance to live a comfortable, healthy, fulfilling life.” Most people working in social care are office-based, but may need to visit clients at places such as care homes, hostels, prisons, homes, schools, and more.
Healthcare describes a sector with a range of careers covering all aspects of health-related industries in the UK, including nursing, midwifery, dentistry, optometry, pharmacy, and more.
There are numerous independent healthcare organisations in the private sector and a significant number of health workers are employed by these companies and increasingly contracted out to the NHS.
An adult nurse learns to observe and assess the needs of their patients, delivering the most appropriate care for them, and evaluating the results.
Social workers help to protect and support vulnerable children and adults.
This could include providing support plans for clients, advising and counselling, keeping records and writing reports, reviewing situations and more.
Physiotherapists help patients to extend their range of movements, often helping them recover from accidents or injuries, working with children who have disabilities, and helping older people with physical struggles to move more easily.
Paramedics respond to emergency calls, assess scenes on-scene where emergencies have taken place, help to stabilise or revive patients, and more.
An occupational therapist provides support to people whose health is making activities that are important to them difficult or impossible.
This could include rehabilitation after a stroke causes physical difficulties, helping people with learning difficulties to be more independent, encouraging someone with depression to try a new activity.
The number of disabled younger adults living longer and the number of older people needing care means that adult social care in particular is growing, and the sector is likely to need at least another half a million employees by 2030.
There are over 100,000 vacancies at any time in the health and social care sector, and with the sector’s predicted growth over the next decade, there are many jobs available for those dedicated to careers in this area.
In 2020, the health and social care sector accounted for 8.3% of the total gross added value (GVA), or £1.2 billion, of the area known as the Marches, which incorporates Herefordshire, Shropshire, and Telford & Wrekin.
The Marches has a wide stretch of rural and ageing communities, requiring approximately 40,900 health and social care jobs, or 14.1% of the total jobs, which is the third highest sector in the region.
The health and social care sector here was predicted to increase by around 1,150 jobs by 2022, showing that the regional area’s requirements for qualified employees is rising.
The Royal College of Nursing’s West Midlands regional director Lindsay Meeks reported in April 2022 that there are nearly 8,000 vacancies for NHS nurses across the Midlands .
This is the equivalent to one in nine posts – a number which has barely changed in the past four years, so demand for qualified nurses remains high.
Our expertise
We have a proud history at the University of Wolverhampton to responding swiftly to the needs of the health and social care sector, providing excellently qualified, well-trained professionals to support some of the most vulnerable people in society, as well as regularly publishing life-changing research that has real-world impact worldwide.
Course in healthcare are some of our most popular, and our provision for the subject area reflects this.
Our extensive facilities support all aspects of trainee learning, and include:
Many of our health-related courses are accredited, approved, or endorsed by professional bodies, including the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC), Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC), the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) and many more.
Our social care and social work courses are enhanced by the real-life experiences of our SUCCESS team (Service users and carers contributing to educating students for services).
Our Social Work course is also validated and accredited by Social Work England .
The facilities across all sites are tailored to the needs of students.tel
The University supplies a large proportion of healthcare workers across the West Midlands, with strong links with the industry, partnerships, and close working with organisations.
The University has been in partnership with Wolverhampton NHS Trust since 2004, and through this partnership the Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust offers placements for students studying specific courses, including our nursing and midwifery courses.
This partnership also saw the University and the Trust undertake a co-production project co-designed by patients and clinical staff, as yet another demonstration of our close relationship with local healthcare industry.
IN 2018, the University and West Midlands Ambulance Service (WMAS) formed a ground-breaking new partnership to create the UK’s first university ambulance trust.
The new West Midlands Ambulance Service University NHS Foundation Trust (the first of its kind in the country) allows us to work together even more closely on collaborative projects, sharing clinical expertise, joint curriculum development and staff exchanges, as well as develop courses and research in the area of emergency management and resilience.
All of our university sites, in Wolverhampton, Telford and Walsall provide access to purpose-built facilities to accommodate our professional programmes.
Check breathing, measure blood pressure, take pulses and practise catheterisation on our Laerdal SimMen.
Walsall Campus’ Sister Dora building has had a multi-million pound overhaul, with expanded clinical skills laboratories, simulated ward environment, purpose-built house and new ward equipment.
Practise hands-on skills in nursing and midwifery in our skills centres with comprehensive teaching aids and models.
Whether you need to run, lift, jump or dive, Walsall Campus’ Sports Centre has got you covered, with its pitches, halls, track and specialist fitness suites.
Walsall Campus provides an idea environment to get stuck into some sport – and your studies – with extensive subject-specific and study facilities.
Hone your skills in our dedicated pharmacy practice suite and in interactive spaces purpose-made for team-based learning.
An entire floor of the Rosalind Franklin Building, the City Campus home of our science courses, is dedicated to the delivery of pharmacy activities.
Six floors of facilities in our Rosalind Franklin building are packed full of the newest technology and specialist equipment, whatever your branch of science.
Learn in our pharmaceutical laboratory with formulation capabilities and teaching labs featuring state-of-the-art kit.
At Walsall, you’ll find the facilities you require for specific modern teaching and learning, and all the tools you might encounter in modern educational environments.
Your FAQs about pursuing a career in Health and Social Care.
For many careers in healthcare you will need to be a registered healthcare professional, while it is possible to enter a social care via an apprenticeship, work experience, or by qualifying in a relevant subject.
In social care, there are numerous graduate-level roles available where it is not always necessary to have studied a specialised subject; however, applicants are likely to be considered to be more dedicated to the area if they have already studied a relevant degree or qualification.
Places for degrees in social work are often very competitive.
For most careers in healthcare, you will be required to be a registered healthcare professional, as regulated by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
Most health-based degrees require applicants to have GCSEs in English, Mathematics and Science.
For any health-based degree or career working with vulnerable people, you will likely need to pass a DBS (Disclosure and Barring Service) check.
There are several levels of DBS check, which may give details of any convictions, cautions, reprimands and final warnings held by the police about you.
If you are a caring person, great interpersonal skills, and a genuine passion, a career in these areas can be highly rewarding.
You will dedicate yourself to the care of vulnerable people, and finish each day knowing that you have helped those who most need it.
Work in both areas is varied and your days will rarely be the same, as every situation and every client or patient will be different.
The amount of experience you need to enter the sector depends on the role you are hoping to enter.
Most degree courses have a large amount of hands-on work experience and built-in placements as an integral part of the course.
If you’re applying for a degree, there are lots of opportunities to gain valuable work experience to include on your application.
There are many ways you can gain experience in the sector.
These include:
You may be able to volunteer through NHS Jobs , a scheme such as the Duke of Edinburgh Award , or through a charity or voluntary organisation.
If you are studying a related qualification with the University of Wolverhampton, you will be able to gain help to find a placement through our Careers team.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/how-to-kickstart-your-career-in-sports-at-the-university-of-wolverhampton:
Studying sport at the University of Wolverhampton can take you into a range of exciting job roles.
Whether you’re interested in teaching, coaching, instructing, offering sports therapy, or numerous other career choices, this industry is hungry for your unique skills and contributions, with opportunities in the UK and abroad.
Participating in sport, at any level, develops your leadership and communication skills in a way that very few other subjects can claim.
Studying a sports-related subject is a great investment in your future, and we believe we offer a great place to take your first steps into a graduate career in sport.
According to Sport England, sport and physical activity contributes almost £40 billion to the British economy each year, directly through job creation, and indirectly by reducing healthcare costs due to a healthier population and reducing crime.
Graduates of sports courses enter a wide range of job roles, including those as coaches, instructors, and education professionals.
Based on the latest Graduate Outcomes survey, the most common career for our sports graduates is work in education, followed by sports coaches, fitness and wellbeing instructors, officials, and therapy professionals.
Fifteen months after graduating, 49% of the graduates surveyed were working full-time, 14% part-time, 15% working and studying, and 11% were in further study.
Only 6% were unemployed, which included those due to start work.
There are many different sporting careers that graduates of a sport-related qualifications can enter into.
Here are just some of the roles you could take on after studying with the University of Wolverhampton.
A football coach develops the abilities, playing skills, and motivation of football teams and their players.
Physical Education (PE for short) teachers work in schools and colleges, teaching young people about fitness and sport.
Sports scientists help athletes and sport players to improve their sporting performances using their knowledge of the way the human body works.
Leisure/sport centre managers manage and supervise the running of leisure/sport centres.
A health trainer aims to help people develop healthier lifestyles by promoting healthy choices and habits.
Coaches teach skills and techniques to both teams and single players.
A sport development officer organises projects, programmes, and training events to encourage people to take part in sport activities to improve their overall health.
A sports physiotherapist helps diagnose and then treat health problems and injuries sustained due to sport.
A fitness instructor plans and organises exercise regimes to promote fitness and health for their clients.
Short videos to give you a flavour of studying sport
We’re really proud to be the University of Opportunity, with a history of profession-orientated sports courses taught in our world-class facilities.
We've achieved so much, including receiving an Athena SWAN Bronze Department Award in recognition of our work to support gender equality.
We're proud of our students who, as pro-athletes, have represent Team GB in competitions such as the Olympic and Commonwealth Games, and those who have gone on to careers as teachers, community engagement professionals and running businesses in coaching, therapy and leisure.
Our vibrant student community is supported by the Sport and Physical Activity Research Centre (SPARC).
Students benefit from lectures provided by experienced and internationally-recognised researchers.
The curriculum features our published research - such as work on bone mineral density, the role of vitamin D, and the positive benefits of exercise to health - research findings which have saved lives and reduced the likelihood of life-changing injuries.
By ensuring we stay at the forefront of developments, we can share best professional practice with our students.
We have hosted international sports events and Olympic and Paralympic athletes.
Our body composition and bone density suite is used by British Gymnastics , British Judo , Aston Villa Football Club and Birmingham City Football Club .
We provide the perfect space for your studies: a dynamic learning environment with experienced and accredited staff who work with elite athletes (eg.
Olympic judo players and academy players from professional football clubs), NHS patients, community-based sports organisations and school groups.
You will also benefit from the expertise of our motivating, high-level sports coaches who work with our University Sport teams .
We have a history of delivering sector-leading sports courses in partnership with the major sporting organisations across the Black Country and West Midlands.
Our highly-skilled graduates are in demand across the world.
The University is proud of its links with teams and organisations both regionally and nationally.
Our official partners include:
The future of the sporting industry in the Black Country, the UK, and across the world is bright.
Sport is popular everywhere, and there are many upcoming opportunities and events gearing up to take place in the West Midlands.
The Commonwealth Games 2022 in Birmingham showcase the region’s fantastic sporting facilities and venues on an international scale.
High-profile events like this often open up further opportunities, meaning that it is likely that other teams and organisations may be attracted to the West Midlands.
On our doorstep, local football teams such as Wolverhampton Wanderers continue to grow; T20, the shorter and more popular version of cricket is played at Edgbaston; and the University has formed a partnership with Sandwell Leisure Centre, which will give our students access to their facilities.
The campus’s British Judo Centre of Excellence is the national base for the British Judo Association whose members live, train and compete right here on campus.
With the environmental chamber we are aim to better understand human physiology in environmental extremes during work and physical activity.
Replicating the altitude at some of the world's highest points as well as the heat and humidity of the toughest terrains
This is where we answer questions such as, how far, how high, and how fast an athlete is moving or how pathology is associated with a person’s movement.
Much of what we do in the human movement laboratory explores the biomechanics of the human body using the latest technology.
The human performance laboratory is a purpose-built state-of-the-art teaching and research facility, which contains an extensive range of biomechanical and physiological equipment including a portable and static online gas analysis systems for breath-by-breath cardiopulmonary exercise testing, including VO2 max tests, Wingate cycle ergometers to test anaerobic capacity and power plus field lab-based blood analysers, which are used to test professional athletes as part of our partnerships.
The multi-million-pound Sports Centre features sports halls; badminton, basketball, netball and volleyball courts; fitness suite and weight rooms; futsal pitches; and an elite strength and conditioning suite.
Our BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Therapy is accredited by the professional body the Society of Sports Therapists and provides facilities including: massage and treatment stations with hydraulic couches for sports massage and other manual therapy techniques, and the latest audio visual lecture capture technology that enables teaching demonstrations to be viewed on the interactive screens at each of the massage and treatment stations
Your biggest FAQs about pursuing a career in sport.
Sport is a wide and varied industry, so qualifications aren’t always necessary in some areas whereas in others they will be essential.
Work experience counts for a lot in the sports industry, so taking a course that will result in a qualification may also give you access to first-hand experience in the area you are most interested in dedicating yourself to.
At other times, you may need an undergraduate or even postgraduate qualification.
If you are passionate about sport, there is simply no better career area to pursue.
Depending on what area of the sports industry you become involved with, the perks could include gaining access to event tickets, equipment or clothing, seeing the progress of students and athletes you work alongside or coach, and simply earning your living doing what you love.
Football coach – £18,000 to £28,000 – A football coach develops the abilities, playing skills, and motivation of football teams and their players.
PE teacher – £25,714 to £41,604 – Physical Education (PE for short) teachers work in schools and colleges, teaching young people about fitness and sport.
Performance sports scientist – £20,000 to £60,000 – Sports scientists help athletes and sport players to improve their sporting performances using their knowledge of the way the human body works.
Leisure/sport centre manager – £18,000 to £37,000 – Leisure/sport centre managers manage and supervise the running of leisure/sport centres.
Health trainer – £18,700 to £28,500 – A health trainer aims to help people develop healthier lifestyles by promoting healthy choices and habits.
Sports coach – £18,000 to £28,000 – Coaches teach skills and techniques to both teams and single players.
Sports development officer – £18,000 to £30,000 – A sport development officer organises projects, programmes, and training events to encourage people to take part in sport activities to improve their overall health.
Sports physiotherapist – £24,000 to £45,000 – A sports physiotherapist helps diagnose and then treat health problems and injuries sustained due to sport.
Fitness instructor – £14,000 to £25,000 – A fitness instructor plans and organises exercise regimes to promote fitness and health for their clients.
Work experience in the sports sector is often highly prized, due to the practical nature of many roles.
There is no set amount of experience required for a sports job, but if you study with the University of Wolverhampton you will gain access to our many sporting partners and the opportunity to contribute alongside them, gaining valuable experience throughout.
Our sports courses provide you with opportunities for experience throughout your time at the University and after.
Courses include placements, work experience, and site visits, while a sandwich degree includes a full year in industry.
You’ll find the University to be a hub for both on-campus and external events, with the added choice of sports-related clubs, societies, and volunteering in local primary and secondary schools.
The campus frequently hosts tournaments and events, and organisers will all be grateful for assistance from students studying for degrees in sport, giving you ample chance to build your CV while you’re with us.
We also have a dedicated Careers, Enterprise and the Workplace team who help you, whatever stage of your course or career you have reached.
At the School of Sport, we provide a number of different routes and qualifications to help you attain a career in sport, and take pride in the flexibility we offer.
Many of these are accredited, giving your qualification the approval of a professional body which can benefit your career.
If you have a course you would like to study but don’t have the experience or qualifications needed for the entry requirements, you can take a foundation year course to prepare you.
This gives you the opportunity to increase your knowledge of the area you wish to study, providing the “foundations” of what you’ll need for the course.
Our sports degrees come with the option of an optional sandwich placement year, which you may also be able to undertake abroad.
We also offer postgraduate Master’s-level sports-related courses, meaning that if you want to continue studying with us you can do so after you have gained your degree.
Yes, you can apply to receive support up to a value of £4,500 over three years with our WLV Sports Scholarship , becoming  a WLV Sports Scholar.
Our WLV Sport Scholarship is intrinsically linked to our focus sports (football, basketball, judo, futsal and netball); athletes outside of these sports are still considered and more favourably if their sport is recognised within the BUCS competitive framework.
The British Judo Association’s Centre of Excellence based at our Walsall Campus, sits alongside the our sports education and research facilities that support the wide range of sports degrees on offer.
Recent investment has extended specialist sport facilities to support Olympic and Paralympic athletes based in the West Midlands, such as student Chelsie Giles, who won bronze at Tokyo 2020.
The new development includes dedicated physiotherapy facilities providing world-class science and medical support to athletes as part of the British Judo Association’s partnership with the English Institute of Sport.
The next focus for the Centre is the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games, and the partnership provides further endorsement for the Walsall Campus as a place of sporting excellence for elite athletes.
*£39 billion contribution to British economy pa from sector *Sport England
*9% of graduates employed or in further study 15months after graduating *Graduate Outcomes report, July 2021

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/how-to-become-a-teacher:
Teaching is one of the most rewarding careers available.
You’ll get the chance to educate future generations, inspire knowledge and shape lives.
Or, you may have the satisfaction of upskilling older learners, allowing them to improve their lives and achieve their ambitions.
If you’re looking to help people find their potential and flourish, there is a wide array of potential paths and career development opportunities .
So, it’s no surprise that many people feel inspired by the prospect of teaching.
So, how do you become a teacher?
In the UK, you need to gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) in order to teach in schools.
This can be obtained by studying a relevant undergraduate course that offers QTS, training to teach 0-5 year olds (EYTS) and in Further Education (FE).
If you already have an undergraduate qualification, you can do a PGCE (Postgraduate Certificate in Education) or PGDE (Postgraduate Diploma in Education).
In this guide, we’ll talk you through everything you need to know about becoming a teacher.
From the qualifications you’ll need, funding advice, skill requirements, and everything in between.
Types of schools
There are many types of schools in the UK.
Each type differs in terms of how it is run, who staff are employed by, entry requirements, and staff contracts.
The different kinds of schools in the UK include:
Maintained - A school that follows the national curriculum.
Maintained schools may focus on a specific subject as long as this is within the scope of the national curriculum.
Qualified teachers in UK state-maintained schools need to undertake Initial Teacher Training (ITT) or Initial Teacher Education (ITE), and completing such qualifications leads to Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) in England and Wales, and the Teaching Qualification (TQ) in Scotland.
Academy - A school that does not have to follow the national curriculum, and often focuses on a specialist subject area.
For example, an academy may specialise in science or art.
Academies follow the same key stage 3 and GCSE examinations as other schools.
Grammar – A school that selects students based on eligibility criteria.
Grammar schools are funded by local authorities, and to get a place, students must complete an ‘11-plus’ examination.
Independent – A school that is exempt from the national curriculum.
Instead, independent schools focus on children’s creative, personal and moral development.
You will likely need a specialist teacher training qualification to teach at an independent school.
If you are working in any educational setting, you will likely need to pass a DBS (Disclosure and Barring Service) check, which allows employers to check your criminal record, to help decide whether you are a suitable person to work with children or vulnerable adults.
Studying teaching at university
There are several university routes into teaching.
The type of course you choose will depend on your current qualifications and experience, and the type of teaching career you want to pursue.
Generally speaking, universities offer teacher training degrees at both undergraduate and postgraduate level.
Undergraduate teacher training courses
If you want to train to be a primary school teacher and you don’t have a degree, then you can study for our undergraduate degree BA (Hons) Primary Education.
At the end of the three-year course, you will be recommended for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).
You do not need to do a PGCE and can start work as an Early Career Teacher (formally known as a Newly Qualified Teacher or NQT).
For example, teacher training subject area can include:
For those who have completed an undergraduate degree, a PGCE (Postgraduate Certificate in Education) is the most popular path to teaching.
This postgraduate course takes one year to complete.
By studying a PGCE, you’ll gain practical teaching experience in schools, and develop your theoretical knowledge of educational approaches.
Experience in a school will be a key part of your course, and there will be a set number of hours you will be required to complete.
For most undergraduate degrees and PGCE courses, this includes a minimum of 120 days on placement in schools over the course of your degree .
You can choose to study a primary or secondary education -based PGCE.
Take a look at our PGCE courses for more information:
Fees and funding
You’ll have a variety of funding options available to you as a trainee teacher.
These most popular options include student loans and teacher training bursaries
Student loans - Government-funded loans are the most common type of funding for teacher training.
This includes a tuition fee loan of up to £9,535, which helps cover the university course fees.
It also includes a maintenance loan of up to £13,762, which helps cover your living costs while studying.
Teacher training bursaries - Depending on the course you study, you may be eligible for a teacher training bursary or scholarship.
Bursaries range from £5,000 to £31,000, however these are limited to a selection of subjects, which are listed in the table below.
Subject
Bursary
Scholarship
Biology
£10,000
Chemistry
£24,000
£26,000
Computing
Design and technology
£15,000
Geography
Languages
(including ancient languages)
Maths
Physics
Source: Postgraduate bursaries and scholarships - Get into Teaching
You will need to have either a Bachelor’s (honours, class 2:2 or higher), Master’s, or PhD qualification in order to be eligible for a bursary or scholarship.
Teaching is a multifaceted profession.
You’ll manage a lot of different areas day-to-day, from supporting young people’s learning and organising lessons, to developing your subject knowledge.
Here are some of the most valuable skills you’ll need as a teacher:
Subject expertise - Students will learn best when you are confident in your knowledge and demonstrate your expertise.
This is particularly important at secondary level, where you’ll teach in a specialist subject.
Strong organisation - Teachers juggle a lot of responsibilities.
Being well organised will help you manage your time, workload, and lessons.
Empathy - You’ll teach a variety of students who all learn differently.
Being empathetic will help you approach students in the right way and support them in the best way possible.
This will also help students feel comfortable coming to you for advice or guidance.
Confidence - Without confidence, a class can quickly get out of control.
Showing confidence will help ease students and command their attention, helping everyone in the room benefit from more engaging lessons.
Communication - Not only do teachers have to know their subject inside out, they have to communicate it effectively.
Teachers need to be able to deliver classes in a clear, engaging and understandable way.
Patience - No matter what age group you teach, you’ll need a lot of patience.
It’s important to give students the time they need to understand things and deliver information at a suitable pace.
The School of Education at the University of Wolverhampton offers a comprehensive range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses for future and current professionals, including teaching qualifications, continuing professional development, and research degrees.
Our staff hold key expertise in and contribute to the development of policy, debate, and continuing professional development in a variety of areas.
Most teaching degrees require applicants to have a grade 4 (previously grade C) in GCSE English, Mathematics and Science.
If you are working in any educational setting, you will likely need to pass a DBS (Disclosure and Barring Service) check, which allows employers check your criminal record, to help decide whether you are a suitable person to work with children or vulnerable adults.
If you are studying to become a teacher, experience in a school will be a key part of your course, and there will be a set number of hours you will be required to complete.
For most undergraduate degrees and PGCE courses, this includes a minimum of 120 days on placement in schools a year.
If you study at the University of Wolverhampton, you will be part of a learning institution with partnerships across over 450 institutions of learning, where you can gain experience.
Teaching is an exciting, rewarding career that helps shape the lives of the world’s future parents, leaders, scientists, writers… in fact, every career and role that there is.
It’s never dull – each day will bring different challenges and opportunities, and see you guiding and interacting with children and young people from different backgrounds and experiences, each with their own unique needs, strengths, and challenges.
Quite simply, there is no other job available that combines the same variety, opportunity, stability, and rewards of teaching.
Studying and qualifying to become a teacher will involve extensive experience of teaching in schools, meaning that it is an essential part of the process of becoming a teacher.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/order-a-prospectus:
Request a download copy of our student guide

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/how-to-apply:
Ready to apply?
Visit your chosen course page, click 'Apply Now' button, and follow the prompts to select your application option.
Use the search bar below to find your course.
For help with Admissions related queries before you apply, contact us via email : admissions@wlv.ac.uk / internationaladmissions@wlv.ac.uk
For help with Admissions related queries after you’ve applied , contact us via a helpdesk message on your e:Vision portal: www.wlv.ac.uk/evision
Home Applicants - (+44) 01902 323505
International and EU Applicants - +441902 322230
University of Wolverhampton Admissions Department MX Building Camp Street Wolverhampton
WV1 1AD

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/accounting-finance-economics:
Explore a range of accounting, finance and economics degrees at the University of Wolverhampton.
You’ll learn the knowledge skills you need to succeed in your chosen profession, with a range of study options to suit you.
The perfect way to start your professional journey, discover accounting, finance or economics degrees today.
Award: BSc (Hons)
Level: Undergraduate

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/architecture:
Learn how to design buildings, from those used in everyday life to iconic structures.
An architecture degree at the University of Wolverhampton equips you with the skills and expertise you need to excel in this highly rewarding career, which incorporates elements of art, science and design.
Explore architecture degrees today.
Award: HNC

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/business-and-management:
Explore business and management degrees at the University of Wolverhampton.
Develop skills in key elements of business, including management, law, accounting, economics, strategy, leadership and more.
We also offer combined business degrees in several related fields.
Award: BA (Hons)

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/computer-science:
Design the technology of the future with a computer science degree at the University of Wolverhampton.
You’ll learn core skills and principles in this exciting field of study, equipping you with the knowledge you need to excel in your computer science career.
Find out more about our computer science degrees below.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/english:
Study language, literature and writing through a range of English degrees at the University of Wolverhampton.
Whether you want to develop your theoretical knowledge of literature, learn all about linguistics, or refine your writing skills – our range of English degrees are designed to help you excel in an area that suits you.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/film-media-and-screen:
Flex your creativity in the film industry with a degree from the University of Wolverhampton.
Explore media, screen and film degrees across our course collection.
From theory to practice, you’ll learn key skills and approaches to film, media and production while working across a variety of media forms

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/law:
Develop key skills and knowledge of the legal system, with a range of law degrees at the University of Wolverhampton.
With a wide selection of modules and courses to choose from, you’ll learn about a variety of law subjects, from the foundations of legal research to specialist areas of law.
Take the first step in your law career today.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/midwifery:
Support families as they bring new life into the world.
With a midwifery degree, you’ll learn the skill you need to become a knowledgeable, compassionate and confident professional in this field.
Discover a range of midwifery degrees, with a variety of study options to choose from – including 2 year, 3 year and 4 year courses.
Award: BMid (Hons)
Award: Undergraduate Credit

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/nursing:
Nursing is one of the most rewarding healthcare professions, giving patients the support they need when they need it most.
You’ll find a range of nursing degrees at the University of Wolverhampton, with general and specialised courses available to suit your study requirements.
Start your career by studying a nursing degree with us.
Award: BNurs (Hons)
Award: BSc

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/pharmacy:
Become an expert in medicines with a pharmacy degree.
We offer a range of pharmacy, pharmaceutical science and pharmacology degrees here at the University of Wolverhampton, helping you shape your future in a way that suits you.
Our courses involve aspects of chemistry, medical science, human biology, and more.
Explore pharmacy degrees today.
Award: MPharm (Hons)

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/public-health:
Public health saves lives and improves the wellbeing of wider communities.
Our public health degrees are designed to give you the skills you need to excel in this profession with support from experienced staff with first-hand knowledge in public health.
Explore public health degrees today.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/social-work-and-care:
Social workers and carers support those who need it the most.
With a social care or social work degree, you’ll have the skills and knowledge you need to support in the best way possible.
Explore social work and care degrees at the University of Wolverhampton.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/sport-physical-activity:
There is a huge range of exciting careers in sports.
At the University of Wolverhampton, we help you find your path with a variety of physical activity and sports degrees.
From school sport to sport business management, exercise science and more – explore our sports degrees today.
Award: FD (Science)

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/teaching:
Education is a highly rewarding career path.
Take the first steps with a teaching degree at the University of Wolverhampton.
You’ll develop key knowledge and skills to prepare you for a career in teaching and education, alongside opportunities for school placements.
Find out more about teaching degrees below.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/business:
Award: CIM Certificate
Level: Postgraduate
Award: CIM Diploma
Award: MBA
Award: MSc
Award: PGDip

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/cyber-security:
Award: MA

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/education:
Award: PG Cert
Award: PGCE

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/health-sciences:
Award: MPH

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/law:
Award: LLM

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/nursing:
Award: Master of
Award: Postgraduate Credit

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life:
Experience an exciting and supportive university life at the University of Wolverhampton.
With a diverse student community, modern campuses, and excellent facilities right on your doorstep you’ll have everything you need to thrive.
The Students' Union is run by students, for students and is at the heart of university life if you choose to study with us.
Having recently undergone a transformative refurbishment, it's a thriving place to hang out or check out a society or two.
Find out more .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/students-union:
Our vision at the University of Wolverhampton Students’ Union is to make your experience at University the best it can be.
The Students' Union sits separately from the University and is run by, and for, students.
As an independent charity, we put students at the heart of everything that we do.
Wolves SU offers an inclusive range of services and activities to enhance your student life.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/speak-to-a-student:
Chat to our students about any aspect of university life, from timetables to making friends.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlv-gym:
WLV Gym is housed over two multi-million pound complexes.
Our friendly and highly trained staff are always on hand to help you, from personal training to booking courts or hosting world class sporting events.
Just ask us and see what we can do for you.
Everyone is welcome in our facilities, we have a range of membership and pay as you go options available for students , staff and the community .
Why not pop in and have a chat and see what we can do for you?
Contact us at Walsall on 01902 518 900 or City on 01902 322 372 or e-mail us at gym@wlv.ac.uk
To find out more about sports teams, social sport, coaching or scholarships visit WLV Sport .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlv-gym/campus-opening-times:
*Gym sessions can be booked by calling us on 01902 322372 or via the WLV Sport app

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlv-gym/recreational-facilities:
WLV Sport offers a wide range of high-quality facilities available for casual hire, block bookings, and events.
Our facilities include:
A full-size floodlit 3G pitch , which can be divided into halves or quarters for flexible use
Three indoor arenas suitable for 5-a-side football, netball, basketball, volleyball, badminton, and table tennis
Floodlit outdoor netball courts , perfect for evening games
A 200m sprint track , ideal for speed and athletic training
We also offer free on-site car parking for all facility users, making your visit as convenient as possible.
Outdoor netball courts -
WLV Netball Courts - YouTube

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlv-gym/student-memberships:
City Campus Sports Centre: 01902 32 (2372)
Walsall Campus Sports Centre: 01902 51(8900)
E-mail: gym@wlv.ac.uk
*To purchase a membership you must bring a valid Student ID card upon your first visit.
Join now on our WLV Sport app or you can join by clicking on the following link:
https://sportsbookings.wlv.ac.uk/joinathome
View our T&C's (Word doc 45k)
Please view our WLV Sport Centre Privacy Notice - University of Wolverhampton
The Direct Debit Guarantee
This guarantee should be retained by the Payer.
This Guarantee is offered by all Banks and Building Societies that take part in the Direct Debit Scheme.
The efficiency and security of the Scheme is monitored and protected by your own Bank or Building Society.
If the amounts to be paid or the payment dates change University of Wolverhampton will notify you 10 working days in advance of your account being debited or as otherwise agreed.
If an error is made by University of Wolverhampton or your Bank or Building Society, you are guaranteed a full and immediate refund from your branch of the amount paid.
You can cancel a Direct Debit at any time by writing to your Bank or Building Society.
Written confirmation may also be required.
Please notify us.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/campus-transport:
There are alternative public transport options available between both Wolverhampton and Walsall, and Wolverhampton and Telford Campuses.
Wolverhampton to Walsall has a frequent bus service , National Express West Midlands (NX Buses) 529, which runs from 4.20 am to 11.55 pm, moving to a 10-minute frequency after 6.17 am from Wolverhampton Bus Station to Walsall Bus Station .
Students and staff would then need to change to National Express West Midlands 51 or the X51 to travel up until Broadway North before a short walk onto campus.
If you’re travelling between Wolverhampton and Telford , there is a train service that runs from 6.00 am to 10.00 pm between Wolverhampton Train Station and Telford Central Station.
Transport for West Midlands
National Express West Midlands
West Midlands Bus Users
Transport for Wales
West Midlands Railway
West Midlands Safer Travel Partnership
Transport for West Midlands - Safer Travel Partnership
British Transport Police

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/university-of-opportunity:
As a University, we are different.
So, what do we mean by the 'University of Opportunity'?
The 'University of Opportunity' isn’t just a name; it’s a promise to guide our students towards their chosen path, whoever they are and whatever they aspire to become.
We’ve been doing this for almost 200 years, and the diversity of our courses and apprenticeships is vaster than ever.
It isn’t just our courses that are varied, but our students are too: 54% of our undergraduates are classed as mature (rising to 72% of our postgraduates), our alumni hail from hundreds of countries across the globe, and we are praised as an institution that welcomes every background, religion, and orientation.
As for our staff, we provide networks for gender, disabilities, and race.
We’re also proud to have been listed in the top 10 universities for social mobility by the Higher Education Policy Institute.
We are praised for our dedication to providing opportunities to the Black Country and wider communities.
As a mature student with young children I never thought I would be able to reach my goals, but every lecturer pushed me and believed in me, even when I didn't.
I am currently working for a local MP and my degree helps me every day; my learning never stops.
Insightful stories on the people who make us the University of Opportunity

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlvhuman:
We’re only human, after all.
Let us introduce ourselves…
In these challenging times, we wanted you to get to know us, to find out who we are and what makes us tick.
Whether you’re an existing student or staff member, looking to join us at the University of Wolverhampton, or whether you’re just interested in people and their personal journeys and stories.
The University of Wolverhampton is made up of people and Humans of WLV is our background story.
We want you to meet the people who make our organisation the diverse, incredible and unique place that it is – the University of Opportunity.
Say hello to the human face of the University of Wolverhampton.
Humans of WLV was inspired by the Humans of New York stories.
Tell us your story by emailing us at comms@wlv.ac.uk .
We’re really looking forward to meeting you.
E-mail us at comms@wlv.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/key-facts:
Based at campuses in Wolverhampton, Walsall and Telford – the site of the new Marches Centre of Excellence for Health and Social Care – the University of Wolverhampton has over 29,400 students and 2,100 staff.
Additionally, the University of Wolverhampton Science Park is home to tenant businesses and supports the development of innovative companies.
The University’s Springfield Campus is a culmination of the most ambitious aspect of the University’s Our Vision, Your Opportunity programme.
The site of the former Springfield brewery has been transformed into Europe’s largest specialist construction and built environment campus.
It brings together businesses and the education sector to maximise economic impact.
Springfield is the new home of the University’s School of Architecture and Built Environment and National Brownfield Institute.
With Thomas Telford University Technical College and Elite Centre for Manufacturing Skills also on-site, this campus is central to our vision of enhancing the student experience and supporting business growth.
The University of Wolverhampton received a commendation – the highest possible accolade – in its most recent assessment by the Quality Assurance Agency: the independent body that evaluates standards and quality in UK higher education.
Research at the University of Wolverhampton is world-leading, ground-breaking and life-changing.
It informs the teaching and learning we deliver here at Wolverhampton.
REF2021
Our research is at its highest ever level according to the Research Excellence Framework 2021.
75% more staff were submitted for the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 than REF2014.
The results show that more than half of the University’s research is judged as internationally excellent (3) or world-leading (4), in total 93% is internationally recognised.
Sixteen subject areas have research of world-leading standard, including the University’s work on changing perceptions of the Black Country, cybersecurity, autism, intelligent transport systems, Brownfield regeneration, eliminating gender and race discrimination and improving health outcomes for all.
The University was awarded four stars overall in 2023 in the QS Stars ™ scheme – with the highest five stars for teaching, employability, facilities, internationalisation, and inclusiveness.
The QS Stars scheme is a global rating system which assesses the strengths of universities worldwide against several categories.
The University embeds employability into all its programmes to create opportunities and connections for its students.
88% of the University’s UK graduates from the most recent cohort are in work or further study according to the latest Graduate Outcomes Survey (published 2024, Class of 21-22).
It also showed almost 52% are in highly skilled roles.
The National Student Survey is completed by final-year university students across the UK and is managed by the Office for Students (OfS).
Student satisfaction at the University of Wolverhampton is above sector average across a number of categories, the latest National Student Survey results show (2024).
Teaching on my course - 87.4% 2025 up from 84.9% 2024 (better than the national average)
Learning opportunities - 85.2% 2025 up from 82.5% 2024 (better than the national average)
Assessment and feedback - 85.4% up from 81.6% (better than the national average)
Student voice - 79.7% up from 74% (better than the national average)
Academic support - 84.9% up from 79.8%
Organisation and management - 75% up from 68.6%
Learning resources - 87.3% up from 84.9%
Research England’s Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF) recognises the diverse contributions that universities across the country offer their local areas.
The framework aims to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of public funding use for knowledge exchange while aiding continuous improvement in higher education providers.
KEF identified the University of Wolverhampton as being in the top 10% nationally for public and community engagement, as well as in the top 10% for local growth and regeneration.
The University of Wolverhampton’s roots go back to the 19th century Wolverhampton Mechanics’ Institutes and School of Art.
It offers a broad range of subjects at foundation, undergraduate and postgraduate level – many accredited by prestigious professional bodies.
Over 29,400 students studying at teaching campuses in the Midlands and through nationwide partners benefit from innovative and excellent teaching.
This QAA-commended university is ranked third in England for social mobility (Higher Education Policy Institute) and boasts world-class research along with an 88% graduate employability rate (Graduate Outcomes Survey 2024).
Learn more about University Life.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/student-support:
We offer a wide range of support for you as a student, catering for all needs and requirements.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/student-support/mature-student-support:
Over 40% of students at the University of Wolverhampton are classed as ‘mature’ so we understand the advice, information and encouragement you need to help you along this path.
If you are worried about not having any formal qualifications, or if you've been out of the education system for a while, you can consider our foundation year courses (see below) or you could study for an Access to Higher Education Diploma.
Offered at colleges across the country, the Diploma allows you to choose from a variety of subjects depending on what you want to study at university.
The University also offers 4-year degrees in some subjects, which include a Foundation Year, for those who do not meet the entry requirements to go straight onto a degree.
There are a range of Foundation Year courses across the faculties of the university and these are usually considered as Year Zero courses (level 3), giving you the opportunity to progress on to undergraduate degree courses.
For more information visit www.wlv.ac.uk/courses or contact the Gateway on (01902) 321032 or email gateway@wlv.ac.uk .
We value your work experience so if you don't think you have the right qualifications, you can still apply with the right work experience.
You may be asked to write an essay or attend an interview so that we can assess your skills and knowledge.
For many courses we consider 'non-standard' qualifications, or learning gained at work, in place of more conventional qualifications.
We also look at any learning you have already done.
For example, HNC or Open University credits and some professional qualifications count towards entry, and we may take into account what you have gained from courses which were not formally assessed or certificated.
For more information visit Guidance for Mature Applicants .
Download a copy of the Mature Learner's Guide
The University runs regular events for mature learners who want to find out more information on the application process, writing personal statements, what it is like to be a mature student, the funding available and much more.
For more information on upcoming events go to Virtual Events or contact the Gateway.
Find out more about our entry requirements , or contact The Gateway to discuss your options.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/part-time-jobs:
Part-time work is valuable not only for financial support while you are studying, but also to enhance your CV and demonstrate transferable skills to potential graduate employers.
The Workplace specialise in finding part-time work and full-time vacation work ideal for students and advertises them in one place, making them easier to access.
Go to our Jobs Board before you can search our list of vacancies.
The jobs are vast and varied, with a potential of some being related to the course you are studying.
International students: If you are a current student from outside the EU, you must apply for a national insurance number before you can work in the UK.
Please also read our guidance on working regulations for International students studying in the UK.
For any enquiries please contact the International Centre at the University of Wolverhampton and remember to abide by any work restrictions on your visa.
It is crucial that you have your CV checked by our Careers Advisers, before you begin applying for positions to maximise your chance of being successfully shortlisted and called for interview.
Careers have one-to-one appointments, workshops and online resources to help you prepare yourself for work.
Book yourself an appointment today .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/security-services:
Keeping our community safe is very important.
At the University of Wolverhampton, Security Services operates 24 hours a day all year round to provide a safe and secure environment for students, staff and visitors and ensure that the University is an enjoyable place to study, work and visit.
We can all do our bit by remaining vigilant and reporting anything suspicious.
Be alert to anything that seems out of the ordinary or makes you feel concerned.
If you see something, say something.
If you report it, we can check it out.
It may well be nothing, but it may also be something important.
We work collaboratively with West Midlands Police, West Mercia Police and various crime prevention groups.
Alert the Security team using the SafeZone app or call the police on 101 or 999 if it’s an emergency.
You can also call the anti-terrorist hotline on 0800 789 321.
Contact Security whenever and wherever you are on campus using the SafeZone app
Stay safe on campus and in the community using apps like SafeZone and ProtectUK
Find out how to contact the security team, report bullying or raise a safeguarding concern
Top tips for personal safety on campus and in the community
How to access first aid support on campus
Information about support from the Mental Health and Wellbeing team
What happens to lost property and where to find it on campus
Learn more about Action Counters Terrorism (ACT)
The University has a campus-wide barrier system and CCTV scheme across each site
Opening and closing times for building across our campuses

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/accommodation:
Email
CityAccommodationhub@wlv.ac.uk
Walsallhub@wlv.ac.uk
Telfordhub@wlv.ac.uk
Telephone
01902 321 268
Address
University of Wolverhampton Accommodation Services RMA Building Lomas Street WV1 1QU
Fax 01902 321 267
Accommodation Services Facebook
Accommodation Services Twitter
Campus Life YouTube
Follow this link to return to the Clearing 2025 website

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/accommodation/where-can-i-live/city-campus:
Explore Your Ideal Living at City Campus Accommodation!
Finding the perfect place to live during your university days is crucial.
At City Campus, we offer a range of options to suit your preferences and budget.
Choosing your university accommodation is more than just a decision; it's about finding your home away from home.
Explore City Campus and make your university experience exceptional!
If you would like to contact the City Hub directly, please call us on 01902 321268

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/accommodation/where-can-i-live/walsall-campus:
It’s also a great place to study, with two floors of mind books, computers and ultra modern pods for group work.
Get your fill
After you’ve worked up an appetite head to the food court, you can get anything you fancy from a healthy salad bar and Mediterranean cuisine to a homely jacket spud or Starbucks to go.
Getting out and about
Walsall city centre offers a great selection of bars, clubs, pubs, shops and restaurants – plenty of places to break the ice during Freshers’ week.
In between socialising and studying, take a break in the tranquil Victorian park with over 35 acres of lakes, trees and gardens – feeding a duck is incredibly therapeutic!
Living on the Walsall campus is great for place for your studies and your social life, but don't take our word for it - check out what our residents have to say about living in university accommodation
The Walsall Student Village has 338 en-suite bedrooms so if you want your student experience with a few additional home comforts then this is the option for you.
You get your own room and bathroom with a shower, and share a kitchen/dining area with comfy seating and TVs, with up to 6 other students.
It’s modern and friendly campus accommodation; with everything you need in walking distance, great for 9am lectures or meeting your mates at the Students Union.
Prices
Student Village, Gorway Road, Walsall - WS1 3BD
A closer look at the facilities…
52 and 42 week contracts, semester arrangements, undergrad and postgrad bookings are now being processed.
For maps and directions for Walsall Campus checkout our interactive map

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/accommodation/where-can-i-live/telford-campus:
If you are not a fan of early mornings you will be pleased to hear that our Telford Campus accommodation is a stone's throw away from where most of your lectures will be.
Telford campus is perfect for those students who want to enjoy some peace and quiet rather than the hustle and bustle of the city centre.
Telford is a small campus with lots of greenery in the surrounding area.
There are lots of fields to play sports or to have a stroll across campus.
At Telford, we offer ensuite accommodation where you have access to your own bathroom but share a communal kitchen with 6 other students on your corridor.
All of our accommodation is allocated on a first come, first served basis depending on the room you have requested and its availability.
There are a total of 142 rooms available at our Telford campus.
Telford Accommodation Rent Price
For maps and directions for Telford campus checkout our interactive map

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlv-on-demand:
26 Aug 2025: .
.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/our-campus:
Welcome to the University of Wolverhampton.
Based at campuses in Wolverhampton, Walsall and Telford we offer a wide range of outstanding facilities to support your learning, whatever subject you’re studying.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/our-campus/springfield-campus:
Our new Springfield site is a £120 million project which turned a 12-acre, Grade II listed former brewery into an architecture and built environment super-campus.
Our £45 million SoABE facility is built on Europe's largest specialist Architecture and Built Environment campus and is the new home of our Architecture and Built Environment students.
And with our National Brownfield Institute also set to be built onsite, our super-campus provides a unique learning experience.
By combining industry accredited courses with cutting-edge equipment, technology and software, we’re producing graduates who are ready to enter the workforce.
You will be prepared for whatever working environment you walk into.
Find out more about our facilities below!
Here's just some of our amazing facilities and equipment!
We are one of the few universities in the UK to house multiple fully functional industrial laboratories, you can undertake practical workshops and examine the practical application and advancement of emerging materials and technologies.
As well as Smart Modelling and Material Workshops on the first floor and Model Assembly Area on the second floor.
We have ground floor laboratories facilities including:
Industry-standard software programs, including those for structural analysis, geotechnical design and analysis, transportation modelling software, or explore the potential of the building information modelling (BIM).
You’ll have access to a top floor super studio with double height ceilings, giving you views of Wolverhampton’s rich heritage and unique geographical position within the Black Country (seen by many as the birthplace of the industrial revolution).
Our SoABE Building houses the construction holodeck, a purpose-built facility for you to access the latest visualisation technologies including a ‘visualisation wall’, VR and AR headsets, omni-directional VR treadmills, and a large multi-touch table for collaborative working.
Experience the future of digital construction.
Latest equipment for inspection and testing land, material testing, and computerised soil and foundation design testing apparatus.
Including HD 3D laser scanner, ground penetrating radars and drones.
Flexible teaching spaces can accommodate a variety of study group sizes from small private study rooms up to a 125 seater lecture theatre.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/virtual-tour:
Open Day's are the best way to see our campus, meets staff and current student and get a feel for what life might be like at the University of Wolverhampton.
We know it's not always easy to get to an on-campus.
Below, we have produced a series of campus tour videos and interactive 3D models of our spaces and facilities to help you get a feel for our campuses and student life.
We also have a selection of Campus and Accommodation Tours running throughout the year that you can book onto for a date and time that suits you.
These are led by our friendly student ambassadors and you are welcome to bring up to two additional guests with you.
If you have a smartphone and a virtual reality headset (e.g.
Google Cardboard, Samsung Gear), did you know you can explore our campuses in virtual reality?
To do so, simply:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events:
Find out about the latest news, events and goings-on at the University...
Filter by:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/how-to-apply/before-you-apply:
When it comes to choosing a university course, it's important to take your time and consider a few key factors that will help you make the best decision for your future.
Here are some points to keep in mind as you explore your options:
The Course : Reflect on which subjects truly engage and inspire you within your chosen career.
Consider your strengths, passions, and potential career goals.
Exploring our range of popular courses might give you some valuable insights and inspiration.
Teaching Standards : The quality of teaching is crucial to your learning experience.
Our university has been commended by the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) for enhancing student learning opportunities in its most recent assessment.
Facilities : The environment in which you study can greatly impact your educational experience.
You can visit Open Days to ensure you see the facilities before applying.
We've invested significantly in our facilities, including the state-of-the-art Springfield Campus’s School of Architecture and the Built Environment, the Marches Centre of Excellence for Health and Social Care, our innovative Screen School, and world-class Pharmacy facilities.
Location : The location of your university can influence both your studies and your lifestyle.
An Open Day is a good opportunity to explore the City.
Our campus is centrally located in the UK, with excellent transport links to major cities like London, Manchester, Liverpool, Edinburgh, and Birmingham.
Additionally, our city ranks as the 5th most affordable for student accommodation in the UK ( studentcrowd.com, February 2024 ).
Employability : Consider the career prospects after graduation.
We’re proud that 92% of our graduates are employed or pursuing further education within 15 months of graduation ( Graduate Outcomes Survey 2024 ), reflecting the value of a degree from our institution.
Student Satisfaction : Your overall satisfaction with your university experience is vital.
We’re honored to be ranked 1st in the UK for teaching first-generation students ( Daily Mail University Rankings 2024 ), highlighting our supportive and inclusive learning environment.
You can speak to a current student and ask any burning questions you have!
Before applying to the University of Wolverhampton, ensure you choose the right course, check entry requirements, and explore accommodation options.
Use our support services and resources for a smooth application process, and if possible, join a campus tour to get a feel for university life.
The Course Finder tool helps you to look for the courses that you are interested in, whether it's at undergraduate or postgraduate level.
You can do a quick search by entering a subject, keyword, or course code to narrow down your results.
This search will list all the courses that relate to your search.
For results that relate to Postgraduate courses, you would simply use the Postgraduate search box.
Some handy tips: The search looks for both the title of your course as well as related areas, for example, 'Computing' would bring up all courses with 'computing' in the title but also others such as  those covering computer science.
Note:
Start using the Course Finder now.
Each course has specific entry requirements that indicate the level of skills and academic ability recommended for the course.
This can be found on our course pages, as shown below.
It is important to read through and understand the requirements before you send your application to make sure the course is suitable for you.
Entry requirements can also be non-academic, such as having relevant experience or a DBS (Disclosing and Barring Service) check.
You will see that some of our courses, mainly undergraduate and those where applications are made through UCAS, ask for a certain number of UCAS Tariff points for entry.
The UCAS Tariff is a useful reference table, as it allows you to see if your achievements meet the qualification requirements for a particular course where the requirement may be quoted in points.
It covers the majority of UK level 3 qualifications, including A-levels, AS-levels, and BTEC qualifications, but new qualifications are being added all the time.
If you hold a qualification that is not listed on our website, the UCAS Tariff Calculator will allow you to understand its equivalency.
For a lot of our non-professional courses, meaning those that are not accredited by an external body, if your qualifications aren’t listed or your grades fall a bit short , then don’t worry: this doesn’t mean that we wouldn’t be able to offer you a place.
We can give you guidance, and offers will be made according to your individual experience.
We are often able to offer you an alternative course if we can't accept you onto your first choice.
The University of Wolverhampton has always been a place of opportunity.
We strive to allow students, whatever their background or circumstances, to fulfill their potential and realise their career ambitions in partnership with a supportive community.
This additional information should be read alongside specific entry requirements for our courses listed on UCAS and course-specific entries on our website.
If a level 3 qualification is not listed on course entry requirements, applicants and their advisors should contact the University’s Enquiries team for further advice prior to application.
You can contact them via the blue ASK icon at the bottom right hand of this webpage.
If you need support with your application, our Gateway team is here to help at every stage.
They provide personalised guidance on everything from selecting the right course to completing your application.
Whether you have questions about entry requirements, personal statements, or the application process itself, our Gateway advisors are ready to assist.
For more detailed information and to see how the Gateway team can support you, please visit The Gateway.
Choose the University of Wolverhampton for a dynamic and supportive student experience.
We offer affordable living, a diverse and inclusive campus community, and excellent connections to major British cities.
Wolverhampton, alongside its beautiful surrounding countryside, offers an ideal setting for a vibrant and rewarding student experience.
Recently named the most affordable student city in the UK, it provides an exciting and budget-friendly urban environment.
Plus, with just a 19-minute train ride to Birmingham and under 90 minutes to Manchester and Liverpool, you'll have easy access to some of the UK's major cities.
Find out more about why Wolverhampton is so special on our Living in Wolverhampton page.
Walsall is a vibrant urban centre in the West Midlands, offering students a diverse range of experiences.
From a thriving culinary scene and cultural hubs to outdoor attractions, retail spaces, and lively nightlife, there's always something to enjoy.
With convenient public transport links, you can reach Birmingham, the UK’s second-largest city, in under 20 minutes, and Dudley in less than 45 minutes.
This makes it easy to explore nearby attractions like Dudley Zoo and the Black Country Living Museum.
Our student accommodation in Wolverhampton is not only comfortable and modern but also incredibly affordable, ranking as the 5th cheapest city in the UK for student living, according to StudentCrowd.com (February 2024).
Enjoy top-quality housing without breaking the bank, allowing you to focus on your studies and student life.
Find out more about our accomodation.
At the University of Wolverhampton, we’re proud to be the University of Opportunity .
We’re committed to providing everyone with the chance to succeed, regardless of background.
Our supportive environment, tailored career services, and extensive industry connections are designed to help you unlock your full potential.
We don’t just offer education; we offer a pathway to a brighter future, transforming lives by providing access to resources, guidance, and opportunities that pave the way for your success.
Students choose the University of Wolverhampton for our exceptional support, including academic guidance, personal wellbeing, and career development resources.
We assign academic coaches to all Level 4 and 5 students, offering tailored support throughout their journey.
From mental health services to disability support and career advice, our robust network is dedicated to your success, helping you navigate university life and achieve your goals.
Find out more about how we can support you.
Nate, a Wolverhampton graduate and founder of TNB Connect, highlights why students choose us.
His success and advocacy reflect our commitment to an inclusive, supportive environment.
Find out more about Nate and his journey.
Watch webinar recordings on every aspect of making your application.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/how-to-apply/making-your-application:
Making and Submitting your application can sometimes be a confusing process that some people may find a bit overwhelming.
There is no need to worry about the application process as it is generally quite straight forward and we have some information on hand to help and advise.
Your personal statement is a substantial and important part of your application that may distinguish you from other applicants.
Your personal statement is read thoroughly by the Admissions Unit and Admissions tutors when your application is being considered.
It is your opportunity to sell yourself and could make the difference between you being accepted or rejected.
Clear and well written - Your Personal Statement should be clear, well written, well-structured, and display good English language skills.
It should be organised into paragraphs with an introduction, middle, and end.
Do not use bullet points or informal language.
You should focus your personal statement on the course you have applied for and it should support your desire to study your chosen course.
You should explain your reasons for applying for your chosen course – why would this course suit you?
What interests you about the course?
You should demonstrate enthusiasm and commitment to the course.
If you are applying as a mature student then you could include information on why you have decided to return to study at this point and how you developed an interest in the subject.
Highlight what you have done to develop knowledge of your chosen area of study - You should detail any jobs, placements, work experience (paid or unpaid), or activities that you have undertaken to develop your interest/knowledge in the area that you have chosen to study.
This should include the nature of the experience/activities, where you were based and the amount of time you spent there.
You should also state when this experience took place as some courses only consider recent experience.
When considering the course you are applying to it is important that you identify the personal qualities you possess or have developed that will help you during the course.
This is especially important when you are applying to a course that requires particular values from the applicant (teaching, nursing, social work, paramedic science, etc).
You should ensure that you identify your personal qualities and transferable skills within your Personal Statement.
You should show you have general knowledge and insight about the subject area you will be studying.
How will your present knowledge help you?
What have you done to prepare you for studying?
Show you have carefully considered your study choice - We would be interested to know how the course relates to your future plans.
You do not have to have a definite career path planned out, just an understanding of the future prospects the subject may lead to.
If you are not sure then you can explore career options by degree subject at https://www.prospects.ac.uk/careers-advice/what-can-i-do-with-my-degree (opens in new window)
Further information can also be found at: www.ucas.com/personalstatement (opens in new window)
If you are looking to apply for entry in 2026 then the UCAS personal statement will be split into 3 sections:
Why do you want to study this course or subject?
How have your qualifications and studies helped you to prepare for this course or subject?
What else have you done to prepare outside of education, and why are these experiences useful?
You can find more detailed guidance at www.ucas.com/applying/applying-to-university/writing-your-personal-statement/the-new-personal-statement-for-2026
Once you have submitted your personal statement we will not accept amended versions unless you are applying for an alternative course through UCAS Extra , UCAS Clearing , or by contacting the University directly if you have already been offered a place.
If this is the case then you need to email a new personal statement to admissions@wlv.ac.uk ensuring you include your student number.
Your personal statement should be your own work and individual to you.
All personal statements are read thoroughly by the Admissions Unit and if similarities are spotted between your personal statement and those from other applicants, your application may be refused.
UCAS also checks personal statements and identifies those that have a high content of work from other sources (other personal statements, material from the internet, etc.).
UCAS will notify you if your personal statement has been identified in this way and they also notify the University of Wolverhampton.
If this is the case, the school or institute that you have applied to will be asked to consider your application in detail.
You may wish to inform us of the situation that has led to your personal statement being identified in this way.
You should do this by logging a Helpdesk call on the Applicant Helpdesk in e:Vision (opens in new window) .
If you are applying from overseas, your personal statement must include the following -
Previous study at the same level
If you have previously completed studies at the same or a higher level as the course you have applied for, your personal statement must clearly outline why you wish to study your course and how it will relate and add to your previous qualification or how the two qualifications combined will support your career aspirations.
Addressing these areas in your personal statement will help you to develop your answers to the questions that you may be asked as part of your pre-CAS interview.
The referee’s report is an integral and important part of the selection process, and the information given will help guide Admissions Staff in making their decisions.
An academic reference should be provided by a current or previous tutor from your most recent educational institution.
An employer's reference should be provided by your line manager at your current or previous place of work.
A school reference should be provided by your personal tutor or Head of Year at your school.
Please note: references written by friends and relatives will not be accepted.
References should be written on letter-headed paper and should clearly state:
Important: References in paper format
If you are posting a reference to the Admissions Unit, this must be on letter-headed paper.
The reference should, where possible, cover the following:
Please remember that under the Data Protection Act, the applicant can request a copy of the reference and any other personal information that we hold about them.
If the application form, including the reference, has any information missing or has any false or misleading information, the University has the right to cancel the application and withdraw any offers.
References need to be provided either on letter-headed paper, date and signed or emailed directly from an educational institution or company email address; unfortunately we cannot accept references sent from personal email accounts.
It is the applicants responsibility to arrange for a satisfactory reference to be provided to the Admissions Unit as we do not request references on applicants behalf's.
Online - references can either be uploaded to your Applicant e:Vision account www.wlv.ac.uk/evision as a pdf file if provided on letter-headed paper, dated and signed.
Email - references can be emailed directly to admissions@wlv.ac.uk if sent directly from your referee, unfortunately we are unable to accept forwarded references.
Apply through UCAS (opens in new window) for all full-time or sandwich undergraduate degree and diploma programmes.
If you wish to apply to us for direct entry into the second or final year of a programme, you will need to apply through UCAS.
Simply state on the form your preferred point of entry, and include as much information as you can about the qualifications you have that may exempt you from the earlier stages of the programme.
Please send a copy of the transcript (not the original) direct to the University, quoting your UCAS reference, and including a covering letter indicating which course you are applying for.
Transferring course
If you are changing universities or courses of study, contact your Local Authority to notify them of any changes.
Be aware that if you have previous studies that this can affect student finance.
You can apply directly to the University for most Postgraduate courses* and all Part-time courses.
Simply find the course you wish to apply for via our course finder and follow the link to 'apply directly'.
*Please note the following Postgraduate courses are an exception and must be applied for through different platforms:
International (non-EU) students can apply directly to us through our website or our network of Regional Managers and Contracted Educational Advisors (CEA), based across the world.
Visit our International web pages to find out more about how to apply.
To apply as a new user you will have to make a new account.
Your personal details will be required as well as a valid e-mail address to register.
Once you have set-up your account you will automatically receive an email giving you information regarding your application form and a breakdown of what will be needed for each stage of the process.
To apply as an existing student, you can log in using your e:Vision login details.
If you have forgotten your password, request a new one by following the link as shown above and following the on-screen instructions.
A new password will be sent to the email that you used to register with the university.
You can start searching for a course now using the Course Finder and begin your application.
UCAS Applications
If you are applying via UCAS , you will need to refer to the deadlines set by them.
Make sure you give yourself enough time to fill out your application and send it to us in plenty of time.
See the key dates for UCAS (opens in new window)
We welcome late applications, but please keep in mind that late applications will only be considered for courses that still have places available- there is no guarantee.
Direct Applications
Direct applications can be made any time prior to the course start date but we will need sufficient time to process it, get copies of relevant qualifications and certificates from you, and inform you of the outcome and the next steps.
You may find the following tips and useful information beneficial when it comes to making your application.
You can apply directly to the University for most Postgraduate, all Part-time courses and some undergraduate courses* if you are a mature applicant (anyone over the age of 21)
Simply find the course you wish to apply for via our course finder and follow the link to ' apply directly '.
Postgraduate Teacher Training for Primary and Secondary Education (PGCE) applications made through GOV.UK (opens in new window)
Subjects taught with QTS (Qualified Teacher Status)
Batchelor of Midwifery
BNurs (Hons) Adult nursing, Children's Nursing, Mental Health Nursing, Learning disability nursing
BSc (Hons) Occupational Therapy
BSc (Hons) Paramedic Science
BSc (Hons) Physiotherapy
BSc (Hons) Podiatry
BA (Hons) Social Work or MA Social Work applications made through www.ucas.com/apply
LLM Legal Practice and LLM Law Conversion applications made through LAWCABS
MPharm
If you need any additional advice and guidance on completing the application form and writing a personal statement then contact the Gateway on (01902) 321032 or email gateway@wlv.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/how-to-apply/after-you-have-applied:
Following submitting your application, here is a breakdown of the way we make our decisions, and what happens next.
We may require you to provide further information to support your application.
These might be copies of qualifications/certificates.
In this case, we will contact you with details of what we need to see.
If you were born outside the UK, or entered the UK after the age of 10, we may need to assess your tuition fee status, to class you as a home or overseas student.
If we request documentation to support your fee status assessment, we will notify you as soon as possible after receiving your application.
Some of our courses require you to attend an interview or portfolio review and depending on which course you have applied for, you could be asked to attend this either before offer or after a conditional offer.
This means you must meet certain conditions .
These may be based on achieving particular results , or non-academic conditions such as providing a satisfactory reference.
T his means that you have met all the entry requirements, and have been accepted without any further conditions.
However, there may be additional re quirements , such as a DBS check or a health declaration.
If we cannot offer you a place on your chosen course, we will always try to and find a suitable alternative that may interest you.
We will communicate this alternative offer via UCAS Hub.
Unfortunately , this means that you did not meet the minimum entry requirements for the course, and we have had to reject your application because we were also unable to find a suitable alternative for you.
UCAS applicants can accept an offer as f irm , which is your preferred choice, or insurance , which is your backup choice .
Direct applicants only need to confirm their intention to take up a place via e:Vision.
If you accept your conditional offer , this means you must meet the conditions before you get onto the course.
For example, if one of the conditions is that you must provide a reference or proof of qualifications, then you will need to send this to us before we can fully offer you a place on the course you have applied for.
If you have applied for an undergraduate degree or postgraduate degree course at the University of Wolverhampton and are unsuccessful in gaining a place on your preferred course, we will always endeavor to make you an alternative offer for another suitable course.
You must respond to this offer accordingly as explained under 'Accepting your offer' (see above).
Changing your alternative offer
Whilst we make every effort to choose an appropriate alternative offer course that we believe you will enjoy, we understand that we may not always get this right.
If you are not fully satisfied with the course that is offered to you, we can consider changing your offer to another course, providing you meet the entry requirements and there are places available.
To do this, register for a callback and our friendly team of staff will contact you to advise further.
Alternatively, contact our admissions department by logging a helpdesk call on your e:Vision account stating your full name, student number, and the course you would like to be considered for.
Please note you cannot request to change your offer to the course you had originally applied for.
Find out more about alternative offers
If you want to defer your place until the next course intake , then you will need to formally request this.
You can do this by contacting our Admissions team, by logging a helpdesk call on your e:Vision account stating your full name and student number .
Please note that there are some courses that we a re unable to defer offers for .
If you no longer wish to continue with your application , then we ask that you officially confirm this via your e:Vision account by requesting to withdraw.
For UCAS applications, UCAS Extra allows you to make an extra choice on top of the five you are allowed.
For direct applications, there is no limit to how many courses you can apply for.
Please note you cannot apply for the same course, if you have been unsuccessful, in the same academic year.
Clearing allows students who haven't got the grades asked for to try for another course or another institution.
Each August our Clearing site lists the courses where we have places available.
Our Conversion Team works to support you from application through to enrolment.
Once you become an applicant to the University you will have the opportunity to get in touch with them, attend applicant events, and much more.
Find out more:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/funding-costs-fees-and-support:
We understand that going to University is a significant investment in your future.
Here are a range of financial options available if you are considering studying with us.
Starting your course in September and haven’t applied for funding yet?
Don't worry, you still have time; but it’s vital that you apply early as possible.
You do not need to have a confirmed place to apply as it is very easy to log back onto your student finance account and make any changes if you need to.
It’s important your funding is in place so you can start your academic career without any financial worries.
If you are starting this academic year then you still need to apply now to ensure that your student finance is in place ready for the start of term.
For full time undergraduate students there are a range of financial options available if you’re considering studying with us – including tuition fee and maintenance loans , scholarships and bursaries .
The Student Loan Company’s student finance calculator is a useful tool to see how much you could receive.
Applications through Student Finance England for full-time undergraduate courses in the 25/26 academic year are open now.
Student Finance Wales, Student Finance Northern Ireland and Student Awards Agency Scotland applications are also open.
You should apply based where you currently live rather than where you are looking to study.
Applications for part time and postgraduate funding are also open now for the 25/26 academic year.
Visit student finance on the gov.uk website (opens in new window) to find out more about the application processes and eligibility criteria.
You or your parents/guardian/partner may be asked to provide evidence to support your funding application, so it’s important to check your emails and online account to ensure this is provided promptly.
There are no age limits on eligibility for tuition fee loans and means-tested maintenance loans for undergraduate study, so mature students can apply – provided you're studying for your first degree.
If you have any questions contact our Gateway team at: gateway@wlv.ac.uk.
If you are concerned about the cost of living and managing your money while you are at University, then more information on budgeting and useful financial tips for students can be found at funding and budgeting .
A parents' guide to Student Finance can be found at Parents' Guide .
Get a clear picture of how much coming to University might cost and what help is available
How much you pay is determined by which course you are studying, the level (undergraduate, postgraduate), your mode of attendance (full-time or part-time) and your fee status (UK/Home, International, EU).
It is important to carefully consider the financial implications of studying at university.
In additional to paying tuition fees, you will need to cover your living expenses, including accommodation , food, heating, travel, books and IT equipment.
More information can be found at Understanding Student Living Costs (opens in new window).
No matter how you are being funded, whether through Student Finance (opens in new window) (UK/Home students) or paying for it yourself, working out how much you will need to cover basic costs is a good place to start.
Discover the support you may be eligible for from Student Finance England (opens in new window) or from the University depending on your mode of study and meeting the eligibility criteria.
For information on funding for Wales go to Student Finance Wales (opens in new window), for Scotland go to Student Awards Agency Scotland (opens in new window) and for Northern Ireland go to Student Finance NI (opens in new window).
Types of support available to UK 'Home' students includes the following:
After you've applied for your funding
Your maintenance loan will not be paid to you until the first day of term and only once you have fully enrolled.
More information can be found at www.wlv.ac.uk/apply/funding-costs-fees-and-support/financial-support/ive-not-received-my-funding-yet-what-do-i-do
All students have to pay their tuition fees, but eligible undergraduate UK students can apply for a loan to cover the cost of the fees.
If you have applied for the tuition fee loan and received your notification letter from SFE saying that you are getting the tuition fee loan then you don’t need to do anything further, the fee will be paid directly to the University.
The loan is repayable once you have left University and are earning more than £27,295 per year (for students who started before August 2023) or £25,000 for students starting from 1st September 2023.
More information on student loans can be found at www.gov.uk/repaying-your-student-loan (opens in new window).
If you are a postgraduate student and have applied for the Masters Loan then this is paid directly to you and you will need to set up a direct debit to pay the fees to the University in 3 instalments.
You can do this at www.wlv.ac.uk/howtopay .
You can set up a direct debit to pay in 3 instalments: November, January and April, or you pay the full amount online or by credit/debit card in person.
More information on how to pay can be found www.wlv.ac.uk/howtopay .
More information can be found at www.wlv.ac.uk/apply/funding-costs-fees-and-support/fees-and-costs/proof-of-fees-support-or-sponsorship .
More information on what you need to do can be found at www.wlv.ac.uk/apply/funding-costs-fees-and-support/how-to-pay/trouble-paying.
You need to complete a Change of Circumstance form which can be found by logging in to your SFE account.
You need to do this as soon as you change your University or course.
More information can be found at https://www.gov.uk/apply-for-student-finance/change-an-application?step-by-step (opens in new window).
Once you have enrolled then you can no longer make the change yourself and so will need to contact the University to send a Change of Circumstance Form to SFE.
You can request this by logging an e:vision helpdesk query.
You don’t.
We will automatically receive this information from Student Finance England electronically so don’t need a paper copy.
You can apply for the hardship fund once you have enrolled and are attending.
It normally opens in October.
This is designed to help students who find themselves in genuine financial hardship .
Applications are means tested so we cannot guarantee awards.
However, if you are successful you will not have to repay any of it.
For further details visit: www.wlv.ac.uk/fund .
More information on the Disabled Student Allowance and the form you need to complete can be found at www.gov.uk/student-finance/extra-help (opens in new window).
More information on help available to students with disabilities at the University can be found at www.wlv.ac.uk/student-life .
If you are a full time undergraduate student and have dependent children you can apply for a Parent Learning Allowance and the Childcare Grant to help with childcare costs, but these are very tightly means-tested against income.
The Childcare Grant is paid directly to the childcare provider.
More information can be found at www.gov.uk/student-finance/extra-help (opens in new window).
The childcare grant will cover up to a maximum of 85% of your childcare fees but you will still need to pay the additional 15% yourself.
The Dennis Turner Hardship Fund ( www.wlv.ac.uk/fund ) can help with additional financial support towards this 15% cost.
All you will need to provide is a copy of your childcare grant letter, confirmation of full funding (both of which can be downloaded from your online account with Student Finance) and evidence of current childcare costs.
For more information including eligibility criteria and how to apply go to www.wlv.ac.uk/fund and see the Childcare Support tab under Specific bursaries available .
If you are not in receipt of the childcare grant you may still be able to get some support with any childcare costs via an application to the Dennis Turner Hardship Fund itself.
There is no guarantee of an award however all applications will be considered.
England: www.gov.uk/studentfinance (opens in new window), phone 0300 100 0607
wlv.ac.uk/apply/funding-costs-fees-and-support/financial-support/dennis-turner-hardship-fund/sfe-guidance
Wales: www.studentfinancewales.co.uk (opens in new window)
Scotland: www.saas.gov.uk (opens in new window)
Northern Ireland: www.studentfinanceni.co.uk (opens in new window)
If you are a full time student you can request a Council Tax Exemption letter through e:vision once you have enrolled on the course.
https://smsweb.wlv.ac.uk/urd/sits.urd/run/siw_lgn
There should be a series of buttons that look something like the below where you will see the Official Letters button:
You will see various choices, just choose the appropriate one and follow the instructions.
If you are a current student, ASK@WLV is now the first point of contact for all student queries.
To contact them either log a helpcall via the ASK@WLV tab on your e:Vision, pop into one of the ASK@WLV hubs, if on campus, or ring them on 01902 518518.
Learn more: www.wlv.ac.uk/ask .
You can also contact the Students’ Union Advice and Support Centre www.wolvesunion.org/advice/ .
More details on useful contacts can be found at www.wlv.ac.uk/apply/funding-costs-fees-and-support/contacts
If you are an applicant or enquirer from the UK then you can contact the Gateway team on 01902 32 1032, or email gateway@wlv.ac.uk .
We would encourage all students who are facing additional financial hardship to seek further support from such resources as the Students’ Union’s Advice and Representation Centre (ARC) to speak with a Student Money Advisor (please complete their enquiry form at https://www.wolvesunion.org/advice/enquiry/ ) or especially the Citizen’s Advice Bureau (CAB) who can offer additional financial advice.
You can also contact the Student Financial Support Team by emailing money@wlv.ac.uk ( www.wlv.ac.uk/fund )
More useful information can also be found at Funding and budgeting page ( www.wlv.ac.uk/budgeting ).
Useful tips can also be found at:
moneysavingexpert.com/students (opens in new window)
which.co.uk/money/university-and-student-finance (opens in new window)
ucas.com/money (opens in new window)
gov.uk/guidance/cost-of-living-student-finance-support (opens in new window)
Before you have applied for your funding
You can apply online or by completing a paper application form.
Both are available at www.gov.uk/studentfinance (opens in new window) .
Online is recommended where possible as it is much quicker.
Students who are UK residents and have not been to University before are usually eligible for financial support.
More information on regulations and eligibility criteria can be found at www.gov.uk/student-finance/who-qualifies (opens in new window) .
If you are unsure whether you qualify or not then you can contact the Gateway to discuss your circumstances.
Contact details can be found at www.wlv.ac.uk/gateway .
For undergraduate students there are means-tested loans to help pay for living costs plus additional grants for students with dependents or a disability.
A finance calculator which enables you to enter your details and receive an estimate of your entitlement can be found at www.gov.uk/student-finance-calculator .
For postgraduate students there is a single loan to use towards fees and living costs.
More information on the loan for Master's courses can be found at www.gov.uk/masters-loan for PhD and Professional Doctorate courses go to www.gov.uk/doctoral-loan .
No, you do not have to have a place at University in order to apply for funding.
You can put down the University and course you are hoping to do and then notify Student Finance England at a later date if you go to a different University or undertake a different course.
If you haven’t already applied for funding then you should do so as early as possible.
The application process normally opens in March for the next academic year.
Go to www.gov.uk/apply-for-student-finance for more details.
You can still apply for your funding and should complete the online application as soon as possible at www.gov.uk/student-finance/apply (opens in new window) .
Your funding may be delayed at the start of the course but it won’t affect your eligibility.
For undergraduate students financial support is means-tested depending on your family’s financial circumstances.
A finance calculator which enables you to enter your details and receive an estimate of your entitlement can be found at www.gov.uk/student-finance-calculator (opens in new window) .
Yes.
Funding for your second and third years can be obtained by completing the online application at www.gov.uk/studentfinance (opens in new window) .
It is much quicker in subsequent years as you do not have to complete all the sections each year.
If you are over 25, have supported yourself (i.e.
worked full time) for at least 3 years, are responsible for a child of your own, or are married then you should be classed as independent of your parents.
Full details on eligibility can be found at www.gov.uk/student-finance/who-qualifies (opens in new window) .
If you are care experienced or are estranged from your parents then more information on support available can be found at www.wlv.ac.uk/care .
If you are not sure whether you would be classed as independent, or need advice on what evidence you need to provide, then contact the Gateway team www.wlv.ac.uk/gateway .
Undergraduate part time students can apply for a tuition fee loan and (for those on a degree course) a means tested maintenance loan.
For more information and to apply go to www.gov.uk/student-finance/parttime-students (opens in new window) .
The application process normally opens in May.
Part time students on a Master's course can apply for the same Master's Loan as full time, but the payments are spread out over the 2 years of the course.
More information can be found at www.gov.uk/masters-loan (opens in new window) .
To apply for the tuition fee loan and maintenance loan you need to complete the standard undergraduate application form that can be found at www.gov.uk/studentfinance (opens in new window) .
To apply for the NHS Training Grant go to www.nhsbsa.nhs.uk/nhs-learning-support-fund/training-grant (opens in new window) .
You need to have your standard student finance in place before you can apply for the NHS funding.
If you are studying a pre-registration Masters course that leads to NHS professional registration then you need to apply for the undergraduate funding and not the Masters Loan.
If you are Care Experienced then you need to provide evidence from your Local Authority so that you can be assessed for additional support.
More information on the support offered by the University can be found at www.wlv.ac.uk/care.
More information on the evidence you need to send to Student Finance England can be found at www.thestudentroom.co.uk/student-finance/student-finance-for-care-leavers .
Additional information and advice can be found at: The National Network for the Education of Care Leavers www.nnecl.org/
If you are Estranged from your parents, and have no meaningful contact with them, then you can be assessed as independent.
More information on the support offered by the University can be found at www.wlv.ac.uk/care .
You need to complete an estrangement form and sent it to SFE with appropriate evidence.
More information can be found at www.sfengland.slc.co.uk/estrangement/
Additional information and advice can be found at: Financial support for students not supported by their parents (estranged) | UCAS .
If you have lived in the UK for at least 3 years then you can apply for full support from the UK Government (Tuition Fee loan and Maintenance Loan).
If you have not lived in the UK for 3 years prior to enrolling on the course then you can apply for the Tuition Fee loan only.
More information can be found at www.gov.uk/guidance/studying-in-the-uk-guidance-for-eu-students (opens in new window) .
If you have settled status and have lived in the UK for more than 3 years then you can apply for a loan to cover the cost of fees (Tuition Fee loan) from the UK Government and help with living costs (Maintenance Loan).
If you have pre-settled status and have lived in the UK for more than 3 years then you can apply for the Tuition Fee loan but not the Maintenance Loan.
If you do not have settled or pre-settled status then you are not normally eligible for support from the UK Government and are likely to be classed as an International Student.
You can find detailed guidance on the Government rules regarding 'home' or 'international' fee status at www.ukcisa.org.uk/Information--Advice/Fees-and-Money/England-HE-fee-status .
International students cannot apply for standard funding from the UK Government.
More information for International students can be found at www.ukcisa.org.uk (opens in new window) .
More information on support from the University can be found at www.wlv.ac.uk/international/international-scholarships .
International queries should be referred to internationaladmissions@wlv.ac.uk .
Student Finance England aim to complete the processing of forms in 4 - 6 weeks but it may take longer in some circumstances.
Please ensure that you regularly check your SFE/SFW/SFNI or SAAS account to see if they are waiting for any additional evidence from you.
You normally are classed as being 'in repayment' from the April after you have left University.
However repayments only start once you are earning above the threshold.
More information can be found at www.gov.uk/repaying-your-student-loan/which-repayment-plan-you-are-on (opens in new window)
Our Education Guidance Advisors offer friendly and professional advice to prospective students .
They have a huge amount of experience answering enquiries on all aspects of coming to University including fees and finances, previous study rules and eligibility criteria.
Call us on Tel: 01902 321032

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/funding-costs-fees-and-support/financial-support/scholarships:
Click on the arrows to scroll through our scholarships to see if you are eligible

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/funding-costs-fees-and-support/fees-and-costs:
Type of course
Tuition fee per year
The normal maximum fee for all undergraduate degree courses e.g.(BSc/BA/BEng/BEd/LLB/BNurs)
£9,535
HNC/HND and Foundation degree courses taught at this University
University of Wolverhampton courses taught at partner colleges
£9,535 maximum
Sandwich Year
£1,905
Accelerated degree – 2 years at 180 credits per year
£11,440
PGCE
Pre-registration postgraduate NHS healthcare courses
Part-time study (for courses taught at the University)
£4,768 (for 60 credits)
£1,589 per 20 credit module
The fees listed apply to the majority of courses.
However there can be variations so you may need to confirm the fees listed on the relevant course page, please check in our course finder .
Contact details if you want to discuss the fees or financial support in more detail can be found at Useful Contacts
Please note: The tuition fees charged may be subject to an inflationary increase in subsequent years.
Want to know more?
There are three standard tiers for postgraduate courses, with the majority of courses falling into one of these bands.
NHS CPD modules and some externally-funded courses may also fall outside these price bands.
To confirm the exact fee for your chosen course, please check in our course finder .
Tuition fees for 'Home' students studying a taught postgraduate course during 2025/26
Type of postgraduate course
Fee (180 credits)
Tier 1 (standard courses)
£9,088
Tier 2 (standard courses)
£10,490
Tier 3 (standard courses)
£12,203
Tier 1 (Full-time 200 Credit Taught Masters with Professional Practice)
£10,098
Tier 2 (Full-time 200 Credit Taught Masters with Professional Practice)
£11,656
Tier 3 (Full-time 200 Credit Taught Masters with Professional Practice)
£13,559
MA Social Work (for 2 year course - 180 Credits)
£11,908
Pre-registration NHS Healthcare courses
M.Arch (Architecture)
NB: The tuition fee charged in subsequent years will be subject to an annual inflationary increase.
The fees shown are for a full course or 180 or 200 credits - the equivalent of a full-time master's.
Courses that fall below this credit amount, such as full-time postgraduate certificates and diplomas will be charged on a pro rata basis.
Students on a 3 year taught/professional doctorate study 540 credits.
Fees will be charged at 180 credits per year full-time within the tiered fee structure above.
Postgraduate 'Home' part-time taught fees are charged pro rata based on the rates given above.
For example a tier 1 course studied over 2 years will cost £4,544 for 90 credits or £3,029 for 60 credits if studied over 3 years.
Please note: fees in subsequent years may be subject to an inflationary increase.
How many credits will I study on my course?
University of Wolverhampton UK 'home' students and alumni can enjoy a 20% discount deducted from the total fee of a taught postgraduate on campus programme (if their undergraduate degree was completed at the University).
For online courses the discount is 10%.
This should automatically be applied at enrolment as long as they keep the same student number.
For more information on paying fees in instalments see our How to Pay webpage.
The discount applies to most Master's degrees, postgraduate certificates and postgraduate diplomas.
However, PGCE, Master's courses leading to Nursing and Allied Health Professions registration, M.Arch, CIM qualifications, standalone modules and Integrated Master's awards are not eligible.
See full terms and conditions of the postgraduate loyalty discount .
You also need to...
View the full tuition fee booklet for the 2024/25 academic year here: Tuition Fee Booklet 2024-25
Tuition Fee Booklet for 2025-26 Academic Year: TBC
Call us on Tel: 01902 321032 or email gateway@wlv.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/funding-costs-fees-and-support/how-to-pay:
If you're a full-time home undergraduate student and have applied for a Student Loan to cover the full cost of your fees, the payment will be paid directly to the University.
Find out more at: undergraduate financial support .
If you are personally liable for the whole or part of your fees, the payment methods are as follows:
If you are paying the fees to the University yourself, then you can pay by instalments - for no extra charge.
Instalment payments are made via a bank Direct Debit If you choose to pay by Direct Debit you can now pay in three equal instalments.
Please contact the Finance Department by emailing incomesection@wlv.ac.uk to discuss instalment options.
The instalment dates for the academic year 2025/26 are:
* NB: all the above are subject to confirmation
Apply for a Direct Debit online or email incomesection@wlv.ac.uk
The Direct Debit must be drawn on a UK bank or building society.
Failure to pay instalments on the due dates will result in your entitlement to pay by instalments being withdrawn and the balance of fees outstanding becoming due immediately.
This method of payment is only available to students if your course lasts at least a year, and where the tuition fee you are expected to pay personally exceeds £200.
If you have opted to pay by Direct Debit and you change the number of modules you are studying, your Direct Debit mandate will not be automatically amended.
Please contact the Finance Department/ Income Section by e mail on incomesection@wlv.ac.uk
See more details on how to pay online .
This fast and reliable service allows you to pay in your local currency via bank transfer or by using a wide range of local online payment options including Alipay, UnionPay and more, without incurring any transaction charges.
Gain peace of mind that your payment will arrive in full with our preferred payment service.
Why choose Convera:
International students can pay fees with Convera .
This is recommended for payment of deposits to ensure that your unconditional offer is despatched promptly.
Please note that you cannot make a payment via Convera if you are an applicant/student from the areas/countries below:
The University is committed to providing students with a transparent fee structure with no hidden course costs.
More information can be found at How we calculate your course fees .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/how-to-apply/the-gateway:
If you are a UK 'home' enquirer, and are looking to study at the University of Wolverhampton, we are here for all your pre-entry advice and guidance needs, from UCAS and direct applications to funding queries and much more.
What can we do to help you?
Deciding to come to university is a big decision and we offer a wide range of courses across our faculties at both undergraduate and postgraduate level.
Contact us for advice and guidance and to discuss your options on:
Choosing the right course for your future development and/or career .
What qualifications you need to apply to University.
What funding and financial support you are eligible for.
Whether full-time or part-time study would be your best option.
How to apply and when.
How to write an effective personal statement .
The needs of mature students and those who have been out of education for a while.
Before you start with us, we can advise you about the different sources of financial support which you may be entitled to (and can help you complete application forms where necessary).
Make an appointment with us to discuss:
See our money matters and scholarships pages for more information.
To ask a question, or make an appointment with an Education Guidance Adviser, please telephone 01902 321032 or email gateway@wlv.ac.uk .
Appointments are offered by phone, Zoom or Teams or in person at the George building.
Address for in person appointments is:  MG (The George) City Campus South on the corner of Wulfruna Street (WV1 1LY).
What 3 Words location: ///driver.vibe.deep.
To find us see maps and directions .‌
Please note that if you are an international enquirer then you can find more information on support available at www.wlv.ac.uk/international .
If you would like to request an appointment please complete the form Gateway appointment request form and you will receive a call back to arrange a convenient day and time.
The University runs regular events for people looking find out more about studying at Higher Education including events targeted specifically at mature learners.
For more information on when the next event is running contact the Gateway Team or go to Events .
If you are applying for a full time undergraduate course (Bachelor degree, HND or Foundation degree) then you need to apply through UCAS at www.ucas.com (opens in new window) even if you are a mature student.
If you are applying for part time study or for a postgraduate course (Masters, PG Diploma or PG Certificate) then you apply directly to the University by clicking on the ‘apply now’ button on the course page.
If you need help with completing your application form then contact the Gateway.
To avoid being a ‘late’ applicant you will need to submit your application by the 26th January.
Some courses will become full after this date, but many will still have places so check on the website or contact the Gateway to see whether the course you are interested in is still open.
The normal UCAS application process closes on 30 th June, after that date you will need to apply through ‘Clearing’.
For further information, please visit www.ucas.com (opens in new window) .
Personal statements should be a persuasive piece of work that encourages the reader to read on.
The reader in this case is the admissions tutor for the course that you are applying for, and your personal statement should convince them why they should choose you.
The general rule is to state which course you are applying for and give your reasons for choosing that course.
Demonstrate that you have the personal qualities that will assist you with the course.
Give examples of any work experience that you have, paid or unpaid.
Display a knowledge of the course that you are applying for.
Draft and redraft your personal statement and get teachers, advisers and family members to read it through.
Finally, a personal statement littered with spelling and grammatical errors never leaves a good impression and you can’t always rely on spellchecker.
For further information please visit www.wlv.ac.uk/apply/how-to-apply/making-your-application or www.ucas.com/ucas/undergraduate/getting-started/when-apply/how-write-ucas-undergraduate-personal-statement (opens in new window) .
The University accepts a range of level 3 qualifications not just A levels.
For more information on courses which accrue UCAS tariff points and so will be considered for most courses go to www.ucas.com/tariff (opens in new window) .
For some professional courses you do need to meet the entry requirements listed on the course page, for other courses the academic staff can take into account professional qualifications or significant relevant work experience when deciding whether to offer you a place.
You can come along to an Open Day and talk to the tutors to see whether you would be considered (visit www.wlv.ac.uk/opendays for dates) or you can contact the Gateway for further advice.
If you do not have the skills and knowledge to go directly onto a degree course you may be offered a Foundation Year course which will prepare you for studying at University.
More information on support for mature learners applying to University can be found at www.wlv.ac.uk/apply/how-to-apply/guidance-for-mature-applicants .
You can apply for the standard tuition fee loan and maintenance loan plus you can apply for a Parents’ Learning Allowance and a Childcare Grant (if you need to use paid childcare to enable you to attend University).
You should still be eligible for Child Tax Credits and Child Benefit and you will be reassessed for Housing Benefit or Universal Credit.
For more information see www.gov.uk/student-finance/extra-help (opens in new window) .
If you would like to discuss sources of funding and eligibility criteria in more detail then contact the Gateway.
For most full time academic courses you will be in a formal teaching setting (e.g.
lectures, tutorials, workshops, lab classes) for about 12-16 hours per week.
In addition to this you will be expected to spend 20 – 30 hours a week doing research, background reading, writing assignments etc.
Some professional courses such as teaching, nursing, allied health professions courses and social work will have full time placements as part of the course which you will be expected to attend for 35-40 hours per week.
For part time courses you will normally be in attendance for 6-8 hours per week.
If you would like to discuss the course requirements in more detail then come along to an Open Day to talk to the academic staff (visit www.wlv.ac.uk/opendays for dates).
Deciding which course to study will depend on whether you have a clear career goal.
The Gateway can help you to explore different career options in relation to your interest, skills and experience.
If you have a particular interest in a subject, then we can discuss where courses can lead to in relation to graduate careers.
To arrange an appointment with an Education guidance Adviser, please contact the Gateway.
You may also like to come along to a University Open Day so that you can chat to the academic staff about the courses we offer.
To find out more go to www.wlv.ac.uk/opendays .
Full time undergraduate students can apply for a Childcare Grant towards the cost of childcare, but this is very tightly means-tested against income.
If you are a single parent then you should receive up to 85% of your childcare costs.
If you have a partner who works full time then you are unlikely to receive the Childcare Grant.
For more information go to www.gov.uk/childcare-grant (opens in new window) or contact the Gateway.
Full time students can apply for a maintenance loan to help with their living costs.
The exact amount you get will depend on your household income (normally how much your parents or partner earn).
It does not matter how much you earned previously as this is not taken into account.
You can also work part time alongside your course without this affecting your maintenance loan.
You can get an estimate of your entitlement by using the finance calculator at www.gov.uk/student-finance-calculator (opens in new window) .
All eligible students can apply for a tuition fee loan and a maintenance (living costs) loan.
If you want to talk to an adviser about your specific circumstances then contact the Gateway.
Students with a disability can apply for the Disabled Students' Allowance (DSA) for assistance with extra costs directly related to their disability.
The amount you receive is dependent on your needs and not your household income.
More information on the DSA and the form you need to complete can be found at www.gov.uk/disabled-students-allowances-dsas (opens in new window) .
It is important to declare your disability on your UCAS form, so the University is aware of your needs.
If you need to discuss this in more detail then contact the Student Support and Wellbeing Team, see www.wlv.ac.uk/student-life for contact details.
More information on support can be found out www.wlv.ac.uk/current-students/student-support/student-support-and-wellbeing-ssw/advice-for-students-with-disabilities--splds/i-am-applying-to-university .
Please see the Gateway Statement of Service , this highlights what you can expect from our service.
"Staff were very helpful and polite.
Warm welcome and friendly atmosphere.
Happy with the information I was given today and feel comfortable returning in the future."
"Thank you so much for getting back to me.
The information you provided is very useful, and will hopefully help my son make a decision on the Policing and Intelligence course at Wolverhampton."
"I wanted to thank you again for your previous help and time.
I went to the open evening this evening and when I got home I received an offer!
Which is amazing!"
"I was feeling stressed and thought there was no pathway to the career I wanted to do.
You've taken the stress away and I feel I have hope.
The information you have given me is more than I was expecting.
Thank you."
"Adviser went above and beyond today, helping me work out my funding options.
They phoned student finance, admissions and various people to give me the best advice and helped with my student finance application.
Many thanks; I will definitely come again if I need help.
Fantastic staff!"
"Really helpful - excellent service, able to answer my questions and support me.
"Thank you so much for your time today I feel more confident moving forward"
"Thank  you so much for your feedback this morning and also for all of your help last week.
I really appreciate it."

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/parent-and-carer-hub:
Welcome to our Parent and Carer Hub at the University of Wolverhampton.
We know that sending a loved one to university can be a daunting experience.
Here, we provide valuable resources and support tailored to parents and carers navigating the university journey.
Explore our hub to find helpful information, guidance, and community connections.
Here, we give you an overview of how the application process works at the University of Wolverhampton
Download our FREE personal statement guide to help your child craft a winning application
Tailored help and support on how to nail interviews and prepare portfolios for each subject area.
Here are some tips, tricks, and advice to help your child with their revision.
Exam season can be a stressful time for everyone.
We're shared some information to help ease the nerves.
With accommodation starting at just £94 per week, find out more about the types of living, locations and how to apply.
Get a clear picture of how much coming to University might cost and what help is available.
We have made accessing help and support at University easy and stress-free.
Find out more about the help and support available for students who are also parents.
Take a student-led virtual tour around our Wolverhampton City, Springfield, Walsall and Telford Campuses.
From our newly renovated Students' Union to life beyond campus, Wolverhampton is an exciting place to be.
The Careers and Enterprise team are on hand to help advise on career options, skills and entrepreneurial advice.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/research:
From pioneering research into brain tumours to seeking sustainable solutions, our research community's discoveries are having a positive impact on people around the world.
All of our academic Schools and Institutes have areas of research strength, overseen by our established Research Centres , many of which work closely with industry on large-scale projects.
In the most recent Research Excellence Framework exercise, the University achieved its best ever results.
In REF2021 the University of Wolverhampton has significantly grown its research and submitted 4 new subject areas and 75% more staff than in REF2014.
The results show that more than half of our research is judged as internationally excellent (3*) and world-leading (4*).
Sixteen subject areas submitted had elements of world-leading research, amongst which featured research on changing perceptions of the Black Country, eliminating gender and race discrimination and improving health outcomes for all.
The Festival of Research and Innovation is designed to celebrate the diverse and ground breaking work being done by our talented researchers and academics.
This exciting three-day event showcased the exceptional research, knowledge exchange and public engagement conducted across all faculties and the wider University highlighting our commitment to innovation, creativity, academic excellence and public and community engagement.
Do you have an enquiry?
Our Research Team are here to help.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/research/about-our-research:
At the University of Wolverhampton, we are passionate about making a positive impact on our students, our local community and beyond.
Through collaboration and multi-disciplinary projects, our research contributes to public debate, creates solutions to local, national and global challenges, and preserves and promotes cultural works of international significance.
By advancing knowledge, and bringing together excellence and innovation, we challenge perceptions and seek to change the world for the better.
Visit our impact pages , Research News stories, or our Research Matters publication for more information.
As the University of Opportunity, we are fully committed to promoting and enabling equality of opportunity and demonstrating inclusivity for all our staff and students.
Part of this commitment is to ensure we have a Gender Equality Plan (GEP) for the institution, which can be found here .
The University of Wolverhampton’s GEP aligns with the mandatory and recommended requirements of the Horizon Europe programme GEP.
Our REF2021 submission was not only the largest but also the most inclusive submission we made to date.
This was recognised by the assessors who commented on our commitment to, and progress with, equality, diversity and inclusion.
Across the University, there is a growing number of dedicated Research Centres that cover a variety of research topics - ranging from designing for people with dementia, to new discoveries in diabetes.
Working with commercial and civil society partners, as well as producing first-class research outputs, they bring together scholars in a programme of research projects, conferences/seminars, and knowledge exchanges.
Visit the Research Centres webpage for more information.
Research Services advises, guides and supports research strategic and operational priorities and activities of academic staff with Significant Responsibility for Research within the University’s Faculties and Institutes across the range of their business and the academic mission of the University:
Our public lectures give University and visiting speakers the chance to talk about their research to staff, students and members of the public.
With free entry, they provide the perfect opportunity to discuss intriguing and topical matters with the speaker and other members of the audience.
Recent high profile lectures have covered subjects as wide-ranging as the resurgence of the far right, sport psychology, Brexit, turning plastic waste into usable materials, terrorism in the twenty-first century and our annual , which in 2018 gave the stage to guest speaker Henri Obstfeld who shared his testimony as a Holocaust survivor.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/research/research-centres:
Our research encompasses a broad range of disciplines, focusing on aspects of life that affect us all.
Over the last 20 years, we have invested heavily in growing our research activity and, as a result, have established Research Centres that are at the heart of our research strategy.
As key generators of research enquiry and much of our outputs, they help to create an environment where scholars, students and our research collaborators have the freedom to explore ideas and make an impact through world-leading research.
All of our academic schools have areas of research strength, overseen by our established Research Centres, many of which work closely with industry on large-scale projects.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/research/research-policies-procedures--guidelines:
The University of Wolverhampton is committed to achieving excellence in research and scholarship.
The pursuit of excellent research and the fulfilment of our responsibilities to participants in research, research users and the wider community require the maintenance of the highest standards of integrity and ethics.
These pages provide guidance for researchers on and links to University policies procedures and guidelines addressing issues of research integrity, responsible research, research ethics and general matters of good research practice.
Research Integrity & Ethics
Code of Good Research Practice University Ethics Policy Ethics Guidance ( www.wlv.ac.uk/ethics ) The Research Policy Unit (RPU) Research Integrity Transparency Guidance Speak Up Policy Institutional Sponsorship Policy - Health & Social Care Research Institutional Sponsorship application process
Academic Authorship Policy Publishing and Sharing Research Academic Image Integrity – Appropriate Image Manipulation in Research Publishing
Research Misconduct Guidance & Procedures Policy for Use of Human Tissue for Research Policy on Animal-Based Research
Open Research
Open Research Statement Open Access Publications Policy Research Data Management Research Data Management Policy Concordat on Open Research Data
Trusted Research
Trusted Research Guidance NSI Act (National Security and Investment Act) Dual Use Export Controls & Commercial Contracts The Nagoya Protocol on Access & Benefit Sharing Material Transfer Agreements (MTAs)
GDPR & Research
GDPR & Research GDPR details for researchers Data Protection Policy Data Breach Incident Management Policy & Guidance Records Retention Schedule
Responsible Research
Copyright Corporate Regulations & Policies Gender Equality Action Plans Athena Swan Charter Race Equality Charter Intellectual Property Policy Freedom of Information Policy Knowledge Transfer Partnerships Risk Assessment Policy
Research Governance
Research & Innovation Governance Committee Terms of Reference 2024-25
Research Students
The Doctoral College Research Forms Graduate Route Visa (work visa option after Graduation) Research Studentship Policy Policy on Remote Viva Voce Examinations Policy on Research Support Fees for PG Research Students
Research Degree Regulations & Frameworks
Research Degree Regulations 2023/24 Professional Doctorate Framework
Research Excellence
Research Excellence Framework (REF) Elements Elements Usage Policy REF 2021 Open Access Policy Impact@Wolverhampton ORCiD Research Indicators (Metrics) Policy Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) Concordat for Engaging the Public with Research National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement (NCCPE)
Funding
Bidding Support Team Financial Regulations
UK Initiatives Relevant to Staff Engaged in Research
Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers Vitae Membership Culture, Employment and Development in Academic Research Survey (CEDARS) UK Professional Standards Framework (PSF) - KUDOS
Training & Development
Researcher Development Early Researcher Award Scheme (ERAS) Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF) Vitae RDF Planner Library Support for Researchers
The information on this webpage was last updated on 14 April 2025, by Jill Morgan, Senior Officer Governance & Integrity, Research & Enterprise Directorate (RED) ( j.morgan4@wlv.ac.uk )

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/research/the-doctoral-college:
The Doctoral College has now closed.
If you have a query related to a Research Degree programme, please contact the Head of Doctoral Studies in the relevant Faculty:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/research/research-services:
Research Services within the Research Policy Unit Directorate provides an integrated and high-quality suite of services.
Research Services advises, guides and supports research strategic and operational priorities and activities of academic staff with Significant Responsibility for Research within the University’s Faculties and Institutes across the range of their business and the academic mission of the University.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/research/research-centres/access-our-expertise:
The University of Wolverhampton has a vibrant community of staff engaged in teaching, business engagement, and research growth, in addition to a number of externally-funded projects.
Our researchers are available to assist with your business or project.
This page will enable you to find our academics and view their profiles.
If you are looking for an academic to comment or contribute on a news story, film or report, please see our experts guide .
Researchers within the Centre for Art, Design, Research and Experimentation are investigating the the effect of art and design on society through artistic practices.
Areas of expertise include:
Researchers within the Centre for Transnational and Transcultural Research bring together a number of disciplines to investigate internationalism, cosmopolitanism, and other ways of thinking about culture and identity, in history and in the present.
Principal focus areas in transnational and transcultural research include:
Researchers within the cluster for Research in Cultures and Humanities are building bridges between a range of areas including journalism, creative writing, cultural studies, English, European studies, media, and philosophy.
Read more about RiCH and the research staff within this cluster
The centre draws on research staff  from the School of Media and School of Humanities and seeks to understand how different people are represented in society in the areas of discourse, cultural and media studies.
Staff within the Centre for Historical Research are building bridges between Past and researching a variety of subjects including early modern and modern conflicts, retailing, distribution and consumption history, terrorism, terrorism prevention and child forced labour in modern war.
CHORD builds upon the interests and expertise of a number of scholars in the Centre for Historical Research studying the history of retailing and distribution.
A new area of research launched to mark the centenary of the outbreak of the First World War.
Research staff within the First World War research group.
Law research staff are at the heart of a vibrant and inclusive law research community containing a number of specialist groups: Corporate, Financial, Insolvency, Criminal Law and Criminal Justice, Policing, Anti-terrorism, Human Rights, ADR and Mediation, and Property Law.
The Law Research Centre also works closely with researchers from the Central Institute for the Study of Public Protection , where research is undertaken into the armed forces, fire and rescue, security, terrorism, safeguarding, consumer protection, and forensic science.
Staff at the Central Institute for the Study of Public Protection .
The Centre for Natural Resources Law and Management, which is an integral part of the Wolverhampton Law School, offers a variety of opportunities to aspiring candidates who plan to build and advance their career in a branch of law and management studies which impact socio-economic policies of countries, international politics, the environment, and even human lives.
Staff contact list
Research work in CHSCI focuses on the science and art of preventing disease, prolonging life, promoting health, and social wellbeing.
It contributes to the development of appropriate policies, professional practice, and interventions locally, nationally, and internationally.
Research staff within Centre for Health and Social Care Improvement .
Focusing on numerous applied and theoretical areas of psychology, including: health psychology, counselling psychology, cognitive psychology, cyberpsychology, forensic and investigative psychology, and intellectual and developmental disabilities.
Each of these areas is represented in a number of overlapping research groups:
The Research Institute in Healthcare Science (RIHS) is a cross-school initiative supporting interdisciplinary research in the niche areas of healthcare science activities.
There is a distinctive emphasis trying to ensure that the findings of academic research are quickly and effectively translated into clinical practice.
Leading the way in identifying the genetic causes of brain tumours and the treatments to deal with them.
Research staff within the Neuro-oncology Research Centre
Two research clusters within RCSEP develop research into the complexities associated with the issues of performance and health in sport, exercise, and dance.
The purpose of this centre is to research aspects of engineering, information systems, the built environment, and sustainability.
Specific fields of interest include information systems for management, construction management, project management, technology-mediated training and education, civil engineering, architecture, and urban planning.
Architecture and Built Environment staff .
Researching aspects of engineering and computer science in areas of material science, engineering, games technology and computer science to the realisation of tangible and virtual systems or system parts.
Researchers within the Management Research Centre are focused on research that provides solutions to current managerial issues and is relevant to specific professions and/or types of organisations.
RIILP brings together two complementary and interdisciplinary research teams that explore the potential of advanced computing technologies for ‘understanding’ human language and social sciences, respectively.
Education Observatory
The Education Observatory aims to undertake research in all areas of education and allied areas of social policy to secure social justice and regional transformation in the West Midlands.
Its objectives are to:
Undertake high quality research and consultancy, which
Read more about the Education Observatory here.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/research/research-centres/access-our-expertise/access-research-papers:
WIRE is the University of Wolverhampton's electronic collection of research papers produced within its research centres and institutes .
Free to access and open to everyone, WIRE is a growing resource for anyone interested in the outputs of our developing research community.
Access WIRE
Read all about what our community of researchers have been up to lately in our research news .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/international:
At the University of Wolverhampton , we are proud to offer a huge range of international study programmes.
With a variety of courses and qualifications, we offer an array of opportunities for students all around the world.
International students can take advantage of our unique learning environment, exploring cultures, developing skills and gaining valuable experience through study abroad programmes.
We offer an extensive range of international degree programmes at both undergraduate and postgraduate level, so you can find the course that’s right for you.
Explore international study at the University of Wolverhampton today.
The University of Wolverhampton is a global university.
From our central UK location, we provide international study opportunities to our ever-growing academic community of staff and students from around the world.
Through our world-leading academics we help our students to develop the knowledge, skills and confidence to thrive in the global economy.
Each year we welcome international students from over 130 nations, who join us to study at one of our UK campuses or partner institutions overseas.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/international/your-country:
The University of Wolverhampton welcomes applications from international students, and accepts a wide range of qualifications for undergraduate and postgraduate study.
If you studied at a school, college or university outside the UK, please select the relevant country page for further information on qualification equivalences and whether we'll be visiting in the near future.
All applicants must possess a minimum level of competence in English Language; for applicants whose first language is not English and who do not hold a GCSE English Language or equivalent, we accept a range of academic qualifications internationally recognised as being at/equivalent to UK Level 3 or above which have been delivered and assessed in English.
This list will help you understand the different English language qualifications we will accept.
If you do not meet the English requirements for your course, don't worry!
Please note: This information is provided as a guide only.
Some courses may have specific entry requirements that are listed on the relevant course page.
Please check for any additional subject/course specific requirements before submitting your application.
If your country or qualification is not listed please contact us at international@wlv.ac.uk and we will be able to help you.
If you don't meet the direct entry requirements, please take a look at our pathway programmes .
Antigua and Barbuda | Argentina | Bahamas | Barbados | Belize | Bolivia | Brazil | Canada | Chile | Colombia | Costa Rica | Cuba | Dominica | Dominican Republic | Ecuador | Grenada | Guatemala | Guyana | Haiti | Honduras | Jamaica | Mexico | Nicaragua | Panama | Paraguay | Peru | Saint Kitts and Nevis | Saint Lucia | Saint Vincent and the Grenadines | Suriname | Trinidad and Tobago | United States of America | Uruguay | Venezuela
China
Albania | Andorra | Armenia | Austria | Azerbaijan | Belarus | Belgium | Bulgaria | Croatia | Cyprus | Czech Republic | Denmark | Estonia | Finland | France | Georgia | Germany | Greece | Hungary | Iceland | Ireland | Italy | Kazakhstan | Kyrgyzstan | Latvia | Liechtenstein | Lithuania | Luxembourg | Macedonia | Moldova | Monaco | Montenegro | Netherlands | Norway | Poland | Portugal | Romania | Russia | Serbia | Slovakia | Slovenia | Spain | Sweden | Switzerland | Tajikistan | Turkmenistan | Ukraine | United Kingdom
Algeria | Bahrain | Djibouti | Egypt | Iran | Iraq | Israel | Ivory Coast | Jordan | Kuwait | Lebanon | Libya | Malta | Morocco | Oman | Qatar | Saudi Arabia | Syria | Turkey | Tunisia | United Arab Emirates (UAE) | Yemen
Afghanistan | Bangladesh | Bhutan | India | Maldives | Nepal | Pakistan | Sri Lanka
Australia | Brunei | Cambodia | East Timor | Fiji | Hong Kong | Indonesia | Japan | Korea, North | Kiribati | Laos | Mongolia | Malaysia | Marshall Islands | Micronesia | Myanmar | Nauru | New Zealand | Palau | Philippines | Samoa | Singapore | Solomon Islands | Thailand | Tonga | Tuvalu | Vanuatu | Vietnam |
Angola | Benin | Botswana | Burkina | Burundi | Cameroon | Cape Verde | Chad | Comoros | Congo | Egypt | Eritrea | Ethiopia | Gabon | Gambia | Ghana | Guinea | Kenya | Lesotho | Liberia | Madagascar | Malawi | Mali | Mauritania | Mauritius | Mozambique | Namibia | Nigeria | Rwanda | Sao Tome and Principe | Senegal | Seychelles | Sierra Leone | Somalia | South Africa | South Sudan | Sudan | Swaziland | Tanzania | Togo | Tunisia | Uganda | Zambia | Zimbabwe

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/international/making-an-application/language-entry-requirements:
As an EU or International applicant you will need to showcase your English language proficiency skills during your admissions process.
We have a suite of courses that require differing English language proficiency, these requirements are there to ensure that you have the correct ability to achieve your desired qualification with us.
There are a number of ways to satisfy this entry requirement.
English Language Level Tests Accepted
Courses that require IELTS 6.0 no component less than 5.5
Courses that require IELTS 6.5 no component less than 6.0
Courses that require IELTS 7.0 no component less than 6.0
Courses that require IELTS 7.0 no component less than 6.5
IELTS (A cademic and UKVI)
Overall Score of 6.0 with no component less than 5.5
Overall Score of 6.5 with no component less than 6.0
Overall Score of 7.0 with no component less than 6.0
Overall Score of 7.0 with no component less than 6.5
Cambridge: Advanced English, First English
Overall score of 169 with no component scores less than 162
Overall score of 176 with no component scores less than 169
Overall score of 187 with no component scores less than 169
Overall score of 187 with no component scores less than 180
Cambridge: English Proficiency (Online Verification Required)
Cambridge IGCSE: English as a 1st Language
Overall grade C with no component less than grade D
Overall grade C with no component less than grade C
Overall grade B with no component less than grade C
Overall grade B with no component less than grade B
Cambridge IGCSE: English as a 2nd Language
Oxford International Digital Institute English Language Level Test (ELLT)
Overall Score of 6 with no component less than 5
Overall Score of 7 with no component less than 6
Overall Score of 8 with no component less than 6
Overall Score of 8 with no component less than 8
Pearson Test of English
Overall Score of 59 with no component score less than 59
Overall Score of 65 with no component score less than 59
Overall Score of 76 with no component score less than 67
Overall Score of 76 with no component score less than 76
TOEFL
Overall Score of 60 with no component score less than 20
Overall Score of 79 with no component score less than 21
Overall Score of 94 with no component score less than 21
Overall Score of 94 with no component score less than 24
TOEFL ITP
Not Accepted
Trinity College: Integrated Skills in English (ISEII and ISEIII)
Grade C6 or above
The University accepts regional based qualifications deemed to be equivalent to English GCSE grade C/grade 4 or above.
These qualifications are accepted as proof of English for student visa sponsorship purposes.
The university accepts other qualifications which can be found on the country pages https://www.wlv.ac.uk/international/your-country/
Additionally, applicants who have completed applicable courses in selected countries and institutions within are able to use their qualification, this is accepted as proof of English for student visa sponsorship purposes and applicants will not require an additional SELT.
The qualification must have been completed within the last 5 years.
You do not need to prove your knowledge of English if you’re from one of the following countries or territories, or you’ve completed a qualification equivalent to a UK degree in one of them:
https://www.gov.uk/student-visa/knowledge-of-english
We currently accept qualifications from the following countries in place of an English Language Level Test
For a list of these qualifications and the grading score required please go to our country specific pages.
Where we accept a qualification from high school in place of an English Language level test this qualification needed to be within the last 10 years to be acceptable on its own.
If you achieved your high school qualification more than 10 years ago we will require you to provide further evidence your English Language ability has been maintained.
The maximum validity we can accept a high school qualification in combination with further evidence in 20 years.
Where your qualification is over 10 years but still within 20 then you can provide either a medium of instruction letter (MOI) confirming during the last 5 years you completed your university education at a recognised education provider taught in English.
Or an employer’s reference confirming the use of English Language in the workplace within the last 5 years.
If your qualification is older than 20 years or your degree was taught over 5 years ago, or you are unable to provide a valid employment reference then you will need to consider taking an alternative English Language test such as Oxford International English Language Level Test.
The following table details the stand alone English Language Level tests we accept.
The scores below are aligned to CEFR to ensure applicants requiring a student visa are able to satisfy UKVI requirements.
2 year expiry - We are only able to accept results from the following list of qualifications that have been achieved within the previous two years before the intake that you are applying to start.
Yes, if you have studied and successfully completed a Level 3 qualification then you are likely to be exempt from having to take an English Language Level test.
Our admissions team will assess this on an individual basis depending on the qualification achieved and the course applied to.
We have a suite of fantastic online courses that we offer.
Please be aware these online Master's courses have different English Language Level https://online.wlv.ac.uk/online-courses/
Although we accept a diverse range of qualifications and English Language Level tests the University of Wolverhampton has a partnership with Oxford International and we can offer EU and International offer holders a reduced cost.
Please contact the International Admissions after you have applied to let us know you wish to undertake this test and we will share a discount code.
Please see the following webpage for further information.
If you want to study a course below degree level you must have a Secure English Language Test (SELT) English Language test, which is recognised by United Kingdom Visas and Immigration (UKVI).
The two accepted tests are IELTS and Trinity College London ISE.
Where an applicant holds more than one English Language qualification e.g.
High School qualification and an additional IELTS, we will only consider the most recent English Language qualification.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/international/making-an-application/how-to-apply:
You can apply:
Full-time, undergraduate students in the United Kingdom usually apply via the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service ( UCAS ).
If you successfully apply to us as an international applicant, we will submit your application through UCAS on your behalf and even pay the application fee.
You can find out what qualifications we accept from your country by looking up your country page .
On this page, you can also find details of your local agents who can help you with your application.
If you have applied as a person who will be under the age of 18 for the study intake applied for we require approval from your parent, guardian or carer prior to processing your application further - please complete the following form www.wlv.ac.uk/international/documents
What do you need to include in your application?
For us to process your application successfully, you will need to complete the online form, which needs to be supported by the following documents:
It is important that you upload all your documents onto e-Vision.
The Admissions Office will process your application and, if the application is complete, will endeavour to respond with a decision as soon as we can.
We're happy to help you through the application process every step of the way.
For advice on the application process, contact the recruitment team .
If you are unable to apply to the University of Wolverhampton using any of the channels above, please contact the Admissions Unit on internationaladmissions@wlv.ac.uk for assistance.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/international/international-fees--scholarships:
There may be some exceptions to these fees - please check the course finder for the accurate fee for your chosen course.
Non-Lab Based Fees
Lab Based Fees (FSE only )
Undergraduate
£15,995
£17,000
Postgraduate
£16,950
£18,054
The University is committed to a transparent fee structure , with no hidden costs, to help you make an informed decision.
This includes information on what is included in the fee and how fees are calculated and reviewed.
Lord Paul Undergraduate Excellence Scholarship
As a student of the University of Wolverhampton you could be eligible for the Lord Paul Undergraduate Excellence Scholarship.
Value: £1,000 for achieving our standard entry criteria for each year of study on your chosen undergraduate programme
Or
£1,500 for achieving a minimum of BBB at A Level or equivalent for each year of study
£2,000 for achieving a minimum of ABB at A Level or equivalent for each year of study
Eligibility Criteria:
Students receiving any of the Lord Paul Excellence Scholarship may be eligible for other scholarships, bursaries or discounts
Applicants must hold an offer for a full-time undergraduate or postgraduate taught programme at University of Wolverhampton for entry in academic year 2025/2026
Scholarships are not transferable and are only available for entry in academic year 2025/2026
These scholarships are available only to students paying international fees
Applicants must be privately funded (i.e., full fees being paid from their own or their family’s resources)
Applicants must not be in receipt of any other scholarship or financial award
Applicants must not have previously been enrolled on the same course, or a course leading to this award (e.g.
DipHE or PGDip)
How to apply
There is no requirement to make a formal application for this scholarship.
Our Admissions Team will detail the scholarship on your offer letter for your degree programme; reducing the tuition fee payable for each year of study on your chosen programme.
If you should have a query about the scholarship scheme, please contact the Global Opportunities Team: Email: international@wlv.ac.uk
Lord Paul Postgraduate Excellence Scholarship (First year of study only):
As a student of the University of Wolverhampton, you could be eligible for the Lord Paul Postgraduate Excellence Scholarship.
Value: £1,000 for achieving a minimum of standard entry at Undergraduate Level
£1,500 for achieving a minimum of 2:1 or equivalent at Undergraduate Level
£2,000 for achieving a minimum of 1 st Class or equivalent at Undergraduate Level
Applicants must hold an offer for a full-time postgraduate taught programme at University of Wolverhampton for entry in academic year 2025/2026.
The University of Wolverhampton is pleased to announce the Global Opportunities Office Regional Awards.
There are 20 scholarships of £3,000 per year for students from the following regions:
Students must hold a minimum of ABB at A Level or equivalent
Students receiving any of the Regional Scholarships would not be eligible for any other scholarships, bursaries or discounts
Applicants must hold an offer for a full-time undergraduate programme at University of Wolverhampton for entry in academic year 2025/2026
Scholarships are not transferable and are only available for entry in academic year 2025/2026.
You will be required to support your application with a 500 word statement, on how you would benefit from this scholarship and how you would be an ambassador to the university.
All applications will be assessed with consideration to the following: overall presentation; originality of thought; fluency in communication of ideas; evidence of motivation for study; ability to succeed and contribute to university life.
Please fill in this form , applications close 31st July 2025
These awards will be targeted at attracting students from key international schools globally, undertaking all three years of Undergraduate and to support the establishment of the University of Wolverhampton brand and to support diversification of the student population.
International School Scholarship Value: £1,000 per year – awarded automatically
Alumni Scholarship (First year of study only):
Available for University of Wolverhampton graduates (including those from our partner institutions) for postgraduate taught on-site study only.
If you have obtained a First or Second class degree with us and choose us for your postgraduate taught studies, you can receive between £2,000 and £3,000 dependant upon your results.
For postgraduate taught study only – payable for one year only.
To be offered to University of Wolverhampton graduates from University of Wolverhampton and its partners.
Value: £2k for Second class honours
£3k for First class achievement
Progressing students would not be eligible for any other scholarships, bursaries or discounts
Applicants must hold an offer for a full-time postgraduate taught programme at University of Wolverhampton for entry in academic year 2025/2026
Discount not available for PGCE, CIM qualifications or integrated Master’s.
Students who receive a loyalty discount are not entitled to combine with any other tuition fee discount, bursary or scholarship.
100% online courses are only eligible for a 10% discount.
Please note this discount only applies to students who are enrolling to study at postgraduate level based at one of the University's UK campuses.
The undergraduate award may have been studied either at the University or at any of our international partner institutions - where the undergraduate degree is a University of Wolverhampton Award only.
University of Wolverhampton Sports Scholarship is intrinsically linked to our Focus Sports (football, basketball, combat sports and netball); athletes outside of these sports are still considered and more favourably if their sport is recognised within the BUCS competitive framework.
Tier One Scholarship:
Tier Two Scholarship:
To apply for the WLV Sport Scholarship please complete the application form on our website: www.wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlv-sport/sport-scholarship/
Contact:
If you should have a query about the scholarship scheme, please contact the Global Opportunities Team: Email: international@wlv.ac.uk or sportsscholarships@wlv.ac.uk
We are pleased to offer 20 University of Wolverhampton Women in STEM scholarship to undergraduate students in September 2025.
The University is committed in supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and empowering women worldwide in STEM subjects.
According to data from the UN Scientific Education and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO), fewer than 30% of researchers worldwide are women and only 30% of female students select STEM-related fields in higher education.
The Scholarship will take the form of a fee reduction that will apply for every year of your studies.
There are 20 scholarships of £2,000 per year for students.
Awarded on a competitive basis.
University of Wolverhampton Women in STEM: £2,000 per year
How to apply: You will be required to submit a 500 word statement on “How would you promote STEM career and encourage other women to follow in your footsteps” this should include your plan and passion to engage other women and girls in STEM from your home country and demonstrate your plans for future contribution to capacity building and engagement through the benefits you achieved after graduating.
How to apply: You will be required to submit a 500 word statement on “How would you promote STEM career and encourage other women to follow in your footsteps” this should include your plan and passion to engage other women and girls in STEM from your home country and demonstrate your plans for future contribution to capacity building and engagement through the benefits you achieved after graduating
Please fill in this form, applications close 31st July 2025
Partner Scholarships: Articulation progression, (Foundation Provider) progression and Sponsors
To be offered for each year of study
Ecole Superieure Des Technologies Industrielles Avancees (ESTIA) would receive an additional 20% off their fees, as an additional scholarship.
Commonwealth PhD Scholarships are for candidates from least developed countries and fragile states in the Commonwealth, for full-time doctoral study at a UK university.
Funded by the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office , Commonwealth PhD Scholarships enable talented and motivated individuals to gain the knowledge and skills required for sustainable development, and are aimed at those who could not otherwise afford to study in the UK.
These scholarships are offered under six themes:
To apply for these scholarships, you must:
Eligible Commonwealth countries (countries to be confirmed) Bangladesh, Cameroon, The Gambia, Kenya, Kiribati, Lesotho, Malawi ,Mozambique, Nigeria, Pakistan, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Tanzania, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Zambia.
Find out more about Commonwealth PhD solutions here
Applications are closed for 25/26
The University of Wolverhampton is offering two Commonwealth Shared Scholarships for the academic year 2025/26:
Applications closed at 16.00 (GMT) Thursday 13 th March 2025
Commonwealth Master’s Scholarships are for candidates from low and middle income Commonwealth countries, for full-time Master’s study at a UK university.
Funded by the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office , Commonwealth Master’s Scholarships enable talented and motivated individuals to gain the knowledge and skills required for sustainable development, and are aimed at those who could not otherwise afford to study in the UK.
Be a citizen of or have been granted refugee status by an eligible Commonwealth country, or be a British Protected Person
Be permanently resident in an eligible Commonwealth country
Be available to start your academic studies in the UK by the start of the UK academic year
Hold a first degree of at least upper second class (2.1) honours standard, or a second class degree (2.2) and a relevant postgraduate qualification (usually a Master’s degree).
The CSC would not normally fund a second UK Master’s degree.
If you are applying for a second UK Master’s degree, you will need to provide justification as to why you wish to undertake this study.
Be unable to afford to study in the UK without this scholarship
Have provided all supporting documentation in the required format
Eligible Commonwealth countries (countries to be confirmed)
Antigua and Barbuda, Bangladesh, Belize, Botswana, Cameroon, Dominica, Eswatini, Fiji, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guyana, India, Jamaica, Kenya, Kiribati, Lesotho, Malawi, Malaysia, Mauritius, Montserrat, Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nigeria, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Rwanda, Samoa, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, St Helena, St Lucia, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Tanzania, Tonga, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Zambia
Learn more about Commonwealth Master's scholarships
Important: you will need to complete the University of Wolverhampton’s online application form as well as the CSC’s Electronic Application System (EAS).
There is no application fee.
Step 1: Complete the University of Wolverhampton online application, The link to the application form is on the following web pages:
Step 2: In the further information section of our application form, you will need to
We look forward to receiving your application form in due course.
Commonwealth Split-site Scholarships are for PhD candidates from low and middle income Commonwealth countries, to spend up to 12 months at a UK university as part of their doctoral studies in their home country.
Funded by the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office , Commonwealth Split-site Scholarships enable talented and motivated individuals to gain the knowledge and skills required for sustainable development, and are aimed at those who could not otherwise afford to study in the UK.
Split site scholarships are for:
12 months study at a UK university as part of an applicant’s doctoral studies in their home country,
Applicants who are registered for a PhD at a university in an eligible Commonwealth country
Study at a UK university with which your home university has an established institutional or departmental link
Study at a UK university which has a part funding agreement with the CSC.
Antigua and Barbuda, Bangladesh, Belize, Botswana, Cameroon, Dominica, Eswatini, Fiji ,The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guyana, India, Jamaica, Kenya, Kiribati, Lesotho, Malawi, Malaysia, Mauritius, Montserrat, Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nigeria, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Rwanda, Samoa, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, South Africa.
Sri Lanka, St Helena, St Lucia, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Tanzania, Tonga, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Zambia
Learn more about Commonwealth split-site scholarships
Applications are currently closed
You can start to prepare your application by viewing all necessary information, including eligibility, on the Chevening website: Who can apply?
| Chevening
Chevening is the UK Government’s international awards scheme aimed at developing global leaders.
Funded by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) and partner organisations, Chevening offers two types of award – Chevening Scholarships and Chevening Fellowships – the recipients of which are personally selected by British embassies and high commissions throughout the world.
Chevening offers a unique opportunity for future leaders and influencers from all over the world to develop professionally and academically, network extensively, experience UK culture, and build lasting positive relationships with the UK.
Scholarship covers:
For further information on Chevening Scholarships, please visit the Chevening website www.chevening.org
The University of Wolverhampton does not manage the following external scholarships, they are managed by external organisations and as such applications for these scholarships should be made directly through their websites (links below).
They have their own application processes and the closing dates are often different from the university's application deadlines.
Information and application criteria about each of the scholarships can be found on the individual websites.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/international/making-an-application/international-fees:
Please note: The tuition fee charged in subsequent years will be subject to an annual inflationary increase.
£14,950
£15,450
£15,950
£16,450
Postgraduate with Professional Placement
£17,450
MA Social Work
£12,400
N/A
This includes information on what is included in the fee and how fees are calculated and reviewed
Find out how to pay and check out discounts you could benefit from: financial support for international study
International students, those who have been assessed as requiring a Student Visa or who will be charged the overseas fee, will normally be required to pay a deposit.
Find out how much deposit is required
All international students pay a deposit.
for terms and conditions and further information please contact internationaladmissions@wlv.ac.uk
It is important to carefully consider the financial implications of studying in the United Kingdom.
In additional to paying tuition fees, you will need to cover your living expenses, including accommodation, food, heating, travel, books and stationery.
The UK Border Agency requires you to have a minimum amount of savings in your bank account before it will issue you with a student visa to enable you to study in the UK.
More information can be found on the UKCISA website.
Item ​
Cost GBP
Notes ​
This is the fee (25/26 start) for the LLB (Hons) Law with placement LLB (Hons) Law with placement .
You can search for other programmes by going to www.wlv.ac.uk/courses ​
Living Costs​
£10,224
This is the amount as estimated by the UK Visa and Immigration (if you are studying outside of London) - £1,,136 per month for 9 months.
​
TOTAL REQUIRED FOR VISA APPLICATION ​
£26,219 ​
The money will be required to be in the student’s own bank account or parents/legal guardian for 28 days minimum before they apply for their visa.
This is checked our dedicated team before releasing CAS​
Students must pay their tuition fee deposit before they can request for a CAS.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/funding-costs-fees-and-support/how-to-pay/international-students:
The University offers several ways for international students to pay fees.
Pay your fees using Convera.
Our guide to paying your fees as an international student.
As an international student in order for our admissions team to begin the process of assessing your suitability to secure a student visa and be issued with a Confirmation of Acceptance of Studies (CAS) letter, we will require you to pay a deposit.
Your deposit amount will have been communicated to you in your Unconditional Offer letter, if you haven’t yet received an Unconditional offer and you hold a Conditional offer you are not yet ready to pay your deposit.
If you are unsure of your deposit amount, please see the below;
_________________________________________________________________________________________
Standard Deposit
The standard deposit is £5,000.
The remaining tuition fees is split into two equal payments due on the 8 th week from the course start date during the student’s first semester and next semester.
Pakistan and Zimbabwe
The deposit is £8,000.
________________________________________________________________________________________
Afghanistan, Belize, Bosnia, Burundi, Cameroon, Central Africa Republic, Chad, East Timor, Eswanti, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Honduras, Iran, Iraq, Kosovo, Lebanon, Libya, Mauritania, Myanmar, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Russia, Sierra Leone, Douth Sudan, Tajikistan, Togo, Ukraine, Uruguay, Vanuatu Yemen
The deposit for applicants applying from the countries above is full first year tuition fees.
Please be aware that your payment amount will take into account any scholarships you have been awarded in your CAS letter.
Find out more details on international scholarships that we offer .
Note: D oes not apply to Prof Docs/MPhils and PhDs - as you do not require to a have a pre CAS interview or require deposit payment before an unconditional offer.
Convera is our requested payment method for deposits to ensure that you are able to begin the process or requesting your CAS letter in e:Vision
Convera is a fast and reliable service that allows you to pay in your local currency via bank transfer or by using a wide range of local online payment options including Alipay, UnionPay and more, without incurring any transaction charges.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/international/international-pre-arrival-2025:
We recommend you arrive with enough time to settle in and familiarise yourself with the campus and local amenities before classes start.
If you have secured your visa, we strongly advise you to arrive by Monday 15th September 2025.
This will allow you to make the most of our orientation and welcome week.
If your course has an earlier start date, you need to arrive by the start date.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/get-set/enrol-online:
To study at the University, you must enrol on your course.
You will be invited (by email) to enrolment generally 6 weeks or so before your course starts.
All students must re-enrol each year.
1.
Complete Online Enrolment
Log into e:Vision using your student number and password
Upload a photograph for your ID card
Check the course details are correct and click the 'Select' button to start the task
Work through each section: Personal Details, Education, Fees, Module Registration, Declaration and Confirmation.
2.
Attend an On-Campus ID check
Once you have complete all of the on-line tasks, some students will see a message asking them to complete an on-campus ID check.
Once instructed, bring your identity document (see ID Checks below) to the ASK@WLV team on campus to complete this check.
Students who have successfully completed a DBS and Occupational Health check as part of the application for their course do not need to complete this stage.
3.
Full Enrolment
Once the above stages have been completed as required, you'll be fully enrolled for this academic year.
Please note:
Don't delay - Start your enrolment task as soon as you get the notification to enrol or you notice it is available when you log into e:Vision.
Late enrolment can cause problems with student finance.
Ensure you understand all the statements in 'Confirmation' and that all your details are correct, if not, contact ASK@WLV .
International students have to complete extra steps which require documents to be uploaded and checked in the Right to Study section.
View the steps .
Click on the link above to continue your student journey.
Log into e:vision and review the Frequently Asked Questions for instant support.
You will need your email address and password to sign in.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/accommodation/accommodation-information/international-students:
Where you live will be one of the most important factors for a good experience whilst you are in the UK.
We strongly advise that you have booked and/or secured your accommodation before you travel to the UK.
You can live within University managed accommodation at the City, Walsall or Telford Campus with the option of either ensuite or standard (shared bathrooms) accommodation.
To find more about the accommodation please visit our Where Can I Live .
If you have any further queries please email your local Facilities Hub on: CityAccommodationHub@wlv.ac.uk , TelfordHub@wlv.ac.uk , WalsallHub@wlv.ac.uk or log an E-vision call.
We do not have accommodation on campus for cohabiting couples or families.
Student accommodation usually provides single study bedrooms which are suited to individual students.
If you arrive at campus and have not pre-booked your room in University Accommodation, please be advised we cannot accept cash payments on campus.
International students can apply for accommodation once they receive an Unconditional Firm course offer (ie when the University have offered a place but without the need to achieve certain grades).
You can apply for accommodation via our e:Vision system, instructions on applying for accommodation, are below.
Applying for accommodation through e:Vision
What happens next?
If you are paying your accommodation deposit by Bank Transfer, then please note that this process can take some time.
It is imperative that you make us aware of when the payment was made and in whose name the transfer was made in.
Further Information on Accepting your Offer of Accommodation
Even if you have completed your accommodation preference form either manually or online, you will be able to complete the licence agreement via the web by either, copying and pasting the link below or re-typing the web address in to your web browser; Accommodation Portal
If you originally applied for a place using the manual application process, then when accepting your licence agreement online, you will be asked firstly to set up an account to verify your student details and to create a password.
To complete the offer process, you will be required to undertake the following (PLEASE NOTE; you must use the mouse to click on the correct option button, DO NOT PRESS RETURN ON YOUR KEYBOARD) ;
Log in (student Number & Password)
Select Residential Year
Accept / Reject Accommodation Offer
Pay accommodation advanced rent payment and Read & accept Accommodation Tenancy Agreement.
You will have 5 days to complete the agreement before the offer of accommodation is withdrawn.
The University reserves the right not to accept late or incomplete documentation.
Rooms are available subject to the terms of the University Licence Agreement, which is enclosed with this offer letter.
If you return the correctly completed documentation and the University accept your application for accommodation, The Accommodation Hub will date and sign the Licence Agreement.
However, the contract for accommodation between you and the University will not come into existence unless and / or until you return the completed documentation and the University confirms the allocation of the room to you by either email or post.
Unable to accept your Offer Online?
If you are unable to apply online, you will need to contact The Accommodation Hub and a manual application pack will be sent to you.
Any problems?
If you have any queries while applying for accommodation, please contact The Accommodation Hub and we will do all we can to help you accept your offer of accommodation
City Accommodation Hub Contact Details
Email: cityaccommodationhub@wlv.ac.uk
Tel: 01902 32 1268
If you are an international student arriving to take up a University Accommodation room, please ensure that you book and pay your Advance Rent Payment before arriving at University Accommodation.
To make sure your name is down for the halls you want to live in, you will need to make an advanced rent payment of £500, this works a little like a deposit and will be deducted from your final instalment of accommodation fees.
You can do this online via the login portal once you have accepted your Licence Agreement.
If you arrive at campus and have not pre-booked your room in University Accommodation, please be advised we cannot accept cash payments on campus .
For your own security and safety, we recommend not walking around campus with large amounts of cash with you.
We welcome international students with families.
However, please note that we do not offer family accommodation or support with childcare costs.
Which means that any student bringing partners and dependants will need to seek private accommodation.
We strongly advise you to come on your own initially, to get used to the University and the area, life in the UK, and to find somewhere suitable for you and the family to live.
The Facilities Information Hub manage the student accommodation at all campuses across the University.
We will assist you if you have any problems in the accommodation or if you are experiencing any difficulties with the people you live with.
We will also help you if you want to change rooms or if you have any invoice queries
Due dates for your payments will be set out with your contract, so make sure you write them in your diary and better still budget for them!
Accommodation fees are due for payment either:
If you require Financial Support during your stay there are a couple of ways you can get help; check out our webpages for more information.
Here is all the legal information that you will need to know about your £500 advanced rent payment, it might seem a bit lengthy but have a read through as you don’t want to find yourself in a sticky situation…
In conjunction with the terms of the Accommodation Licence Agreement, deductions can be taken from the advanced rent payment.
This is with reference to clauses;
7.4 This Licence Agreement may be terminated by You if:
https://www.wlv.ac.uk/study-here/accommodation/downloadable-documents-/ ;
7.5 Where You wish to terminate as a result of an issue arising under clause 7.4 above, You will no longer be obliged to make further payments of the Licence Fee.
The provisions of clause 8 apply to Your departure from the University Accommodation.
7.6 Where you have been notified in writing by the University at the time of entering this Licence Agreement or at any time subsequently that the Room that you will or do occupy and/or the accommodation in which it is located may fall within clause 7.1f) or clause 7.1g) then you shall have the right to terminate this Licence Agreement at any time by giving not less than 3 months notice in writing of termination.
7.7 If You are terminating because You are withdrawing / taking a leave of absence or transferring courses, then written confirmation of this from the appropriate school must be provided to the Facilities Information Hub before the Facilities Information Hub can consider any refund or cancellation of payment obligations.
7.8 In all cases, where You wish to exercise Your right to terminate, You acknowledge that, save where You are terminating for reasons specified in clause 7.3 (a), (b) and (e), You will continue to be liable for the full Licence Fee unless the University or You are/are able to find a replacement person to take on the outstanding liability for these amounts.
7.9 You will remain responsible for complying with this Agreement until terminated.
With the exception of visa refusals or you not obtaining a place on a course at the University of Wolverhampton you will not receive a full refund of your Licence Fee.
(Written confirmation of this refusal will be required from UCAS or the University of Wolverhampton.)
There are a number of scenarios that can lead to amounts being deducted from the Accommodation advanced rent payment;
What Happens If The University Does Not Offer You A Place On A Course?
If you apply for accommodation, and then accept a place within the University Accommodation, but then the University of Wolverhampton decide not to offer you a place on a course, the whole advanced rent payment of £300.00 will be returned to you, as per clause 4.4.
4.4 If You do not obtain a place on a course at the University of Wolverhampton, this Licence Agreement will automatically terminate, and You will receive a full refund of any Licence Fee and/or advanced rent payment fee You have paid.
(Written confirmation of this refusal will be required from UCAS or the University of Wolverhampton.).
The Accommodation Hub will only refund the advanced rent payment upon written confirmation from the Admissions Unit that you have not been offered a place on a course.
Administration Fee Charge To be Deducted from the Accommodation Advanced Rent Payment
Students Who Have Signed A Standard Semester 1 Licence
Students Who Have Signed A Standard Semester 2 Licence
Administration Fee Charge to be Deducted from the Accommodation Advanced Rent Payment
Students Who Have Signed A Standard 52-Week Licence
Once you have applied for your accommodation (via post, email or online) and your application has been approved, you enter into a licence agreement with the University.
This means that a room has been reserved for you.
‌
If your visa is refused and you are not able to take your place in University Accommodation, your advanced rent payment of £500 will be refunded to you.
Your accommodation hub will require a copy of the Visa Refusal letter.
With regards to what happens to your advanced rent payment, please click on the link below and follow the flow which applies to you:
What happens to my pre-payment?
Your first few weeks living away from home in University Accommodation will be an exciting time, with new places to discover, new people to meet and a new culture to explore.
As well as excitement, if you have not spent a lot of time in the UK before, it is natural to experience culture shock as you adapt to the differences from your home country.
After the initial exhilaration of your arrival, you may at times feel homesick, anxious, or crave familiar surroundings.
Understanding that you may experience these feelings will help you to overcome them and adapt to life in Wolverhampton.
Once you’ve arrived, the more you join in with University life, the more at home you are likely to feel.
Here are some suggestions for settling in successfully:
There is always someone to offer advice: The University offers services of all ranges to provide support if you are finding adjusting to life in Wolverhampton difficult.
https://www.wlv.ac.uk/university-life/accommodation/residential-life/support/
Your Bedroom
During your time within the accommodation, your bedroom is your responsibility.
Whilst members of staff will have access to your bedroom, it will only be for the following reasons, with at least 24 hours’ notice given where possible.
Should you report a maintenance problem within your bedroom through the Planon Reporting system this gives members of staff permission to access your bedroom without providing 24 hours’ notice or you being present.
In case of emergency, members of staff may need to gain access to your bedroom immediately.
In these instances, 24 hours’ notice cannot be given.
This also refers to checks in the event of fire alarm activation.
Within your bedroom you will find the following;
Bedroom & En suite
As an occupant, you will be responsible for cleaning your bedroom and en-suite (if applicable).
The cleaners will not do this for you.
Hoovers are available and each kitchen has a mop and bucket.
Communal Bathrooms
Occupants must ensure that the communal bathrooms are in an acceptable condition at all times.
Excessive mess or uncleanliness will be reported to Campus Operations and may not be cleaned by the staff.
Cleaning Services
Work on all sites generally between the hours of 8am & 2pm.
They will visit all areas sporadically to ensure that they are clean and hygienic.
The Cleaning Services staff have a weekly rota for their activities and perform tasks in your kitchens, communal bathrooms and corridors.
Staff will visit the bathrooms almost daily to checks its condition.
Condensation and Damp - Damp and Mould information
Banned Items
Students wishing to bring additional electrical cooking items (i.e.
rice cookers, juicers, smoothie makers, sandwich toasters) should ensure that those items conform to current EU standards.
Items that do not conform to these standards will be confiscated.
If any student does not decide to brink any electrical equipment into accommodation, it is advised that they are PAT test for safety.
You can arrange this by contacting your Accommodation hub.
There will be a small cost for this service if provided.
This may include loud stereo systems, speakers, television equipment and musical instruments.
This list is not exhaustive and items may be added to at the management’s discretion.
Items that are banned in accommodation & kitchen/communal areas are:
Items that are banned in kitchen/communal areas are:
Students are also not permitted to have posters in the corridors or on the front of bedroom doors.
This is a fire risk and any items will be removed by members of staff where necessary.
Online Shop
Not sure where to buy your student essentials?
Looking to kit out your uni room?
Check out our online shop for everything you need to make your new home, plus there's 10% your first order with the discount code WOLV10
Heating & Hot Water
Hot Water
The hot water is on 24 hours a day, every day.
Please be careful when using as it can be very hot.
Heating
You can adjust the temperature in your rooms by turning the valve on the side of the radiator.
If you cannot do this please contact the Campus reception.
The central heating pipes that run through most bedrooms are also very hot.
Be careful when you are near them.
The University complies with all Electricity and Gas Safety regulations and obtains the necessary certification on an annual basis.
Room heating operates from October until the spring.
The set times of the heating are:
6.30am   - 9.30am 12.30pm - 1.30pm 4.00pm   - 11.00pm
6.30am   - 11.00am 12.30pm - 1.30pm 4.00pm   - 11.00pm
The University aims to provide a minimum temperature of 19 deg C and a maximum temperature of 21 deg C.
Please remember the external temperature will also affect the timing of the heating.
If you feel your room is below this temperature you will need to contact the Campus Operations team.
They will arrange for a member of staff to check the temperature of your room and if it is below 19 deg C, this will be reported and rectified within the University set time scales.
Do not use an electrical heater as this will affect the heating for the whole block.
Internet & Freewire TV
The University provides networks for you to connect your own computer or other mobile devices to the internet.
What you need :
Your computer can run Windows, Mac or Linux.
Games consoles and mobile phones can also be connected.
The University investigate copyright violations involving the distribution of software and films using Bit-Torrent and other peer to peer products.
The downloading of media of this kind is illegal and a serious breach of copyright laws, in addition to being a violation of the terms and conditions of use.
Such activity is easy to monitor and trace and we warn those students engaged in it that the University will suspend IT access and pursue any infringements through the University disciplinary process.
Still need help?
You will receive a detailed guide in order to assist you in connecting to the network when you move into the accommodation.
For more information call 01902 321268 or see our halls network pages
Freewire TV
The University provide a television service for students living within their accommodation, available via the wired internet connection on their PC or MAC.
This service provides a number of Freeview channels.
However, occupants will require a TV Licence to use this service legally.
For more information and guidance, please visit our web page
Insurance
Basic Contents insurance is included in your accommodation fees.
Please check that all of your possessions are adequately covered by this Policy.
Also note that in general, cover is only provided for losses occurring from your bedroom - if you lost something out in town, it would not be covered.
Additional insurance is available for items that are not covered by the basic insurance.
Further information is available within the insurance leaflets at your reception or you can log onto the Howden website
Lost Property
If you find any lost property, this should be handed in to a member of staff at your Campus Reception.
Consequently if you have misplaced anything in or around the accommodation please contact a member of staff at your Campus Reception to check if the item has been handed in.
Post
Post is delivered to the postal boxes.
Collection Times – Parcel and Packages only
*These details are subject to change
You may find UK culture very different to your home country.
Some of the key features of British society you will encounter at University include:
Where to buy food and essential items
The cost of living in Wolverhampton is similar to most cities in the UK – apart from London which is a bit more expensive.
As a student you will get to know where to shop and how to budget.
Prices are very different depending on where you shop and what products you buy.
Supermarkets often have ‘own-label’ brands which are cheaper than more recognised brands.
The shopping list below should give you an approximate idea of the cost of basic products in the UK from a supermarket.
Wolverhampton has a variety of major supermarkets including ASDA, Sainsbury’s and Tesco, cheaper supermarkets including Lidl and Aldi and premium supermarkets such as Waitrose and Marks & Spencer.
Here is an example of what a basic week's shopping will cost:
Total = £34.75 (average cost of weekly shop purchasing supermarkets own brand)
Things you may buy monthly.
Meat fruit and vegetables can also be purchased from local council run markets.
All Campuses have well known supermarkets conveniently located close by.
Other Purchases
The Accommodation Hub offer you the opportunity to purchase various items such as Bed Linen, towels and kitchen utensils via the Accommodation Online Shop .
This will save room in your case’s for other items and will be in your room on arrival.
General Information
This section is designed to answer your questions about the practicalities of living away from home.
You can find out more about life in the UK by getting in touch through our social networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter.
Council Tax is a local government tax to pay for public services (such as street lighting) and the amount charged is determined by the value of your home.
The majority of students will not need to pay council tax.
Full-time students registered for more than six months are exempt from Council Tax, as are students living in University Accommodation.
British electricity works on 230 volts and most sockets take 13 amp fused plugs, with three square pins.
If you will be bringing your own electrical equipment with you, make sure that it can be used safely on this voltage and find out whether you will need a UK adaptor.
Smoking is not allowed in enclosed public spaces like restaurants, lecture theatres, public transport and all University accommodation, as well as some outdoor public spaces, such as bus stops and train stations.
You may be fined if you smoke in these places, or anywhere else displaying a ‘No Smoking’ sign.
In the UK all televisions must be licensed.
There are various ways to purchase a licence and the cost is £169.50 a year for a colour TV or £57.00 a year for a black and white TV.
If you have a TV in your own room in accommodation you will have to purchase your own separate licence.
Please consult the Television Licensing website for further information.
British toilets are the flushing, pedestal type.
Toilet paper should be flushed away after use.
Separate facilities are usually available for disabled persons and for baby changing.
British weather has a bit of a reputation, but we do enjoy a good summer over here!
Wolverhampton has a temperate climate, with few extremes.
Average summer temperatures of 15°C (59°F) and winter temperatures of 4°C (39°F) are occasionally raised or lowered for a week or two.
Light rain falls on around half of the days of the year, which can make it feel colder in winter.
Despite this, British weather can be unpredictable, and a rainy morning often turns in a beautiful, clear blue day.
For accurate weather information please refer to the Met Office
Occupants are expected to make their own arrangements to register for voting purposes.
An electoral role form can be collected from your campus’s main reception – don’t lose you’re right to vote!!
Litter
You can be fined on the spot if you are caught littering in public areas; this includes any type of material that you would normally consider as litter such as cig butts and cans but may also include urinating and spitting.
You could be fined £75 for such an act and if you do not pay this you could end up in Court and be faced with a conviction and fine that could cost you up to £2,500.
Please visit http://www.wolverhampton.gov.uk/environment/fixed-penalty-notice for more information.
Please check your immigration documents carefully to make sure they are valid for study in the UK.
It is your responsibility to ensure you are studying at University legally.
Please contact the Visa and Immigration Support Team: Tel: +44 (0) 1902 322267 or +44 (0) 1902 323340 or Email: visa-enquiries@wlv.ac.uk
Your Passport and ID card
Most International students will have a visa printed in their passport.
You will be given an ID card if you choose to extend your stay in the UK.
Your visa will say how long you are allowed to stay for, if you are allowed to work and when.
If you are required to report to the police it will be stated here.
If you lose your passport or ID card you should report it to the police immediately.
If you lose your passport, or if it expires while you are in the UK, you must tell your country’s embassy.
They will be able to arrange for it to be renewed or replaced.
A list of embassies is on the International Student Intranet.
Extending your visa
You may need to extend your visa because you have completed one course and want to start a new one, or because you have been unable to finish your present course for different reasons.
Information on how to extend your visa is e-mailed regularly to all International students and is on the International Student Intranet.
Visa and Immigration Support
If you have any questions or require support or advice about any visa or immigration issues, please contact the Visa and Immigration Support Team: Tel : +44 (0) 1902 322267 or +44 (0) 1902 323340 or Email : visa-enquiries@wlv.ac.uk
ASK
ASK offers advice, information and support for many of your queries, questions and concerns.
We can help with the administration and organisation of your time at University – from enrolment and module registration; assignment submission; assessment and result queries; right through to Graduation.
You can also come to talk to us if things are starting to go wrong and you are not sure who else to talk to.
The main thing to remember is that you are not alone.
Each year, approximately 7000 students join this University and each of them will be going through the same anxieties and concerns as you.
We are here to ensure that your transition into higher education is as smooth as possible.
If in doubt, ask – no question is too small or too silly (and you probably won’t be the first to ask it).
The University are able to provide prayer mats to new students.
We will only be supplying mats to international students, so UK students must have access to their own.
If you need to order a prayer mat, please contact Abdul via email: A.Hameed@wlv.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/international/international-faqs:
If you are an international student, it is likely that you will have many questions about University in the UK.
Below are some of the questions which we regularly receive, along with our answers.
Once you’ve found the course you’d like to apply for, it’s important to check that you have the right entry requirements.
You can view your Country’s entry requirements here: https://www.wlv.ac.uk/international/your-country/
Please note that entry requirements will vary depending on which programme you wish to apply for.
We accept a wide variety of international qualifications.
If you’re not sure about which course you’d like to study, or have any questions about what we offer, please contact our team international@wlv.ac.uk
We advise you to apply as early as possible to maximise your chances of success.
You should also take into consideration the time it takes to obtain visa clearance and make any other arrangements you need to before a lengthy stay in the UK.
If you’re not sure about which course you’d like to study, or have any questions about what we offer, please contact our International team international@wlv.ac.uk
There are three ways to apply:
1) Direct to the University
You’ll need to complete an online application form and submit it, along with scans of your original academic transcripts and certificates.
If you require any assistance our regional officers/managers will be able to support, please email our team: international@wlv.ac.uk
2) Through a country representative (agent)
Our in-country representatives can help you make your application and apply for a visa, as well as offering important advice on travel, living in the UK and studying abroad.
3) Through UCAS
If you’re applying for an undergraduate degree or a Higher National Diploma (HND), you can apply through the UK’s Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
There is a charge for applying through UCAS - please see the UCAS website for full details and methods of payment.
To find out the cost of tuition fees for your chosen course, you can check the individual course page on our Course Finder: www.wlv.ac.uk/courses
£17,950
£19,054
Postgraduate Taught Extended
£18,500
£19,604
For more details, visit: www.wlv.ac.uk/international/fees
Further information can be found on our Language Requirements webpage
The checklist below outlines some of the types of documentation you may need to provide with your application:
Please note, not every document may be required in your particular case.
You can still apply even if you haven't yet received your final transcript or your Certificate of English proficiency.
You will receive a conditional offer which will state what qualifications and grades you will need to achieve in order to meet our entry requirements.
Once you have received evidence of obtaining your qualifications you can upload them to our E-Vision portal after which you will receive an unconditional offer once all conditions have been met.
If you are applying from: India, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Ghana or Nigeria you will be required to have a pre cas interview.
For your CAS to be released, you may need to attend a pre cas interview carried out by the University of Wolverhampton.
The Global Opportunities Office host weekly workshops to support applicants and agents with the Pre CAS Interview, register online Webinar Registration - Zoom
If you have already attended your pre cas interview and have been successful in meeting your conditions, then your agent will be able to request for your CAS.
You will need to have your bank statement to show your funds and a valid tuberculosis certificate.
All overseas applicants are required to pay a deposit or provide a satisfactory guarantee from your Embassy Sponsor.
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Pakistan
Afghanistan, Belize, Bosnia, Burundi, Cameroon, Central Africa Republic, Chad, East Timor, Eswanti, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Honduras, Iran, Iraq, Kosovo, Lebanon, Libya, Mauritania, Myanmar, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Russia, Sierra Leone, Douth Sudan, Tajikistan, Togo, Ukraine, Uruguay, Vanuatu Yemen, Zimbabwe
______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
There are different ways you can pay your study deposit, you can pay using our e-payment, western union or by bank transfer.
https://www.wlv.ac.uk/apply/funding-costs-fees-and-support/how-to-pay/
If you are paying by bank transfer then the University does not issue a standard receipt of funds so you will need to check with your bank the payment has cleared, if you are paying online or over the phone direct to the University then you should receive payment confirmation from the University.
There are several ways in which you can pay your fees.
Note that all payments should be made in pounds sterling.
Once you have paid your deposit and secured your visa, you may want to pay more or all of your remaining tuition fees before you leave home.
How to pay International students - University of Wolverhampton
We offer a wide range of scholarships available to students who can demonstrate academic and personal excellence.
Further information can be found on our website https://www.wlv.ac.uk/international/international-fees--scholarships/
More information can be found on the UKCISA website
You can submit your application for September 2025 now.
Please visit the course page, where you will find details about when the next intakes are for each programmes
Part-time study options are not available for international students due to visa requirements
All students will be able to apply for their accommodation by using the on line booking system through e-vision (go to the navigation bar and click on My Tasks) the instructions on how to apply are online.
If you have any queries, contact our accommodation team directly Cityaccommodationhub@wlv.ac.uk
Further information on university accommodation can be found on our webpages.
We want to reassure you that we are closely monitoring international responses around the world and this might impact your ability to start your studies in September such as what is happening in your home country; travel restrictions globally; the safety of international travel and visa processing availability.
Further information can also be obtained at:
You need to meet the conditions on your offer letter before you can proceed to the next stage – CAS Stage​
Example:
£15995 per year
£10.224
This is the amount as estimated by the UK Visa and Immigration (if you are studying outside of London) - £1,136 per month for 9 months.
You will still need to pay the immigration health surcharge when you make your Student Route visa application.
This entitles you to use the NHS once you are in the UK.
More information on immigration health surcharges
The process of arranging your CAS number will begin when it is less than three months before your course starts and when you have accepted an Unconditional offer.
Note: Students should try to make sure they are ready for a visa application.
This includes maintaining suitable funds in their accounts in readiness for a visa application, and applying for a TB certificate if applicable.
You will need to obtain a Student Route visa before you can travel to the UK.
You cannot apply for a Student Route visa without a CAS, the university is required to monitor your academic engagement regardless of whether you have applied for or received your visa.
Once you have accepted your unconditional offer of a place, we will check your documentation to ensure that you will be eligible to obtain a visa and subject to you having the appropriate finances in place, we will issue you with a CAS.
Further guidance on visas is available here on our Visa and Immigration pages .
Visa decisions will be made by the UKVI
We will be monitoring your progress through your attendance, engagement with the online sessions via canvas and other resources we are offering.
We will also monitor your submission to assessments.
You must maintain both your attendance and your engagement in order to maintain compliance with the conditions of your visa.
If you are starting your course online in your home country, we will monitor your engagement and this will be taken into account.
You need to comply with all University and UKVI requirements to ensure we are able to continue sponsoring you as student.
If you don’t follow these conditions your visa may be cancelled and you may have to leave the UK and you could also have future visa applications refused.
Your responsibilities - University of Wolverhampton
When you’re about to move abroad, there is a lot to think about!
You’ll need to understand what you need to do, including obtaining the correct visa and what documents you require.
It’s also time to consider what you’ll want to bring with you to the UK.
It is important you attend the pre departure briefing sessions and complete the pre arrival form.
It’s important that you fill in the pre-arrival form at least 72 hours before you’re due to travel.
This will let us know important information like when you’ll be arriving, so we can have everything ready for when you get her
To enrol you need to go to the e:Vision log in, add your 7 digit student number ID ******* and the password you would have been asked to create when you last logged in.
You must enrol by the deadline given on e:Vision
Enrolment instructions
Enrolment will be available closer to your course start date.
Before you enrol, you must register for an IT account.
Once you have accepted the terms and conditions for using our IT services, you will be able to continue with your enrolment.
Once you are registered, you can enrol.
Here's how to get started:
Problems with E-Vision
If you have problems logging on, once you click forgotten your password a temporary one will be sent to your email address that you used to register.
Once you have this you can then log in and then reset your password.
If you don’t remember your password, just use the forgotten password link and follow the instructions and a new temporary one will be sent to your gmail/hotmail email address you have provided us on your application.
If you have any further issues please log a help call using the link on your enrolment page, you must complete all of the tiles.
You will need to download myWLV app – myWLV is where you will find your personalised timetable.
It also offers you information about assessment deadlines, email, VLE topic subscriptions, and links to key resources.
Log onto E-Vision
If you have any further issues please log a helpcall using the link on your enrolment page, you must complete all of the tile
Documents to Upload in the 'Right to Study' section:
Once you’ve uploaded your documents the Student Visa Compliance and Advice team will check your documents within 5 working days and complete your enrolment once you arrive in the UK.
You must inform RTS@wlv.ac.uk of your visa decision as soon as you have this.
If you receive a visa refusal you must inform the Student Visa Compliance and Advice team straight away.
Please send your visa refusal letter to RTS@wlv.ac.uk so the team can update your record and advise.
Opening a bank account
There are many banks with branches in Wolverhampton, and some offer special deals to students.
To open a UK bank account you will need at least your: passport ‘Letter of Introduction to UK Banking Facilities’.
You can request this through e:Vision once you are fully enrolled.
How to get a bank letter?
Once you are enrolled they can download a copy of their Bank Letter through the ‘official letter’ tab on E-vision.
Please note, this will only be produced once so you should only request the bank letter when you are ready to print it or are going to visit the bank.
If you need to request another bank letter- you will need to speak to your faculty student services
Incorrect name
If you would like to update your name on your student record because it is incorrect you will need to log a help desk call with the correct name and evidence of this ie.
BRP/Passport photo

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/international/international-pathway-programmes-:
If you are an international student, you may not automatically be eligible for your chosen degree due to differences between UK qualifications, and those from your home country.
However, we are here to help you reach your degree aspirations.
We have study options that will help you to enter your chosen degree at the University of Wolverhampton.
The University of Wolverhampton partners with Malvern International to offer a fully embedded on-campus International Study Centre.
The programmes offered by Malvern International provide progression to a range of undergraduate and postgraduate degrees at the university.
Why study at the University of Wolverhampton International Study Centre?
As a student at the International Study Centre, you will be taught in a supportive environment with a diverse group of students.
The programmes are designed with international students in mind, and these programmes have additional language and study support built-in to help you reach your full potential.
Studying in small classes with weekly personal tutorial sessions, you will have the one-to-one help you require to learn a range of academic and language programmes.
International Foundation Programme
The International Foundation Programme is an integrated foundation and degree programme, with a Tier 4 visa that covers the full duration of your studies.
This programme is designed to give you a combination of academic knowledge and language provision to get you ready for your undergraduate studies.
International Foundation programmes are available in the following subjects:
Explore the programme
International Year One
The International Year One provides a route to Year 2 of a range of undergraduate degrees.
This programme is designed to significantly improve your academic language skills, including critical thinking and academic writing, whilst allowing you the additional classroom support you need from our qualified teachers.
Your route to Year 2
If you would like to study at the postgraduate level, but you don’t meet the required academic or language level, the following Pre-Master’s programme may be perfect for you.
This programme is designed to prepare you for your studies by allowing you to practise your academic skills in a supportive environment.
Though you may have experience of studying at undergraduate level in another country, the expectations of postgraduate study can be very different in the UK.
Through interactive classes and university-style research sessions, by the time you finish this programme, you will have the fundamental skills you need to attain your Master’s degree.
Discover Pre-Master’s

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/international/contact-us:
The Global Opportunities Office is often the first point of contact throughout the application process to becoming a student.
Our recruitment team will support applicants through the application process, fees, visa applications and offers pre-arrival guidance and information.
We will make sure that all of your queries about applying to the university are answered and that the experience is as smooth as possible.
International Enquiry
If you have any questions about studying at Wolverhampton, please complete our international enquiry form
Alternatively: Tel : +44 (0) 1902 322474 (09.00am to 17.00pm Mon-Fri UK Time) or Email : international@wlv.ac.uk
International Admissions
To make an application to study, or to check the progress of an application: Tel: +44 (0)1902 322230 or +44 (0)1902 323505 or Email: internationaladmissions@wlv.ac.uk
If you have any questions or require support or advice about any visa or immigration issues, please contact the Visa and Immigration Support Team: Email : visa-enquiries@wlv.ac.uk or alternatively contact the ASK@WLV team
Global Opportunities Office | University of Wolverhampton
City Campus South | Wulfruna Street | Wolverhampton | WV1 1LY | UK T : +44 (0) 1902 322474 E : kamran.ashfaq@wlv.ac.uk
City Campus South | Wulfruna Street | Wolverhampton | WV1 1LY | UK M: +44 (0) 7422072976 T : +44 (0) 1902 321528 E : jun.shi@wlv.ac.uk
Role/ Responsibilities:
Joe is responsible for developing the recruitment strategy and overseeing student recruitment for East Asia, Pakistan and UK international.
Mobile: 0086 137 8722 9550  电话：0086 137 8722 9550
E : Bo.zhang@wlv.ac.uk or China@wlv.ac.uk
Address: 71-132 Houhai Sanqi, Yangguang Yibai, Yuelu District, Changsha City, Hunan Province, China
地址：湖南省长沙市岳麓区阳光一百后海三期71 栋 132 号房
City Campus South | Wulfruna Street | Wolverhampton | WV1 1LY | UK M : +2349056346130 E : O.Daniel@wlv.ac.uk
City Campus South | Wulfruna Street | Wolverhampton | WV1 1LY | UK M : +254 (0)733 242815 E : J.Gachuki@wlv.ac.uk
City Campus South | Wulfruna Street | Wolverhampton | WV1 1LY | UK T : +44 (0) 1902 322474 E : t.ojelabi@wlv.ac.uk
Temi is responsible for developing the recruitment strategy and overseeing student recruitment by working with agents, prospective students and applicants, as well as attending and hosting a variety of events to represent the university.
Global Opportunities Office | University of Wolverhampton
City Campus South | Wulfruna Street | Wolverhampton | WV1 1LY | UK M : +917331136766
E: Bhavna.bagga@wlv.ac.uk or SouthAsia@wlv.ac.uk
City Campus South | Wulfruna Street | Wolverhampton | WV1 1LY | UK M : +91-9581004422
E: Kranthi.kumar@wlv.ac.uk or SouthAsia@wlv.ac.uk
City Campus South | Wulfruna Street | Wolverhampton | WV1 1LY | UK M : +91 8130861122
E: Arvinder.kaur@wlv.ac.uk or SouthAsia@wlv.ac.uk
City Campus South | Wulfruna Street | Wolverhampton | WV1 1LY | UK
M : +91-9877080865
E: Rajinder.kaur@wlv.ac.uk or SouthAsia@wlv.ac.uk
E: gopala.krishna.reddy.boggula@wlv.ac.uk or SouthAsia@wlv.ac.uk
E : R.Carey@wlv.ac.uk
E : W.Zhang5@wlv.ac.uk
Wenxin is responsible for developing TNE and collaborative partnerships across Western Europe, China and Hong Kong.
She also works with partners internationally to develop articulation and progression agreements as well as establishing the benefits of collaboration for partners and students across the world.
E: l.bombinmartinez@wlv.ac.uk
E : p.n.osborne3@wlv.ac.uk
E : T.Gold@wlv.ac.uk
E : Adam.Yardley@wlv.ac.uk
E : jayna.patel@wlv.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes:
Each of our faculties contains a number of specialist Academic Schools delivering an exciting range of courses.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-arts-business-and-social-sciences:
Find out more about what we do, from research to online learning.
We've got plenty of courses you can study from a distance or closer to home.
Find out what we offer and what's involved in Online Distance Learning .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-arts-business-and-social-sciences/school-of-social-science-humanities--creative-industries:
At the heart of our School is a commitment to individual experience, creative exploration, and academic excellence.
We offer a rich and diverse range of subjects across the social sciences, humanities and creative industries, all designed to support your personal, academic and professional growth.
Whether you're interested in society, culture, politics, communication or classic to screen-based arts, our courses are delivered by expert, research-active staff and enriched through industry engagement and real-world application.
You’ll gain not only knowledge and skills, but the confidence to apply them in meaningful, transformative ways.
We are a vibrant community of thinkers, makers, and doers - united by curiosity, innovation, and a shared purpose to contribute positively to the world around us.
From addressing societal challenges to driving economic and cultural growth, our students and staff collaborate across disciplines and boundaries.
We value inclusivity, creativity and lifelong learning, and we invite you to explore our subject areas in more detail to find the course that suits your passions and aspirations.
in the UK for Fine Art 1
in the UK for Social Mobility across the University 2
investment in Creative Screen Based Facilities 3
Photography & Cinematics achieved top quartile in six of seven National Student Survey themes 4
1 Guardian University Rankings, 2025 2 The English Social Mobility Index, 2024
3 University of Wolverhampton, 2022 4 NSS, 2025

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-arts-business-and-social-sciences/school-of-business--law:
Welcome to the School of Wolverhampton Business & Law - a vibrant academic community dedicated to professional excellence, social responsibility, and preparing students for successful careers in business, law, and related fields.
Our students benefit from practice-led teaching, applied learning, and strong connections with industry and professional practice.
Our Law provision is known for its accessible, socially conscious approach and close links to local and national legal sectors.
Meanwhile, our Business provision focuses on developing responsible, innovative, and work-ready graduates through a curriculum centred on enterprise, employability, and real-world problem solving.
Our students learn in modern, purpose-designed facilities across the University’s City campuses, which include the Legal Advice Centre offering vital community legal support and practical experience, a dedicated Moot Court for advocacy training, and flexible teaching spaces that encourage collaboration and active learning.
The School also maintains strong national and international partnerships that enrich learning opportunities and professional networks.
Underpinned by values of sustainability, entrepreneurship, innovation, professionalism, and justice, the School equips students with the knowledge, skills, and ethical framework needed to make meaningful contributions to society, business, and the legal profession.
nationally in six of seven themes for Management studies in the 2025 National Student Survey (NSS, 2025) 1
in the UK for Business and Management 2
for resources of Universities that delivered business studies and economics 3
in the UK for teaching first generation students as a University 4
1 NSS, 2025 2 The Guardian University Guide 2025
3 Advance HE, 2021 4 Daily Mail University Rankings, 2025

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-education-health-and-wellbeing/school-of-nursing-and-midwifery:
The School of Nursing and Midwifery trains individuals for healthcare careers.
We offer courses which combine theoretical knowledge with practical skills using our state-of-the-art facilities and technology.
Nursing and midwifery encompass a wide range of specialisations, from acute care and mental health nursing to community midwifery and neonatal care.
Students gain knowledge and practical experience through courses and clinical placements.
Professional Accreditation
The following leading professional body accredits our courses:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-education-health-and-wellbeing/school-of-health-and-wellbeing:
Welcome to the School of Health and Wellbeing
Welcome to the School of Health and Wellbeing at the University of Wolverhampton, where three distinguished schools have united to create a comprehensive hub for health education and professional development.
Our newly merged school brings together the expertise of Allied Health, Health and Society, and Sport to offer an unparalleled educational experience that prepares students for successful careers in the ever-evolving health and wellbeing sector.
Why choose the University of Wolverhampton?
Our school combines theoretical knowledge with practical skills using state-of-the-art facilities and cutting-edge technology.
We pride ourselves on our industry connections, professional accreditations, and our commitment to producing graduates who make a real difference in their communities and beyond.
Allied Health
Train for careers in allied health professions including medical technologists, radiographers, and therapists.
Our programmes combine rigorous theoretical knowledge with hands-on practical experience through clinical placements.
Explore the intersection of health and society through our comprehensive programmes in Social Work, Social Care, Public Health, and Health & Wellbeing.
Make a meaningful impact on communities and individuals.
Excel in the world of sport through our diverse programmes including Physical Education, Football Coaching, Sport Science, and Exercise Therapy.
Study at our state-of-the-art Walsall campus with world-class facilities.
Join a community of ambitious students and dedicated professionals who are shaping the future of health and wellbeing.
Whether you're passionate about clinical practice, community health, or sports performance, our School of Health and Wellbeing provides the foundation for your success.
Every story has a start.
Starts yours today.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-education-health-and-wellbeing/school-of-education--psychology:
The School of Education and Psychology at the University of Wolverhampton is your gateway to making a lasting impact.
We're dedicated to providing world-class education and training that transforms passionate individuals into influential professionals across the education and psychology fields.
We are proud to offer a diverse portfolio of programmes specifically designed to prepare you for meaningful, rewarding careers that make a real difference in people's lives.
What makes us different:
🏆 Industry-leading expertise from renowned faculty 💼 Career-focused curriculum aligned with industry needs 🤝 Strong professional partnerships and placement opportunities 🌍 Real-world impact through practical experience 📈 Proven graduate success in competitive fields
Teacher training
In secondary subjects such maths, and sciences, schools often struggle to find teachers with degrees relevant to the subjects they teach.
As few as half of teachers hold a relevant degree in maths or physics, which coincides with them having the greatest recruitment and retention challenges.
To address recruitment challenges, the government has announced pay increases for teachers, with minimum starting salaries of £32,916 (outside of London) for 2025-26.
In some schools t argeted retention incentives are available in subjects such as chemistry, computing, mathematics and physics and range from £3,000 to £6,000 for the 2025 - 2026 academic year.
Start yours today.
Join a community of educators and psychologists who are shaping the future.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-science-and-engineering:
The Faculty of Science and Engineering at the University of Wolverhampton offers a wide range of innovative and professionally accredited courses in Life Sciences, Mathematics, Pharmacy, Engineering, Computing, and the Built Environment .
The combination of academic, technical, and support staff means we have become a significant player in local and international high-tech reskilling that is of paramount importance to future generations.
We train scientists, engineers, and designers of the future.
Are you ready to join us?
Learn more about University Life

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-science-and-engineering/school-of-pharmacy--life-sciences:
Our School brings together expertise in Pharmacy and Life Sciences to deliver industry-accredited teaching and cutting-edge research.
With a commitment to improving health outcomes and addressing global challenges, our courses equip the next generation of scientists, researchers, and healthcare professionals with the skills and knowledge they need to thrive.
From state-of-the-art laboratories to hands-on experience in healthcare and industry settings, our students benefit from a dynamic, supportive environment rooted in innovation, inclusion, and opportunity.
in the UK for Pharmacy, Pharmacology, Pharmaceutical Science 1
in the UK for Forensic Science 2
of students were satisfied with the learning resources on the Biological Sciences courses.
3
of students were satisfied with the teaching on the Pharmacology course 4
1 Guardian University Rankings, 2025 2 Complete University Guide, 2024
3 National Student Survey (NSS), 2025 4 National Student Survey (NSS), 2025

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-science-and-engineering/school-of-architecture-computing--engineering:
Our School brings together three dynamic disciplines that are central to the way we live, build and connect.
With cutting-edge facilities and industry-accredited courses we provide an environment that fosters invention, collaboration and real-world impact.
Whether you're an aspiring architect, engineer or computing professional, this is where your future begins.
in the UK for Architecture and Architectural Design Technology 1
in the UK for Building Surveying, Construction Management and Property Management 2
of students were happy with the teaching on the Architectural Design Technology course 3
of students were happy with the academic support on the Computing and Information Technology course 4
1 Guardian University Rankings, 2025 2 Guardian University Rankings, 2025
Courses in the School of Architecture, Computing and Engineering hold the following professional accreditations:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services:
The University of Wolverhampton offers a range of commercial and business services to support organisations.
Here at the University of Wolverhampton, we aim to develop lasting relationships with businesses of all kinds and help to play a role in enabling them to grow and prosper.
Through various support methods, we can help organisations to identify potential problems and, with our expertise, help develop appropriate solutions with impact.
The University is committed to making a positive impact within the whole community.
We acknowledge that we have a key role to play in the social and economic prosperity of the region.
Through our continued links with industry, we aim to contribute to a stronger, more knowledgeable and resilient business community – providing opportunities for all.
Explore the different methods that the University of Wolverhampton can help you with our business services below:
We work with schools and colleges to assist learners around the world

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/facilities-and-support-services:
The Facilities and Support Services is located in the Housman Building at City Campus, and comprises three areas.
These include: Business Support, Commercial Services, and Facilities.
Click on each tab to find out what each department covers.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/national-brownfield-institute:
The National Brownfield Institute (NBI) is a world-class research centre that provides the facility to develop modern methods of building through innovation and partnership with the construction industry, focusing on the practical application of future brownfield regeneration and remediation through the work of research teams, leading policy development and commercial services.
Our address
National Brownfield Institute,
University of Wolverhampton,
Springfield Campus,
Grimstone Street,
Wolverhampton, WV10 0JP
If you're using a sat nav, please use the following information:
National Brownfield Institute – Google Map Pin or what3words
Springfield Campus Vehicle Entrance - Google Map Pin or what3words

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/university-of-wolverhampton-science-park:
University of Wolverhampton Science Park provides the complete solution for businesses from science, technology, digital and creative sectors, providing a dynamic and supportive environment to exploit the intellectual capacity within the University for the economic benefit of businesses, students and the wider community.
Space to succeed
Established in October 1995, today the University of Wolverhampton Science Park is home to over 100 businesses working in a broad range of technological and creative disciplines.
At our central location in Wolverhampton, we provide office accommodation, workshop and laboratory areas, in which new and established companies can thrive, ensuring a sustainable future for all and maximum positive impact to the local economy.
Conference and meeting facilities are available at all of our centres, for both tenant organisations and clients from outside the Science Park.
On-site, complementary provision of professional services includes financial, legal and translation services, along with business mentoring for new-start ventures.
The Science Centre , is a partnership between the University and the Black Country Local Enterprise Partnership, this Award Winning centre offers a unique combination of laboratory, workshop and office space, specialising in sectors supporting the local Smart Specialisation agenda (aerospace, automotive, construction and life sciences – including their supply chains).
The Science Centre has a meeting room on the ground floor for up to 12 delegates and a cafe serving Barista style coffee and light refreshments.
Find out more about the services and facilities at the Science Centre
The Technology Centre houses a wide range of technology related businesses; users include scientific testing and consultancy services, production of small form factor electronics, mobile communications, etc.
In addition there are specialist professional service providers such as patent attorneys, Health and Safety experts, tax specialists, chartered accountants, financing bodies to mention a few.
The Technology Centre is the  main conference centre venue, housing several rooms of varying sizes and a 200 seat, fully raked auditorium, all with dedicated AV equipment.
Lockside Cafe is located on the ground floor, serving hot and cold food daily.
The Creative Industries Centre houses a cluster of companies from the creative and digital media sector within vibrant office accommodation, with social spaces and café; the perfect venue to meet and greet clients, hold informal meetings or simply catch up.
The Creative Industries Centre is also home to the SPARK Business Incubation Centre which supports the launch and nurturing of new /young businesses in the creative sector thanks to its structured programme of support and a subsidised start-up package.
There are three meeting rooms, accommodating between 10 and 40 delegates.
The cafe outlet, Viaduct View, is located on the first floor of the Creative Industries Centre, serving hot and cold food and a choice of hand-crafted beverages from the Starbucks range™.
Tenants at the University of Wolverhampton Science Park have an enviable range of on-site benefits, including co-location to the Black Country Growth Hub , where businesses can access a wealth of business support, advice and funding opportunities.
This unparalleled breadth of business knowledge and expertise is available through a single point of access where business advisors work with companies to identify potential opportunities, ranging from funding and finance to planning and exporting, all helping business growth.
In addition there are a variety of business events held throughout the year, providing excellent networking opportunities and updating of relevant business knowledge.
The Science Park’s close links to the University of Wolverhampton can provide businesses with outstanding opportunities for collaboration, with access to a skilled graduate base via placement programmes and Apprenticeship programmes to upskill your workforce, as well as knowledge sharing initiatives by working with research centres and institutes whose work has been assessed as World-leading.
The University of Wolverhampton has an excellent track record in delivering knowledge transfer initiatives, designed to help businesses improve through available knowledge, technology and skills and experienced academic staff.
Overall the University has a lot to offer businesses at the Science Park.
If the University of Wolverhampton Science Park sounds like a business community you would like to be part of, why not take a tour of our facilities and find out more about the Science Park?
Call: 01902 824 100 or email: joinus@wolverhamptonsp.co.uk to book a visit
CoZone - The perfect coworking solution
A Dynamic Space for Innovators, Creators, and Collaborators.
At CoZone Coworking, we believe that great ideas thrive in inspiring environments.
That’s why we’ve designed a collaborative coworking area that caters to the needs of modern professionals—whether you’re a freelancer, start-up, solo worker, or part of a growing team.
Based in the Creative Industries Centre at the University of Wolverhampton Science Park, our coworking area is a vibrant hub that blends functionality with creativity, designed to foster productivity and innovation.
Find out more/book CoZone.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/e-innovation-centre:
Located at the University’s Telford Innovation Campus, EIC provides top business accommodation with a range of stunning office spaces.
Tenants can benefit from business assistance and services from a regional University that encourages innovation.
The state-of-the-art centre provides a modern and creative working environment for growing and developing technology and innovative businesses in the West Midlands region.
Office accommodation ranging from 19sqm to 226sqm also includes:
For more information about the e-Innovation Centre visit www.e-innovationcentre.co.uk

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/business-and-technology-centre:
The Business and Technology Centre, located at the University’s Telford Innovation Campus, offers a wide range of office accommodation and access to business services and facilities.
The Centre consists of 25 offices of varying sizes and complements the existing business incubation facility on site.
The recently refurbished building provides an innovative and creative working environment for growing and developing technology and innovative businesses, in the West Midlands region.
The managed accommodation located just off Junction 4 of the M54 offers growing businesses the opportunity to engage with similar companies, whilst accessing the business services and facilities of a regional University.
Office accommodation ranging from 20sqm to 80 sqm also includes:
For more information about BTC visit www.btctelford.co.uk

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/conferencing-at-science-park:
Welcome to the Conferencing at Science Park's website.
Centrally located in the Midlands, The Science Park offers modern conference facilities from 1:1 interview rooms and boardrooms, through to 300 capacity conference and breakout rooms.
We pride ourselves on our commitment to providing a high-quality service to all of our clients.
Want to find out more about what we have to offer?
Use the menu on the left to navigate around our website or quickly find out more by viewing the content below.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/conferencing-at-science-park/conference-booking:
01902 321533 / 8906
conferences@wlv.ac.uk
University of Wolverhampton Science Park Glaisher Drive Wolverhampton WV10 9RU
Visitor Information
Enter the address below for directions:
University of Wolverhampton Science Park Site Office Technology Centre Wolverhampton WV10 9RU
The University of Wolverhampton provides a free shuttle bus between our other campuses (including Science Park).
You can get a direct train into Wolverhampton from Birmingham (15/20minutes) From there, you can walk 5 minutes to the bus stop outside University of Wolverhampton's Rosaline Frankline building on Stafford street and catch the free campus shuttle bus or pick up a taxi to the the Science Park.
If you are travelling to England via an airport in Europe, you should try and get a flight to Birmingham International Airport , which is closest to all University of Wolverhampton Campuses.
It has a railway station with frequent, direct services to Wolverhampton.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/conferencing-at-science-park/conferences--meetings:
The Science Park offers a range of facilities catered to your booking needs.
They offer meeting rooms, break out rooms, and large room for a larger capacity.
We provide venues for all types of conference and events in the Midlands area.
Click below for more room layout details.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/conferencing-at-science-park/dining--refreshments:
We have a wide range of catering options in our Hospitality Menu for you to choose from.
Our customers enjoy a full range of catering options to suit all requirements and budgets.
From our Hospitality Suite, which is ideal for networking events, through to our large refectory's across all four sites; We can look after all your conference of event catering needs.
We also provide options for all customers that have specific dietary requirements and endeavour to provide clear food allergy and intolerance information whenever requested by customers.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/apprenticeships/make-an-enquiry:
Whether you're a business or employed and looking to study an Apprenticeship, we'd like to hear from you.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/funding-and-support:
The University offers expertise and services in a number of areas to help you to develop your innovative business ideas.
There are numerous ways that the University of Wolverhampton can help support your business with the different services and opportunities we have to offer.
Below are some of the key ways that we can help you with your business.
If your business operates in the construction industry, then the National Brownfield Institute (NBI) may be able to support your business.
The NBI is a prestigious research centre that collaborates with the construction industry to advance building techniques through innovation and partnerships.
Its primary focus is on the practical implementation of future brownfield regeneration and remediation, and achieves this by conducting research, leading policy development, and offering commercial services.
Explore the National Brownfield Institute.
The Elite Centre for Manufacturing Skills (ECMS) is an employer-led training facility located in the Black Country.
Its purpose is to support the UK industry by enhancing the skills and knowledge of the workforce, particularly in engineering, manufacturing, casting, and metal forming sectors.
With a strong emphasis on the region's industrial heritage, the Elite Centre aims to address skills gaps by offering specialised training and upskilling opportunities.
The Elite Centre operates through a Hub and Spoke model, consisting of two main centres.
The Hub is situated at the University of Wolverhampton's Springfield Campus, while the National Foundry Training Centre is located in Tipton.
These centres provide short courses and training programs.
The ECMS receives funding from The Black Country Local Enterprise Partnership and is a collaboration between the University of Wolverhampton, Dudley College, Cast Metals Federation, Confederation of British Metal forming, and Institute of Cast Metals Engineers.
Explore the ECMS

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/funding-and-support/knowledge-transfer-partnerships:
‌The University of Wolverhampton has an excellent track record in the delivery of Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and a strong commitment to improving the economic prosperity of the region.
KTPs are a UK wide programme designed to help businesses improve their competitiveness, productivity and performance through the better use of knowledge, technology and skills.
The partnership's objectives are to help meet business goals, by working to implement an innovative, high impact project which is central to the company's strategic development.
Up to 67% of the cost of a KTP is met by funding from Innovate UK and other funding organisations.
Select each heading to find out more
Academic partnerships could help with business recovery
Partnership breathes new ideas into ventilation company
Find out more about our academics expertise through their staff profiles.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/university-procurement:
The Procurement Team is the central point within the University for tendering/contracting and Procurement guidance and support.
The Team also ensures procurement activity generates value for money and is compliant with internal Financial Instructions and wider Public Sector legislation.
Procurement is changing, are you ready for the changes which come into force at the end of February 2025?
Government Commercial Function guides can be found here for the new Procurement Act: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/procurement-act-2023-short-guides

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/university-jobs:
We are currently experiencing technical difficulties with our staff recruitment system which we are working hard to resolve.
Please check this page for any updates.
Specific queries can be addressed to hr.recruitment@wlv.ac.uk Please allow up to 5 working days for a response.
Thank you.
The University of Wolverhampton holds a distinctive place within the higher education sector, and is one of the most successful modern universities, delivering excellence in teaching and research, widening access and business engagement.
We have great new state of art facilities, such as our £100m Springfield campus.
As the 'University of Opportunity', for staff and students we are committed to delivering positive change for Students, Staff, and business as well as the diverse regional communities we serve.
We are an integral part of economic growth and social change within the West Midlands and beyond.
We offer fantastic opportunities for both academics and those working in the university's professional support areas, such as accountants, marketeers’ electricians, caterers and basketball coaches, offering you very varied career options.
We have a flexible and supportive working environment where staff can thrive.
Comprehensive development programmes and our continuous improvement culture enables our staff to grow, our flexible and agile working supports the equality of opportunity for all and promotes the health and wellbeing of staff.
We encourage you to be the best you can be by bringing the authentic you to work.
Live your best life, by being the best you can be while at work.
The University values collaborative working and encourages all staff to set ambitious personal and organisational goals, respecting your own and colleagues values while delivering effective learning outcomes to students.
We are looking for exceptional people to work with us to make a positive contribution to student success, and to local community engagement and business enterprise.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-arts-business-and-social-sciences/university-of-wolverhampton-business-school/executive-education:
Our Executive Education vision believes in the ethos of transforming lives and shaping futures, supporting University of Wolverhampton’s heritage as an inclusive institution.
We are committed to being a catalyst for personal, professional, and organizational growth for under- represented groups to access leadership pathways.
We harness our unique local position to deliver leadership development that empowers individuals, uplifts communities, and drives meaningful change across sectors and geographies.
We don’t just teach leadership – we immerse you in it.
Leveraging our Management Research Centre and WLV Business Link network, we provide experiential learning opportunities drawing from our practical research strengths, local connections and global partners.
By investing in leadership education, we invest in a brighter, more equitable future.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-arts-business-and-social-sciences/university-of-wolverhampton-business-school/executive-education/programmes-and-courses:
The University of Wolverhampton Business School’s portfolio of training programmes put you in control of your organisation’s development.
Combining flexibility with nationally recognised packages of study, our programmes range from customised short courses, to professional programmes and University qualifications.
The size, scope and content of professional programmes can be matched to your organisational needs, whilst providing a progressive framework of learning that allows individuals to develop their management skills over time and in line with their role and experience.
Our leadership and management programmes are delivered by innovative experts and are underpinned by world-leading research and cutting-edge management theories.
Blended learning techniques are also adopted to create a hybrid teaching methodology.
This comprises traditional classroom-based learning, online technologies and opportunities to apply theory in the workplace, via strategic, work-related projects.
Through consultation, we design bespoke training to meet your development requirements and provide the outcomes needed to succeed.
Using modern diagnostic instruments and highly-focused teaching methods we ensure programmes match your mission and culture.
Our range of support spans full service provision including training needs analysis, programme design, delivery and evaluation, to the accreditation of existing in-house programmes.
We are an accredited training centre for the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) and the ILM.
Both organisations offer a vast array of qualifications and standalone units, from performance management and organisational strategy, to leadership and management, financial management, and coaching and mentoring.
The University is also an accredited centre for the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) and the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM).
The benefits of linking training and development to a recognised professional body include:
Our range of programmes can be studied at different levels and durations, from level 3 to level 7 at Award, Certificate and Diploma level.
As an accredited CMI Centre, we offer CMI programmes at levels 3 to 7 including Award, Certificate, Diploma and Extended Diploma.
These can be open programmes (available to all) or closed programmes for corporate delivery.
As an accredited ILM Centre, we offer ILM programmes at levels 3 to 7 including Award, Certificate and Diploma for corporate delivery.
We offer the following professional CIM Courses:
CIM Certificate in Professional Marketing
CIM Diploma in Professional Marketing
PGDip Strategic People Management & Human Resources
Whether you are looking to broaden the skills of your middle and senior managers or wish to improve your organisation’s talent management, the Business School has the qualifications for you.
Individuals or teams can study for their University qualification at undergraduate or postgraduate level in our brand new, state-of-the-art Lord Swraj Paul Building.
Our learning programmes are available in compact units, in modular schemes, or in distinct blocks of study that can be delivered using a blend of on-site taught experiences and digital learning tools.
We have over 150 modules available, from accountancy and international business to leadership, human resource management and marketing.
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
PG Cert Leadership
On completion of the Certificate, progression is available to Diploma and Masters level
MSc Innovation and Entrepreneurship
MA Strategic People Management and Human Resources
MSc Leadership and Management
To book one of these courses, discuss further or speak to us directly e-mail: Execed@wlv.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/accessing-our-graduate-talent-pool:
Here at the University of Wolverhampton, we have access to some of the best graduate skills in the region.
Whether you wish to grow your business but don’t have the resource to do so or have a requirement for extra key skills in your business, our graduate schemes can give you valuable skills, in your company.
Support with recruitment and graduate placements is available for employers through Careers Enterprise and The Workplace
Recruiting recent graduates can be a great way to bring new ideas and energy to your organisation while providing valuable employment for graduates looking to start their career.
The University of Wolverhampton can assist you in attracting first-class talent to your organisation.
Support with recruitment and graduate employment is available for employers through Careers Enterprise and The Workplace .
To find out more please contact The Workplace on 01902 323400 or email careers@wlv.ac.uk
The University’s Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP) puts a highly skilled graduate into a business, working full-time on a strategic project for 12-36 months.
The graduate is supervised by a leading academic who is also utilised for knowledge, support, and advice.
As part of the KTP scheme, businesses also have access to other University resources and facilities.
More information on how your business can benefit from a KTP can be found at our or call us on 01902 321272.
See how Knowledge Transfer has helped businesses through our KTP case studies below:
KTP Case Study - Johnson Test Papers
KTP Case Study - Black Country Living Museum
Graduates are looking for meaningful opportunities and the chance to prove themselves in a dynamic workplace - ideally in an environment where in time they can make a real difference and be fairly rewarded for hard work and showing initiative.
If you are struggling to recruit the kind of candidates that have lots of get-up-and-go and enterprise, along with strong creative thinking capabilities and the ability to communicate effectively, then you really need to talk to our team.
We are talking to these kind of graduates and students every day of the week.
We can match a student or graduate to either your specific project requirements or longer term recruitment needs.
The JOBS Board is free to advertise and we can promote your opportunities directly to the right candidates.
To find out more please contact The Workplace on 01902 323400 or email theworkplace@wlv.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/activities-for-schools-and-colleges:
Our UK Recruitment and Partnerships team are dedicated to connecting with and supporting schools and colleges particularly across the Midlands region as well as the rest of the UK to deliver activities both on and off campus.
Below is more information about the range of activities we can offer your school or college plus more about our team and how to contact us.
The student recruitment team here at the University of Wolverhampton are dedicated to support schools and colleges to assist learners with their journey to Higher Education.
Our award winning STEM Response Team will be delighted to bring fantastic science, technology, engineering and maths (STEM) activities to schools and colleges.
Please visit the STEM Response Team webpage for more information https://www.wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-science-and-engineering/stem-response-team/

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/activities-for-schools-and-colleges/general-higher-education-sessions-:
We offer a range of "How to..." talks and workshops covering general higher education topics, specifically targeted for year 11 and above.
The Student Recruitment Team can deliver these in your school or college, as stand-alone sessions as part of tutorial groups or subject sessions which can help to support the Gatsby Benchmarks.
We can also run these talks as part of your Higher Education events such as careers fairs and parent events.
These talks can be tailored and combined to meet the needs of your students.
Please get in touch with us to book these talks and discuss your requirements.
In this session learners will have the opportunity to understand what courses are available within higher education and how to choose the right course for them.
It will look at how university can benefit future opportunities through the student journey as well as future career pathways.
This talk gives an insight into how to write a personal statement as part of the university application process.
This includes hints and tips on what should be included within that statement such as skills, hobbies and experience.
This talk goes through how to apply to university covering the current UCAS application process.
It will cover all the key areas such as significant dates and the stages to navigate to apply to higher education.
Learners will gather all the relevant information on how to finance their study.
This will include how to apply and how the pay back structure within the higher education sector is implemented.
Vital tips on how to maximise your budget as a university student will also be discussed.
In this session learners will be given guidelines on how to prepare for interviews and portfolio reviews during the university application process.
It will give hints and tips on how to maximise the opportunity to support your application.
Join our online event via Zoom
In this talk learners will gather an understanding of what it is like to specifically study at the University of Wolverhampton.
It will look at what life is like for a student and the opportunities university can offer whilst studying and as an alumni.
Learners will receive information on the wide student support networks available at university.
These support networks are in place to help make the transition to higher education seamless and guide you through your student journey.
This session gives an insight to parents and guardians on the importance of student support and where to find it within higher education.
Information on how to access the wide student support networks will be discussed and why it is ok to ask.
Specifically looking at mental health, disability and additional learning support needs.
This session can be booked as part of a HE evening or parents evening and is delivered to parents and guardians at the event.
We offer a drop-in session to our schools and colleges.
Located in a prominent part of your building, pupils can drop-in and find out more about anything related to their application or choosing a course at the University of Wolverhampton.
We include interview and portfolio guidance, personal statement support, course selection support, application support, accommodation advice etc.
Pupils will need to have applied or be considering applying to University of Wolverhampton to take part.
Sessions can be booked for between 1-3hrs and are delivered by an experienced recruitment team staff member.
We are also offering Student Support Sessions here at the University of Wolverhampton.
These sessions will help students with academic skills whilst studying at Higher Education.
These can be delivered at your school or college.
Please get in touch with the team to find out more or to make a booking.
Finding quality research
In this workshop, we will introduce effective searching techniques to help students locate quality resources for their work.
We will also practise evaluating these resources, available through the internet.
Typical duration: 90 mins
Writing an academic essay
This workshop will take students through the important first stages of academic writing.
They will learn strategies for answering complex assignment questions and get to grips with an academic style of writing.
Introduction to Referencing
This workshop encourages students to think about why plagiarism is relevant to university and the modern world, and how to avoid it through correct referencing.
Typical duration: 60 mins
The University of Wolverhampton are exhibiting at the essential school leaver event for 15 – 19-year-olds this spring and we’d love to see you there.
Book your free ticket today to come and meet the team at What University?
& What Career?
Live at the NEC, Birmingham, on Friday 28 February & Saturday 1 March 2025.
Visit our stand to discover more about our exciting school leaver opportunities.
This is your opportunity to find out more about our courses, facilities, accommodation, and more.
Pre-booking essential for easy access.
Book your free ticket today at WhatCareerLive.co.uk

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/partnerships:
The University of Wolverhampton has established partnerships with a variety of institutions in the UK and worldwide.
These partnerships enable students to study University of Wolverhampton courses in their own establishment.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/activities-for-schools-and-colleges/aspire-to-he:
Aspire to HE is a UniConnect partnership , led by the University of Wolverhampton with local schools and colleges, who are committed to improving access to higher education for everyone in the Black Country, and Telford and Wrekin.
We provide impartial guidance and practical support to help people make an informed and ambitious decision about higher education and their future.
For more information about the work we do, please visit our website .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/university-procurement/supplying-the-university:
The University expects all its contractors and suppliers to work within the University of Wolverhampton Supplier Code of Conduct .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/about-us:
At the University of Wolverhampton, our courses unlock your potential and help you on your way to a bright future.
Discover more about working with us, our people, and our partnerships, below, or explore our key facts to answer your questions.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/about-us/our-staff:
Lecturers, researchers and other student-facing staff at the University of Wolverhampton.
Lecturer in Occupational Therapy
I am an Occupational Therapist practitioner and lecturer and joined the Occupational Therapy team at Wolverhampton University in October 2021.
I continue to work as an occupational therapist within independent practice and combine work on my
Research Associate
I joined the Institute for Community Research and Development (ICRD) in October 2024 as a Research Associate.
Prior to that, I passed my PhD Viva with minor corrections in Sept
Head of Department - Built Environment
Paul is a chartered building surveyor and a fellow member of various professional bodies.
During 2012-2015 Paul was the first academic to be elected as RICS West Midlands Chairman and prior to this was previously the youngest West Midland
Hospitality and Tourism Lecturer
Academic Coach
Black Country born but lived across the country.
Enjoy climbing, chess, and motorbikes and Heavy Metal.
Lecturer in Law
Teach on LLB (Hons) undergraduate law degree, joint Law degrees, CILEx Apprenticeship and Postgraduate LLM Law Conversion Course Main teaching is Law of Tort, Contract Law and English Legal System Provide
Senior Lecturer
Gema joined the University of Wolverhampton in 2023 as a Senior Lecturer in Paramedic Science after working as a Lecturer at Birmingham City University in the same subject for several years prior.
She has completed her Postgraduate Certificate in
Senior Lecturer: Computer Games Design
I began teaching at the University of Wolverhampton on a part - time basis in 2001, whilst also working as a freelance Graphic Designer, working on numerous print and screen based projects.
After gaining full-time employment at the
Subject Leader for Secondary ITE Computing
I am Subject Leader for the Secondary Initial Teacher Education Computing courses.
Former roles include: lead tutor for Teach First Computer Science/ICT for the West Midlands, Head of ICT and Business Studies/Economics with oversight
Professor in Family Business and Entrepreneurship
Yong Wang is Professor in Family Business & Entrepreneurship at Wolverhampton Business School.
He served the International Family Enterprise Research Academy (IFERA), the world-leading family business research association as a Board Director

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/about-us/our-history:
The University of Wolverhampton is a leading modern university with a tradition of providing opportunity and academic excellence dating back nearly 200 years.
The roots of the University of Wolverhampton lie in the 19th century growth of Mechanics Institutes, which provided vocational and general education for working men.
The Wolverhampton Free Library also developed technical, scientific, commercial and general classes.
Teaching first began in 1851 at the School of Art, and the study of art became a key focus – with new buildings, and a new name for the Municipal School of Art in 1885.
By 1903, an educational foundation had firmly been established with over 1,300 students studying courses including coach building, house painting and pattern making.
In 1905, the first student scholarships were awarded.
As student numbers continued to grow, expansion became necessary.
In 1912, the ‘Deanery House’ in Wulfruna Street was bought and in 1920 it was demolished, making way for the iconic Wulfruna building you see today in Wulfruna Street.
The foundation stone of the major new buildings in Wulfruna Street was laid by Prince George in 1931.
The foundation stone was laid by HRH Prince George in 1932 and in 1933 the Wolverhampton and Staffordshire Technical College was born.
With further education traditionally accessible only to the wealthy, the College vowed to ensure that even the most under-privileged men and women would have the opportunity to study a higher education – an ethos nurtured and sustained to the present day.
In 1933, the Wolverhampton Local Authority annual report states: "The college makes ample provision for the general education of young men and women not privileged to obtain their higher education by residence at a University.
Particularly it is the local home of higher scientific and industrial studies."
Courses included science and engineering, and with the creation of a Women’s Department, over a third of the College’s students were women, bucking the traditional all-male trend typical of higher education establishments.
Research was also on the increase, with the College welcoming graduates from universities as honorary members.
By 1938/9 we recorded 2,921 students on our annual statement to government.
One third of those students were women.
The post-war ‘boom’ in education led to a growing demand for a variety of subject areas and in 1945 a music department opened, enrolling an unprecedented 135 students in the first year.
In 1956 the Joint Education Committee of the college noted: "Research is essential feature of any institution of higher learning.
Very good work is being done in applied science, and mechanical engineering is bringing to fruition negotiation with a local firm for sponsored research into problems at heat exchangers".
The 50s also saw the first computer arrive in the college.
The annual report for 1956-7 records: Following a visit of a member of staff to Harwell, the college in competition with eight other colleges was offered the gift of an Electronic Digital Computer.
A number of local firms donated sums of money to cover the cost of maintenance and operation.
In 1957, the College was awarded one of the earliest digital computers in the UK.
Renamed WITCH – Wolverhampton Instrument for Teaching Computation from Harwell – it was the first computer to ever be used at the College and remained a central teaching tool until 1973.
Nearby, at Walsall, a new West Midlands College of Education was created in 1963.
The College was linked to the Walsall local education authority but had a governing body nominated by a cluster of local authorities.
It quickly expanded from its first four-story teaching block and student residences to a site with a substantial number of buildings, including a study block, library, hostels, refectory, physical education facilities and music centre, and over 1,000 teacher trainees by the early 1970s.
By 1964 with the further expansion of Higher Education the college began to provide BA degrees with options in English, Geography, History, Music, and Economics amongst others.
By 1965 the college was offering a degree in Computer Technology.
By 1966, with student numbers at over 6,000, the College began to provide Bachelor’s degrees with options in English, Geography, History, Music, Economics and Computer Technology and the first ever degree ceremony was held.
As the Councils for National Academic Awards (CNAA) was set up after the Robbins report, the Chairman Lord Kings Norton presented the first degrees at the college in 1967.
The college was poised for enhanced status.
On 1st September 1969 the Secretary of State handed over the designation document which states: This instrument records the designation of this institution as a Polytechnic on 1st September 1969.
In commemoration of this on behalf of HM Government I hereby set my seal.
On 1 September 1969, the College was officially designated a Polytechnic.
Comprising five Faculties: Applied Science, Art and Design, Arts, Engineering, and Social Sciences, a further Faculty of Education was established in 1977.
The seventies also saw Wolverhampton develop into a truly international community with students from Iran, Malaysia, and Nigeria.
The delivery of Wolverhampton courses internationally beginning to flourish, with the faculty of Art and Design entering into academic exchange programmes with Alfred University (New York), and the Faculty of Education began consultancy work in Egypt.
In 1983, a second Royal visit, this time from HRH The Duke of Kent, officially opened Wolverhampton Polytechnic as a stage VIII Polytechnic institution, and this was followed by a period of rapid expansion over the next ten years.
A merger with the West Midlands College of Education in 1991 led to the creation of what is now Walsall Campus, and further mergers with Teacher Training Colleges in Wolverhampton and Dudley led to the construction of an ambitious third campus in Telford.
In 1992, Wolverhampton Polytechnic was granted university status and became the University of Wolverhampton.
Today our three faculties offer courses in over 70 different subjects and over 4,000 students graduate from Wolverhampton each year.
We continue to invest in our students, staff, alumni and in the local and international community.
We have invested more than £125 million on campus developments and teaching facilities, including £50 million on improving our facilities at Walsall Campus; the innovative Performance Hub; new and refurbished Students’ Unions and further modernisation of our Learning Centres.
Having invested considerably in campus developments in the past 25 years, the University’s £250 million “Our Vision, Your Opportunity” investment generation programme made a positive impact on the student experience through investment in buildings, facilities, teaching, research and skills training.
The ambitious plans to invest in education, training and economic growth in the region have included the Rosamund Franklin building which focuses on the teaching of science, constructing a new Business School building, refurbishing engineering facilities at the Telford Campus, committing to the regeneration of Springfield Brewery, creating an international campus hub for construction excellence, and the Science, Technology and Prototyping Centre at the Science Park.
This centre has been shortlisted and won a number of awards since opening, including winning the Best Large Commercial Project at the LABC regional awards and also being a national finalist in the same category.
Telford Campus
The purpose-built Telford Campus benefited from a £10 million investment in advanced, new engineering facilities and enhanced courses – a response to the regional and national shortage of qualified engineering graduates, providing students with access to technology at the forefront of engineering developments.
Wolverhampton City Campus
Following on from more than 80 years of providing business education in the city, the University’s new £18 million flagship building for University of Wolverhampton Business School, the in Wolverhampton’s University Quarter, opened its doors in November 2015.
The Lord Swraj Paul Building is home to an executive education suite, innovative teaching and learning spaces, an IT suite, consulting rooms and a central social space and café, and for a regeneration award in this year’s West Midlands Regional RICS Awards 2017.
A £4 million investment to redevelop the food court at Millennium City Building saw improvements made to the main courtyard area, with catering facilities extended and refurbished, and the entrance to the building improved.
An investment of £21 million in the Rosalind Franklin Science Building in the University Quarter provided students with a range of new laboratories which include laminar flow cabinets, micro-biological safety cabinets and fume cupboards.
At the heart of the building is the Outreach Laboratory which provides flexible resources for both local and worldwide schools via internet video links.
Walsall Campus The University invested £17 million in a new three-storey Performance Hub in 2011, enhancing its growing Performing Arts reputation and providing state-of-the-art teaching and performance space for dance, drama and music students.
The new building was built on a former teaching tower and Halls of Residence, and offers dance and drama rehearsal spaces as well as music practice rooms, recording studios and music technology suites.
There is also a theatre space with dressing and changing rooms, a green room and additional performance spaces.
University of Wolverhampton Science Park Built on land at the Science Park, the University has invested £10 million in a new Science, Technology and Prototyping Centre – with a £4.8 million grant from the Growth Deal through the Black Country Local Enterprise Partnership.
The three-storey development will feature high quality offices, labs and workshops.
Springfield Campus
The new Springfield Campus is the culmination of the most ambitious aspect of the University of Wolverhampton’s Our Vision, Your Opportunity programme.
The site of the former Springfield brewery has been transformed into Europe’s largest specialist construction and built environment campus, bringing together businesses and the education sector to maximise impact on the economy.
Since its purchase in 2014, the derelict site has been rejuvenated into a centre of excellence for construction and the built environment, delivering an unbeatable Skills pathway for construction education and training from the age of 14 to senior professionals.
As the home of the Thomas Telford University Technical College, the University’s School of Architecture and Built Environment, and the Elite Centre for Manufacturing Skills, it’s central to our vision of enhancing the student experience and supporting business growth.
The £120 million development is acting as the catalyst for economic and social regeneration, tailored to creating jobs and delivering the technical and professional experts required by the industry.
National Brownfield
The University’s plans to develop a National Brownfield Institute (NBI) is to receive £14.9 million of funding from the Government’s Get Building Fund, which is aimed at projects that could be started within 18 months, create jobs, and generate investment to aid the economic recovery from COVID-19.
This new £17.5 million NBI will research and develop new construction methods and ways of regenerating contaminated land.
The NBI will be a world-class institute providing the facility to develop advanced skills, technologies and methodologies through innovation and partnership with the construction industry; focuses on the practical application of future brownfield regeneration through the work of research teams; and leads policy development, research and innovation, and commercial services for brownfield regeneration.
Combined with the 12-acre Springfield Campus, the NBI will lay the foundation for the delivery of a National Centre for Sustainable Construction and Circular Economy, which will focus on sustainability and the climate change emergency.
Enhanced health facilities
In January 2020, the University opened its new £4.8 million health facilities, which includes a two-storey extension to existing facilities in the Institute of Health.
Students became able to practice skills in a safe environment with a fully enabled Panopto facility.
This allows for the filming of sessions to give students the ability to review their progress and see their work from the perspective of a patient.
The clinical skills facilities include practice labs, which enable students to practice everything from cannulating a patient’s vein to inserting a catheter, all the way to running full-scale patient procedure scenarios such as dealing with sepsis or cardiac chest pain.
There are also facilities for midwives dealing with mothers and new-born babies, children’s nursing facilities, and learning disability facilities.
There is also an anatomage table: a digital table that allows students to virtually dissect anatomy.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/current-students/academic-calendar:
Key dates in the academic calendar for the University of Wolverhampton
Our academic calendar is organised into semesters, each consisting of 12 weeks of teaching activities.
Although each course differs slightly in the way it is organised, the majority of our courses use the timings of these semesters to schedule the delivery of your modules.
The calendar includes a combination of teaching weeks, revision weeks, and assessment weeks.
Unlike schools and colleges, we don’t have half terms, but on occasion, teaching is paused for a week so that students can engage with wider aspects of University life, eg.
Welcome Week and Career Development Week.
Each academic year has three teaching semesters.
You can access your personalised teaching timetable in the myWLV app once you've fully completed your enrolment.
Semester 2 (January 2025 - May 2025)
Please note that dates for future academic years may be subject to change.
WEEK NO.
DATE COMMENCING
UNDERGRADUATE
POSTGRADUATE
EVENTS
1
23/08/2021
2
30/08/2021
06/09/2021
4
13/09/2021
Dissertation hand-in
SEMESTER 1 (S1)
5
20/09/2021
Welcome Week
6
27/09/2021
S1 week 1
7
04/10/2021
S1 week 2
8
11/10/2021
S1 week 3
9
18/10/2021
S1 week 4
10
25/10/2021
S1 week 5
11
01/11/2021
S1 week 6
12
08/11/2021
S1 week 7
13
15/11/2021
S1 week 8
14
22/11/2021
S1 week 9
15
29/11/2021
S1 week 10
16
06/12/2021
S1 week 11
17
13/12/2021
S1 week 12
18
20/12/2021
Non-teaching period
19
27/12/2021
20
03/01/2022
Revision
21
10/01/2022
S1 Assessment
SEMESTER 2 (S2)
22
17/01/2022
Welcome Week (S2 starters)
23
24/01/2022
S2 week 1
24
31/01/2022
S2 week 2
25
07/02/2022
S2 week 3
26
14/02/2022
S2 week 4
S1 Assessment Boards
Career Development Week
27
21/02/2022
S2 week 5
Timetabled classes for S1 resits begin
28
28/02/2022
S2 week 6
29
07/03/2022
S2 week 7
30
14/03/2022
S2 week 8
31
21/03/2022
S2 week 9
32
28/03/2022
S2 week 10
33
04/04/2022
S2 week 11
34
11/04/2022
S1 Resits (levels 3-6 only)
35
18/04/2022
Easter Monday 18/4/22
36
25/04/2022
S2 week 12
37
02/05/2022
May Day Bank Holiday 2 May
38
09/05/2022
S2 Assessment
39
16/05/2022
SEMESTER 3 (S3)
40
23/05/2022
S3 week 1
Dissertation week 1
41
30/05/2022
S3 week 2
Dissertation week 2
Spring Bank Holiday 30 May
42
06/06/2022
S3 week 3
Dissertation week 3
43
13/06/2022
S3 week 4
Dissertation week 4
S2 Assessment Boards
44
20/06/2022
S3 week 5
Dissertation week 5
Intensive resit support classes
45
27/06/2022
S3 week 6
Dissertation week 6
46
04/07/2022
S3 week 7
Dissertation week 7
47
11/07/2022
S3 week 8
Dissertation week 8
S2 Resits and all Resit Examinations
48
18/07/2022
S3 week 9
Dissertation week 9
Graduation Ceremonies
Class of 2021
49
25/07/2022
S3 week 10
Dissertation week 10
50
01/08/2022
S3 week 11
Dissertation week 11
Re-assessment Boards
51
08/08/2022
S3 assessment*
Dissertation week 12
52
15/08/2022
Dissertation week 13
22/08/2022
Dissertation week 14
29/08/2022
Dissertation week 15
05/09/2022
Dissertation week 16
12/09/2022
Dissertation week 17 and hand-in
SEMESTER 1 (S1) 2022-23
19/09/2022
Welcome Week 2022/23
26/09/2022
Class of 2022 Graduations
03/10/2022
10/10/2022
17/10/2022
24/10/2022
31/10/2022
07/11/2022
14/11/2022
21/11/2022
28/11/2022
05/12/2022
12/12/2022
19/12/2022
Non-teaching week
26/12/2022
02/01/2023
Revision week
09/01/2023
S1 Assessments
16/01/2023
23/01/2023
30/01/2023
06/02/2023
13/02/2023
20/02/2023
27/02/2023
06/03/2023
13/03/2023
20/03/2023
27/03/2023
03/04/2023
S1 Resits
10/04/2023
17/04/2023
24/04/2023
01/05/2023
08/05/2023
S2 Assessments
15/05/2023
22/05/2023
29/05/2023
05/06/2023
12/06/2023
19/06/2023
26/06/2023
03/07/2023
10/07/2023
S2 resits
17/07/2023
24/07/2023
31/07/2023
Re-assessment boards
07/08/2023
S3 week 12
14/08/2023
S3 Assessments
53
21/08/2023
28/08/2023
04/09/2023
11/09/2023
Class of 2023 Graduations
18/09/2023
Academic Calendar 2023-24
27/07/26
03/08/26
10/08/26
S3 assessment
17/08/26
24/08/26
31/08/26
07/09/26
14/09/26
21/09/26
28/09/26
05/10/26
12/10/26
19/10/26
26/10/26
02/11/26
09/11/26
16/11/26
23/11/26
30/11/26
07/12/26
14/12/26
Assessment preparation
21/12/26
28/12/26
04/01/27
11/01/27
18/01/27
25/01/27
01/02/27
08/02/27
15/02/27
Semester 1 Award Boards
22/02/27
01/03/27
08/03/27
15/03/27
22/03/27
Semester 1 Resits
29/03/27
05/04/27
12/04/27
19/04/27
26/04/27
03/05/27
10/05/27
17/05/27
24/05/27
31/05/27
07/06/27
14/06/27
21/06/27
Semester 2 Award Boards
28/06/27
05/07/27
Semester 2 Resits and all Resit Exams
12/07/27
19/07/27
26/07/27
02/08/27
Re-assessment Award Boards
09/08/27
16/08/27
23/08/27
30/08/27
06/09/27
13/09/27
20/09/27
27/09/27
04/10/27
11/10/27
18/10/27
25/10/27
01/11/27
08/11/27
15/11/27
22/11/27
29/11/27
06/12/27
13/12/27
20/12/27
27/12/27
03/01/28
10/01/28
17/01/28
24/01/28
31/01/28
07/02/28
14/02/28
21/02/28
28/02/28
06/03/28
13/03/28
20/03/28
27/03/28
03/04/28
10/04/28
17/04/28
24/04/28
01/05/28
08/05/28
15/05/28
22/05/28
29/05/28
05/06/28
12/06/28
19/06/28
26/06/28
03/07/28
10/07/28
17/07/28
24/07/28
31/07/28
07/08/28
14/08/28
21/08/28
28/08/28
04/09/28
11/09/28
18/09/28
25/09/28
02/10/28
09/10/28
16/10/28
23/10/28
30/10/28
06/11/28
13/11/28
20/11/28
27/11/28
04/12/28
11/12/28
18/12/28
25/12/28
01/01/29
08/01/29
S1 Assessment/ Welcome Week (S2 starters)
15/01/29
22/01/29
29/01/29
05/02/29
12/02/29
19/02/29
26/02/29
05/03/29
12/03/29
19/03/29
26/03/29
02/04/29
09/04/29
16/04/29
23/04/29
30/04/29
07/05/29
14/05/29
21/05/29
28/05/29
04/06/29
11/06/29
18/06/29
25/06/29
02/07/29
09/07/29
16/07/29
23/07/29
30/07/29
06/08/29
13/08/29
20/08/29
27/08/29
03/09/29
10/09/29
17/09/29
24/09/29
01/10/29
08/10/29
15/10/29
22/10/29
29/10/29
05/11/29
12/11/29
19/11/29
26/11/29
03/12/29
10/12/29
17/12/29
24/12/29
31/01/29
07/01/30
14/01/30
21/01/30
28/01/30
04/02/30
11/02/30
18/02/30
25/02/30
04/03/30
11/03/30
18/03/30
25/03/30
01/04/30
08/04/30
15/04/30
22/04/30
29/04/30
06/05/30
13/05/30
20/05/30
27/05/30
03/06/30
10/06/30
17/06/30
24/06/30
01/07/30
08/07/30
15/07/30
22/07/30
29/07/30
05/08/30
12/08/30
19/08/30
26/08/30
02/09/30

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/about-us/corporate-information/equality-diversity--inclusion:
To a university like Wolverhampton which has a proud record of serving its communities going back over 180 years, the issues of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion are of paramount importance.
As the University of Opportunity, it is crucial that we do everything we can to enable all individuals to succeed.
This is not simply about promoting acceptance of equal opportunity for all, that is giving everyone the identical opportunity but is more about recognising the different journeys people have in front of them, understanding and meeting their needs.
Our vision is to create an inclusive work and study environment by:
We are currently reviewing our EDI policy following the recent Office for Students guidance and the Supreme Court judgment, and will provide an updated document once it is revised and approved through normal governance routes; it is currently suspended.
Please note that our policy reflects the law in terms of biological sex and single-sex spaces; staff and students are expected to use facilities related to their sex.
For those who are uncomfortable with this there are gender neutral toilets available around our campuses.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/about-us/contacts-and-maps:
Contact details for the University of Wolverhampton, including phone numbers, directions, and email addresses.
How can we help?

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/about-us/corporate-information:
Explore all areas within Corporate Information

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/about-us/corporate-information/safeguarding:
The University of Wolverhampton believes that all individuals have a right to learn and develop within a safe environment and is committed to protecting children and adults who may be at risk of abuse, harm or neglect.
The University is committed to promoting the welfare of children and adults at risk of abuse, harm or neglect; who chose to study at the University either as a student or an apprenticeship learner.
The University of Wolverhampton takes seriously its responsibility to safeguard and promote the welfare of any member of the University community and to work together with other agencies to ensure that adequate arrangements are in place to identify, assess, and support any member of the University community who may be suffering from abuse, harm or neglect; or is at risk of being drawn into terrorism and being radicalised.
The safeguarding of children and adults at risk in addition to all of the wider University community consisting of staff, students, apprenticeship learners, visitors and contractors engaged by the University and anyone who may come into contact with a child or an adult at risk; as part of their work; or associated activities.
The policy is applicable in respect of all activities, including leisure centre activities and research activities.
All members of staff who come into contact with children and/or adults at risk are in a position of trust and are responsible for being aware of this and should act accordingly in ensuring their role in the University’s duty of care is fully carried out.
Confidential reporting for staff and students
You should report all safeguarding concerns immediately by completing the confidential form .
Angela Spence is the University Governor responsible for Safeguarding.
Dr Clare Dickens MBE is a Designated Safeguarding Lead, she is the Associate Director of Student Life and Independent Chair of Wolverhampton’s Suicide Prevention Stakeholders Forum.
Leigh Clarke is a Deputy Designated Safeguarding Lead, and the Director of Corporate Compliance .
Alison Hawkins is a Deputy Designated Safeguarding Lead, and a Health and Safety Advisor based in the Health and Safety department.
Natalie Freeman is a Deputy Designated Safeguarding Lead, and a Health and Safety Advisor based in the Health and Safety department.
Donna-Louise is the Head of Operational Safeguarding (Students) and Institutional Lead for Care Experienced and Estranged Students.
Please see the link below for any Safeguarding online drop in bookings:
https://outlook.office365.com/owa/calendar/Safeguarding1@livewlvac.onmicrosoft.com/bookings/
Child sexual exploitation (CSE) is a type of sexual abuse.
It occurs when a person or group takes advantage of an imbalance of power, and a young person is exploited by being given things, like gifts, drugs, money, status and affection, in exchange for performing sexual activities.
The victim may have been sexually exploited even if the sexual activity appears consensual.
Children and young people are often tricked into believing they're in a loving and consensual relationship.
This is called grooming.
These young people may trust their abuser and not understand that they're being abused.
Child sexual exploitation can also occur through the use of technology and does not necessarily have to involve physical contact.
Anybody can be a perpetrator of CSE, no matter their age, gender or race.
The relationship could be framed as friendship, someone to look up to or romantic.
Children and young people who are exploited may also be used to 'find' others to join groups.
Child Criminal exploitation is abuse when children/young people are manipulated and coerced into committing crimes.
Gangs are a way of exploiting young children by grooming them.
Gang membership can be linked to illegal activity, especially organised criminal gangs involved in trafficking, drug dealing and violent crimes.
County Lines is a police term for urban gangs exploiting young people into moving drugs or money from a hub into other markets, suburban areas and coastal towns using dedicated mobile phone lines.
This can involve children being trafficked away from their home area and staying in accommodation whilst selling and manufacturing drugs.
Forced marriage is a marriage in which one or more of the parties are married without their consent or against their will.
Violence, threats, or any other form of coercion is used to cause a person to enter into marriage.
Threats can be physical or emotional, and psychological.
Forced marriage is illegal in England and Wales.
This includes taking someone overseas to force them to marry (whether or not the forced marriage takes place) and marrying someone who lacks the mental capacity to consent to the marriage (whether they’re pressured to or not).
Homelessness is lacking stable and appropriate housing.
People can be categorized as homeless if they are: living on the streets (primary homelessness); moving between temporary shelters, including houses of friends, family and emergency accommodation (secondary homelessness); living in private boarding houses without a private bathroom or security of tenure (tertiary homelessness).
Homelessness presents a real risk to a child’s welfare.
Indicators that a family may be at risk of homelessness include household debt, rent arrears, domestic abuse and anti-social behaviour, and the family being asked to leave a property.
Any designated safeguarding lead (or deputies) should be aware of contact details and referral routes into the Local Housing Authority so they can raise concerns as soon as possible.
Most parents or carers who drink alcohol or use drugs are not at risk to children, but if their drinking or drug use becomes harmful, this is substance misuse, and it can stop them from providing safe care to children, especially when combined with other features such as domestic violence, mental illness and should prompt careful consideration as to how families can be supported and where necessary children/young people protected.
Children and young people can also place themselves at risk through their own use of drugs or alcohol.
This activity increases their vulnerability to other forms of harm.
Substance misuse can have negative effects on children and young people at different stages in their lives.
These include physical and emotional abuse or neglect, behavioural or emotional problems, having to care for parents or siblings and poor attendance at school or low grades, to name just a few.
Abuse linked to faith or belief is where a belief could cause concerns for a child’s welfare in witchcraft, spirit or demonic possession, ritual or satanic abuse or when practices linked to faith or belief are harmful to a child.
For example, significant harm (including murder) can occur because of concerted efforts to ‘excise’ or ‘deliver’ evil from a child or vulnerable adult.
Fear of the supernatural is also used to make children comply with being trafficked for domestic slavery or sexual exploitation.
Gender-based violence refers to harmful acts directed at an individual based on their gender.
Gender-based violence is a serious violation of human rights and a life-threatening health and protection issue.
Gender-based violence covers a spectrum of violence and abuse such as sexual, physical, mental and economic harm inflicted either in public or private.
It also includes threats of violence, coercion and manipulation.
It is usually committed primarily but not exclusively against women by men.
Hazing or initiation ceremonies refer to the practice of rituals, challenges, and other activities involving harassment, risk, abuse, pain or humiliation used to initiate a person into a group.
College or university hazing often entails excessive alcohol consumption and ritualized pain endurance.
It may include physical or psychological abuse.
Radicalisation is defined as the process by which people come to support terrorism and extremism and, in some cases, to then participate in terrorist groups.
Children and young people who are at risk of radicalisation may have low self-esteem or be victims of bullying or discrimination.
Extremists might target them and tell them they can be part of something special.
Radicalisation can be really difficult to spot.
Some signs include isolating themselves from family and friends, unwillingness or inability to discuss their views, a sudden disrespectful attitude towards others and increased secretiveness, especially around internet use.
However, these signs don't necessarily mean a child is being radicalised – it may be normal teenage behaviour or a sign that something else is wrong.
Modern slavery is the severe exploitation of other people for personal or commercial gain.
People can become entrapped and controlled and can face violence or threats, be forced into inescapable debt, or have their passport taken away and are being threatened with deportation.
Many fall into this oppressive trap simply because they were trying to escape poverty or insecurity, improve their lives and support their families.
Human trafficking includes, at a minimum, forms of sexual exploitation, threats or coercion to transport, recruit or harbour people to exploit them by forced labour, slavery or practices similar to slavery, criminality, marriage, servitude or organ removal.
Training resources for Safeguarding
Sexting is sending, receiving, or forwarding sexually explicit messages, photographs, or videos, primarily between mobile phones, of oneself to others.
It may also include the use of a computer or any digital device.
Under 18s, sharing images and videos via text message, email, social media, or mobile messaging apps has become commonplace.
Imagery of a sexual nature, however, via photos or videos involving anyone under the age of 18 is illegal.
Sexting between adults is legal, but it’s against the law to send a nude or any sexual image or video to someone under 18.
Asking for or viewing sexual images of someone who’s under 18 is also a crime.
Sharing or threatening to share someone else’s nudes or sexual videos without their consent is against the law, even if they are over 18.
If somebody physically hurts you or verbally abuses you, that’s bullying.
Specific types of bullying can include homophobic bullying based on your sexual orientation, racist bullying, religious bullying, bullying because you are different, sexist bullying focusing on you being of the opposite sex and cyberbullying targeting you online, often anonymously.
Unlike bullying offline, online bullying can follow a person wherever they go, via social networks, gaming and mobile phones.
It's usually repeated over a long period of time and can hurt children, young people and vulnerable adults both physically and emotionally.
At its worst, bullying has driven people to self-harm and even suicide.
Bullying, which takes place in educational places, can be a barrier to learning and have serious consequences to mental health and have a lasting effect on young people’s lives well into adulthood.
Domestic abuse is a pattern of behaviour on the part of the abuser designed to control, coerce or threaten a partner.
It can happen at any point in a relationship, including after you have split up.
Anyone forced to change their behaviour because they are frightened of their partner or ex-partner’s reaction is experiencing abuse.
Domestic abuse can happen to anyone; however, statistics show most domestic abuse is typically carried out by men and experienced by women.
Domestic abuse is a crime and never the fault of the person who is experiencing it.
Female genital mutilation (FGM) is a procedure where the female genitals are deliberately cut, injured or changed, but there's no medical reason for this to be done.
It's also known as female circumcision or cutting and by other terms.
It is usually carried out on young girls and is a form of child abuse.
It's dangerous, can seriously harm the long term health of women and girls and is a criminal offence in the UK.
UK communities that are at risk of FGM include Somali, Kenyan, Ethiopian, Sierra Leonean, Sudanese, Egyptian, Nigerian, Eritrean, Yemeni, Kurdish and Indonesian women and girls.
Honour based violence or abuse is a collection of practices used to control behaviour within families in order to protect perceived cultural and religious beliefs and honour.
Violence can occur when perpetrators perceive that a relative has shamed the family and/or community by breaking their honour code and can include multiple perpetrators.
Honour-based violence includes physical abuse, psychological pressure (strict monitoring, humiliation, threats), forced marriage, abandonment, forced suicide and honour killing.
Mental health refers to cognitive, behavioural, and emotional well-being.
It is about how people think, feel, and behave.
Mental health can affect daily living, relationships, and physical health.
However, factors in people’s lives, interpersonal connections, and physical factors can all contribute to mental health disruptions.
Mental health is important at every stage of life, from childhood and adolescence through to adulthood.
Conditions such as stress, depression, and anxiety can all affect mental health and disrupt a person’s routine.
Mental health problems are common, but help is available.
People with mental health problems can get better, and many recover completely.
Neglect includes not being provided with enough food or the right kind of food or not being taken proper care of.
Leaving you without help to wash or change dirty or wet clothes, not getting you to a doctor when you need one, or not making sure you have the right medicines all count as neglect.
The below 'Keeping Apprentices Safe’ booklet sets out the importance of Safeguarding and PREVENT at the University, our Zero-tolerance approach to any forms of discrimination, prejudice or bullying and harassment and sets out our Safeguarding Pledge.
It focuses on the support that is available to apprentice learners and how you can reach out to us for support as your employers.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/open-day:
Whether you're interested in studying with us or you've already applied, attend one of our university open events and see what we have to offer.
We welcome all prospective students to our undergraduate and postgraduate open days, where you can find out more about our courses, campus, facilities, accommodation, and so much more.
Postgraduate  Open Evening
Discover More About Postgraduate  Open Evening
We offer travel reimbursements for on-campus Open Days and Applicant Days.
Coming by car?
Click here to find information on where to park while on-campus.
Whether you're travelling by bus, train or car, click here to find out how to get to us.
Detailed information on the locations of all the disabled parking spaces across all our campuses.
Click here for public transport accessibility information and additional support for getting to us on campus.
Learn more about our impressive campuses tailored to specific subjects.
Speak to students about university life, explore our Students’ Union and more.
On open days, universities open their doors to prospective students so they can see facilities, campuses and accommodation, and speak to current students and lecturers.
Open days are a chance for students to learn more about the courses they're interested in, and help them imagine their life on campus.
For students, open days are a great way to get an insight into a few different universities, and help you when choosing where to go.
While researching universities online is helpful, attending an open day will give you a first-hand experience of what the facilities, campus, and accommodation are like.
Key benefits of attending open days include:
University choices and applications begin in Year 12 or 13, with most students attending open days in Year 13.
However, if you'd like to get ahead, attending open days in Year 12 will give you extra time to view the universities you're interested in.
University open days are open to all prospective students and their parents or guardians.
Bringing along a family member is helpful, as they're likely to think of questions you hadn't considered, and will provide a soundboard for you when considering each option throughout your selection process.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/open-day/applicant-day:
If you have applied to study a course with us, join us on campus or online at one of our Applicant Days or Evening events.
These events are an opportunity for you to learn more about your course, next steps and meet peers ahead of starting University.
Applicant Days are specifically for anyone who has made an application to an undergraduate course at the University of Wolverhampton .
It's not only a great opportunity for you to gain more-in-depth information about the course that you have applied for, but you will also be able to:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/accessibility-and-inclusion-on-campus:
We're striving to make our on-campus events as accessible and inclusive as possible for all.
We know that for some, attending university events may seem daunting or difficult if you have a disability or require extra support.
That's why we have listed all the facilities and support available at our events to make your visit easier.
Speak to someone
For all on-campus events, you can speak to representatives from the Disability and Inclusion Team about accessibility and student life at our Wolverhampton City, Telford, and Walsall campuses.
Want to speak to someone before you attend an event?
As well as declaring any disabilities or additional needs on your event booking, we invite you to contact our Disability and Inclusion Team via email: disability-inclusion@wlv.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/open-day/campus-and-accommodation-tours:
We offer both Campus Tours and Accommodation tours at our Wolverhampton City Campus and Walsall Campus.
If you are interested in visiting Telford Campus , we recommend booking on one of our Open Days , as we run tours through ou t the event .
You have the option of booking for just a Campus Tour, Accommodation Tour or you are welcome to book on both!
Please do take the opportunity to bring your parent/carer/partner/loved one with you if you wish – you can bring up to two additional guests on your tour.
Find out more about our Campus and Accommodation Tours.
Led by friendly student ambassadors our walking tours are a great way to see the campus and facilities such as our brand new Students’ Union and library (City Campus), our sports facilities, social spaces, refectory, lecture theatres and more!
Our tours last approximately 30-45 minutes and are conducted outside (so check in advance if you might need to bring an umbrella!)
All campus tours are ground-floor accessible, and adjustments can be made during the day , just speak to our friendly Ambassadors about any preferences you have.
You also have the valuable opportunity to chat to our Ambassadors on the tour who themselves are current students, so you can gain that real student perspective of what it’s like to study with us.
Accommodation Tours allow you to see a dressed example of on-campus accommodation, and provide an opportunity to ask our Accommodation Services team any questions you may have.
They can give you details about what options are available, as well as costs and anything else you want to know about securing accommodation.
Accommodation tours take approximately 20-30 minutes , allowing time for you to ask any questions you may have.
If you are interested in Health, Nursing, Midwifery, Physiotherapy, Podiatry, Paramedic Science, Sports and Exercise, Teaching or Education (including Early Childhood and Special Educational Needs and Inclusion) - please visit Walsall Campus.
For Engineering, unfortunately we do not have Student Ambassador Campus Tours at Telford campus – please see below where alternative tours may be available virtually or at one of our Open Days.
For all other subject areas - please visit Wolverhampton City Campus
We’ll send you details before the day, including information for directions, parking and maps.
Links are below if you need the information to plan your journey in advance.
For Wolverhampton City Campus Maps, Parking and Public Transport, click here .
For Walsall Campus Maps, Parking and Public Transport click here .
For Accessible Transport information click here .
Open Days
Find out more on our University Open Days page.
We welcome all prospective students to our undergraduate and postgraduate open days, where you can find out more about our courses, campus, facilities, accommodation , and so much more.
You can find out about our upcoming events here .
Speak to Our Students
Whether you can make one of our tours or not, you have an opportunity to speak directly to our students about any aspect of university life, from timetables to making friends.
Check out our Ambassador Platform.
Questions?
We are unable at the moment to offer bespoke tours on different dates or locations.
If you have special requirements for a bespoke visit, or have questions regarding student support, such as disability support, please contact our Student Life team in the first instance.
If you have any further questions, please get in touch with our friendly Enquiries Team, who will be happy to help!
You can email them enquiries@wlv.ac.uk or call them on 01902 322 222.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/corporate-communications-team:
The Corporate Content and Communications team look after internal and external communications, respond to press enquires and manage the University's social media channels
Please contact the Communications team if you have a press or media enquiry.
If you have a general enquiry about the University (courses, finance, events, for example) please contact:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/follow-our-socials:
Follow us on social media to keep up with all of the latest news, events and updates.
Facebook
Twitter/X
Instagram
YouTube

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/staff:
For all your news, information and resources
Something missing?
Contact the Digital Content and Communications team by email: comms@wlv.ac.uk
Academic Calendar
Campus Security
Catering
Travel and transport
WLV Gym
Library
Facilities support services
Health and Safety
Risk Management and Business Continuity
British Sign Language interpreters
Business and community engagement
Continuous Improvement
Digital Services
Digital Content and Communications (including PR, staff and student news, social media) on staff intranet
External Engagement (including marketing, design, web)
Facilities hub
Finance on staff intranet
Funding Compliance Office
Health and safety
Human Resources on staff intranet
Procurement on staff intranet
Quality and Collaboration Unit
Strategic Planning Office
The Registry
University Secretary
Agresso
Canvas
eLearning portal
e:Vision
Log a help call to Estates & Faculties through Planon (previously HRAMS)
Module Timetables
SAMS
Self-Service portals for HR and IT
Staff email
Staff and student directory
Tableau
Log into T4
Submit staff or student news
Create a new staff profile - new form (or edit an existing profile )
Contact the Web team
Add an event to the external events calendar
Report an issue with a course page
How to use our website templates
Log a query using the HR Portal go to the HR intranet pages for more information and resources
Find guidance on policies and processes and log a ticket with the HR team
Raise a purchase order, check your leave and pay, and book your place on a development course
Help yourself to lots of useful information and top tips, and raise a ticket with IT Support
If you're not able to submit a form, please email: equality@wlv.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/current-students:
Your home for student news, information and resources.
Find your programme details and log an ASK@WLV help call
Your virtual learning environment (VLE)
Find your teaching timetable using the module codes for your course
Stay up to date with the latest information from the University and your tutors
Find out more about life at the University of Wolverhampton.
Getting involved with events and activities is a great way to make the most of your time at University.
Here's how we keep you updated with everything going on:
Don't forget, you can find everything you need in the myWLV app .
You can also bookmark the Student Homepage ( www.wlv.ac.uk/current-students ) to help you access the information you need throughout your studies whenever you need it.
Log onto e:Vision to discover FAQs or to log a help call
Alternatively, call 01902 518 518 (Monday to Friday from 10am to 5pm)

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/current-students/careers-enterprise-and-the-workplace:
Our team is here to help you navigate your career journey, throughout your course and beyond.
We're open 9am-5pm, and available via a range of contact methods, including telephone, email and video chat.
The Careers Team are working hard to support our students and graduates.
We can help you investigate your careers options, sort out your career plans and develop the important skills you need to make these plans happen, and we offer practical support at all stages of your job applications.
To book your 1-2-1 appointment, log into Career SPACE .
We are happy to help in person, via telephone or Microsoft Teams.
If you already have a CV, application form or personal statement that you would like help or advice with, contact one of our Careers Advisors by emailing it to: careers@wlv.ac.uk .
We will aim to respond within five working days.
You can also submit your CV for review via CV360 , our digital tool offering detailed AI generated feedback.
For any other queries please email: careers@wlv.ac.uk or call: 01902 323400
Monday to Friday, 09:00 to 17:00.
Stay tuned to our Facebook , X and LinkedIn pages for updates on our additional in-person and online services.
The Enterprise team supports students and graduates in developing entrepreneurial skills and also provides support to those looking to set up their own business.
We offer the following; use of a dedicated co-working space at the University of Wolverhampton Science Park, support with business registration, use of a business address, access to workshops, signposting to opportunities, business start-up competitions, and the opportunity to network with other businesses.
Feel free to get in touch if you require any kind of business support and follow our social media pages to receive latest updates.
We are open Monday to Friday, 9am-5pm.
Complete this Expression of Interest Form
Call us: 01902 518 960
Email us: enterprise@wlv.ac.uk
Stay tuned to our Facebook , Instagram , LinkedIn and Twitter pages for updates.
If you are looking for a part-time job, sandwich placement, work experience, international opportunity, graduate or volunteering position, contact The Workplace .
For all enquiries please email: Careers@wlv.ac.uk or call: 01902 323 400.
We aim to respond within 24 hours on week days.
We are happy to help via telephone or Microsoft Teams , or you can book an appointment with us via Career SPACE .
You can register and view the jobs at the JOBS Board .
Now that you’re in your final year of university, it’s natural to start thinking about what comes next.
Whatever goals you have in mind, you can book a final year support appointment with one of our advisors.
Final year career support
Careers and The Workplace Privacy Notice | Service Level Agreement

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/current-students/student-support:
We are all here to help.
Not sure where to start?
Just ask.
ASK@WLV is the first point of contact for all student queries and support
In this series of videos, we introduce you to the wide range of support services available to help you keep on track with your studies and to flourish on your personal and professional development journey.
Find out more and access support below.
Self-help can be a good starting point if something is troubling you and you aren't sure if you feel ready to talk to someone at the moment.
It allows you to tackle problems like stress, anxiety and depression in your own time and at a pace that suits you.
Log onto e:Vision to discover FAQs or to log a helpcall to ASK@WLV .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/current-students/course-guides:
Course Guides can be found on e:Vision .
Go to the ' My Study - Course ' page, then click on the ' Course Info .' link, below the Course Details.
Please note, that these course guides relate to the course content we currently offer and may change in the future.
Please contact the Faculty or Institute that runs your course if you would like to find out more specific course information or if you plan to apply for future years.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/current-students/student-voice:
Our students are invaluable to us and continuously help us to identify what works well across the University and where improvements could be made.
As a student at the University of Wolverhampton, you are part of a community.
Your voice in this community matters, and there are many ways to ensure you have a say in your university experience.
The more you put in, the more you get out.
We’re always listening to student feedback and reflecting to ensure that our offer to students is the best it can be.
We have listened to our users and implemented service improvements to help remove barriers and make it easier for you to access the help and information you need, when you need it.
We have launched the Student Life Centre.
We have extended our face-to-face presence for student access with a newly developed Student Life Centre and pop-up locations across campuses.
As well as dedicated Support to Study and Safeguarding bookable drop-ins.
We have launched a new Student Life brand in collaboration with our students and we have invested in the UK's first Cubbie space.
We have reconfigured the mental health and wellbeing team to ensure a consistent and timely response to registrations within a 48-hour period.
Students can select a time and mode of assessment that suits their schedule.
We have also invested in a dedicated University of Wolverhampton mental and social health support line, WLV Student Life Connect .
This is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, along with free access to the My Possible Self app .
We have launched a range of psycho-educational sessions ( online wellbeing workshops ) that students can access without registration.
Access mental health and wellbeing support here.
We have reduced thresholds to register with the Accessibility, Disability and Inclusion team to include offering adjustments to those students who are pregnant and navigating menopause.
We have expanded our dedicated Student Money and Hardship Team and remain on offer to support with advocacy, signposting, financial welfare advice as well as emergency loans and hardship payments.
We remain one of the few universities that offer access to fully funded Dyslexia Assessments.
What's more...
We understand that financial barriers can become study barriers and effect a student's ability to engage meaningfully.
We continue to offer a £300 access bursary to all full-time home undergrad students, through WLV Wallet .
We have expanded our Student Safeguarding provision with a dedicated Head of operational safeguarding role who works closely with campus security colleagues, along with continued investment in our dedicated SafeZone app .
We have upgraded student University PCs to Win 11 and are getting great feedback about them being much faster and more responsive.
And we have added more laptops to the loan scheme .
We have improved onboarding with the Geteduroam app , and have introduced better resources as well as pop-up sessions at enrolment hubs to help you get online quickly and easily.
We provide digital orientation resources through pre-arrival emails and the Get Set Badge .
We now offer drop-in IT support in the Student Life Centre.
This service is proving particularly popular!
We introduced a new search feature and course templates to standardise the layout.
We're pleased to be launching a new Digital Skills Badge .
This bite-sized course covers the basics of cyber, data, and AI.
You can complete it any time, at your own pace and share your badge on LinkedIn.
We also provide training on accessibility software.
Because you told us you want to attend Skills for Learning workshops but they sometimes clash with your lecture timetable, we also run evening and Saturday workshops throughout the semester.
If you’d prefer not to wait, no problem, get in touch at skills@wlv.libanswers.com for further help.
Furthermore, we deliver academic skills workshops as part of module lectures.
In the 23-24 academic year, we spent an additional 688 hours with students in these sessions, compared to the previous year!
The Library service – and particularly our Skills for Learning support – is now part of the new Get Set Digital Badge.
This induction course is promoted to all students at the beginning of the year, and includes guidance on accessing our referencing, writing and research support.
By December 2024, over 4,500 students had accessed this resource.
We extended weekend opening during Semester One and Two at City and Walsall campuses.
Harrison and Walsall libraries are now open 10am-10pm on both Saturday and Sunday, and continue to be 24/7 during peak demand periods.
We have now fully updated the IT Suite with a new spacious layout and a range of different PC study desks.
Pods, booths, and new planters break up the space to make it feel more welcoming.
Now you've said: “The third floor feels fresh and spacious!”
You also said there was not enough power sockets and that those we did have were not accessible easily.
We have installed lots of additional plug sockets and our Estates & Facilities team have maximised the available power in the building.
96% of the study spaces on the third-floor silent area now have accessible power.
Now you've said: “The space is much more organised and the separate work spaces with plugs are really handy.”
The ground floor layout has been completely updated with new booths, tables, planters, and an updated Skills for Learning area.
New carpets and refreshed painting throughout the building make all floors cleaner and brighter.
The toilets have also had a refresh.
Now you've said:
“The space is more open, bright and accessible.” “Feels more contemporary.” “Welcoming and friendly.” “The library appears much cleaner, it has better study spaces.” “Looks welcoming, bright and spacious.”
This past year the University has focussed on improving your experience of administration during your time with us.
Starting with getting you re-enrolled as quickly and easily as possible , we introduced enrolment hubs as one-stop shops to resolve any issues you had and simplified the re-enrolment process.
We have also updated a number of policies to make them clearer and fairer for our students.
You will have seen that we have been using video shorts to help you understand our policies and the wide-range of services at the university that work to ensures you are able to achieve your goals.
Find video guides here .
For our students who had a difficult previous year and were required to repeat some of their study, we launched our ‘Back on Track’ initiative that provided support and encouragement for such students to re-enrol and get back on track to complete their qualification.
As you look towards the completion of your qualification, we have revised our graduation ceremonies (held within a magnificent new venue) to make them even more of a spectacle and celebration for you.
The University and Students' Union work collaboratively to keep student voices at the heart of the conversations and development.
Annual surveys, like the NSS, are an excellent way for universities to collate and analyse data on student satisfaction.
But you don't need to wait for a survey to get your voice heard.
You can have your say all year round in a variety of ways, including:
Student Voice is not just one-way communication; it's about enabling dialogue and creating space for collaboration.
We work closely with the Student's Union to get a deeper understanding of your views.
Key themes are also highlighted through your tutors and academic coaches, so regularly engaging with them can enhance your experience and the experience of future students.
Both quantitative data (stats from surveys) and qualitative data (i.e.
what you tell us) is collated, analysed and fed back to the relevant departments and areas.
In particular, we're looking out for what's important to you, what's worked well, and what we can improve on.
Your views are integral to the improvements we make to your course and to student services.
We take on board what you say and ensure that the student voice is represented in key decision-making across the University.
What you tell us can trigger a change in a process or system, help us develop our infrastructures and allow us to invest in areas that matter to you.
What's more, engaging with our service users helps us to understand the impact of changes on your everyday experience.
Of course, it's no good to make improvements if you don't know about it!
We'll communicate with you in various ways throughout your academic journey at the University and beyond.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/current-students/student-ambassadors:
What is a student ambassador?
A student ambassador is a current student of the university who engages with enquirers, applicants and our wider community to help answer questions, provide reassurance and support them in their higher education journey.
Whilst they are able to support with application and admission enquiries where appropriate, they are always ready to talk about what it is like to study at our institution, or the great opportunities to join clubs and societies, or where is best place to eat and socialise, in fact any of the important questions regarding student life here in Wolverhampton.
We have an amazing team of over 200 student ambassadors who represent the University through a wide range of work opportunities including Open Days, UCAS events and school/college events.
They also support many essential university functions such as nurturing, clearing and enrolment.
Interested?
Take a look at the application process:
If you would like to apply to the Wolverhampton Student Ambassador Scheme please complete the Expression of Interest form here .
We will let you know as soon as the full application form is available during August 2025 and send you the link to apply.
Full applications will close during October 2025 and you will be contacted to inform you if you have been selected for assessment.
Assessment Dates for 2025/6 are to be confirmed.
You will be assessed upon your engagement, participation and contribution to a number of activities, Some will be group activities and some will be individual.
It is also a chance to meet some of our current ambassadors and talk to them about their experience as an ambassador.
Training dates for 2025/6 are to be confirmed.
You are required to attend a full training session in order to qualify to be a student ambassador.
This is a great opportunity to hear about all the different work opportunities you will have an opportunity to bid for and meet some of the teams in the university who use the student ambassadors to support their activities.
When you have completed the required training to be a Student Ambassador you will be referred over to our external Compliance and Payroll contacts at Adecco.
You will be sent a link to register your personal details on a Microsoft Forms sheet (Name, email, student ID etc).
Once this has been completed, a member of the Adecco team will contact you to book an in-person appointment to conduct Employment Checks and go through the process in full detail.
The appointment will require you to bring Right to Work documents which will be discussed when booking the appointment.
Once you have met with Adecco and they have confirmed you are now fully onboarded to the Student Ambassador Programme, you will be able to bid for work.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/alumni:
The Alumni & Development Office builds lifelong relationships with former students through a global community of 140,000 graduates from 130 countries worldwide.
You can access a host of benefits and services, including a range of discounts, career support, mentoring, the opportunity to join social and professional networks, assistance in organising reunions and contacting classmates, and more.
In addition, there is an extensive volunteer programme and numerous charitable donation opportunities, allowing graduates and supporters to give back through time, expertise and money, to support current students, the University and communities around the world.
And remember, keep your details up to date with us.
Stay in touch!
Entries close Monday 8th September 2025
Discover how we continue to support our graduates

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/alumni/benefits:
Explore the range of support available for alumni.
Explore benefits exclusive for our alumni
With WLV Gym locations at both City and Walsall campuses you can take advantage of discounted prices for alumni on gym memberships, including: fitness classes, courts, swimming and sports hall hire.
A special alumni discount rate is in place: £15pm for access to all campus sports centres.
For further information or to arrange a membership email or visit the WLV Gym webpage
Our alumni get discounted prices at Arena Theatre showings.
View What's On at the Arena Theatre .
Also, alumni are eligible for discounted rates for venue hire.
Simply quote " WLV ALUMNI OFFER " when making a booking in person, online or over the phone.
Offering three very different and flexible spaces, the theatre is ideal for your play, conference, exhibition, meeting or seminar:
Offering a range of performing arts facilities unrivalled in the surrounding area, The Performance Hub is the performing arts venue for the University of Wolverhampton, Walsall Campus.
Featuring one of the most technically advanced small theatre spaces in the country, The Performance Hub is the perfect venue to to host your performances and support your activities in the Creative Industries.
You can enjoy reduced hire rates on our range of facilities in dance, drama, music and conferencing; whether you need space to rehearse, record or create.
All facilities are available to hire and University of Wolverhampton alumni can benefit from 25% off venue hire in the first 3 years after your graduation and then 10% off thereafter.
To make an enquiry about hiring the Performance Hub please contact: Tel: 01902 518 782
For information about scheduled graduation ceremonies please visit the below link.
Ceremonies webpage.
Graduates of the University of Wolverhampton may be entitled to a 20% loyalty discount on tuition fees for on-site Postgraduate courses.
To find out more about the discount and how to apply please visit this page .
The University of Wolverhampton Business School is committed to helping regional businesses find new ways to recover and adapt.
Now, more than ever, there is a significant need for the Business School and the wider University to work with businesses in our community and beyond, to share our knowledge and expertise during this unprecedented time.
Our team is working with business organisations across the West Midlands to offer a free package of support from our experts, drawing on years of research and practical business experience.
Our package of support consists of a variety of live webinar events, podcasts, and blogs to help your business:
Visit Us online to access a wealth of knowledge, opportunities and gain professional expertise and advice.
Are you planning to visit your alma mata?
Please contact us at alumni@wlv.ac.uk to let us know - we can help you with campus access, providing tours, visa support and answer any other questions that you have.
Work That offers online health and wellness services ranging from personal training, nutrition guidance, pilates, meditation classes, stretch, strength and more.
They help clients build confidence in themselves and their body’s with attentive coaching, encouragement and enjoyable workouts.
They offer 1-2-1 bespoke training and classes, and offer a special discount code for University of Wolverhampton alumni.
Discount Code:
WLVAlumni works for all individual classes, personal training sessions and stretch sessions.
WLVAlumniBundle works for all packages, including personal training bundles and the Lifestyle Reset Programme.
Find our monthly class subscription through this private link, where the discount has already been applied.
This discount code will get you 20% off all of our services.
Website: www.workthat.co.uk
Take a trip down memory lane, show family and friends where you studied, and what's what's changed and what's stayed the same!
To arrange personal around campus please email us .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/alumni/benefits/graduate-services:
Graduate Services: Here to help with transcripts, replacement certificates, confirmation letters, and award verifications—whatever you need, we've got you covered!
e:Vision is your quickest solution!
Access it anytime to view results or instantly generate important documents.
Go to My Study > Graduation to create PDFs, email documents, or order hard copies.
And remember— e:Vision isn’t just for current students.
It’s for all graduates, forever!
Order certificates via the graduation page on e:Vision .
They aren’t sent automatically, but requesting won’t impact attending a ceremony.
Get in touch with ASK@WLV

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/alumni/get-involved:
Do something impactful today and give back.
By sharing your knowledge, skills and experience you can be an inspiration to current students, support fellow alumni, and create global professional networks.
Together, our alumni community can inspire the next generation and shape the future of the University.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/alumni/make-a-donation:
We want our alumni to be proud of their alma mater and the work that we're doing to provide the best experience for students and opportunities for all.
As a charity exempt by status, the University of Wolverhampton can receive philanthropic donations to help the University achieve some amazing things.
Whether you are interested in supporting students directly with scholarships or graduation prizes, or contributing to our student hardship funds; or donating to one of our world-changing research projects, your gift will make a huge difference to the University.
You can find out more about some of these projects:
Or if there's another project at the University you'd like to support, please contact: alumni@wlv.ac.uk .
Thank you for your generous gift, and we hope you take pride in the impact it will have.
The University of Wolverhampton is registered with the Fundraising Regulator, so you can make a donation with confidence that we will treat your generosity in a legal, open, honest and respectful way.
You can learn more about the Fundraising Regulator on their website www.fundraisingregulator.org.uk

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/lib/info:
The University Library is at the heart of student academic life and offers helpful support and advice to help you with your studies.
Welcome.
Below you will find some helpful links to get you exploring what the University Library can offer you.
If you are new to the university, you may find our Library Induction page a great starting point.
LibrarySearch
Inter-Library Loans
Room booking
My Account

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/lib/resources:
The following subject headings will take you to specific resources that have been researched by Academic Librarians in your subject.
There is a wealth of information regarding electronic resources, subject guides, key databases and top websites to aid your study, as well the latest news surrounding your subject area.
Use the dropdown menu to filter databases by subject
LibrarySearch - The Library Catalogue The new search engine for finding University of Wolverhampton resources
Databases A-Z Full listing of our databases, including image databases and current trials
Journal Search Access to the University's electronic journals and books through LibrarySearch, or via BrowZine journal library
eTextbooks Find out more about the eTextbooks provided by the University Library
E-books Key books to your desktop
WIRE The University's open access repository
Google Scholar Provides a simple way to search for scholarly literature

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/its:
Yes you do.
As soon as you have enrolled and created your IT account.
Using your own laptop, open a browser and go to https://office.com Log in with your University email address and password.
With the MS 365 window open, you will notice a tab at the top right of your window that says 'Install Office'.
Select the first option 'Office 365 apps' and follow the on-screen steps to install and run.
You can add this software to up-to five personal devices.
We recommend that you also install the MS apps onto your mobile devices - Outlook for email, OneDrive for your file creation and storage and Teams for video and chat.
If you are accessing your University Microsoft applications for the first time, you will be prompted to set up multifactor authentication (MFA) for which you will need your mobile phone with you.
More about MFA.
You can get to your email very easily, from anywhere and on any device.
Simply open a browser and sign into https://office.com with your University email address and password.
We recommend you add the MS 365 apps to your mobile phone (Outlook for email, OneDrive for Word and your files).
If you are accessing your University email for the first time, you will be prompted to set up multifactor authentication (MFA) for which you will need your mobile phone with you.
More about MFA .
Is one of the applications you get with your Microsoft 365 account and is used for video, chat and sharing files.
You can use the web version ( open up a browser, go to https://office.com and sign in with your University email address and password) or you can install the application to your device (like Word and OneDrive).
Your teachers will use Teams to invite you to video sessions or meetings online.
Once signed into MS 365, you will be able to access these meetings from the invitation in your email.
You can also be invited to join certain Teams - a class group for example.
Within your University Microsoft 365 account, you have a large amount of file storage available in your OneDrive.
Just log in to https://office.com with your University email address and password, and select the OneDrive app.
You can create and share Word files here, as well as upload and store many different files types.
You will have access to this for the duration of your studies.
eduroam is the network we recommend you use for all your devices.
It is free, and after initial set-up, great for roaming around campus.
You will need access to the internet to set up eduroam but you can do this for all your devices before you arrive on campus.
You just need your University email address and password.
Go to your usual app store and search for the free app called 'geteduroam'.
Install this and then type 'University of Wolverhampton' into the search box, and select this option.
Once you have selected the Wolverhampton profile, you will be prompted to sign in with your University email address and password.
To get your Apple laptop connected to eduroam, please visit https://cat.eduroam.org , search for and select the University of Wolverhampton from the list of institutions and install the profile and then to log in with your University email address and password.
Before you buy any software to use at home or on your own device, please talk to your course teacher.
There are various specialist applications that the University provides like SPSS and NViVo.
We have a Software Catalogue which lists all applications A-Z, and tells you how to access it and on what device.
Adobe Creative Cloud for home use on your own device, is available to students who need it to study their course, please talk to your course teacher about this.
All students can access Adobe CC using the University PCs on campus.
This is very easy to do within your Outlook settings.
Select your cog settings and choose 'Mail'.
Or just search for 'forwarding'.
Select 'Accounts' and then 'Forwarding'.
Select 'Start forwarding' and enter the email address of the account you want to forward your University email to.
If you need some help with your IT, you can get in touch with our team by calling 01902 32 2000 during the hours of 8am and 5pm, Monday-to-Friday or by using the IT Support portal , where you can raise a query or help yourself to information, anytime that suits you.
Phishing emails are getting cleverer, more realistic and more frequent.
Spam filters do some of the work but will never be fully effective, so it’s up to each of us to read the context of messages and look for anything suspicious.
The Digital Service s team are here to support any colleagues or students who may have clicked on something that worries them – please do n’t hesitate to get in touch with itsupp ort@wlv.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/its/digital-campus:
Since its inception in 2015, the Digital Campus Transformation Programme has been working to create a ‘digital campus’ that is every bit as important as our physical campuses; bringing people, processes and systems together.
The aim of the programme is to create a campus without boundaries – where anyone who engages with the University can easily access information and data relevant to them anywhere, and at any time.
This isn’t just an IT programme: we are putting people first.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/its/mywlv:
myWLV offers everything you need for your learning and education experience, in one place!
You can download the app to your phone or tablet (from your usual app store), or use the web browser version at http://my.wlv.ac.uk You will need to have your University email address and password.
This is where you will find your timetable, once it is ready.
If you need support with your timetable, please sign into e:Vision and use the 'help' link in the menu.
This will send your call directly through to the right team.
myWLV is currently available to all University of Wolverhampton students who are fully enrolled on an undergraduate or postgraduate course, and research students, and will deliver information including, assessment deadlines, email, Student Check in (digital register), VLE topic subscriptions, links to key resources (e.g.
room booking, library resources, PC availability) and many more.
The app is not currently available to our distance learning students.
Issues with accessing the myWLV app
If you are having issues with getting access to the myWLV, until this is resolved, you can access all your systems and services using the links below:
myWLV is accessible on any device via web browsers by going to http://my.wlv.ac.uk and on mobile devices by downloading the ‘myWLV’ app available from the Apple and Google play.
‌ ‌

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2022/march-2022/ukraine-statement-from-the-interim-vice-chancellor-.php:
I know that ongoing events will be especially worrying to our Ukrainian and Russian students and staff with families and friends now caught up in the conflict.
We have already been in contact directly with all Ukrainian and Russian staff and students to offer whatever help and support we can at this very difficult time – and we will continue to do so.
We are also mindful of the wider impact on everyone in our university community, such events can affect us all in different ways.
We are also in contact with Universities UK, who is working with the Home Office, Department for Education, and others in UK Government to support students in the UK, Ukraine, and Russia.
I welcome the recent move to allow Ukrainians in the UK to have visas automatically extended or switched to other visa routes.
A simple gathering for students or staff directly affected by ongoing and recent military conflicts will be held at the Chaplaincy supported by Chaplains and the Mental Health and Wellbeing Team on Friday, 4 March.
If you are a student and would like to speak to somebody about any aspect of practical or emotional support, please contact ASK@WLV .
The University has a number of support services available to staff.
The University’s Staff Wellbeing Hub contains a range of resources, including our free and confidential Employee Assistance Programme .
Everyone at the University can also access free online mental health support with Togetherall , any time, any day.
I would like to ask everyone to be mindful of their fellow students and colleagues who may be affected by the ongoing situation.
We must come together and help each other during these difficult times.
A number of charitable appeals have been set up should you wish to donate to organisations that are currently providing humanitarian support in Ukraine:
We are proud to be an international university and recognise our responsibility to our diverse community and partners around the world.
We are committed to peaceful co-operation, mutual understanding and tolerance across borders.
We hope a peaceful resolution will be reached quickly, and we will continue to offer support to those affected throughout this crisis.
Ian G.
Campbell
Interim Vice-Chancellor
For more information please contact the Corporate Communications Team .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/june-2025/university-of-wolverhampton-welcomes-over-1000-students-to-annual-scifest.php:
Held on Friday 27 June at the University’s City Campus in Wolverhampton, SciFest, now in its 13th year, invited visitors to explore the world of STEM through a range of free workshops, interactive science shows, hands-on experiments, games, and drop-in activities, all designed to bring science, technology, engineering and maths to life.
University staff from all faculties, including those in the creative industries and healthcare, showcased a wide range of STEM-related topics, from mathematics and biomedical science to pharmacy, forensic science, and life sciences.
Dr Martin Khechara, Associate Professor for Engagement in Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths (STEM) at the University, said: “This is our annual event of all things STEM.
Where we take people from schools all across our region to come and engage with businesses, academics, see fantastic science shows and experience science, technology, engineering and maths.
“SciFest is really important for students because it could be that first spark of interest that later grows into a degree or a career.
It shows people that university is for everyone, no matter who you are or where you come from.”
Exhibitors included representatives from Barclays, Veolia, Syensqo, Eurofins Scientific, Game Changer, Will Marler, Discover Materials, Twycross Zoo, Jon Wood Science, ZooLab, St John Ambulance, Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust, Institute of Physics, West Midlands Police Forensics, West Midlands Regional Cyber Crime Unit, and RAF Museum Midlands.
After a day packed with educational activities for students, SciFest continued into the evening at the University’s Arena Theatre with an adults-only event featuring science, technology, live music, interactive art, and comedy from Simon Watt, Foxdog Studios, and Ria Lina.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/august-2025/better-together-how-co-creation-is-shaping-the-future-of-elite-sport.php:
A groundbreaking study led by the University of Wolverhampton, in collaboration with visiting scholar and Olympic medallist Yoko Tanabe from Nihon University, has revealed striking differences in how UK judo athletes and their coaches view what matters most for performance and how confident they feel in those areas.
Working alongside Tanabe, one of Japan’s most respected figures in judo, the research team uncovered mismatches in perceptions around psychological preparation, athlete–coach relationships, and other key factors.
These findings point to the need for a more collaborative approach to athlete development what researchers call “co-construction,” where athletes and coaches actively work together to design training and support tailored to the individual.
The study surveyed 97 athletes and 61 coaches from both elite and non-elite levels, using a 30-item measure based on the UK Coaching Framework (2009).
It explored how participants rated both the importance of and their confidence in five key areas: physical development, self-understanding, psychological preparation, relationships, and skills.
Key Findings from the Study:
The University of Wolverhampton hosts the British Judo Olympic and Paralympic National Training Centre at its Walsall Campus, a clear reflection of its commitment to elite sport and cutting-edge sports science.
This unique partnership provides a fully integrated, inclusive high-performance environment where Junior, Paralympic, and Olympic-level judoka train side by side.
Athletes benefit from access to a state-of-the-art dojo, strength and conditioning facilities, sports science and medical support, educational programmes, and on-site accommodation all on one campus.
It’s an environment where research and practice go hand in hand, enabling evidence-based insights to directly shape athlete development and performance at the highest level.
"Our research clearly shows that a 'one-size-fits-all' approach isn't sufficient in elite judo," says Professor Andrew Lane, from the School of Health and Wellbeing at the University of Wolverhampton.
"When coaches and athletes are not fully aligned on what matters most or where confidence lies it can create hidden barriers to performance.
These findings offer a clear roadmap for British Judo and other sports organisations to foster more collaborative, personalised development environments."
The study highlights that while traditional, top-down coaching can still be effective, involving athletes in shaping their own development pathways leads to stronger buy-in, greater motivation, and more sustainable performance gains.
Athletes bring unique, lived expertise their perspectives are essential.
When training and support are built with them, not just for them, interventions become more relevant, impactful, and supportive of both mental well-being and competitive success.
These insights are particularly relevant for national governing bodies and organisations like UK Sport, which guide the strategic development of Olympic and Paralympic disciplines.
Adopting co-construction principles ensures that scientific findings are translated into practical strategies tailored to the evolving needs of judokas.
Ultimately, this study provides a robust, evidence-based foundation for strengthening athlete–coach partnerships and advancing the future of British judo on the world stage.
The full paper is available at: Co-constructing confidence and performance: A study of athlete-coach beliefs in elite judo
Note
The British Judo Olympic and Paralympic National Training Centre (NTC) is the home of the British Judo World-Class Performance Programme (WCPP).

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/july-2025/class-of-2025-from-wolverhampton-to-the-world-stage-un-leader-awarded-honorary-professorship.php:
His leadership has shaped landmark UN initiatives, including the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, driving progress across continents and making a lasting impact in some of the world’s most vulnerable regions.
Nikhil said, “ My own journey began in the classrooms of Delhi University-as a student, then a teacher of economics.
It then took me into the world of diplomacy and the United Nations.
There, for several decades, my life revolved around a single, resonant idea: sustainable development.
What began as a vision of reconciling environment and development evolved into a global framework encompassing human rights, economic dignity, environmental balance, and peaceful cooperation.
From Rio to the 2030 Agenda, from the Millennium Goals to the newly adopted Pact for the Future, we have always returned to the same foundational aspiration: to build just, inclusive, and sustainable societies where no one is left behind.
And that vision lives here-in Wolverhampton.
As I accept this honour, I also accept a responsibility-to share what I have learned through my work in multilateral diplomacy.
To support this University in its mission.
And to engage with young changemakers, researchers, and dreamers in the years ahead."
Honorary Professorships are awarded to distinguished academics or practitioners who have demonstrated a commitment to, and interest in, the University’s academic life and who are actively associated with the University’s academic community.
To find out more about graduate success, check out the Every Story Has a Start web page which showcases our exceptional alumni across the globe doing incredible things.
High achievers from the worlds of literature, business, sport, film and the arts feature, sharing how their lives and careers have developed since their days studying with us.
After graduation, graduates become members of the Alumni Association and are encouraged to keep in touch, to take advantage of a wide range of benefits and support on offer, including a discount for postgraduate study.
T o learn more about the University’s Alumni Association please visit here , where graduates can also update their details with the Association.
The Clearing hotline number is 01902 968555 for anyone looking for courses starting in September and to find out more about the University’s Open Days.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2024/october-2024/funded-initiatives-increase-cybersecurity-awareness-across-the-region.php:
The Cyber4ME project was led by the Cyber Security Research Cluster in the University’s School of Engineering, Computing and Mathematical Sciences and funded by the Department for Science, Innovation and Technology (DSIT).
The team, made up of academics from the University, put on four events and training sessions which engaged schools, colleges and university students from across the region, including a Cyber Security Roadshow, online training courses, a Cyber Hackathon and a Cyber Escape Room which was supported by the West Midlands Regional Organised Crime Unit.
Cyber Security Roadshows were held at five further education colleges across the Black Country, introducing students to the basics of cybersecurity through the Cyber Security 101 course.
This included industry talks and tabletop exercises covering essential cybersecurity concepts and frameworks, such as identity management, social engineering, and secure communication.
A Cyber Hackathon & CTF Competition featured preliminary online rounds and culminated in a face-to-face competition.
It allowed students to apply their technical skills, with support from HackTheBox – a leading cybersecurity performance centre.
An interactive and engaging Cyber Escape Room event, supported by the West Midlands Regional Organised Crime Unit (WMROCU), offered students the opportunity to solve puzzles and decipher riddles related to cybersecurity threats, learning about risks and how to mitigate them.
Over 200 students from local colleges and universities took part in online training and received certificates for completing online courses on Cybersecurity Essentials, GDPR, and Information Security Management, further enhancing their skills.
Professor Andy Gibson, Dean of the Faculty of Science and Engineering at the University, said: “This project was launched in response to the critical need for cybersecurity education, particularly for individuals in further education or apprenticeships.
The aim was to improve understanding of how cybersecurity affects individuals and businesses, and to provide hands-on experience that encourages participants to consider careers in this vital field.
“The success of this initiative will ensure that the next generation is equipped with the necessary skills to protect businesses and industries from future cyber threats, reinforcing the idea that cybersecurity is not just an IT issue but one that spans all sectors.”
Professor Prashant Pillai, Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research and Knowledge Exchange at the University, said: “The Cyber4ME project had a significant regional impact, focusing on educating and empowering young adults across the Black Country.
By targeting students and apprentices from industries such as construction, engineering, automotive, digital, and healthcare, the initiative raised awareness of cybersecurity as a crucial skill across various sectors.
“The roadshows, hackathons, and escape rooms not only delivered essential cybersecurity training but also sparked interest in cybersecurity as a career path.
The online training offered further upskilling opportunities to ensure that these young adults are prepared for a world where cybersecurity affects everyone.”
Dr Arafatur Rhaman, Reader in Cybersecurity at the University, said: “The Cyber4ME initiative has successfully elevated the level of cybersecurity awareness in the Black Country.
By providing essential training and hands-on experiences, it has helped participants gain a clearer understanding of cybersecurity threats and the importance of safeguarding personal and organizational information.
“The project benefits the region by enhancing local resilience to cyberattacks, ensuring a future workforce equipped with cybersecurity skills, and fostering collaboration between industry sectors and educational institutions.
It has also reinforced that cybersecurity is a growing field with career opportunities in every sector, not just within IT.”
Academics involved in delivering the project were Professor Prashant Pillai, Dr Md Arafatur Rahman, Professor Zeeshan Parvez, Falobi Oluwafemi, Mohammad Ibrahim and Sze W.
Tan.
Anyone interested in studying for courses in the Faculty of Science and Engineering at the University of Wolverhampton should register for one of our forthcoming Open Days.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/august-2025/beyond-futures-research--enterprise-festival-returns-showcasing-innovation-and-collaboration.php:
From sustainability and inclusivity to health and digital creativity, the festival will feature inspiring panels, exhibitions, and talks that highlight how research and enterprise can shape a better future.
“Collaboration is at the heart of impactful research.
By working together across disciplines and sectors, we can unlock new ideas, drive innovation, and ultimately improve lives,” said Professor Prashant Pillai, Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research and Knowledge Exchange at the University of Wolverhampton.
“The Beyond Futures Festival is a celebration of this spirit - bringing people together to tackle challenges and create meaningful change.”
Festival Highlights Include:
Session 4: Health & Medicine (12.00 pm - 3.35pm) Engage with experts on the future of medicine, health, and clinical trials.
Research Centre Launch: International Centre for Creative Industries and Critical Cultural Practices (CICCUP) (2.00 pm - 4.40 pm)
Celebrate the launch of a new initiative supporting cross-disciplinary research in arts and visual culture.
Why Attend?
Interested in Exhibiting?
Free exhibition spaces are available during the networking periods on 10 and 11 September.
To express interest, please contact the organising team at beyondfutures@wlv.ac.uk.
The full programme will be announced shortly.
For more information, visit the Beyond Futures website.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/august-2025/lord-swraj-paul-of-marylebone-university-of-wolverhampton-chancellor.php:
The Rt Hon Lord Paul of Marylebone, PC was Chancellor of the University of Wolverhampton since 1999.
Over that time, he has been a prominent and active figurehead for the institution presiding over countless ceremonial occasions and acting as an inspirational Ambassador for the University at home and abroad.
Born in Jalandhar, India in 1931, he was educated at Punjab University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA.
Lord Paul arrived in the UK in 1966 and two years later founded Caparo Group, the UK based industrial company with operations in Europe, Asia and North America.
He was raised to the Peerage as Baron Paul of Marylebone in August 1996.
Lord Paul holds 15 honorary degrees from across Academe in recognition of his contributions to business, the economy and his social and charitable works.
He co-chaired the India-UK Round Table 2000-2005 and was awarded the Padma Bhushan by the Government of India in 1983.
In July 2009 he was appointed as a member of the Privy Council, with his full title becoming The Rt Hon Lord Paul of Marylebone PC.
Professor Ebrahim Adia University of Wolverhampton Vice-Chancellor said:
“On behalf of the entire University community I want to express our sadness at the news of Lord Paul’s passing.
Lord Paul has left a profound and lasting impact on the University, always supporting and encouraging us to be ambitious and value driven.
Lord Paul was deeply committed to the University and a passionate supporter of our social mobility objectives and our aim of creating opportunity for all.
He was a person of great humility, generosity and integrity, and he will be dearly missed”.
Angela Spence, Chair of the University of Wolverhampton Board of Governors, said:
“On behalf of the Board of Governors, I express our profound sadness.
Lord Paul was an inspirational and generous chancellor and a wonderful human being.
He was an inspiration to so many people and his passion for education was always evident.
The University of Wolverhampton is a greater institution because of our long-standing association with Lord Paul.
His contribution has been immense and his legacy enduring.
We will all miss him".
As a way of paying our respects, we have set up books of condolence at both our Wolverhampton and Walsall Campuses.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/alumni/every-story-has-a-start:
At the University of Wolverhampton, we have exceptional alumni across the globe doing incredible things.
We want to shout about their achievements, so get involved and let us know what you think about our latest campaign to shine a light on our amazing graduates: Every Story has a Start .
Watch the first videos with New York Times bestselling author Abi Daré; Oscar-winning visual effects master Manolo Mantero; and Deana Uppal, an award-winning humanitarian and philanthropist.
More alumni videos will drop later in the year, so keep your eyes peeled, and be inspired.
I believe that every story has a start and mine certainly started at University of Wolverhampton, it was my landing spot coming into the United Kingdom… the confidence, the resilience, the desire to keep pushing myself, to believe in myself all came from that and I am so grateful for that amazing opportunity.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/open-day/postgraduate-open-evening:
We’re excited to be holding our Postgraduate Virtual Open Evening on Wednesday 3rd September 2025.
This event offers the perfect opportunity to find out more about what the University of Wolverhampton has to offer.
Whether you are looking to retrain, increase your employability, enrich your CPD or progress to the next step in your career, a postgraduate qualification with the University of Wolverhampton can open the door to many new opportunities.
Find out about Postgraduate studies at the University of Wolverhampton:
At the University of Wolverhampton, we’re committed to developing postgraduate students’ skills, knowledge and prospects.
We give students the opportunity to thrive, giving the confidence to excel in their area of study and beyond.
We help postgraduate students with flexible study options and award-winning student support services – putting each student first to fulfil their full potential.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/postgraduate-progression:
At the University of Wolverhampton, we're here to make your journey from undergraduate to postgraduate as smooth as possible.
With our Fast-Track Scheme, we can help you move directly into a related postgraduate course and give you a 20% alumni discount as a current student.
Plus, you'll have access to events and workshops where you’ll get guidance on funding, career benefits, and the exciting possibilities of postgraduate study—so you’re fully supported every step of the way.
Why Progress to Postgraduate Study?
Take the next step in your educational journey and make the most of the support and opportunities available to you at the University of Wolverhampton!

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news:
View our University events
Come and visit us at one of our Open Days
Expert opinion and insight from our academics
Contact the Media Relations team

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/august-2025/global-graduate-returns-to-serve.php:
Originally from Bangladesh, Rezwana travelled at her own expense in early July to support graduation ceremonies on campus, staying in the Midlands through the university’s celebratory week.
Throughout the week, she was an ever-present in the City Campus courtyard, overseeing photos under the graduation alumni arch, and supporting graduates and their guests.
Rezwana studied BA (hons) Fine Art at the university and graduated in 2009 and has since served as an alumni volunteer as a proud member of the Alumni Advisory Board.
She last returned to campus in November for the annual Alumni Awards in November 1024 and continues to pay regular visits to speak with current international students.
“Wolverhampton changed the direction of my life,” she shared.
“It’s an incredible privilege to come back and help ensure our newest graduates feel celebrated.”
During graduation week, the Alumni & Development Team also welcomed Kevin Wong, its new Data Entry Assistant.
Kevin, from Hong Kong, previously served in the University’s Apprenticeships Team and joins us with deep experience in student and alumni systems.
Rezwana’s commitment underlines a key message: our global alumni are our greatest ambassadors, giving time, expertise and goodwill to build legacies for future Wolverhampton students.
To find out more about the university Alumni Association, please visit its webpage or get in touch at alumni@wlv.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/about-us/contacts-and-maps/all-maps-and-directions:
The University of Wolverhampton is based over locations across the Midlands.
Our main campus is City Campus, based in Wolverhampton city centre.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/about-us/governance/legal-information/data-protection/enquiry-and-website-request-privacy-notice:
The University's central privacy statement for users engaging with the University website and enquirer/applicant systems.
Who we are
The University of Wolverhampton (‘The University’, ‘we’ or ‘us’) are a ‘Data Controller’, as defined by the Data Protection Act 2018 and are responsible for, and control the processing of your Personal Data.
You can contact us at email dataprotection@wlv.ac.uk , University of Wolverhampton, Wulfruna Street, Wolverhampton WV1 1LY.
Tel.
01902 32 1000.
Our Data Protection Officer can be contacted at dataprotection@wlv.ac.uk .
We are committed to protecting your privacy.
This notice explains how the University of Wolverhampton collects and processes your Personal Data as an enquirer.
You can view our applicant privacy notice here or our apprenticeship applicant privacy notice here .
How We Use Your Data
Your personal data will be processed by the University for a number of purposes including:
The lawful basis we rely on for processing your information for the above purposes is that we have your consent.
If we are processing your information for a new purpose we will always inform you and give you the chance to consent to the processing first.
We will also process your information to communicate with you for promotion and marketing purposes.
We will only do this if you have consented to receiving marketing and we will always choose your preferred method of contact.
If you have booked to attend an event or open day we may send you emails such as reminders of the event.
If you wish to withdraw your consent to any of the above activities you may change your preferences using the ‘manage your communications’ link on every email you receive, or by logging into your account and changing your preferences here .
Information We Collect
The vast majority of information that we process about you will be provided by you.
This will typically be via our website enquiry form, the live chat platform, on the phone or collected from you at one of our events or when making an event booking.
Your personal data will be processed:
Information provided by you will include details such as your full name, email address and telephone number and your country of residence.
We will also ask you information relating to your enquiry, your year of intended entry, level of interest and your subject of interest.
The condition we rely on for processing this information is that we obtain your consent on collection .
We may collect and process Special Category personal data relating to your disability if you are attending an event.
The condition we rely on for processing this information is that you have given us your explicit consent.
Who We Share Your Personal Data With
Information is shared with relevant departments within the University for the purposes outlined above.
In addition, we may receive or share your data from or with the following external parties for the purposes specified below:
Recipient or Source
Purpose and type of data
Lawful Basis
Azorus
To facilitate our relationship with you and coordinate our responses to your expression of interest or enquiry using our Customer Relationship Management platform
Consent
Eventbrite
To facilitate the booking of an open day or any other event
Hybrid
https://hybrid.co/
To support student recruitment and marketing activities which may include remarketing, data analysis and reporting e.g.
surveys and focus groups.
Legitimate Interests
Sterlingsolutions.co.uk
To send prospectus/guide upon request or direct mail invites to recruitment events
Gecko Engage
To answer questions from enquirers and potential students
Your personal data may be shared when necessary with external organisations which process your data to assist with marketing processes and do not process your data for any other purpose.
We ensure we have appropriate data processing agreements and contracts in place before sharing your personal data with any data processors.
Details of third parties we use for assistance can be found here .
Sometimes, your personal data is processed by these organisations outside the European Economic Area (for example, because they use a cloud-based system with servers based outside the EEA), and if so, appropriate safeguards are in place to ensure the confidentiality and security of your personal data
We may also share personal details with organisations with enforcement powers such as HMRC or the Police.
However, we will only do so if this is required to comply with our legal obligation to disclose information to these bodies.
We will only share the minimum amount of personal data with any of the above and will always do so in accordance with the law.
Retention
Your data is retained for three years unless you lodge a request for your information to be erased.
Your Rights
As an individual, you have a number of rights available to you including:
Requests can be made in writing by email to: dataprotection@wlv.ac.uk .
If you are unhappy with how your data has been handled, you may wish to contact the University of Wolverhampton’s Data Protection Officer via dataprotection@wlv.ac.uk or complain to the ICO via www.ico.org.uk .
How to Complain
If you have any queries, concerns or believe that your Personal Data is being handled in a manner which is contrary to statutory requirements, you may wish to contact the University of Wolverhampton’s Data Protection Officer via dataprotection@wlv.ac.uk or complain to the ICO via www.ico.org.uk
Changes to Privacy Notice
We regularly review our privacy notice and will review it at least annually.
This privacy notice was last updated in February 2024

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/security-services/incident-reporting:
We are committed to promoting a safe, supportive and inclusive campus environment for every member of our community.
This includes support following incidents of crime, harassment and violence.
If you need to report a crime or incident to the University, please use one of the reporting routes outlined below.
Please be aware that these reporting routes are not to use for emergency incidents - if you believe you or someone else is in immediate danger, you should call the Police by dialling 999.
Our friendly Security team provide support and advice on campus and is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Available 24/7 for general security-related advice
External: 01902 322106
Internal: 2106
External: 01902 321555
Internal: 5555
Calls to these numbers are recorded for training and quality assurance purposes
Accessible to both students and staff, the SafeZone app provides a valuable source of reassurance to people working and studying on campus.
The app gives fast access to the University's security team whenever and wherever you are on campus.
SafeZone has three key buttons that can be used to obtain security assistance:
Please note: Pressing a button in error can be cancelled (within 5 seconds) by tapping the button again whilst the timer is visible.
Find out more about SafeZone and other security apps .
The incident reporting process has been set up to provide a confidential route to report an incident or concern of harassment, bullying, or other inappropriate behaviour.
This could be an incident that you have witnessed or an incident against yourself, either on or off-campus.
Find out more about reporting incidents .
Concerned about your own wellbeing and safety, or someone else’s?
Contact the Safeguarding Team for information and guidance.
Visit: wlv.ac.uk/safeguarding
Email: safeguarding@wlv.ac.uk
We ask that everyone:
If you believe someone is in immediate danger, you should contact the emergency services by calling 999.
Our Safeguarding webpages contain more information about how we protect staff and students at the University, as well as how to make a report if you have any safeguarding concerns.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/about-us/governance/legal-information/universities-cookies-list:
Cookie List
A cookie is a small piece of data (text file) that a website – when visited by a user – asks your browser to store on your device in order to remember information about you, such as your language preference or login information.
Those cookies are set by us and called first-party cookies.
We also use third-party cookies – which are cookies from a domain different from the domain of the website you are visiting – for our advertising and marketing efforts.
More specifically, we use cookies and other tracking technologies for the following purposes:
Strictly Necessary Cookies
These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems.
They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms.
You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work.
These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information.
___utmvmtFBuswwtB , ___utmvmaBuswwtB , ___utmvatFBuswwtB ,
___utmvbtFBuswwtB , ___utmvbaBuswwtB
EVISIONLOGINLANG , EVISIONLOGINHTV , CODE3 , SESSIONSALT , EVISIONID_TEST ,
SITSIPPID
mp_76db2e2bde9dc0445f42c2b3d88526c8_mixpanel , OptanonConsent , incap_ses_47_1910066 ,
_dc_gtm_UA-xxxxxxxx , incap_ses_ , visid_incap_ , incap_ses_9196_1910066 , eupubconsent ,
OptanonAlertBoxClosed
AWSALBCORS , AWSALB , mp_af46d50d39612407bf6b578035e165d0_mixpanel , smcx_0_last_shown_at ,
cookieBanner , _opensaml_req_ss########
These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site.
They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site.
All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous.
If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance.
_hjIncludedInSample , _hjIncludedInSessionSample , ___utmvazNuswwtB ,
___utmvaSNuswwtB , ___utmvbzNuswwtB , ___utmvmzNuswwtB , ___utmvmSNuswwtB
Functional Cookies
These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization.
They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages.
If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly.
__mp_opt_in_out_af46d50d39612407bf6b578035e165d0 ,
__mp_opt_in_out_76db2e2bde9dc0445f42c2b3d88526c8 ,
_hjAbsoluteSessionInProgress
__tawkuuid , incap_ses_375_1910066 , visid_incap_1910066 ,
incap_ses_374_1910066
__atuvc , mp_76db2e2bde9dc0445f42c2b3d88526c8_mixpanel , __atuvs , pubble_trigger ,
_hjShownFeedbackMessage , TawkConnectionTime
___utmvalMYuswwtB , ___utmvmlMYuswwtB , ___utmvaaBuswwtB , ___utmvbwkuswwtB ,
___utmvaOOuswwtB , ___utmvawkuswwtB , ___utmvbOOuswwtB , ___utmvblMYuswwtB ,
___utmvmwkuswwtB
Targeting Cookies
These cookies may be set through our site by our advertising partners.
They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other sites.
They do not store directly personal information, but are based on uniquely identifying your browser and internet device.
If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising.
zk0yl8b5l1dzvwq2wlzdkw1g-wpengine.
netdna-ssl.com
soundcloud.comUserMatchHistory, AnalyticsSyncHistory, li_gc,
lang, bcookie, lidc, lissc, rtc
Social Media Cookies
These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and networks.
They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites and building up a profile of your interests.
This may impact the content and messages you see on other websites you visit.
If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/about-us/governance/legal-information/regulations-codes-of-conduct-and-bye-laws/accessibility-statements/website-accessibility-statement:
This accessibility statement applies to the University of Wolverhampton Website , run by the University of Wolverhampton.
The website is an integral part of how people access information, services and support at the University of Wolverhampton and therefore, the content is designed to be easy for everyone to find, access and use.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
Before accessing the University of Wolverhampton website, we recommend that you are aware of the settings available for your hardware, such a laptop computer or mobile devices, including smartphones or tablets.
These devices have individual accessibility settings that will help you access content, including website content.
Depending upon your choice of internet browser of mobile smart device operating system, there are further settings to help you access our content.
Such settings may include the ability to change colours, contract and the size of text and images.
You can find useful advice on making your device easier to use by visiting AbilityNet , which provides step-by-step guides to making individual adjustments to your laptop, tablet or smartphone.
The University also provides a number of assistive software products (e.g.
Virtual Magnifying Glass, ssOverlay) as part of its Apps Anywhere software repository for current students and staff.
We know some parts of the University of Wolverhampton website are not fully accessible:
If you need information about this website or this accessibility statement in a different format, please:
We’ll consider your request and get back to you within three working days.
If you cannot view the map on our contact us page, call or email us for directions.
We're always looking to improve the accessibility of the University of Wolverhampton website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact enquiries@wlv.ac.uk
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you have contacted us about an accessibility issue relating to our online content and you are not happy with the outcome of your complaint, you can contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
We consider digital accessibility a key part of our approach to being the 'University of Opportunity' and we want you to be able to use our services in a way that supports a positive learning experience.
The University of Wolverhampton is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
The University of Wolverhampton website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version (WCAG) 2.1 AA standard; the non-compliances are listed below.
We are working on outstanding issues with our developers to be fully compliant by July 2025, this includes regular training updates with our content editors with a focus on accessibility and user experience.
To be completed by September 2025.
Some of the older images used on the University of Wolverhampton website may not have fully descriptive explanations or alternative text.
Not having descriptions or alternative text can impact upon the effectiveness of screen readers or other assistive devices.
Our website may hold images that are purely decorative, and these do not require descriptive or alternative text.
We are forming a working group to tackle web governance, providing training and best practice for our web editors and intend to launch this programme in early 2025 with all pages compliant by September 2025.
Updated 12th February 2025
As part of our accessibility improvements, we have migrated most of our policy documents into fully web-based content within our Policy Hub .
This provides a searchable, mobile-friendly, and regularly updated resource, ensuring key information is easily accessible without reliance on PDFs.
We have also significantly reduced the number of PDF documents on our website.
Our content editors are trained to use more suitable, accessible formats instead of defaulting to PDFs.
Where documents remain, we are working to improve their accessibility by ensuring they:
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they are not essential to providing our services.
However, we continue to review and improve accessibility where possible.
If you experience difficulties accessing any content, please contact us at enquiries@wlv.ac.uk for assistance.
The University of Wolverhampton Website links to other resources that are third-party products, that may also contain third-party content that we are not able to control or develop and therefore have no responsibility for.
If you find any of our University of Wolverhampton content hard to access, then please contact itsupport@wlv.ac.uk .
Examples of third-party content that may be found within the University of Wolverhampton website pages include, but are not limited to:
For any of the third-party products that you may have issues with accessing, you may be able to find accessibility statements in searchBOX .
This is a free, comprehensive directory created by textBox to support accessible content.
The University is not affiliated with searchBOX and is not responsible for its content.
This statement was prepared on 16 September 2020.
It was last reviewed on 25 January 2023.
This website was last tested on 16 January 2023.
The test was carried out by the University of Wolverhampton, using the Silktide site audit tool.
We are now testing the website on a monthly basis.
We audited a range of University of Wolverhampton webpages that reflect the breadth of access that prospective and current students would usually require at the University of Wolverhampton.
The audit was based upon specific web-based content across the Website, including Library pages, Student Support and Wellbeing pages, Digital Service pages and MyWLV pages.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/about-us/corporate-information/equality-diversity--inclusion/modern-day-slavery-statement:
Modern Slavery Statement
Modern Slavery Statement July 2024 (Word doc 1,181k)
Introduction from the Board of Governors
Modern slavery is a crime and a violation of fundamental human rights.
It takes various forms, such as slavery, servitude, forced and compulsory labour and human trafficking, all of which have in common the deprivation of a person's liberty by another in order to exploit them for personal or commercial gain.
We are committed to improving our practices to ensure there is transparency in our own business and in our approach to tackling modern slavery throughout our supply chains, consistent with our disclosure obligations under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (as amended).
We expect  same high standards from all of our contractors, suppliers and other business partners.
This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (as amended) and constitutes our group’s slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31 July 2024.
Organisational structure
We are a Higher Education provider based in the United Kingdom, with campuses in Wolverhampton, Walsall and Telford, Learning Centre in Burton and Cyber Quarter in Hereford*.
We have c.
20,000 students within the UK and abroad and approximately 1,956 UK based staff.
Our annual turnover in the financial year ending 31 st July 2023 was £176.2m
The University of Wolverhampton Higher Education Corporation within its group structure has a number of established subsidiary companies which are either wholly or jointly owned.
Further details on the group structure can be found here https://www.wlv.ac.uk/about-us/governance/legal-information/publications-scheme/who-we-are-and-what-we-do/
Use of Recruitment/Agency Workers
The University uses specified, reputable employment agencies to source labour, using a rigorous procurement process, which is committed to assisting in the eradication of unethical business practices including bribery, fraud, corruption and human rights abuses, such as Modern Slavery and child labour, before it accepts any workers from that agency.
The University has recently appointed Adecco to manage all Agency Workers, this ensures a centrally controlled service monitoring, not only Moderns Slavery concerns but also, payment methods and general management information.
Our Core Values
Speak Up Policy
Our Speak Up Policy ( https://www.wlv.ac.uk/about-us/corporate-information/wlv-policies/speak-up-policy/ )  encourages all of our workers to report any concerns related to the direct activities at the University.
This covers any circumstances that may give rise to an enhanced risk of slavery or human trafficking.
This is also relevant where anyone may be concerned about the activities of contractors
Whilst Students and apprentice learners are not employees of the University and not covered by the provisions of the Public Interest Disclosure Act and the related policy, the University remains committed to ensuring the highest professional standards and urges students and apprentice learners with concerns to raise these through the Student Complaints Process and Procedure.
https://www.wlv.ac.uk/about-us/governance/legal-information/complaints/
Safeguarding Procedures
Our duties as staff members (within the University community) are regularly communicated to all staff and extend to safeguarding concern for our students, apprentice learners, each other, guests and visitors.
This includes protecting the rights of adults to live in safety, free from abuse or neglect; and working together to prevent and stop the risks and experience of adult abuse and neglect - including exploitation.
We have a clear process in place for reporting any concerns with regard to Safeguarding and Prevent related matters, and are committed to working with the relevant authorities or agencies where necessary, in consultation with the University Safeguarding Group, which is chaired by the Chief Operating  Officer and University Secretary as the University Designated Safeguarding Lead.
Any Safeguarding concerns should be directed to The University Safeguarding provision  via  ( safeguarding@wlv.ac.uk ) in the first instance.
https://www.wlv.ac.uk/about-us/corporate-information/safeguarding/
Due Diligence Process for Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking
As part of the University’s due diligence processes, Contract management activities incorporate a review of the contractor compliance and the controls they have in place to assess their own supply chains.
We maintain processes to:
The University will not knowingly support or deal with any business involved in slavery or human trafficking, we take a zero tolerance approach to slavery and human trafficking.
In the event that any Contractor/Supplier is suspected to be operating in this manner a review will be held and the organisation potentially removed from any formal contracts.
Our Supply Chains
Our supply chains include goods, services and works from a wide range of organisations across a number of categories.
We use reputable contractors and expect them to have adequate monitoring procedures and certifications in place e.g.
for clothing, we request all Tenderers to comply with Social Accountability International Standard  SA8000 and request evidence on their ethical sourcing activities.
All Tenderers complete the standard Cabinet Office Supplier Questionnaire.
The successful Tenderer is requested to provide copies of, or links to, their Statements and Polices where relevant.
Compliance
We continue to review compliance of this statement including through use of the existing university transparency and safeguarding policies which could involve members of the following areas:
In addition, there is a University Safeguarding Group which consists of officers from some of the areas listed above but not solely which also reviews the Modern Slavery Statement.
This group meets 3 times per year.
Training
To ensure a high level of understanding of the risks of modern slavery and human trafficking in our supply chains and our business, relevant Procurement staff are Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply (CIPS) qualified or working towards the qualification and therefore follow the CIPS Code of Conduct.
This is detailed in our Procurement Strategy and Policy documentation.
We have also structured our online training provision to be available to any personnel who may be working on behalf of the University, thus covering temporary personnel and critical contractors.
Modern slavery is covered within the University’s Safeguarding training module.
Update and Future Developments
Following a review of the effectiveness of the steps we have taken to ensure there is no slavery or human trafficking in our supply chains in 2022/23, we committed to a number of actions.
Below is an update on those actions:
https://www.wlv.ac.uk/about-us/corporate-information/wlv-policies/speak-up-policy/ https://www.wlv.ac.uk/about-us/corporate-information/wlv-policies/modern-slavery-and-human-trafficking-policy-/
Endorsed by Angela Spence, Chair of the Board of Governors, University of Wolverhampton January 2025.
*Please note the Cyber Quarter in Hereford is no longer a part of the University (updated September 2024).

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/zero-tolerance-statement:
As the University of Opportunity we are committed to maintain a safe and inclusive campus for all our staff, students and visitors.
We have a zero-tolerance approach towards any form of unlawful discrimination, prejudice, bullying and harassment, and are committed to ensuring all people are treated with dignity and respect regardless of age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion or belief, sex, or sexual orientation.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/clearing/our-courses:
The University of Wolverhampton offers a wide variety of courses to choose from with specialisations in areas such as business, engineering, law, health, biomedical sciences and media, discover programmes that match your interests and career goals.
At the University of Wolverhampton , w e offer qualifications in line with industry standards so that students have the best possible prospects after graduating.
From exploring available courses to securing your place, our comprehensive Clearing guide walks you through each stage.
Access practical tips and resources to confidently navigate the process.
1) National Student Survey 2025, for full-time, first degree students taught at UoW

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/clearing/why-us:
At the University of Wolverhampton, we're committed to transforming lives through education.
With a diverse range of courses, supportive faculty, and state-of-the-art facilities, we provide
the tools and opportunities you need to succeed in your chosen field.
Located in the heart of the West Midlands, our campuses are well-connected by public transport, making commuting simple.
Whether you’re travelling from nearby cities like Birmingham or further afield, getting to and from the university is convenient.
Join a university that celebrates diversity and fosters inclusivity.
With students from various backgrounds and cultures, you'll be part of a community that values different perspectives and experiences.
We take pride in the quality of teaching and research that we provide to students.
Our course design, facilities, range of placements and work experience opportunities provide students with the best possible prospects after graduating.
Real Stories, Real Success
Abi Daré studied law at the University of Wolverhampton.
Her debut novel The Girl With The Louding Voice was published in 2020 to critical acclaim and became a New York Times bestseller, while she was also included in The Observer's list of 10 Best Debut Novelists in the same year.
Born in the Dominican Republic, Natalie Flores’ passion for environmental law brought her to study MSc Climate Change Management at the University of Wolverhampton for what she calls “one of the best years of my life”.
“Manolo Mantero, from Spain, graduated from the University of Wolverhampton with a degree in computer graphics and fine art.
Today he is a special visual effects leader with 20 years' experience in the industry.
He received a Primetime Emmy Award nomination for his work on Netflix's Stranger Things season 4 and 
also featured on the highly acclaimed Dune, which won an Oscar and a Bafta for Best Visual Effects.”
"Deana Uppal has launched numerous successful businesses in the UK and overseas and runs an award-winning charity, the DKU Kindness Diaries Charitable Trust, which helps poverty-stricken children in India.
The former Big Brother contestant and Miss India UK champion has also turned her hand to filmmaking and her documentary India's Forgotten People is featured on Netflix."
Born and raised in Halesowen in the UK, Kerys Harrop’s football career has spanned two decades.
She progressed through Birmingham City's football academy and lifted the FA Cup trophy in 2012, before moving to Tottenham Hotspur where she became the holder of the Women's Super League all-time record for appearances, after her 178th game.
Beauty pageant queen, author and charity founder Amanda Nkomo's time at the University of Wolverhampton studying Health Studies encouraged her to "dream big, be bold, and always strive for more".
Marwan Nasry is the business lead in health care at Publicis Groupe and worked at the biopharmaceutical company Pfizer during the Covid-19 pandemic.
He has received multiple awards for his work in healthcare, including the Pfizer Global President Award and the Global Commercial Excellence Award.
Award-Winning Global Marketer, Pfizer
Josefina is the vice-president and deputy lead for forests at the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) United States, where she manages a team working to protect and conserve forests around the world.
Her role sees her working with local communities, governments, and her WWF colleagues who are working in the precious places the organisation is trying to protect.
Wolves Uni UK graduates are in work or further study, with almost 52% in highly skilled roles, according to the latest Graduate Outcomes Survey.
Our Careers and The Workplace team provides personalized support to help you explore career options, develop essential skills, and prepare for the job market.
Take advantage
of our services to kick-start your professional journey.
We are constantly investing in our campuses and we are proud of our modern facilities, including cutting-edge laboratories, practical skill spaces, purpose-built architecture and built environment suite, industry-standard film and journalism production environments, student support and libraries, and dedicated study spaces.
These resources are deigned to enhance your learning experience and support your academic successes.
Choose from a range of accommodation options that suit your needs and budget with university-owned accommodation, or there are plenty of other student accommodation options available.
Living in Wolverhampton or Walsall offers the perfect blend of city life and community feel, with plenty of amenities, entertainment, and green spaces to enjoy.
Affordable living Wolverhampton offers a lower cost of living compared to many UK cities, making it an ideal choice for students and young professionals.
Rich cultural heritage The city boasts a vibrant arts scene, featuring venues like Wolverhampton Art Gallery and the Grand Theatre, celebrating both contemporary and classic works.
Green spaces & recreation Enjoy numerous parks and green areas, such as West Park and Bantock Park, offering serene environments for relaxation and recreation.
Diverse culinary scene Wolverhampton's multicultural community is reflected in its diverse dining options, from traditional British pubs to international cuisines.
Understanding a new place is challenging, speak to one of our team who can help answer your questions.
Hear from our students

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-support:
From inspiring student stories to tailored advice for parents and career guidance, discover the support available to make your transition smooth and successful.
Begin by browsing our Clearing courses to identify programmes that align with your interests and qualifications.
Once you've found a course, reach out to our Clearing advisors via phone, live chat, or social media to discuss your options and determine your eligibility.
To streamline the process, have the following details ready when contacting us:
Being prepared ensures a smoother conversation with our advisors.
If you meet the entry requirements, our advisor may give you a provisional offer.
You'll receive an email detailing the offer and next steps.
You will be asked to provide information including:
Many of our student ambassadors, have navigated the Clearing process and are ready to share their insights.
Learn from their experiences to make informed decisions about your future.
Clearing student's case study
"The teachers are there to support you and from my experience anyway it's been very seamless throughout."
"I like how accommodating the uni is I feel like they've done well to like make sure that they cater to everyone and no one gets left out."
"I was always in communication with the team at university I just called them and they just give me a lot of reassurance.
They explained all the process to me and werereally supportive, they couldn't do enough for me really."
"I applied through clearing because I decided to come into uni quite late.
'I heard before coming in that it will be a bit stressful to go into because you have to apply super quickly or else you're not really going to be able to get your positions there.
But to be honest, it was just a very streamlined experience, and it wasn't really stressful at all."
We understand the pivotal role parents and carers play.
Our dedicated hub offers guidance on accommodation, funding, student support, and more to help you assist your child during Clearing.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/clearing/how-to-apply:
Call us on: 01902 968555 .
If you only wish to apply to the university of Wolverhampton, you can also apply directly by completing our Online Clearing Application Form.
Please note the following:
If you wish to apply to more than one university or have applied through UCAS already, please give us a call on our clearing hotline and we will guide you to apply through UCAS where appropriate.
If a course does not appear in the above online application form, please give us a call the clearing hotline and we will guide you to apply through UCAS where appropriate.
You must call us if you wish to apply for the following courses:
Allied Health Courses: Paramedic Science, Occupational Therapy, Podiatry, Midwifery (including foundation year courses)
Nursing courses: Adult, Child, Learning Disability and Mental Health Nursing (including foundation year courses)
Pharmacy (MPharm), Primary Education or Social Work.
You can speak to one of our friendly advisors on the Clearing hotline or live chat who will be happy to answer any questions you may have and guide you through the application process.
Step 1
Begin by browsing our clearing courses to identify programs that align with your interests and qualifications.
Step 2
To streamline the process, have your shortlist courses, personal info, your qualifications and UCAS ID.
Step 3
If you meet the entry requirements, our advisor may extend a provisional offer.
Increase your expertise by pursuing a postgraduate degree at the University of Wolverhampton.
Explore our diverse range of programmes and apply directly through our course search tool.
Current students can benefit from our Fast-Track Application, which offers a streamlined process and exclusive alumni discounts.
The University hosts over 24,000 students from more than 130
                                    countries, fostering a
                                fostering a rich multicultural environment.
Students from over 130 countries choose the University of Wolverhampton for its inclusive environment and academic excellence.
International applicants can apply directly via our online application system or through our network of agents.
When applying, ensure you have your academic transcripts, English language qualifications, personal statement, and passport ready to upload to your e:Vision account.
Understanding the financial aspects of university life is crucial.
Explore various funding options including scholarships, bursaries, and student loans.
Our Funding, Costs, Fees, and Support section provides comprehensive information to help you plan

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/funding-costs-fees-and-support/wlv-wallet:
An online portal to help you make the most of your time at the University of Wolverhampton
WLV Wallet is an online portal available to all students at the University of Wolverhampton.
The portal has several resources to empower and support you during your studies, including free live events, student blogs, wellbeing resources and an online store.
If you have any queries about WLV Wallet, please email: student.info@wlv-wallet.co.uk .
If you have any queries about the WLV Wallet please email: student.info@wlv-wallet.co.uk
Throughout the academic year, there will be a range of free live events to support your student experience and help you prepare for the future.
Topics range from wellbeing and study skills to financial literacy and getting a graduate-level job, supporting your development and employability.
Go to the WLV Wallet portal to find out more
Get top tips and advice from students who have been where you are now.
Read these fun and insightful blogs about student life, study tips, managing money and employability and get some top tips on making the most of your life as a student.
From exam stress to looking after your mental wellbeing, there are a range of resources, events, blogs and even a free online wellbeing resource to support you.
The online shop has a range of items you may need as a student, including books, resources, stationery and other course-related items.
Course Leader recommended products can also be found here.
Students who qualify for the WLV Wallet Bursary will receive their funds directly into their WLV Wallet account.
Available to all new full-time undergraduate UK students joining the University in 2023/24 and 2024/25 academic years, the WLV Wallet bursary is made available for you to spend in a dedicated online store.
Eligible students will receive £200 in their first year and £100 on successful enrolment onto the next level of their studies.
Find out more and read the full terms and conditions on the WLV Wallet Bursary webpage.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/living-in-wolverhampton:
Wolverhampton and the nearby countryside provide the perfect environment for a fun, fulfilling student experience.
Recently voted the cheapest student city in the UK , it’s an exciting and affordable urban study destination that’s only 19 minutes on the train away from the UK’s second-largest city of Birmingham, and under 90 minutes from Manchester and Liverpool.
Make the most of your time with us by discovering the jewels of the city and the gorgeous rural surroundings below.
Whether you crave nightlife and entertainment, sports and the outdoors, or wonderful places to eat and shop, Wolverhampton and the Black Country has it all.
Walsall
Walsall Campus’s strong community and intimate atmosphere are two great reasons to study here.
The campus facilities and the amenities in Walsall town nearby have plenty to offer, with lots to do and see.
The multi-million-pound Sports Centre is equipped with courts, studios and more, while the town centre offers bars, clubs, shops, and great places to eat.
Find out more on our Living in Walsall page.
Telford
Our most peaceful campus, Telford is surrounded by greenery and fields.
Beyond the campus you’ll find theatre, gigs, cinemas and attractions, giving you plenty of things to do when you need a break from your studies.
Just for fun, you can fly high at the Sky Reach Park, or take a dip into the past via Hoo Zoo and Dinosaur World.
Find out more on our Living in Telford page.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-arts-business-and-social-sciences/university-of-wolverhampton-business-school:
Our purpose is to support students, businesses, and our community.
We make it our mission to educate and develop the responsible business professionals, leaders and entrepreneurs that we need for a sustainable future.
Our vision is underpinned by our four pillars: sustainability; responsibility and professionalism; entrepreneurship; and innovation.
These pillars guide our teaching, learning, research, and business support activity, enabling us to give targeted support to our students, local businesses, and community.
We consider it essential to give each student a positive experience on their course.
Our innovative, inclusive curriculum puts the individual at the heart of their learning.
Students learn in different ways so our active teaching and learning activities reflect this, and we have embedded opportunities for applied and enterprise learning in all modules, at all levels.
Students study a curriculum which is focused on employability and organises study along thematic rather than subject-based lines.
Thematic modules enable staff to bring discipline areas together more effectively to explore issues relevant to business.
This provides an opportunity for students to explore the interdependence of different business functions of an organisation and understand through business cases, the true essence of how real businesses run.
Furthermore, enterprise and employability are at the heart of this practice-focused business curriculum which aims to develop work-ready graduates.
Tweet us @WlvBusiness

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-arts-business-and-social-sciences/university-of-wolverhampton-law-school:
Follow us on Twitter @WlvLawSchool

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-arts-business-and-social-sciences/wolverhampton-school-of-art/facilities/media-suite:
School of Creative Industries / Facilities
The Wolverhampton School of Art has a long standing history of excellence in Arts education and offers a broad range of Art and Design courses.
Self-contained over nine floors in the George Wallis building, an iconic, architectural landmark - right in the heart of Wolverhampton.
Whilst our multi-million pound Screen School development, home to all of our Media courses, contains state of the art facilities for your chosen subject .
Together they provide every resource imaginable for students to explore, experiment and create.
With outstanding facilities, including purpose-built workshops, specialist equipment and dedicated studio spaces.
The perfect environment for creativity to flourish.
Instagram: @wlvcreativeindustries
Twitter: @ wlvsoci
Sign up and receive regular updates via our monthly newsletter!
School of Art: www.wlv.ac.uk/soa
Screen School: www.wlv.ac.uk/screenschool
If you are interested in any of our courses - contact us using the button below.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/its/facilities:
There are around 2,500 computers across the University for staff and students to use in open access areas, school computer labs and libraries.
Most Schools have their own computer labs, some of which are open to everyone, and others just for students of that School.
Get details of locations and opening hours from the School Office.
If you need help when working in these labs, contact the School Technical staff.
There are computer facilities in the libraries at each campus and some also provide access to other equipment such as video cameras, scanners, etc.
These are open to all staff and students.
Opening hours vary, but some of their IT suites open at weekends and during the night.
If you need help when working in these labs, contact a member of library staff.
The Technology Centre on City Campus has over 600 PCs for students to use and a variety of Teaching Spaces.
If you need help when working in this building, please visit the IT Helpdesk in MI101.
You'll find 'Social Learning Spaces' or 'Meeting to Learn' areas on most campuses.
These provide a relaxed space where you can use a computer whilst chatting to your friends over a cup of coffee.
They are equipped with wireless networks, so if you have a laptop with wireless capability you can use it to access the Internet in these areas.
There are numerous wireless networks across the University, enabling you to access the Internet from a computer with wireless hardware.
Find out how to get connected to the wireless networks.
There's also a wireless printing service, enabling you to print from any device connected to the University wireless network.
All study bedrooms in University accommodation have Internet access provided via a wired network point.
Most shared areas and bedrooms are also covered by the wireless network.
Specialised equipment, software and support is available to help users with disabilities to use the IT facilities.
Please have a look at the page about the Student Enabling Centre for more details.
IT Services has some responsibility for Teaching Technology (AV) Equipment.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/part-time-study:
Part-time study is a flexible and cost-effective way to realise your potential, providing an opportunity to do a degree course that fits in around your lifestyle.
Our part-time courses allow you to build upon existing skills, head in a new direction, or pursue your interests.
Part-time study allows you to complete your university course alongside your other commitments, such as work or family life.
It’s a great option for anybody looking to develop their skills and knowledge while working, and offers a flexible way to gain a university-level qualification.
We are an employability-driven university, meaning we give students the flexibility they need to learn in a way that works for them.
That’s why we offer a range of part-time courses and professional development opportunities, including distance learning study where you can:
We welcome people of all ages and backgrounds to study part-time with us, and are proud to offer opportunities to a diverse community of students .
It is common to study part-time as a mature student (age 21 and over) balancing studies alongside work.
More information and support can be found on our mature students support page .
We offer a range of part-time courses for both undergraduate and postgraduate study.
View our full range of courses from A-Z , or search for yours below.
Popular undergraduate course subjects include:
Popular postgraduate course subjects include:
Request a copy of our university prospectus and learn more about part-time courses at the University of Wolverhampton.
Come along to one of our open days, where you’ll get the chance to speak to our staff and students about part-time study
Part-time degrees are a popular choice for those returning to learning.
Find out more about studying as a mature student
Find out more about course fees and how to fund part-time learning.
We offer a range of part-time courses and professional development opportunities, including distance learning study, where you can:
We have people of all ages and backgrounds studying part-time with us so it is a very diverse and interesting community.
More information on the support available for mature students can be found in our guide.
Many of our courses are offered on a part-time or distance learning basis.
If you go to our course finder , you can type in a subject and find out if the course you are interested in is offered part-time .
For more information on the courses that are offered on a distance learning basis, visit our online distance learning page.
Entry requirements for part-time courses vary depending on subjects; please use our course finder for more information.
If you are a mature student with non-standard qualifications or relevant work experience then more information can be found at Mature students .
We are happy to accept applications from people with experience, overseas qualifications and work-based qualifications as well as traditional GCSEs and A levels.
If you would like to discuss your qualifications and suitability for the course then you can talk to an Education Guidance Adviser about your options by contacting the Gateway .
Part-time students can benefit from no fees upfront by applying for government funding * or pay in instalments and spread the cost of your tuition fee.
See more about how to pay university fees .
Find out more about maintenance loans for undergraduate degree students and other support available at financial support for part-time students .
* Loans available to UK and EU students only, for terms and conditions, visit: the government student finance page .
With part-time study, you can study at your own pace.
Undergraduate degrees normally take between four to six years to complete part-time, and postgraduate degrees usually take two to three years to complete – depending on how many modules you study each year.
Typically, students take 60 credits a year – equivalent to 3 modules.
Full-time undergraduate students normally study 120 credits per year (6 modules) and full-time postgraduate students study 180 (120 taught credits and a 60-credit dissertation).
Part-time students are expected to attend some lectures, tutorials and workshops, with the majority of study being self-learning.
For the majority of courses contact time is only 6 -8 hours per week and may be in the day time, evening or, occasionally, weekends.
For more information on the course you are interested in, use our course finder to explore the part-time courses we offer at the University of Wolverhampton.
We appreciate that part-time students have other commitments, so for most courses lectures are not compulsory - however, it is beneficial to attend as many as possible.
You can apply online directly to the University for all our part-time courses.
Simply find the course you wish to apply for via our course finder .
When you are on the page for the course you wish to apply for then click on the 'apply now' box and then choose your preferred start date and click on 'apply directly'.
You will need to register with the University, setting up a password, so that you can then complete the online application form.
You do not need to complete the form in one sitting, you can save it and go back to complete it later.
More information on the application process and the support available can be found in our application guide .
Our libraries combine traditional library services with hi-tech facilities that allow you to study when you need to.
Our skills support provision and online library, combined with wireless internet access and long opening hours are geared specifically to meet the needs of today’s students.
You can access help with important aspects of study, like essay writing skills, IT support and exam technique.
See our study skills support pages for more information.
There are libraries on each of our teaching campuses (Wolverhampton, Telford and Walsall).
If you live near to one of our Campuses but study at another then you can use whichever Library is most convenient and can also request and return books to any of the Campus Libraries.
Find out more about our facilities and services .
Part-time degrees generally cost the same as full-time degrees, but allow you to spread the cost of your course over a longer period.
For instance, the cost of a three-year full-time degree will likely be the same as a six-year part-time degree.
As part-time degrees are designed to be completed over a longer period than full-time degrees, they make it easier for students to work while studying.
Other options include degree apprenticeships and online degrees.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/search:
We use cookies to display search results.
If you can't see anything below, please update your cookie settings:
Loading search results...

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/courses-starting-in-may:
Start a university degree In May 2025 at Wolverhampton.
Applications are open for International students.
University of Wolverhampton runs a number of the programmes with a May 2025 start date, offering you increased flexibility on when to begin your studies with us.
For advice on the application process, contact the recruitment team or contact the Admissions Unit on internationaladmissions@wlv.ac.uk for assistance.
Please note these dates may change.
Friday 4th April, 2025
Friday 11th April, 2025
Note: Payment should be made and received by the university by the above date
Please note that it may take up to 5 working days for a payment to be received and approved by the university.
Friday 18th April, 2025
Monday 19th May, 2025
Please consider your course start date carefully when planning your arrival to the UK.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/md-doctor-of-medicine:
This is a research degree designed for practising medical professionals who wish to undertake research in their chosen speciality and enhance their career in the profession.
Expert mentoring and supervision is provided by internationally-recognised professor-level senior consultants who are members of the University’s Clinical Medicine Research Centre (CMRC) within the School of Medicine and Clinical Practice (SMCP).
This course aims to provide advanced clinical research skills and training to assist the students in pursuing their career in medicine and to enhance their patient-care in a manner that is informed by an in-depth understanding of the research evidence underpinning their chosen speciality.
You will undertake a two year research project and produce a thesis which is examined in a viva in the same way as for a PhD.
You will be encouraged to discuss your research plans with a mentor in your specialism and will then be assigned supervisors in the field.
The course is designed for mid-career medical practitioners who wish to reinforce their research standing and to build a career in research-active clinical environments such as that found in top medical schools.
Everything you need to know about this course!
The new School of Medicine and Clinical Practice at the University of Wolverhampton provides and excellent environment for undertaking clinical and science laboratory-based research under the mentorship of internationally-recognised supervisors.
The course enhances the research skills of medical practitioners and provides important opportunities to further their ability to bring research into improving their patient care.
** These Tuition fees apply for the Foundation Year of the course only.
All subsequent years are charged at the rate shown in the table.
A UK recognised medical qualification e.g.
MBChB, MBBS.
Registration with the GMC of the UK.
A minimum of two years clinical practice following GMC registration, with an additional year in specialist practice
Non-native speakers will be required to hold IELTS with an overall band score of 7.0 with a minimum of 6.5 in each element.
In Addition
Candidates will be required to have the support of their hospital/practice employers for the duration of the programme and to have an appropriate contract allowing the time required for the research.
Financial support for research study:
Government loans (Home Fee Status):
Government loans are available for postgraduate research students of up to £30,301, to cover fees and living expenses.
More information can be found at Doctoral-loans website.
Studying in the UK: Guidance for EU students
For 2021/22 new entrants, EU, other EEA and Swiss nationals will no longer be eligible for home fee status and financial support from Student Finance England.
Self-funded:
For more information go to How to pay.
Postgraduate Research Loyalty Discount:
To students progressing from an undergraduate programme and/or a taught postgraduate programme to a postgraduate research programme, where both courses are University of Wolverhampton Awards.
Research councils:
University Research Studentships:
Other sources:
Dennis Turner Opportunity Fund.
You can find more information on the University’s Funding, cost, fee and support pages.
01902 32 22 22
enquiries@wlv.ac.uk
Order a prospectus

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/open-day/undergraduate-open-day:
We're ready to welcome you to our next University of Wolverhampton undergraduate open day – on campus, in person.
It's the perfect way to help you decide if studying with us is your perfect fit.
Look around our facilities, tour our campuses, meet the lecturers, and see the student accommodation.
You can also drop by the Students' Union and talk to our experts about money , undergraduate courses , careers , and more.
Planning to join our Open Day?
Don’t miss the Open Day Application Competition - your guide to getting involved!
Need more info?
Contact our friendly enquiries team on tel: 01902 322 222 email: enquiries@wlv.ac.uk or ask our Wolfie chatbot a question.
To find the correct campus for your subject, simply select your subject area of interest from the drop-down menu below.
To make the best use of your time, head to the campus where your main subject will be taught first.
If you’re still not sure where to go, give us a call!
0800 953 3222 or email: enquiries@wlv.ac.uk
Discover how to find us on our undergraduate open day, with travel, parking, and transport information to help you prepare.
Our undergraduate open days offer the chance for prospective students to see what life at the University of Wolverhampton is all about.
You’ll have the opportunity to visit our campuses , buildings, and facilities , and to speak to staff and students about what the university has to offer.
You’ll be able to speak to staff in different subject areas, too.
If you are unsure which course to take, our undergraduate open day is the perfect chance to learn more about our academic schools , courses , and what’s involved.
If you can’t attend our undergraduate open day, we offer virtual tours , where you can explore our campuses and facilities from the comfort of your own home.
We also offer campus tours , which give you the chance to see our campuses in person on a different date.
Our undergraduate open day is ideal for every prospective student.
Whether you just want to get an idea of what the University is like, or want to find out more about a specific subject or course, it’s the perfect chance to discover what it’s like to study with us.
Have a question about our undergraduate open days?
We are happy to help.
Simply get in touch with our team, who will help with your query.
Call us on tel: 01902 322 222 , or email at email: enquiries@wlv.ac.uk .
Learn what it’s like to study with us , from students who are living it.
Explore virtual tours and events, talk to students, and discover university life at Wolverhampton.
Coming to an open day at the University of Wolverhampton is the best opportunity to get first-hand experience of the campus atmosphere.
You will also get the chance to explore our facilities, chat with potential future lecturers, and ask current students any questions you have about studying here.
Undergraduate open days give you the opportunity to find out about:
You can go to undergraduate open days at any age.
It might be difficult for you to find the time to visit all the universities you want to in Year 13, so starting in Year 12 could give you the time to visit all of your preferences.
We are an acclaimed university with a history of academic excellence.
We have modern facilities and expert faculties to make learning fun and worthwhile, as well as the thriving Students' Union , modern campuses , and fantastic student support services.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/art-and-design:
Students on our art, design and screen-based courses join a creative, practice led community in which they find the time, space and resources to gain high level skills as makers and learn to understand the historical and contemporary scope of their subject.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/current-students/student-support/mental-health-and-wellbeing-advice:
You may find that life at university challenges you in unexpected ways, especially if you're balancing your studies with work and home commitments.
If you feel stressed or anxious, you can find support at the University of Wolverhampton.
Our Mental Health and Wellbeing (MHW) team can help you access support for various personal challenges; we have plenty of resources that can help you.
We will offer you a safe space to discuss the difficulties you are facing; in addition we will ask you a few questions about your mental health, mood and studies, so that we can assist you better.
We offer a range of support pathways from signposting, referrals, workshops and 1:1 support sessions.
We provide free and confidential advice covering a range of topics, including anxiety, confidence building, depression, homesickness and dealing with suicidal thoughts.
Students can also access guidance for developing positive work, life and study balance.
Read the Student Agreement for more information on our service, including how we operate and store your information.
If you need immediate help, please visit our I need help now webpage.
The university library offers a wealth of support during exam and assessment periods, along with the university wellbeing champions- please check out their support at;
Library Exam Support - University of Wolverhampton (wlv.ac.uk)
Registrations are now open; students must complete a registration form to access support from the team.
You will need to be logged into your university account to access the registration from.
You can access the form here:
MHW Registration Form
Once the team receives a registration form; we will review it and contact you within two working days.
We will contact you via phone initially and if we are unable to get through to speak with you, we will contact you via your university email.
We may offer you an assessment appointment; where you can expect a discussion around the issues you are facing and co-development of a support plan with you.
As an outcome of this assessment we may recommend referral to other services, attendance to bespoke workshops and/or additional 1:1 support sessions with the team.
If you are offered this, please ensure that you do attend, or let us know (via emailing mhwenquiries@wlv.ac.uk) at least 24 hours before your appointment if you need to cancel/ re-arrange.
This could allow another student, who is waiting, to access the assessment appointment.
If you have any issues accessing the registration form please let us know by contacting us through MHWenquiries@wlv.ac.uk please could you include your student number.
Our in person appointments are held in the ML building, City campus- Map and directions for City Campus (Wolverhampton) - University of Wolverhampton (wlv.ac.uk)
If you are experiencing distress and feel that you require some additional support, please visit the I need help now webpage for further information.
Please do not forget the importance of talking to someone you trust.
Let family or friends know what's going on for you.
They may be able to offer support and help keep you safe.
If you are a student who is concerned that you might harm yourself, you need to contact an emergency or crisis support service.
Please visit the I need help now webpage for further information.
Following registration with the team, you may be offered an assessment appointment*
Meeting with one of our mental health practitioners is about making a positive choice to get help from someone who is not involved in any aspect of your life.
It offers you the chance to discuss your difficulties within a safe space.
We will listen and offer support and understanding while simultaneously accepting your values, attitudes and lifestyle in a non-judgmental way.
If you are allocated an appointment, our focus will be on developing your strengths, skills and resources to cope.
We will co-produce a support plan with you during the assessment session.
Following an assessment appointment, we may recommend follow up or review sessions, attendance of psychoeducation workshops, referral to other services (within and/or external to the university), and some may access 1;1 support sessions with the MHW team.
Our contact with you is confidential except in rare circumstances – for example, when someone may be in serious danger.
In these rare instances, we will seek to discuss any potential sharing of confidential information with you in advance (see our Student Agreement for more information).
We also acknowledge that for some students co-ordinated support from the university is something they benefit from, as such we may contact/ liaise with other key people who can support you whilst at university- but we will always seek your consent before doing so, and would not typically share confidential details unless you give us specific permission to do so.
*even if you are not offered an assessment appointment you will receive advice and guidance from the team
The University of Wolverhampton is an inclusive institution working to meet the individual needs of our students.
We offer reasonable adjustments to students who have a disability, Specific Learning Difference (SpLD) or long-term medical condition (including a mental health condition).
These reasonable adjustments are designed to support you with your studies.
To ensure you get the right support for your needs, we need you to complete a Self Declaration Form (SDF) .
The SDF gives us more details about your specific support needs and allows us to build up your Tutor Awareness Sheet (TAS) which (with your permission) can inform your module leaders how you can best be supported on your course so please give as much information as you can.
The SDF also contains our consent to share form.
Without this, we cannot let your faculty know of your requirements, so please remember to sign the form!
For more information about accessing reasonable adjustments you can email the Disability and Inclusion team- disability-inclusion@wlv.ac.uk (please include your student number)
You may be eligible to receive additional support known as the Disabled Students' Allowance (DSA) .
Disabled Students’ Allowance ( DSA ) is support to cover the study-related costs you have because of a mental health problem, long-term illness or any other disability; it can be on its own or in addition to any student finance you get.
The type of support and how much you get depends on your individual needs - not your household income, but you will not need to pay it back.
DSA funding is available for eligible students and often covers the costs of specialist equipment, Non-Medical Helpers (NMH) such as a study skills tutor or a specialist mental health mentor and other disability-related costs associated with studying.
Please check out the Government website for further details on eligibility and guidance of how to apply and any evidence you may require.
The Disability and Inclusion team may also be able to help with your application- ( disability-inclusion@wlv.ac.uk)
We offer a wide range of wellbeing events throughout the academic year for students to join, including our regular Wellbeing Day and Let's Talk sessions.
In the coming weeks we will be launching our new psycho-educational workshops, which you can access without registering with the team- further details will be available on our website.
Please also take a look at the Wellbeing Champions webpages for the latest activity, and keep an eye on the student news and events page for more student news.
We provide a wide range of mental health-related self-help resources for our students, including leaflets, apps and our WLV Student Life Connect - University of Wolverhampton .
Find out more below.
When supporting a student in distress, we operate a three-level response model:
Read more on our Responding to a student is distress webpage .
It is important to remember that your job, as the staff member who is aware of the student’s distress, is to determine which of the three levels is most appropriate and follow the guidelines for that level.
In the vast majority of cases, level 1 is the appropriate response.
The other two levels are there to cover more complex, more infrequent situations.
Level 2 is for complex issues that may have some urgency but are not emergencies.
Level 3 is for emergencies, which many staff may never encounter with a student.
If you are worried about a friend or family member, for example, your son or daughter, who is studying with us at the University, please encourage them to seek help and share with them this friendly link to our website: www.wlv.ac.uk/mhw
You may also wish to view our Support to Study procedure here; Support to study - University of Wolverhampton (wlv.ac.uk)
Go to our Advice for a concerned parent, carer or friend webpage for further information.
If you are concerned that you might harm yourself, you need to contact an emergency or crisis support service.
Head 4 Health is a PLPFA (Premier League & Professional Footballers Association) funded project with additional funding from City of Wolverhampton Council.
The project aims to improve mental and physical wellbeing in adult males and females over the age of 18.
To find out more visit the Head4Health webpage
Telephone: 07971900257
Email: healthadmin@wolves.co.uk
We help people through one of the most painful times in life – with bereavement support, information and campaigning.
To find out more visit the Cruse bereavement webpage.
You can call us for free on 0808 808 1677.
We offer information, advice, guidance and casework in 11 key areas:
Benefits, Employment, Debt and Money, Consumer, Relationships, Housing, Law and Rights, Discrimination, Tax, Healthcare, and Education .
We recognise that one problem can sometimes be the result of another so, rather than addressing a single issue at a time we look at a client’s whole situation.
This way, other potential problems can be identified early which prevents them getting worse.
If the situation has already escalated to crisis, then we are responsive and can utilise our robust network of connections to support or negotiate solutions.
For more information visit their Citizens Advice Dudley and Wolverhampton webpages.
Our national Helpline exists to encourage and empower people to get help quickly, because we know the sooner someone starts treatment, the greater their chance of recovery.
People can contact us online or by phone 365 days a year.
We listen to them, help them to understand the illness, and support them to take positive steps towards recovery.
We also support family and friends, equipping them with essential skills and advice, so they can help their loved ones recover whilst also looking after their own mental health.
I need support now
For more information visit the BEAT webpages .
Rather than a one-size-fits-all approach, our Pathway accommodation services give people the maximum independence possible and puts them in control of their support, focusing on moving away from homelessness to a stable, longer-term home.
Call us on 0118 3042077 or Freephone 0800 107 6753
Email: westmids@p3charity.org
Drop in to our Wolverhampton Navigator at 43 School Street, Wolverhampton WV1 4LR
Mon to Fri: 9am-5pm
Thurs to Sat: 5pm-8pm .
For more information visit the P3 webpages .
Men’s Advice Line provides advice & support for men experiencing domestic abuse.
Phone: 0808 801 0327 Email: info@mensadviceline.org.uk Website: http://www.mensadviceline.org.uk/
Wolverhampton Substance Misuse Service
If you are concerned about your drinking or drug use call us on 0300 200 2400 , we can support you.
We offer:
Contact form: https://www.recoverynearyou.org.uk/contact-us/
Website: https://www.recoverynearyou.org.uk
Please call to ask for advice or access any of our support services.
This line is staffed from 9am to 5pm Monday to Friday.
0121 553 0090
If you need advice or are seeking a refuge place outside of office hours, call this number.
If you are in immediate danger please call the police on 999.
0121 552 6448
This line operates between 9am-9pm weekdays.
Any texts or WhatsApp messages received outside of these times will be responded to in normal working hours.
07384 466 181
info@blackcountrywomensaid.co.uk
Student volunteers who deliver health and wellbeing activities and promote self-care.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/applicant-events:
Once you've applied you can join in a range of events between now and when you enrol as a student.
If you want to find out more about your course, discuss the next steps with your application, or find out more about university life, you can join us!
applicant@wlv.ac.uk
Monday-Thursday 9am-7pm & Friday 9am-5pm

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/wlv-blog/2023/may-2023/what-is-the-difference-between-a-ba-and-a-bsc.php:
For students considering a degree in the arts or sciences, choosing between a Bachelor of Arts (BA) and a Bachelor of Science (BSc) can seem slightly confusing.
Both degrees are highly regarded in academia and industry, but they differ in their academic focus and course content.
So, what is the difference between a BA and a BSc?
This blog post from the University of Wolverhampton aims to provide a comprehensive guide to answer this question.
We will explore the key differences between BA and BSc degrees, including their academic requirements, career prospects, and potential paths for further academic study.
By the end of this guide, you will have a better understanding of the differences between these two degrees, helping you make an informed decision about which programme is best suited for you.
A Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree is an undergraduate academic degree programme that provides students with a broad-based education in the humanities, social sciences, and liberal arts.
The BA degree is usually awarded after completing a programme of study that typically takes three to four years, depending on the country and the institution.
BA degrees are designed to provide students with a well-rounded education that prepares them for a range of careers or further academic study.
The programme allows students to develop critical thinking, problem-solving, and communication skills that are highly valued by employers.
A Bachelor of Arts degree is highly respected by employers and is considered an excellent foundation for a wide range of careers, including journalism , law , primary education , and business .
It is also a popular choice for students who plan to pursue graduate study in a specific field of interest.
A Bachelor of Science (BSc) degree is an undergraduate academic degree programme that provides students with a comprehensive education in scientific and technical fields.
The BSc degree is typically awarded after completing a programme of study that usually takes three to four years, similarly to a BA degree.
Bachelor of Science degrees provide students with a strong foundation in scientific principles and techniques that are necessary for a range of careers in scientific and technical fields.
Programmes generally include a mix of general education courses and courses in a specific field of study.
BSc degrees are highly respected by not only employers but also people in the field of scientific and technical academia, and they are considered an excellent foundation for a wide range of careers, including computer science , building surveying , health and wellbeing , and psychology .
It is also the most popular choice for students looking to pursue postgraduate study (MSc) in a scientific or technical field.
The key differences between a Bachelor of Arts (BA) and a Bachelor of Science (BSc) degree are in their focus of study, curriculum, and career opportunities.
A BA degree is designed to provide students with a broad-based education in the humanities, social sciences, and liberal arts.
Students who pursue a BA degree typically study subjects such as literature, history, philosophy, sociology, psychology, and languages.
In contrast, a BSc degree is focused on providing students with a strong foundation in scientific and technical fields.
Students who pursue a BSc degree typically study subjects such as mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, computer science, and engineering.
The curriculum of a BA degree is designed to provide students with a well-rounded education and develop critical thinking, problem-solving, and communication skills.
On the other hand, the curriculum of a BSc degree programme is usually focused on courses in a specific technical/scientifically focused field.
These programmes are designed to provide students with a strong foundation in scientific principles and techniques.
The career opportunities for graduates of a BA degree programme are generally in fields such as journalism, law, education, business, and government service.
Graduates of a BSc degree programme tend to follow careers in scientific research, engineering, technology, and healthcare.
A Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree can open up a wide range of career opportunities in various fields, and encompasses a broad variety of subjects.
Here are some of the popular career fields that graduates pursue after finishing a Bachelor of Arts degree:
A Bachelor of Science (BSc) degree can open up a wide range of career opportunities, including but not limited to:
To determine which degree is right for you, consider your academic interests, career aspirations, and future academic pursuits.
If you have a passion for the humanities, social sciences, or creative arts, a BA degree may be the best fit for you.
BA programmes typically offer a broad range of courses and encourage critical thinking, creativity, and communication skills.
Alternatively, if you have a strong interest in natural sciences, mathematics, or technology, a BSc degree may be a better choice.
BSc programmes offer a more specialised and technical education, focusing on analytical and problem-solving skills.
Choosing between a Bachelor of Arts (BA) and a Bachelor of Science (BSc) can be a difficult decision.
While both degrees are highly valued, they differ in their academic focus and course content.
A BA degree typically focuses on the humanities, social sciences, or creative arts, while a BSc degree typically focuses on natural sciences, mathematics, or technology.
Ultimately, the choice between a BA and a BSc degree will depend on your individual strengths, interests, and aspirations.
Regardless of which undergraduate degree you choose, both programmes offer valuable skills and knowledge that can prepare you for a range of careers and further academic study.
The University of Wolverhampton offers a range of BA and BSc programmes to suit your interests and career aspirations, along with dedicated support to help you succeed academically and professionally.
If you are interested in taking the next steps and studying an undergraduate degree, have a look at our how to apply guide or learn more about university life .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/wlv-blog/2023/april-2023/undergraduate-vs-postgraduate-study-whats-the-difference.php:
Studying at university is an exciting step for students, but with so many different types of courses and degrees available, it can be overwhelming to understand the differences between them.
Whether you’re just starting your higher education journey, or looking to continue with further study, understanding the differences between undergraduate and postgraduate is a great place to start.
Both options lead to degrees, but they differ in several ways.
In this blog, we will explore the differences between undergraduate and postgraduate programmes and provide guidance on how to choose the best course for your academic and career goals.
An undergraduate degree is the initial level of higher education that students can pursue after completing secondary education.
This is usually studied in the form of a Bachelor’s degree, which takes around three years to complete.
Undergraduate degrees are designed to provide students with the foundational knowledge and skills needed to pursue further study or career goals.
Final qualifications can be awarded as either an ordinary or honours (Hons) degree:
Both ordinary and honours Bachelor’s degrees are recognised qualifications that can lead to a wide range of career opportunities, but an honours degree is generally more highly valued by employers, particularly for positions that require a high level of knowledge and expertise in a specific field.
Additionally, an honours degree is often a prerequisite for postgraduate study.
Postgraduate study refers to any education that follows the completion of an undergraduate degree.
This includes Master’s degrees and doctoral study (PhDs).
While an undergraduate degree provides students with a broad-based education, postgraduate study allows students to specialise in a particular area of interest within their field.
This gives students the opportunity to engage in independent research, critical thinking, and advanced analytical skills.
It is an excellent way for students to enhance their career prospects, as postgraduate degrees are highly valued by employers across a range of industries.
Additionally, postgraduate study can provide a pathway for students who wish to pursue academic careers or research positions.
Undergraduate and postgraduate education are two distinct levels of higher education that students can pursue.
While both types are offered by universities across the world, there are many differences between both levels of study, as well as similarities.
Let’s take a closer look at the similarities and differences between undergraduate and postgraduate study.
One of the main differences between undergraduate and postgraduate is the methods of teaching and learning.
At undergraduate level, most Bachelor’s degrees follow a taught structure, whereby learning materials are delivered via lectures, seminars, online resources, coursework and exams.
At postgraduate level, most Master’s degrees also follow a taught structure, however the student is usually expected to take more of an independent approach to learning than at undergraduate level, and will be expected to demonstrate advanced critical thinking.
While taught Master’s degrees involve all the familiarities of undergraduate study, such as lectures, seminars, and independent research, many universities also offer research Master’s degrees.
This type of postgraduate degree involves ongoing independent study, whereby students complete original academic research.
A research Master’s degree is better suited to those looking to pursue academic or research careers, whereas taught Master’s degrees are better suited for those looking to improve their employability in a specific field.
At postgraduate level, there is a greater emphasis on independent study, having previously gained academic experience at undergraduate level.
With this, you can expect to have a lot more freedom at postgraduate level.
Undergraduate courses typically involve a structured study programme with set modules and course materials.
Postgraduate study usually offers more freedom and independence with your learning, with courses often including optional modules to allow students to specialise their knowledge in an area that suits them.
As a result, postgraduate students are given the opportunity to explore their own interests within their field of study and to pursue research questions that they are passionate about.
Postgraduate study also offers more flexibility in terms of how and when students undertake their studies.
For instance, it’s common for Master’s degrees to include part-time or online study options, which allows students to fit their studies around work or other commitments.
This flexibility is offered to ensure that those in work are able to develop skills within their profession, or even change career paths.
Another difference between undergraduate and postgraduate study is the opportunity to study alongside a diverse group of people.
At undergraduate level, the majority of students are those who have completed secondary education and are taking the next step into higher education.
Postgraduate courses attract a broad range of students from different backgrounds and levels of experience, and often attract a more specialised and diverse group of students.
For example, Master’s degrees are intended for students who already have a good foundation of knowledge in their chosen field, and are looking to deepen their knowledge and expertise.
This often means that postgraduate courses attract students who are already working in their field, as well as students who have taken a career break, or those looking to specialise in a new subject.
This diversity is incredibly valuable to postgraduate students.
It provides the opportunity to learn from those with experience and different perspectives.
It also provides a great opportunity to network with those who share similar interests and operate in similar industries and sectors.
One of the most significant differences between undergraduate and postgraduate study to take note of is the entry requirements.
As different levels of higher education, Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees have vastly different entry requirements.
Bachelor’s degrees typically require applicants to have completed secondary education at school, college or sixth form.
Most will require A-Level or equivalent qualifications as a prerequisite to study the course.
Entry requirements will vary depending on the university and course, but are generally designed to help students access the necessary foundational knowledge and skills that suit their abilities and goals.
In contrast, Master’s degrees usually require students to have already completed an undergraduate degree or equivalent qualification in a relevant field of study.
The more specialised the postgraduate programme, the more stringent the entry requirements are likely to be.
For example, a postgraduate programme in law may require students to have a degree in law or a related subject, while a postgraduate programme in civil engineering may require students to have a degree in engineering or a related science.
When considering either an undergraduate or postgraduate degree, it’s important to understand how long it’ll take to complete your studies.
In the UK, undergraduate degrees typically take three years to complete .
However, some courses such as medicine or architecture may take longer.
Master’s degrees, on the other hand, typically take between one and two years to complete, depending on whether they are studied full-time or part-time.
Doctoral programmes (PhDs), which are the highest level of postgraduate study, can take between three and five years to complete, and require students to undertake original research and produce a doctoral thesis or dissertation.
Research methods are a core part of any higher education programme.
At undergraduate level, students are generally introduced to basic research methods throughout modules, and will often study an entire module dedicated to academic research techniques.
This helps Bachelor’s students grasp the foundations of research design, data collection, analysis and evaluation.
This is usually a compulsory aspect of undergraduate study.
While undergraduate study introduces students to the basics of research methods, postgraduate study involves more advanced research methodology and incorporates this as a central focus throughout the programme.
This is largely because Master’s and doctoral programmes require students to undertake original research, and as a result, requires students to develop a more in-depth understanding of research methods.
This can involve learning more advanced techniques for collecting and analysing data, such as statistical analysis or content analysis.
Postgraduate students may also need to learn how to use specialist software or equipment to conduct their research, such as laboratory equipment, survey tools or digital databases.
For example, Master’s and doctoral students will develop their own research questions and methodologies, and will be required to critically evaluate independent research.
Postgraduate study involves less structured contact with academic staff and more one-to-one contact, particularly in research-focused programmes.
As a result, they typically have more opportunities for one-to-one supervision and guidance from their academic supervisors.
Having an increased level of contact with academic staff can be both challenging and rewarding for postgraduate students.
On one hand, it provides an opportunity to work more closely with experienced academics and to receive tailored feedback on their work.
On the other hand, it requires a higher level of initiative and independence on the part of the student, as they must take responsibility for their own research and seek out opportunities for support and guidance when needed.
In conclusion, there are a number of differences between undergraduate and postgraduate study.
From teaching structure, length of study, entry requirements and more, there’s lots to consider when understanding how undergraduate courses differ from postgraduate courses.
Undergraduate degrees are typically the first degree a student earns after secondary education and offer a broad overview of a field of study, while postgraduate degrees require an undergraduate degree and allow for specialisation in a specific area.
Additionally, postgraduate degrees can lead to higher salaries, more advanced job opportunities, and greater potential for career advancement.
We offer a range of courses at both undergraduate and postgraduate level at the University of Wolverhampton.
Explore what it’s like to study with us, whether you’re just starting your higher education journey or looking to advance your knowledge with postgraduate study.
Learn more about undergraduate and postgraduate courses .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/postgraduate-courses-a---z:
There are currently 141 courses

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/online-distance-learning:
Are you passionate about study, independent and confident with computers?
If so, Distance Learning could be for you.
We have been offering a select group of courses by distance learning for many years, from full undergraduate degrees in Business, to short courses for CPD in the Built Environment.
These courses are designed to be taken anywhere in the world with no requirement to attend on campus, except to take UK examinations (international examinations are offered through British Council venues).
You may be considering this type of study due to your employment and/or home life.
We have many successful graduates who have used distance learning to create their own study timetables, balancing their existing commitments with a study schedule that suits them.
To make this even easier, as a distance learner you are welcome on campus and are free to use our local facilities, whether it’s part of your regular study plan, or an immersive weekend visit.
We follow the standard academic calendar which makes it easier for parents to manage school holidays.
Along with making study more manageable alongside employment, studying by distance learning also improves your employability, demonstrating many skills that prospective employers are looking for in a competitive work market, such as excellent time management, independence and self-motivation.
Please note that we do not support learning by correspondence, as our courses are designed to be studied online.
If you do not have reliable internet access or an up-to-date home computer, this study method will not be suitable for you.
To further explore the option of distance learning visit our Applicant FAQs .
Take a look at the courses below to see what we offer.
Take a look at our courses which can be studied remotely.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/postgraduate-taught-degrees:
Explore postgraduate taught courses at the University of Wolverhampton.
Taught degrees offer the perfect opportunity to enhance your knowledge in your chosen subject area.
Through taught study, you’ll develop the skills you need to exceed in further research or your chosen career.
Postgraduate taught courses are similarly structured to undergraduate courses, involving lectures, seminars, workshops and other on-campus activities.
Browse our postgraduate taught degrees today.
Our aim is to provide you with the skills, environment, support and expertise you need to help you take your next steps in life.
Our taught programmes are designed to build on the knowledge and qualifications gained through undergraduate study, through similar teaching styles to undergraduate courses.
Explore our range of postgraduate courses today.
The MA is a postgraduate taught qualification specialising in the arts, humanities and social sciences.
This includes subjects such as English Language, History and Sociology.
The MSc is a postgraduate qualification that specialises in STEM subjects.
This includes Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics.
The PG Cert is a shorter postgraduate degree studied at masters level, without the need to complete a dissertation.
This typically takes a full academic term to complete and is worth 60 credits.
The PG Dip is a postgraduate qualification completed at masters level, but over a shorter period of time.
A PG Dip usually takes two full terms to complete and is worth 120 credits.
There are two main types of study at postgraduate level: taught and research.
The majority of postgraduate courses are taught, but what exactly does this involve?
Taught postgraduate courses are delivered through in-person or online teaching, usually delivered by a lecturer or professor who specialises in the subject area.
Teaching will often involve aspects such as:
Students who have completed an undergraduate degree will likely be familiar with this teaching style.
At postgraduate level, taught aspects are usually more advanced, with aspects of independent research also required.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/affordable-living:
Student life in Wolverhampton is welcoming and reasonably priced all year round.
If you live in university-owned, on-campus accommodation , you’ll enjoy cost-effective living with all your bills included in the price.
Our support services are on hand if you are ever struggling and need additional financial help.
If you move from undergraduate to postgraduate study with us, you get a 20% discount on the cost of your course, with our postgraduate loyalty discount .
The University of Wolverhampton is the 5th cheapest in UK for student accommodation according to Student Crowd (February 2024).
Wolverhampton vs Manchester living costs (according to MyLifeElsewhere, June 2024).
The WLV Wallet online portal has resources to support you, including free live events, student blogs, wellbeing resources and an online store where you can receive a bursary of up to £300 to spend.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/our-campus/campus-facilities-gallery:
Make use of specialist equipment for chemical analysis including: gas chromatography, ICP (Inductively Coupled Plasma) analysis, XRF (X-Ray Florence) and XRD (X-Ray Diffraction).
View the structure of living cells in 3 dimensions by using our £200,000 confocal microscope.
Situated on top of the Rosalind Franklin Building, our glasshouses are equipped with LED plant growth lights and controlled temperatures to underpin teaching in plant biology.
Our facilities, including visualisation centre, laser melting machine, rapid prototyping facilities, wind tunnel and metrology lab are in demand by companies working at the cutting-edge of technological innovation.
At Telford Campus, the beautiful rural landscape contrasts sharply with modern technology housed in its buildings.
Test your skills on one of our racing cars, whether in preparation for the F3 Cup, IMechE Formula Student, or Morgan Challenge.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/current-students/student-support/accessibility-disability--inclusion-team:
At the University of Wolverhampton, we believe every student deserves the chance to flourish.
Whether you're starting your university journey or are well on your way, our dedicated team of Accessibility, Disability, and Inclusion Advisers are here to support you throughout your student experience.
How we can support you - We offer reasonable adjustments to students with a disability, neurodiversity, or a long-term health condition—including mental health conditions.
If you're eligible, we’ll also help you apply for additional funded support such as Disabled Students Allowances (DSAs) or Access to work .
Working together to help you thrive - Each adviser specialises in a particular course area, meaning they truly understand the structure, challenges, and opportunities of your course.
We work collaboratively with you and your faculty to create a meaningful and personalised support plan that meets statutory requirements and is accessible to your teaching team.
Email disability-inclusion@wlv.ac.uk
Appointment: Booking link
The Student life service desk is open Monday - Friday 10am - 4pm , at our City campus, in the MD, Ambika Paul Building .
We are next door to the Harrison Learning centre, sharing a space with the ASK@WLV team.
You can make a Microsoft teams or telephone appointment with a Accessibility, Disability & Inclusion Adviser.
If you are an external organisation, that is supporting a prospective student, and would like to inform us of that individuals support requirements to access study, please complete the Referral form.
Please ensure you have consent from the individual before making contact on their behalf.
Please note, this is not a application pathway, completing this form, does not guarantee a place of the University of Wolverhampton for the prospective student.
The purpose is to pre-empt support requirements should the individual successfully enrol onto a course.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/search:
The War Studies degree will provide graduates with knowledge of the debates and developments related to war; its causes,  uses and how it may be avoided or concluded.
If you&rsquo;re a visual storyteller with a passion for drawing,  image-making,  and design,  Illustration at the University of Wolverhampton offers a dynamic space to grow your creative voice.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/research/research-policies-procedures--guidelines/research-degree-regulations/regulations-for-the-degree-award-of-phd-by-published-work:
Research students and supervisors are responsible for familiarising themselves with the University Ethics Policy, Code of Good Research Practice and other research policies, procedures and guidelines at: www.wlv.ac.uk/researchpolicies
The PhD by Published Work route is intended primarily for mid-career research-active academic staff, who have not had the opportunity to undertake a research programme leading to a PhD.
Submissions for this award will consist of coherent body of work which is of the same quality, rigour and volume as required of a standard PhD in the relevant field and which constitutes an original contribution to knowledge.
1.1         The University of Wolverhampton may award the degree of PhD by Published Work where a student has made an independent and original contribution to new knowledge through the discovery of new facts, demonstrated an understanding of research methods appropriate to the chosen field and has presented and defended a thesis by oral examination to the satisfaction of the examiners.
1.2         The academic standards associated with the degree award of PhD by Publication shall be comparable with those of the degree award of Doctor of Philosophy.
1.3         The University’s research degrees are awarded to students who have satisfied a team of specially appointed Examiners that both the thesis (including portfolio of creative / published work) and the oral defence of that thesis demonstrate that they have achieved the learning outcomes appropriate to the award sought, as specified in the QAA Framework for Higher Education Qualifications.
Examiners are asked to confirm in their final report that students have met the learning outcomes for the award.
Required Learning Outcomes for the Award of PhD by Publication:
1.4         The learning outcomes expressly refer to peer-review and sole or lead authorship.
The learning outcomes must all be demonstrated in the written commentary and/or peer reviewed original research-based published works.
1.5         Published works that have not been peer reviewed cannot be submitted for a PhD by Published Work.
An output shall be regarded as published work only if it is traceable through ordinary catalogues, tables of contents, critical reviews, abstracts or citation indices and if copies are or have been available to the general public including, for example, public exhibitions with published catalogues and public performances with published programmes.
Reports provided exclusively for the public or private sector may not be submitted unless they have been published and are available generally.
Proofs of works not yet accepted for publication shall not be submitted.
1.6         The published works submitted for examination will constitute a corpus of work that contributes a coherent body of knowledge rather than a series of disconnected research outputs.
2.1         Initial registration for the PhD by Published Work is through the Research Proposal.
2.2         A PhD by Published work is studied part-time.
The normal period of study for a PhD by Published Work shall be 12 months part-time from the date of approval of the Research Proposal.
The maximum period over which a PhD by Published Work may be studied is 24 months part-time.
2.3         If the relevant Research Student Board approves an application, they will appoint at least one Academic Advisor who will be a serving member of the University.
The role of the advisor(s) is to:
2.4         Eligible members of staff are defined for this purpose as academic staff of the University of Wolverhampton appointed to a full-time contract or occupying a substantive part-time post equivalent to at least 0.2 of a full-time contract.
2.5         Staff undertaking a PhD by Published Work must be in such employment at the time of approval of the Research proposal and at the time of submission of the PhD.
They will have been in post for at least one year prior to submission of the Research Proposal.
3.1         A team of examiners will be convened to examine students at the appropriate time.
3.2         Three examiners, two external examiners and an internal examiner, must be appointed for each PhD by Published Work thesis presented for examination.
See Appendix 8: Guidelines for Nomination of Examiners
3.3         All oral examinations will be Chaired by a representative of the University.
The Chair will be independent of the project, student, and academic advisor.
Their role is to ensure that the examination is conducted fairly and in accordance with the University’s regulations.
3.4         Once the examining team has been appointed, neither the student nor the academic advisor shall have any contact with the examiners in relation to the thesis until the oral examination.
See Appendix 9: External Examiners (Research Degrees) - Process for Checking Right to Work in the UK
4.1         All research students must present a written thesis, presented in English, in the format agreed by the University Research Committee, on the subject of their research, for examination by a team of examiners.
See Appendix 11: Format Requirements for the Thesis
4.2         All research degrees must reach a standard of written English and academic communication appropriate for the topic and the level of award, and examiners will be asked to consider this element of the work.
4.3         The student will submit sufficient copies of the thesis in printed form to supply one for each examiner.
An identical digital version – in Word format - must be supplied for the viva Chair for reference.
See Appendix 10: Submission of the Thesis
4.4         The thesis for a PhD by Published Work is comprised of:
4.5         For the purpose of these regulations, ‘published work’ shall refer to journal papers, chapters, monographs, books, scholarly editions of a text, edited collections of essays or other materials, software, and creative work (which may be in any field including fine art, design, architecture, musical composition, dance or performance) or other original artefacts.
The precise selection of work undertaken by the student will depend upon the discipline concerned.
4.6         The number of publications will depend on both the academic area and the type of publication included in the submission, but as a guide, the submission should comprise between three and ten publications.
4.7         Any submission for a PhD by Published Work will involve a coherent portfolio of published work, with appropriate currency.
The publications submitted for the degree shall have been published within the last ten years and should demonstrate a continuing record of publication.
This will be ensured as follows:
4.8         Where more than one chapter from a single edited book is included, there is a strong expectation that, taken together, these will comprise less than half of the published works submitted for examination.
4.9         Students must ensure they have all relevant copyright permissions before they submit their work for examination.
4.10       The commentary will be presented in English.
The published works will also be in English unless a specific exemption is sought from the University Research Committee at the time of submission of the Research Proposal.
Permission to include publications in a language other than English will only be granted provided that the academic advisor has reading knowledge of the language of the publications and that the inclusion of such publications would not prejudice or limit the selection of appropriate examiners or Independent Chair.
4.11       The written commentary provides a context for the published work, a statement (or re-statement) of the argument / research questions (including theoretical and methodological underpinnings) that the published works together put forward.
This should explain how the findings from the collection of published works address the research question.
The commentary should also state (or restate) the original contribution(s) to knowledge that the published works together advance.
4.12       Where jointly authored works are to be submitted for the degree, the student shall submit (as appendices to the commentary) a formal statement for each applicable work endorsed by the co-authors clearly identifying the student’s intellectual ownership and contribution to each published work.
The statement(s) shall quantify the student’s contribution to the formulation, execution, analysis and publication of the research.
4.13       In addition, the written commentary must clarify the student’s contribution and identify the basis for their claim to the intellectual content of any jointly authored works.
Students should expect their individual contribution to multi-authored works to be a focus of the oral examination.
4.14       A guide to the word count can be found in the table below.
Subject Area
Published works
Commentary
Total word count for written submissions
Science, Engineering and Technology
Up to 35,000 words
At least 10,000 words
45,000 words
Humanities (Arts, Social Sciences, Education & Business)
Up to 70,000 words
At least 20,000 words
90,000 words
4.15       When a research student submits their thesis, it must be solely their own work (except where the Regulations permit the inclusion of appropriately referenced collaborative research or work).
The student must not appoint or employ a ‘ghost writer’ to write parts or all of their thesis, whether in draft or as a final version.
4.16       Editors, whether they are part of the supervisory team, informal mentors, family or friends or professional proof-readers or editors, need to be clear about the extent and nature of help they can offer to a student in their editing role.
Supervisors also need to be clear about the role of ‘third party’ editors as well as their own editorial role.
4.17       A student may use ‘third party’ editorial assistance or proof-readers (paid or voluntary) from an outside source.
However, this must be with the knowledge and support of the student’s academic advisor and must strictly follow the regulations.
4.18       A ‘third party’ editor cannot be used to:
4.19       A ‘third party’ editor can be used to offer advice on:
4.20       Following successful examination and the approval of any amendments, which the examiners require, the student will be required to submit a final electronic version (E-Thesis) to Registry Services to be loaded to the University institutional repository (WIRE).
Once the e-thesis is deposited in WIRE, it is published online so it can be accessed by scholars and others anywhere in the world.
See Appendix 12: Preparing the E-Thesis for Deposit
4.21       An application for confidentiality may be made to the Dean of Research on the following grounds:
4.22       An application for restricted access must be made at the earliest opportunity and approval must be sought and granted no later than the time at which examination arrangements are approved.
The normal maximum period of confidentiality is two years.
Where a shorter period would be adequate, the University shall not automatically grant the full two years.
4.23       Where an application for confidentiality has been granted, the thesis will, immediately on completion of the programme of work, be retained by the University on restricted access and, for a time not exceeding the approved period, shall only be made available to those who were directly involved in the project.
4.24       A data only record will appear in WIRE (including author, title, keywords etc.) until the restricted access period has expired.
The copies of the thesis submitted for examination shall remain the property of the University, but the copyright of the thesis shall be vested in the student.
Guidelines: Considerations for restricted access
Students should consider before any application that:
a)     The starting assumption is always that research can be made publicly available.
b)     A period of confidentiality should not be used as an alternative to legitimate ways of anonymising data to protect participants.
c)     Sensitive material can be removed to an appendix and embargoed separately so that the main body of research is still available publicly.
d)     Students should be following good practice in these areas (regardless of electronic access).
e)     Issues relating to potential harm to individuals, or the author should be considered as part of the research design and the ethical approval process.
5.1         The examination for a research degree shall have two stages: firstly, the submission and preliminary assessment of the thesis and secondly its defence by oral examination; the viva voce.
Guidelines - Examinations
Prior to examination, students will be offered support to prepare them for the viva voce examination, in the form of a 'mock' viva with suitably qualified staff.
The approved internal examiner must have no part in any such mock examination.
In cases where a student has declared a disability, learning difference or long-term health condition to the University, the student will be consulted about reasonable adjustments they may require during the oral examination.
Where a student would be disadvantaged by an oral examination, alternative arrangements may be approved.
5.2         Students are required to attend the viva voce examination on the agreed date unless there are exceptional and unforeseen circumstances, which prevent attendance.
5.3         The viva voce examination should take place within 3 calendar months of the examiners receiving the thesis.
5.4         RASC shall ensure that all examinations are conducted, and the recommendations of the examiners are presented, wholly in accordance with the University’s regulations.
In any instance where RASC is made aware of failure to comply with all the procedures of the examination process, it may declare the examination null and void and appoint new examiners.
5.5         RASC (or its Chair, acting on behalf of the sub-committee) shall make a decision on the reports and recommendation(s) of the examiners in respect of the student.
The power to confer the degree shall rest with RASC, acting on behalf of Academic Board of the University of Wolverhampton.
5.6         Registry Services will send a copy of the thesis to each examiner together with the examiner’s Preliminary Report form, University Research Degrees Regulations, and the Notes of Guidance for Examiners.
They will also respond to any questions the examiners have concerning the examination procedures.
5.7         Each examiner will read the thesis and provide an independent Preliminary Report on it to the University before any oral examination is held.
In completing the Preliminary Report, each examiner shall consider whether the thesis provisionally satisfies the requirements of the degree and where possible shall make an appropriate provisional recommendation subject to the outcome of an oral examination.
5.8         All Preliminary Reports must be received by Registry Services at least 10 working days before the scheduled date of the viva.
The University may reschedule a viva where this is not the case.
5.9         Registry Services will ensure that the Chair has all Preliminary Reports to be distributed to the examination team on the day of the viva; but they will not be made available to the student.
5.10       Registry Services must notify the student, examiners, supervisors, and independent Chair in writing of the date and the arrangements for the oral examination.
Arrangements include any agreed reasonable adjustments where these have been requested by the student, with reference to their tutor awareness sheet.
5.11       The oral examination shall not be arranged less than one month from the date of receipt of the thesis by the examiners to give the examiners a reasonable period in which to assess the work.
5.12       The oral examination shall be held in the UK (on university premises).
In exceptional circumstances, RASC may give approval for the examination to take place by video conference, in line with the Policy on Remote Viva Voce Examinations.
Guidelines - Examiners’ Pre-Meeting
Prior to the examination, the examiners will meet with the independent Chair to consider their preliminary reports and the student’s thesis.
The examiners will also clarify the issues, which they collectively, or independently, wish to raise with the student.
The examiners should also agree the structure of their questioning and the time frame in which they hope to complete the oral examination.
Details of the implementation of any reasonable adjustments being made during the viva should be agreed, with the Chair ensuring that they comply with the student's entitlements.
5.13       The academic advisor may, at the written request of the student, attend the oral examination as an observer, but shall withdraw prior to the deliberations of the examiners on the outcome of the examination.
5.14       The only other people who may attend the oral examination are those who are necessary for the University to discharge its obligations under the Equality Act 2010 and where this has been agreed in advance.
5.15       At the end of the examination, the student and advisor will leave the room.
The examiners or the Chair may however invite them back to clarify any outstanding issues arising from the examination.
If an academic advisor has not been invited to attend the viva voce by the student, they are not permitted to join the meeting between the student and examination team that delivers the outcome.
Guidelines – The role of the Chair
Each examination shall be chaired by an independent Chair, nominated by RASC.
The Chair must have attended the appropriate training.
This training is provided to ensure that Chairs carry out their role rigorously, fairly, reliably, and consistently.
The Chair will have responsibility for arranging the examination and for ensuring that the student is given a fair opportunity to defend the work and for acquainting the External Examiner with any extenuating circumstances, which have a bearing on the case.
The Chair shall have a neutral role in the assessment process and will take no part in the actual assessment of the thesis or the deliberations of the examining team.
The Chair will advise the examiners and/or the student and will ensure that the examination is conducted in accordance with university regulations, procedures, policy, and practice.
5.16       Following the completion of the oral examination, the examiners shall, where they are in agreement, submit to Registry Services a joint report and recommendation relating to the award of the degree.
5.17       The examiners will be asked to make one of the following recommendations:
5.18       The examiners shall inform the student of their recommendations to RASC on the day of the examination.
5.19       The preliminary reports and joint recommendation of the examiners shall together provide sufficiently detailed comments on the scope and quality of the work to enable RASC to satisfy itself that the recommendation proposed is appropriate.
Where the examiners are not in agreement, separate reports and recommendations shall be submitted.
Guidelines - Feedback from the Examiners to the Student Post-Viva
The examiners must supply Registry Services with a report detailing the amendments and corrections they require within 10 working days of the date of the oral examination.
Registry Services will supply the report to the student within 5 working days of receipt from the examiners.
5.20       Where the examiners are satisfied that the student has in general reached the standard required for the degree but consider that the thesis requires additional explanatory information or some minor amendments and corrections, they may recommend that the degree be awarded subject to the student amending the thesis to the satisfaction of the internal and/or the external examiner(s).
5.21       Minor corrections that are permissible include typographical errors, minor amendments and/or replacement of, or additions to the text, references, or diagrams.
Other more extensive corrections may be made as long as they do not require significant (as defined by the examiners) re-working or re-interpretation of the intellectual content of the commentary.
5.22       Where minor amendments are required, the student must submit the corrected thesis within a maximum of 12 weeks from the date the examiners’ feedback is sent to the student.
RASC may, where there are exceptional reasons, approve an extension of this period.
For students with disabilities, learning differences or long term health conditions, where it is indicated on their tutor awareness sheet, an additional 25% time is given (totalling 15 weeks).
5.23       When students submit the corrected thesis, they shall attach a summary of the changes they have made identifying where the changes can be found in the corrected thesis.
5.24       The degree will not be awarded until confirmation that the corrections have been completed is received.
Where the student does not submit the amended thesis within twelve weeks and in the absence of approved and recorded Leave of Absence, the University reserves the right not to confer the award.
5.25       The minor amendments must be made to the satisfaction of at least one examiner as agreed by the examiners following the viva voce.
Examiners may not make additional requirements at this stage.
Upon receipt of the corrected thesis, the nominated examiner will, within one month of receipt, complete the Examiner’s Final Declaration Form and return it to Registry Services.
5.26       Where the examiners are unable to agree a joint recommendation following submission of the amended thesis, the procedures in Regulations 5.29 and 5.30 shall apply.
5.27       Where the examiners’ recommendation is fail, the student may make a further application at any time, provided that such an application includes additional works based upon further study and research.
5.28       The period of study shall be 12 months from the date of approval of the new Research Proposal.
The student shall submit a new copy of the published works and commentary for examination.
A new team of examiners will be appointed.
5.29       Where Examiners are unable to reach an agreed recommendation, the Dean of Research may:
a) accept a majority recommendation, b) accept the recommendation of the external Examiner, or c) require the appointment of an additional Examiner.
5.30       Where an additional external examiner is appointed under Regulation 10.30c) above, they shall prepare an independent report on the thesis and may request an additional oral examination.
That examiner will neither seek nor be informed of the recommendations of the other examiners.
The reports from all the examiners are considered by the Dean of Research.
6.1       Conferment of an award is withheld from any student who has not fulfilled a legitimate requirement of the University, including the settlement of any outstanding debt to the University.
6.2       A student must not state that they have been awarded a research degree on their CV, in job applications or at interview until a formal conferment letter is received from the University.
Guidelines – Conferment
The University provides an award certificate to each student on whom it confers an award.
Following the conferment of the award, the student is invited to attend a graduation ceremony.
7.1         Any alleged misconduct in research (that is, other than academic misconduct in an assessment) will be dealt with initially through the Procedures for the Investigation of Allegations of Misconduct in Research.
7.2         Any alleged assessment offence will be dealt with through the ‘Procedure for managing an alleged assessment offence’, where a student has:
a) sought to gain unfair academic advantage in the assessment process for themselves or another student, and/or b) not complied with internal or external ethical approval processes, and/or c) breached a principle of research integrity.
7.3         An assessment offence may be committed in relation to a “piece of work contributing to a research award of the University”.
This includes any written work or oral presentation submitted for assessment or submitted to a Faculty Research Committee in support of the Progression stage of a Research Degree Programme or as part of the Annual Progress Review.
7.4         All research will use text-matching software to produce an originality report, to be submitted alongside assessed work, including:
a) Annual Progress Review.
b) Progression Stage.
c) The thesis.
d) A resubmitted thesis, where resubmission is required.
7.5         The University reserves the right to submit any assessment item to a text-matching database for electronic originality checking with or without a student's consent.
See Appendix 13: Procedure for managing an alleged assessment offence
8.1         The University has an appeals procedure that is available for all research students.
( https://www.wlv.ac.uk/current-students/conduct-and-appeals/ This process can also be used to appeal against the outcome of an Extenuating Circumstances claim.
8.2         Appellants will not be disadvantaged as a result of bringing an academic appeal.
8.3         A student registered for a postgraduate research degree has the right to appeal against a decision made at any of the key assessment points:
a) Taught modules (Professional Doctorate Students only) b) Progression decision (Annual Progress Review or Progression Stage) c) Examination or re-examination of the thesis.
8.4         In addition, students may also appeal against decisions made relating to:
a) the decision that there is no prima facie case for the award of a PhD by Published Work.
b) Withdrawal of registration due to lack of academic progress.
9.1         Research students who are dissatisfied with their conditions of work or the quality of their supervision should wherever possible discuss the difficulties with their supervisor.
9.2         If a research student prefers not to discuss their concerns with the supervisor, the student should approach the Postgraduate Research Tutor.
9.3         If the complaint is not resolved through informal routes, then the University of Wolverhampton has a formal Student Complaints Procedure.
Information on the complaints procedure may be found at: https://www.wlv.ac.uk/about-us/governance/legal-information/policies-and-regulations/
10.1       The University may award consider an Aegrotat or Posthumous award, on the recommendation of the Dean of Research.
In reaching the decision, the Dean of Research will normally convene an Examination Panel in accordance with section D5.
10.2       In addition to the award sought (or an MPhil in the case of PhD), the Examiners may recommend the award of Postgraduate Diploma (by research), if they believe the work is close to but not sufficient.
10.3       In considering whether to accept such a thesis, the relevant committee will assure itself that the work available is of sufficient quality to demonstrate to Examiners that the student had achieved the objectives of the research programme.
10.4       In considering the request for an Aegrotat award, the University Research Awards sub-committee will assure itself that appropriate efforts have been made to support the student and to retrieve the programme of study, and that the student is unlikely to be able to complete the programme in the foreseeable future.
10.5       Research submitted for consideration for a Postgraduate Diploma (by Research) cannot subsequently be employed by the student towards a Research Degree.
11.1       In exceptional circumstances, following an investigation, the University may at any time, on the recommendation of the Academic Registrar, revoke an award and all privileges connected therewith, having determined that there is good cause to do so.
This may include:
a) Where an award is found to have been obtained by fraud or deception including academic and research misconduct.
b) Where a graduate has not met the requirements of the award conferred or c) Where the award has been obtained due to administrative error or irregularities in the conduct of the Research Awards Sub-committee.
PDF Version of the Regulations for the degree award of PhD by Published Work , to download.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/research/research-policies-procedures--guidelines/research-degree-regulations/regulations-for-the-award-of-higher-doctorate:
1.1         The University of Wolverhampton may award Higher Doctorates in recognition of a substantial portfolio of original research of high academic distinction as defined in the following Regulations for the award of such degrees.
1.2         Applications may be made for the following higher doctorates:
1.3         Applicants are required to state the higher doctorate for which they wish their work to be considered.
2.1         Higher Doctorates are awarded to individuals who have demonstrated a command over a field of study and who have made a significant original contribution to the advancement of knowledge or to the application of knowledge (or to both).
2.2         Higher Doctorates are awarded on the basis of a submission of a substantial portfolio of research-based work.
The applicant must have published research outputs in the accepted media within their field of significant quality and number and be involved in peer reviews of their subject.
2.3         The work submitted must be of high distinction and must establish that the applicant is a leading authority in the field or fields of study concerned.
3.1         The following shall be eligible to make application for the Higher Doctorate degree:
a) Any member of the University’s staff who at the time of application have been employed by the University for not less than three years.
b) An honorary or visiting member of staff of the University of Wolverhampton who have served for not less than four years
c) Any alumnus of the University of Wolverhampton or the former Wolverhampton Polytechnic
d) A person who has carried out research at or in association with the University of Wolverhampton for a period of at least fifteen years, which has led to publications that will form a substantial component of the body of work presented in support of the application
3.2         Such applicants should be holders, of at least seven years’ standing, of a doctoral degree awarded by a UK University (or equivalent body), or of a qualification of equivalent standard.
4.1         The conferment process for Higher Doctorate awards is a thorough and therefore lengthy one.
Students who wish to have their award conferred in a particular calendar year are therefore advised to make application at least nine months beforehand.
4.2         A student must make an initial application to the Dean of Research to submit for the degree.
4.3         An initial application must consist of one copy of each of the following, all of which must be produced and submitted electronically in PDF format:
a) A completed application form, the current version of which may be obtained from the University.
b) A curriculum vitae.
c) A list of published works.
Each submitted publication should have the following symbols entered against it, as appropriate: R = refereed U = un-refereed S = sole author P = principal author J = joint author.
The list of publications as a whole should be arranged in a logical sequence and grouped where appropriate.
d) A submission title.
e) A statement of approximately 1,000 words setting out the applicant’s view of the nature and significance of the work submitted.
This detailed statement must summarise the case for support, bringing the separate strands of the work together into a coherent theme in the context of the subject and the conclusion must bring out the main points and make the case for the award.
f) A full statement of the extent of the applicant’s contribution to work submitted, involving joint authorship or other types of collaboration.
The statement must be set out in such a way that it is absolutely clear what constitutes the applicant’s own original and significant contribution to the field.
g) A statement describing any previous submission of the works for a degree of this or any other University.
h) The names of two academic referees who shall not be members of the University.
4.4         On submission of an initial application the Dean of Research, with advice from appropriate Faculty Research Committee (FRC), will consider whether the application is eligible of proceeding to examination.
4.5         Ineligible applicants will be informed if it is not possible to progress the application outlining the reason(s) why.
4.6         If the application is premature and is rejected, this shall not prevent the student from applying on a further occasion at a later stage.
This would not normally be earlier than 2 years after the first application was rejected.
4.7         If any documents are missing to support the application then the applicant will be informed of what is required and given 60 working days in which to supply the outstanding documents.
If documents are not received during this timeframe, then the application will be rejected and the applicant informed.
5.1         Eligible applicants will be informed that their candidature has been approved and shall be invited to submit for examination three hard copies of the portfolio of published works upon which the application is based.
5.2         All material other than books must be secured in chronological order in one or more hard-backed folders, each containing a title and contents page.
The contents of a submission must be in English unless specific permission to the contrary has been given by the University.
5.3         The applicant will also be required to pay the candidature fee.
5.4         The submission may take the form of books, contributions to journals, patent specifications, reports, specifications and designs, compositions, digital artefacts, research datasets and may also include other relevant evidence of original work:
a) Books: Those focused on the specialism(s) and research area(s) of the applicant; those, which have become standard undergraduate and postgraduate texts; those bodies of work edited by and/or contributed to by applicants.
b) Papers: While contributions to the full range of published material in a student's field may be submitted, the greatest weight is likely to be given to publications of substance appearing in learned journals (including electronic journals) and which are subjected to academic peer refereeing; conference papers, which ultimately appear in appropriate scholarly media, are acceptable.
c) Other Contributions: Patent specifications, reports, designs, compositions, digital artefacts and other relevant evidence of original work may be submitted as part of an applicant’s portfolio.
Work yet to be published, provided that there is firm evidence of its having been accepted for publication (such as the copy of a proof or some other pre-printed stage) may be considered as part of a student's case, although a preponderance of work in press may convey the impression of insufficient research maturity.
5.5         A list of potential examiners may be included as part of the submission although it is at the discretion of the Higher Doctorate Conferment Panel as to whether any persons on that list are approached at any stage.
6.1         On receipt of a submission that proceeds to examination, the Dean of Research following approval by the University Research Committee (URC) will convene a Higher Doctorate Panel to examine the evidence.
6.2         The Panel will determine whether a prima facie case for proceeding to External examination has been established.
6.3         The panel will consist of the Dean of Research (or delegate, in case of a conflict of interest), a member of the University's Offices of the Vice Chancellor, at least two other members of the University whose expertise is relevant and at least one specialist in the field from outside the University.
6.4         The panel may take whatever advice it considers appropriate, including the use of external advisors.
6.5         If satisfied that a prima facie case has been established, the Panel will nominate two external examiners.
6.6         Examiners will be selected according to the following criteria:
a) Examiners must be experienced in research in the specific area of the student’s submission and have experience as a specialist in the topic(s) to be examined;
b) At least one of the examiners must hold a higher doctorate, equivalent qualification, or a similar academic standing and recognition;
c) All examiners will be external and wholly independent of the University.
6.7         URC must approve any examination arrangements before any further action can be taken.
When approval has been given, the full application and accompanying submission will be sent to the examiners for scrutiny.
6.8         If the Higher Doctorate Panel declares that a prima facie case is not established, the application will not be permitted to go forward for examination.
6.9         For applicants who fail to establish a prima facie case, debriefing advice will be available from a nominated member of the panel.
7.1         The University will send the submission to the two approved examiners each of whom shall make an independent report to the University.
7.2         The award of the degree shall be based wholly or to a substantial extent on original work of distinction carried out independently by the student.
7.3         There is no requirement under the University’s Regulations for students to undergo a viva voce examination.
7.4         Following receipt of the examiners’ reports, the panel will reconvene to consider the recommendations and proceed as follows:
a) If the examiners are unanimous, the panel will consider the reports and, if the recommendations are supportive of the award, ask the University Research Committee to ratify the award
b) In the event of a disagreement between the examiners, the panel may either appoint a third examiner or reject the submission.
7.5         In circumstances where an additional examiner is appointed, the panel may then accept a majority recommendation and proceed as in (a) above.
7.6         The recommendation of the panel and the examiners' reports will be put before URC who will decide whether a recommendation to confer the award will be made to Academic Board.
The student will be advised of the decision of URC at this stage.
7.7         Upon recommendation of the panel that the award be conferred, the applicant must submit one copy of the portfolio on which the application is based in electronic format.
The hard copy portfolios shall be returned to the applicant.
7.8         The University shall retain the portfolio in the open access online repository, which is available for anyone to consult.
A student is therefore advised to mark the portfolio as copyright.
7.9         In the case of applications that are unsuccessful, a nominated member of the panel shall inform students of the weaknesses, which are deemed to exist in the case made for the higher doctorate and advise them whether it is in their best interests to resubmit at some future date.
7.10       By the nature of higher doctoral submissions, unsuccessful students may be permitted to re-apply with a revised and updated application in not less than two years from the date of the initial application.
PDF Version of the Regulations for the award of Higher Doctorate to download

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/research/research-policies-procedures--guidelines/research-degree-regulations:
The Regulations were approved by Academic Board for implementation from 1 August 2023, and apply to all students (new and existing) registered at all locations for all courses leading to a University of Wolverhampton Research Degree award.
Find out more about the introduction of new research degree regulations 2023/24, following a regulations review process.
The Research Degree Regulations are the legally binding statements of the regulatory framework for pathways leading to postgraduate research qualifications at the University of Wolverhampton.
In the unlikely event of any discrepancy between the Research Degree Regulations and any other University of Wolverhampton publication, the Research Degree Regulations take precedence and will be applied in all cases.
There are 5 parts to the research degree regulations and they should not be read in isolation.
All research students, supervisors and research support staff are responsible for familiarising themselves with the relevant regulations, their appendices and with the University Ethics Policy , the Code of Good Research Practice and other research policies, procedures and guidelines available at: www.wlv.ac.uk/researchpolicies
These regulations are subject to review as and when appropriate, normally on an annual basis.
They embody nationally recognised good practice as recommended in policies, codes of practice and regulations of the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA), funding bodies, and research funding councils.
The University may amend regulations and rules or the way in which it applies them to:
Where such changes are to be made, the University will follow its rules for governance approval of those changes including, where appropriate, consultation with students or their representative bodies.
The University will give reasonable notice of changes to the regulations and rules, and the date they take effect.
The Research Degree Regulations are the principal means through which consistency in the academic standards across postgraduate research degree awards is ensured.
The University of Wolverhampton will ensure that its postgraduate research degrees are comparable in standard with those conferred throughout higher education in the United Kingdom and consistent with the QAA Framework for Higher Education Qualifications.
It is achieved through the appointment of independent, experienced external examiners to examine students.
The University will sanction co-operation with industrial, commercial, professional, research or Not-for-Profit establishments for the purposes of research leading to the award of research degrees.
Co-operation may be formalised with one or more external bodies, which will be referred to as Collaborating Establishment(s).
Such collaboration is subject to formal agreement and normally involves the student's use of facilities and other resources, including supervision, which are provided jointly by the University and the Collaborating Establishment(s), and will normally include joint supervision of the student.
In such cases a formal letter from the Collaborating Establishment(s) confirming the agreed arrangements should be submitted with the Research Proposal.
Such arrangements will be governed by a signed Agreement between the University and the Collaborating Establishment(s).
Where a research degree project is part of a piece of funded research, the Faculty shall establish to its satisfaction that the terms on which the research is funded do not detract from the fulfilment of the objectives and requirements of the student's research degree.
The University will consider applications to register as a research degree student in accordance with its published Policy Statement on Equality and Diversity .
Student Support and Wellbeing (SSW) will provide applicant advice and guidance to applicants to the University who have declared a disability, a Specific Learning Difference (SpLD) such as dyslexia, or long-term health condition.
https://www.wlv.ac.uk/current-students/student-support/student-support-and-wellbeing-ssw/applicants/
Research Student Boards (RSBs) monitor the progress of their postgraduate research degree students and receive and approve documents relating to various key stages in a student’s progress.
Faculty Research Committees (FRCs) advise the Dean of Faculty on strategic matters regarding research within the Faculty.
They bring together research policy and research degree matters.
The Professional Doctorate Award & Progression Board is responsible for recording end of year status of all students enrolled of Professional Doctorates; confirming awards and classifications, including interim awards; and ensuring that the academic standards achieved by students are comparable to UK benchmark standards.
The University Research Committee (URC) exercises corporate responsibility, on behalf of Academic Board, for the formulation of policy and strategy in relation to research.
The URC’s Research Awards Sub-Committee (RASC) is responsible for approval of examination arrangements, conferment of research degree awards, quality assurance of research degree programmes and monitoring and reviewing the quality of the student experience.
The URC’s Ethics Sub-Committee (ESC) considers policies and procedures relating to the ethics of research projects undertaken by staff and students.
Responsibility for the approval of individual research ethics applications is devolved via Faculty Ethics Committees to Subject Panels.
The University is committed to the UUK’s Concordat to Support Research Integrity and continues to ensure that the principles expected therein are effectively embedded, evaluated and strengthened in our research endeavours, including in the pursuit of the postgraduate research degrees qualifications covered by these Regulations.
Students need to consider ethical issues at an early stage and should consult the ethics website ( www.wlv.ac.uk/ethics ) and the Handbook for Ethical Review & Approval for further advice.
All research student projects must undergo full ethical review (and secure approval) before any data collection starts.
Students undertaking approved research should remain alert to emerging ethical issues throughout the life of the project; where issues are identified after project start, or where there are significant amendments to the design or execution of the project, re-approval may be required.
Students should discuss this with their supervisory team.
Misconduct in research can have wide-ranging and damaging consequences, harming the integrity of research, bringing the individuals involved and the organisation into disrepute and causing harm to those involved.
It can also damage public confidence in research.
The University takes seriously any allegation of research misconduct and will be responsible for monitoring all research and investigating any alleged misconduct.
Alleged misconduct relating specifically to the assessed element of a research degree, i.e.
Annual Progress Review, Progression Stage, the thesis, or a resubmitted thesis will be dealt with under the Research Degree Regulations ‘Appendix 13: Procedure for managing an alleged assessment offence’.
However, alleged misconduct in a research degree programme relating to the conduct of the research itself will be investigated using Procedure for the Investigation of Allegations of Misconduct in Research.
See the Research Misconduct webpage for further information.
Throughout, the following abbreviations have been used:
APR       Annual Progress Review
DoS       Director of Studies
ESC       Ethics Sub-Committee
EThos   Electronic Theses Online Service (British Library)
FRC       Faculty Research Committee
HEI        Higher Education Institution
OIA        Office of the Independent Adjudicator for Higher Education
PGRT    Post-graduate Research Tutor
QAA      Quality Assurance Agency
RASC    Research Awards Sub-committee
RC         Research Centre
RI           Research Institute
RSB       Research Student Board
SSW      Student Support & Wellbeing
UKVI      UK Visas & Immigration
URC       University Research Committee
UUK       Universities UK
WIRE     Wolverhampton Intellectual Repository and E-Theses
All applicants to the University will be required to complete the appropriate application form.
The application will require an applicant to complete the following information:
The process of selecting appropriately qualified and/or experienced applicants for admission to a postgraduate research degree is the responsibility of the appropriate Research Student Board.
Assessment of the application will involve the judgement of at least two members of university academic staff who have been suitably trained or briefed.
Normally this would be the faculty Postgraduate Research Tutor and a member of the indicative supervisory team.
Assessment will determine whether:
Offers of a place to study at the University are conditional on the approval of a Research Proposal.
Approval of Research Proposal
The Research Proposal should be completed by the applicant in consultation with the proposed Director of Studies to formalise the details of the research project and registration.
The student’s supervisors are formally appointed when the Research Proposal is approved.
Responsibility for the final approval of the proposal rests with the relevant Research Student Board.
Consideration of the Research Proposal and the decision to admit/not to admit an applicant to the University will take into account the following factors:
An interview must occur before an unconditional offer is made.
At the interview, the proposed research and any ethical considerations should be discussed with the applicant as should the likely total cost of the course including any research support fees.
The interview should facilitate discussions regarding any additional needs applicants may have and support them in making contact with Student Support and Wellbeing.
If a Research Proposal is not approved on first submission the applicant is allowed one opportunity to revise and resubmit it.
The resubmission must occur within three months of the date of the letter notifying the student of the decision.
The student will be provided with a statement of the deficiencies of the Research Proposal.
If the Research Proposal is not approved at second attempt the RSB will not admit the student.
If a student fails to submit their research proposal by the required deadline this will be reported to the RSB.
If this failure to submit the proposal is at first submission, the student will be treated as ‘not approved’ and will be required to resubmit.
If the failure to submit the proposal is at resubmission the RSB will not admit the applicant.
A student who has had their Research Proposal approved and subsequently needs to substantially change the focus and/or topic of their research must gain the support of their Director of Studies before applying to the RSB for re-approval using the procedure outlined in this section.
Subsequent registration periods will not be extended, and it may be more appropriate for the student to withdraw and reapply for admittance.
Selection of Supervisors
Supervisors will be identified for each research degree student at the point of application.
Supervisors are drawn from a Register of Supervisors maintained by each Faculty and updated periodically to reflect the qualifications and experience of each Supervisor.
This register will hold essential information about the Supervisor’s research areas and research activity, qualifications, research supervision and examining experience.
Supervisor Training
Mandatory participation in the University’s Research Supervisor Development Programme is required, within 6 months of appointment to the role of research supervisor, where the member of staff:
All supervisors employed by the University of Wolverhampton must attend ‘Research Supervision and the Research Regulations’ supervisor training at least once every three years to ensure that they remain conversant with the regulations.
External supervisors are strongly encouraged to attend.
The Director of Studies
The Director of Studies (DoS) shall be a full-time or fractional member of the academic staff of the University of Wolverhampton who must have current and active engagement in research in the relevant discipline.
The DoS will normally have supervised at least one student to completion at the level of the award being supervised.
The DoS has more responsibility and time-commitment to the individual research student, particularly with the requirement to take a lead role in the monitoring and completion of the research programme.
In addition to the minimum supervisory meetings outlined, the time commitment that a DoS is expected to devote to the supervision varies through the life cycle of the research degree project.
The initial project design and implementation phase and the writing-up stage towards the end of the programme may require a significant time-commitment.
Supervisors
Nominations for appointment as an internal second or third supervisor are considered from members of academic and professional services staff.
An Emeritus Professor, honorary Professor, or honorary research fellow may be appointed as an internal second or third supervisor as long as they are still research active as evidenced by recent and relevant peer-reviewed research publications or successful research grant applications.
Visiting Professors or visiting research fellows can be nominated to act as a second or third supervisor (or as an adviser) during their period of appointment in the visiting role.
Normally the visiting appointment should last for the expected duration of the student’s programme of research.
The normal ‘quarantine’ period of three years after the termination of their visiting status will apply before they can be appointed as an external examiner.
External Supervisors
Faculties may nominate, and pay for, an external supervisor where this is deemed necessary but they cannot act as the Director of Studies.
Exclusions from Supervisory Teams
A relative/partner of the student shall not be permitted to be appointed as a member of the student’s supervisory team.
Supervisors who are related to each other will normally not be permitted to be appointed as a member of the supervisory team without explicit approval of the Chair of the RSB.
Supervisors must have no line management relationship with any student they supervise.
Honorary, Visiting or Emeritus appointments are not eligible to be appointed as a Director of Studies.
Role of Adviser
In addition to the supervisors, an adviser or advisers may be proposed to contribute some specialised knowledge or a link with an external organisation.
Responsibilities of the Supervisory Team
The primary role and responsibility of the supervisory team is to advise upon and guide students through the scholarly and technical processes that enable students to produce a thesis at the appropriate level.
Supervisors will:
Supervisors will provide effective pastoral support, referring the student where appropriate to other sources of such support.
An awareness of the range of advice and support available to students, and knowledge of how students can access it, is an important part of the supervision process.
Supervisors should be sensitive to the diverse needs of individual students, including international students, and the associated support that may be required in different circumstances.
Maximum Number of Students per Supervisor
The University recognises that research students are best served by supervisory teams with sufficient expertise, experience, and commitment to fully support each student and their research.
The Faculty Research Committee shall ensure that individual supervisors are not overloaded by excessive supervisory loads.
To monitor this, the University Research Committee operates a ‘points’ system that applies to all research degrees.
The system is based on a simple points allocation:
The maximum number of points allocated to any member of staff is 10.
On reaching a threshold of 6 points, the question of whether extra supervisory commitment is in the best interests of both the research student and supervisor is considered, as is the potential to reduce the demand on existing staff by extending the available pool of supervisors.
The Chair of the FRC or Director of the Research Institute has the authority to limit the maximum number of supervision points to optimise supervisor and student performance, within the 6-10 point band.
In exceptional circumstances, supervisors may supervise more students if their workload allows and only when either or both of the following conditions have been met:
Proposals to increase supervision points outside the 6-10 range must be considered and approved by the FRC.
Prior agreement for the additional students must be gained from the relevant Line Manager.
Consistent Access to Supervision
The RSB will ensure that action is taken to keep the period of time a student is without a Director of Studies to a minimum.
The RSB is responsible for ensuring that action is taken to replace supervisors who are leaving the University.
Where a supervisor is temporarily unable to continue supervising a student, the PGRT will assess the situation and, if necessary, ensure that action is taken to appoint an interim replacement.
Normally a PGRT will ensure that action is taken to permanently replace a supervisor if they have been absent from the University for more than six months.
Change in Supervision Arrangements
The University recognises that on rare occasions a student/supervisor relationship may run into difficulties.
Where possible, the student and supervisors should seek to resolve any difference informally.
If this proves impossible, by mutual agreement between the student and the RSB, supervisory responsibilities can be changed, subject to the availability of equivalent supervisory expertise.
Any such change may be at the request of either the student or a supervisor and is subject to the agreement of any external sponsor, where applicable.
A proposal for a change in supervision arrangements shall be made to the RSB on the appropriate form.
Where students are experiencing difficulties in relation to supervision and feel that they cannot discuss this with one of the supervisory team, they should raise the issue with their Postgraduate Research Tutor in the first instance.
Supervisory meetings should be by formal scheduled meetings and ad hoc informal interactions.
The nature and frequency of this contact is agreed at the outset of the research degree, and will vary, depending on the duration of the programme, the way the research is being conducted and the amount of support needed by the student.
The arrangements made between the student and supervisory team allow some flexibility provided that both are satisfied that adequate support is being provided and there are sufficient opportunities for formally monitoring progress.
To ensure effective supervision, when a research student makes contact for advice or guidance, supervisors should normally respond within a maximum of seven days.
Students and supervisors are jointly responsible for ensuring that regular and frequent contact is maintained and there will be times when the student, as well as the supervisor, needs to take the initiative.
The relevant Research Student Board will review the progress of the research students and check that regular discussions between supervisors and their students have been taking place.
Students and supervisors are expected to keep appropriate records of the outcomes of meetings and related activities.
Records of all formal meetings between students and supervisors must be kept securely.
As a minimum requirement the record of each meeting should state: the date, time, venue, those present, a summary of progress made, reflection on any problems that have arisen and an action plan/targets for the next meeting.
The record should include discussion of skills development as well as progress on the research project.
The records should be entered into the eVision Supervision Log.
Recording student engagement on eVision
Where there is no electronic record of a supervision meeting taking place at the expected interval, an automatically generated reminder letter may be sent to supervisors to ensure that regular contact is made with the student.
This may be followed up with a letter to the student at a later stage if there has been no further record of a meeting.
The logging of supervision meetings is particularly important for international students who may be required to provide proof of engagement to UK Visas and Immigration.
Students who undertake research overseas are still expected to maintain regular contact with their supervisor, but these must be logged as video/email/telephone supervision.
The following process is in place to ensure that international students remain compliant with the terms of the student route visa.
Following enrolment
students are e-mailed with an overview of process
No recorded engagement after 40 days
e-mail sent to Director of Studies
No recorded engagement after 50 days
e-mail sent to Director of Studies and student
No recorded engagement after 60 days
‘Final warning’ e-mail to Director of Studies and student
No recorded engagement after 70 days
e-mail to student, supervisor, and Registry with a series of tasks culminating in a curtailment decision being made by the UKVI Compliance and Oversight Panel
Paper-based or electronic documents may supplement electronic eVision records.
Where they are paper-based, signatures should confirm agreement of the record and a copy should be held by the student and (at least one of) the supervisory team, usually the Director of Studies.
In general, it should be the student’s responsibility to compile the records and to store these in their personal development file, whether paper-based or electronic.
Supervisors must maintain full records of all meetings and brief notes of other interactions (including email exchanges) in case of future monitoring/review that may be required by the Faculty Research Committee or the University Research Committee.
The ‘Proceed with Caution’ procedure is intended to give early warning that a research degree programme is at risk of either not achieving the learning outcomes or such delays as to make timely completion unlikely.
It may be instigated at any point if it can be demonstrated that a student has not achieved agreed targets or is not in regular contact with the supervisory team.
A student is identified as ‘Proceed with Caution’ if there is evidence that:
As soon as the Director of Studies identifies a student as ‘Proceed with Caution’ for any of the reasons given above, they should immediately:
The emergency session should normally be scheduled within two working weeks of the date that the Director of Studies wrote to the student and should be attended by a representative of the RSB who has not been associated previously with the project.
The student may be accompanied by a friend or student representative.
A summary of the emergency session, including any action plan or revisions to the research programme, should be agreed by the Director of Studies and the student, and kept by the Director of Studies as part of the record of supervision.
The RSB should be notified of the outcome of the emergency session and may instigate any further monitoring procedures it deems necessary.
If a student fails to respond to the letter, fails to attend the emergency session, or is unable to address satisfactorily the concerns of the Director of Studies so that an action plan can be agreed, the Director of Studies may, with the agreement of the other members of the supervisory team, recommend to the RSB that the student be withdrawn.
Students have a right of appeal against any such decision.
Where a student continues to meet the ’Proceed with Caution’ criteria for two or more months, the issue will be reported to the University Research Awards Sub-committee and as appropriate, the Professional Doctorate Progression and Award Board.
Where the ’Proceed with Caution’ procedure does not result in an improvement in the student’s ability to progress, the Research Awards Sub-committee and, as appropriate, the Professional Doctorate Progression and Award Board, will recommend that the withdrawal procedure be initiated.
The Annual Progress Review has two stages in the process:
The purpose of the Annual Progress Review is to decide if:
The APR should include a summary of progress made and an indicative programme for the following year’s work and highlight any problems the student wishes to bring to the attention of their Director of Studies and/or the RSB.
Students are expected to present evidence of the progress that they have made towards their thesis/draft thesis.
The University considers it good practice for students and their DoS to complete the relevant part of the Annual Progress Review Form together during one of their regular supervisory meetings.
The Director of Studies should read and give feedback to the student on the Annual Progress Review submission before it is made; and complete the relevant sections of the form.
Assessment of APR
Two assessors independent from the supervisory team will be nominated by the RSB to conduct the Annual Progress Review.
Assessors will review the APR form, select, and read a maximum of 2,500 words of the submitted evidence and discuss the student’s presentation.
The Annual Review meeting should normally be held face-to-face.
However, where this is not possible it may take place using a video conference link.
Any reasonable adjustments a student is entitled to, as outlined in their tutor awareness sheet, should be implemented throughout the APR process.
The meeting will take place without the supervisors being present.
The independent assessors will put any questions that they have to the student.
The independent assessors provide evaluative comments and a recommendation as to the outcome of the APR, which is then considered by the appropriate RSB.
Where the independent assessors highlight concerns or criticisms, these must be addressed by the student and their supervisors prior to recommendations being forwarded to the RSB.
Specific Guidelines:
APR Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) APR Master of Philosophy (MPhil) APR Professional Doctorate (ProfDoc) APR Medical Doctorate (MD)
There are two stages in the process:
Completion of the ‘Annual Review & Progression’ form
The form should include the following information:
The evidence provided (or cited) in support of the application will include:
Oral Presentation & Review Meeting
Students will make a 10-minute presentation of their work in progress to the independent assessors.
The style of presentation is at the student’s discretion.
The presentation should cover the following:
The panel members will then put any questions that they have to the student.
The student’s performance in the oral presentation, and the subsequent question and answer session, will form part of the overall consideration of the application by the panel.
Assessment of Progression
The Annual Review & Progression is conducted by two independent assessors.
At least one of the assessors shall have knowledge in the subject area.
Assessors will normally have experience of supervising at doctoral level.
A student’s progression stage assessors must not be nominated as their internal examiner.
The independent assessors will consider the evidence and assess whether:
The student will be informed of the recommendation of their RSB along with any feedback.
The recommendations of the RSB are approved by RASC and recorded on the student’s eVision record.
Students may apply for Write Up status with a reduced fee once all empirical research has been completed and they are finalising draft chapters.
This would normally be in their final year of their maximum registration period, and they must have successfully completed the progression stage.
It is not compulsory for students to enter Write Up status, as conditions are involved.
To request Write Up status, students will apply to the RSB in writing confirming that:
Students wishing to enter Write Up status should discuss with their supervisory team the viability of submitting their thesis for examination within the permitted 12 months before they submit their application.
The Director of Studies will confirm that the conditions have been met.
On entering Write Up status a student is permitted to be on university premises and access to services are limited to the Library, IT facilities and the supervisory team.
The student should maintain regular contact with their supervisory team to keep them updated on the progress of their writing-up and their expected submission date.
Period for Which Write Up Status May Be Held
Write Up status can be entered at any month of the year, from the 1st day of the month.
Retrospective applications for entry to Write Up status will not be accepted.
Both full-time and part-time students may remain in Write Up status for a period of up to 12 months.
The maximum period a student can hold Write Up status may be limited by their remaining period of registration.
Other conditions
If the student does not submit their thesis within the writing up period and they have not exceeded their maximum registration period, then they would revert to ‘full fees’ at the end of the writing up stage.
Students cannot apply for a Leave of Absence during the writing up stage unless there are exceptional circumstances for which evidence will be required.
An international student on a student route visa can apply to be at a writing up stage but must maintain regular contact with their supervisory team to comply with Government regulations.
If they return to their home country, then they must update their contact details via their eVision account.
If it is found that a student is still undertaking substantive research activities or making insufficient progress in writing up their thesis, then the writing up status may be revoked and they would revert to ‘full fees’.
At least 3 months before the submission of the thesis is expected, the Director of Studies will propose on the ‘Nomination of Research Degree Examiners‘ (NOMEX) form the arrangements for the student’s examination.
The Director of Studies has responsibility for obtaining the required information from the proposed examiners and transferring the relevant details to the NOMEX Form and accompanying CV template.
Criteria for the Appointment of Research Degree Examiners
To ensure the good standing of University of Wolverhampton Research Degrees, the examiners appointed for each student must be able, and be seen to be able, to make an independent assessment of the student and their thesis.
The supervisors may wish to consult the student for their views on individuals who might act as examiners, but the student’s supervisors are responsible for nominating suitable examiners and should do so well in advance of the student submitting their thesis, to avoid subsequent delays in the examination process.
Nominations should not be made unless the proposed examiners have informally agreed to act.
In support of the University’s commitment to equality and diversity, supervisory teams are asked to consider, where possible, the gender and ethnicity balance of the examiners when making nominations.
All examiners must be formally appointed by the Research Awards Sub-Committee (RASC) following review by Research Student Boards (RSBs) within the Faculties/Research Institutes.
The RSB advises on the academic expertise and suitability of the nominees; whilst RASC checks for any potential conflicts of interest the student or supervisor may have with the nominees.
Once examiners have been approved, Registry will write to the examiners confirming their appointment.
Under no circumstances should an examination proceed until the examiners have been formally appointed by the University.
Once approved the examiners are appointed for a period of 12 calendar months.
If the viva has not taken place by the end of this period, the Research Awards Sub-Committee will require, from the Director of Studies, either:
Where an examination cannot be held within four months of thesis submission or resubmission because of the unavailability of an approved examiner, the Research Awards sub-committee may rescind the appointment of all or any of the examiners and appoint new examiners as appropriate.
Examiners should respect the confidentiality of the examination process.
Under no circumstances should examiners discuss their views regarding the quality of the thesis or the content of their independent Preliminary Report and recommendations therein with the student, the other examiner(s), the supervisory team, or the course leader (in the case of Professional Doctorates).
These discussions are only appropriate to be had between examiners at the pre-viva meeting where Preliminary reports are exchanged.
Examiners should respect the confidentiality of the material they are examining.
In some circumstances, where students are sponsored by a company or industrial body, the examiners may need to sign a specific confidentiality agreement, as required by the sponsor.
Where a student is required to resubmit their thesis, the same examiners will normally undertake the re-examination, other than in exceptional circumstances (e.g.
if an examiner has since retired and no longer wishes to participate).
Criteria for the Appointment of Both the Internal and External Examiner
Examiners should normally hold a degree in a cognate or relevant discipline that is at least equivalent to the degree that they are examining.
It is accepted that examiners may be professionally acquainted with the supervisors, and sometimes the student, and this in itself is not a bar to acting as an examiner.
However, there must not be a personal link between the examiners and the student.
The examiners appointed should not have had any significant research or other contact with the student or supervisors which might inhibit a completely objective examination.
Supervisory teams should disclose details of any situations which have the potential to impair the ability of the examiner(s) to make a fair and impartial assessment of the student’s thesis.
A non-exhaustive list of potential sources of conflict is provided below:
The existence of a potential conflict of interest should not necessarily be a bar to the appointment of a nominated examiner.
However, Faculties, examiners, supervisors, and students are required to declare any potential conflicts which may affect the integrity of the examination process at the point of nomination, or in the case of situations that only become apparent after examiners have been appointed, as soon as reasonably possible.
Criteria for the Appointment of the Internal Examiner
The internal examiner is a member of academic staff of the University of Wolverhampton and must hold a substantive appointment of at least 0.2 FTE or be regularly engaged as a Visiting Lecturer for more than 50% of their time or be an Emeritus Professor.
The internal examiner should be able to assess the thesis and contribute to the oral examination and must have a sound knowledge and understanding of university regulations and procedures governing the viva voce.
The internal examiner must have completed the formal ‘Examining and Chairing a Research Degree’ course within the last three years before being recommended for appointment as an internal examiner for the first time.
The internal examiner is normally a member of academic staff of the students’ department/Faculty, although it may be appropriate for the internal examiner to be drawn from another academic department/Faculty.
The internal examiner should not have had an active role in considering a student’s progression stage.
Criteria for the Appointment of the External Examiner
The external examiner is the subject specialist.
External examiners must have recent, significant, and demonstrable expertise in the student’s field of research in order to provide an in-depth analysis of the thesis and in order to provide a rigorous viva voce examination.
Except where there is a strong practitioner/ industrial focus to the research, the external examiner will normally hold a substantive academic appointment in a university or higher education establishment.
If the topic of research spans a number of different disciplines, the faculty may wish to nominate a second external examiner to ensure that the combined expertise of the examining team covers all aspects of the student’s work.
The external examiner shall normally have prior knowledge and experience of research degree examinations and standards through previous examination experience.
In exceptional circumstances an external examiner who is recognised as an expert in their subject discipline, but who has little or no formal examining experience, may be appointed if the combined proposed examining team has experience of 3 or more previous examinations.
The external examiner must be completely independent of both the University and any collaborating establishment.
For this reason, honorary/Emeritus members of the University’s staff are not permitted to be appointed as external examiners.
Former members of the University’s staff are eligible for appointment as an external examiner; however, a period of at least 3 years must have elapsed before a former member of the University’s staff may be appointed as an external examiner, subject to the other criteria being met.
An external examiner is not normally permitted to act in connection with the examination of a second research degree student at this University within a period of 12 months.
The University Research Committee discourages the frequent use of external examiners except in exceptional cases and will ensure that the same external examiner is not approved so frequently that their familiarity with a research group might be considered to prejudice objective judgement.
Where a student is either sponsored by, receiving supervision from, or undertaking work in an industrial establishment, academic institution, or company, RASC will not approve an individual employed by that organisation for appointment as an external examiner.
Where the proposed external examiner does not meet the above criteria, the supervisor must make a strong case for appointment.
In such cases: either
The appointment of a nominated external examiner is subject to verification of their right to work in the UK.
Overview
The law on preventing illegal working is set out in sections 15 to 25 of the Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006 which came into force on 29 February 2008.
Employing someone who is not allowed to work in the UK is illegal, and the University is required to carry out checks on everyone it employs.
This includes checks on External Examiners who are contracted to perform a specific service, even if they are already employed by other UK institutions.
There could potentially be severe consequences for the University if it is found to be employing an illegal worker and checks on that person’s right to work in the UK have not been properly carried out.
The Home Office’s UK Visas and Immigration Service (UKVI) monitor this and failure to follow correct procedures could result in the University’s licence (to sponsor international students for Tier 4 visas) being revoked.
During COVID-19 related lockdowns, these rules were temporarily relaxed.
However, the requirement to see the actual, physical document proving that an External Examiner has the right to work in the UK returned on 1 October 2022, as an obligation for HEIs:
https://freemovement.org.uk/employers-take-note-all-change-for-right-to-work-checks-from-1-october-2022/
This document sets out in detail how the University manages such checks.
Process for Checking Right to Work in the UK
Preliminary Scoping
Preliminary scoping of a potential External Examiners right to work in the UK takes place during initial conversations between the Director of Studies (DOS) and the proposed examiner as part of the nomination process.
When completing the Nomination of Research Degree Examiners form (NOMEX) the DOS is required indicate to the best of their knowledge as to whether the proposed external examiner has the right to work in the UK.
This should help identify to the Faculty Research Student Board any potential issues at an early stage in the nomination process before the NOMEX is forwarded to the Research Awards Sub Committee (RASC) for approval.
Examiner Approval
RASC approves the nomination of the External Examiner, but the appointment is not confirmed until their right to work in the UK has been verified.
Verification
Once the NOMEX form has been approved by the Research Awards Sub Committee (RASC), RDSS will issue the appointment letter, which contains details about the ID process to be followed.
Government guidelines require the University to physically confirm the identity of all External Examiners.
These checks apply to ALL External Examiners including UK nationals.
Even if they are not required to attend campus for the viva examination itself, External Examiners will still need to provide evidence of their right to work in the UK to:
Phil Whittingham Research Degree Student Services (RDSS) Office – Registry University of Wolverhampton Housman Building (MX) Camp Street Wolverhampton WV1 1AD
See the list of acceptable documents for manual right to work checks
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/right-to-work-checks-employers-guide/an-employers-guide-to-right-to-work-checks-6-april-2022-accessible-version#AnnexA
From 1 July 2021, EU, EEA , or Swiss citizens will no longer be able to use a passport or national identity card to prove right to work in the UK unless they are an Irish citizen.
EU, EEA, or Swiss citizens should provide their ‘share code’ along with their date of birth to rdss@wlv.ac.uk .
RDSS will utilise this to ‘View a job applicant’s right to work details’ via https://www.gov.uk/prove-right-to-work
A video call will be made by RDSS to the examiner where verification will be completed.
The receipt from any postage costs will need to be included in the final expenses claim following the viva examination.
Once the External Examiner’s Right to Work in the UK has been verified, the documentation will then be returned to the External Examiner by Recorded Delivery, and the thesis sent to the External, to begin the process of Viva assessment.
Please note that the thesis cannot be dispatched until the external examiners eligibility to work in the UK has been confirmed.
Record Keeping and Review
RDSS maintains records of all External Examiner nominations, appointments, and right-to-work verifications (including when appointments and right to work expires).
These details are held on a database alongside verified copies of original documents which will be retained securely for two years after expiry of the appointment.
Following the Viva Voce, RDSS will check whether the External’s appointment is still current or has expired before sending additional materials for examination i.e., minor amendments or a resubmission.
Acceptable Documentation for Right to Work Checks
The following information is drawn from the Home Office document “An employer’s guide to right to work checks”, as published at: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/right-to-work-checks-employers-guide
Further guidance is also available via www.gov.uk/check-job-applicant-right-to-work
All copies of the thesis must be submitted to Registry Services, accompanied by a ‘Submission and Receipt of Research Degree Thesis Form’.
Theses that do not meet the requirements detailed below will not be accepted and will be returned to the student.
To successfully submit a thesis, a student must ensure they are currently enrolled, and that they have no outstanding academic fees to pay (outstanding fees or enrolment may cause delay to the thesis being sent for examination).
The thesis may not contain work that has been previously submitted for another award.
The thesis shall include a statement of the student’s objective and shall acknowledge published or other sources of material consulted (including an appropriate bibliography) and any assistance received.
The thesis will include evidence (in the appendix) that the appropriate ethical approval has been granted.
The thesis title is approved when RASC appoints the examiners.
Any request to change the title after this point must be made in writing to RASC and before the thesis is submitted for the viva.
Research Degrees Involving Creative Work
A student may undertake a programme of research in which the student’s own creative work forms a substantive part of the intellectual enquiry.
Such creative work may be in any field (for instance, art, design, engineering and technology, architecture, creative writing, musical composition, film, dance, and performance), but shall have been undertaken as part of the registered research programme.
In such cases, the presentation may be partly in other than written form.
The thesis will comprise creative work and an associated commentary or documentation will form the thesis.
The commentary, setting the creative work within its relevant theoretical, critical or design context, shall conform to the usual scholarly requirements and be of appropriate length.
For a PhD involving creative writing, the creative component will be volume or book length to suit the genre (e.g.
novel, collection of poetry or stories, play, biography).
The final submission shall be accompanied by a permanent record of the creative work, to be submitted in digital format (as for example, webpage, video, photographic record, CD, DVD, musical score, diagrammatic representation).
The application for approval of the examination arrangements shall contain a statement as to the scope and nature of the creative work and advice on how it will be demonstrated during the examination.
Preparing to Submit
Once a thesis is formally submitted, it will be forwarded to the examiners without amendment.
Students shall be responsible for deciding whether to submit the thesis for examination.
This decision should take account the opinion of the supervisory team who should see the entire draft submission at least two months before the intended submission date to advise about any final changes that need to be made and whether the thesis is at a stage when submission is appropriate.
Although a student would be unwise to submit the thesis for examination against the advice of the Director of Studies, it is their right to do so.
An opinion that the thesis is ready for submission must not be taken as a guarantee that a degree will be awarded and a decision to award a degree rests wholly with the examining team.
The supervisor has the right to record onto the ‘submission and receipt of research degree thesis form’ that they do not support submission of the thesis in its current form.
Students who submit their thesis against supervisor(s) advice do so at their own risk and will be asked to sign a statement acknowledging:
a) That in submitting their thesis against supervisor(s) advice they do so at their own risk.
b) That any complaints about supervision or disagreements with supervisor(s) over thesis submission do not constitute grounds for appealing against an examination decision.
c) That there will be no change in supervision, should the examination outcome require revisions.
The printed copy of the thesis should be submitted for examination in a legible and temporary bound form, which is sufficiently secure to ensure that pages cannot be added or removed.
The following requirements shall be adhered to in the format of all submitted theses:
Acknowledgements
The student should acknowledge any funding or other support received whilst undertaking their research.
The Abstract
There shall be an abstract of approximately 300 words on a single page bound into the thesis.
The abstract should be single line spaced.
The abstract should provide a synopsis of the thesis stating the nature and scope of the work undertaken and of the contribution to knowledge in the subject or discipline.
The abstract should normally contain four separate paragraphs which shall clearly state:
Students shall note, however, that there are other models of abstract writing that reflect the specific conventions of individual disciplines.
Immediately after, but on the same page as the abstract, the student shall identify three to six key words.
Use of Illustrations
The thesis shall only include illustrations (diagrams, maps, tables, screenshots or other images) that are necessary and contribute to the discussion and analysis.
Illustrations shall be labelled and numbered ensuring that the title is appropriately descriptive of the content.
Screenshots must not be used to replace tables that include text, which would normally contribute to the word count in the body of the thesis.
A thesis that is found to have used screenshots purely to reduce the word count in order that it complies with the maximum length, may be cited as a reason for re-examination by the examination team.
The Table of Contents
The Table of Contents should show all chapters and sections into which the work is divided.
This should be followed by lists, with their respective page numbers, of tables and other appropriate supporting details in the order below:
Presentation of Collaborative Research
Where a student’s research programme is part of a collaborative group project, the thesis shall indicate clearly each student’s individual contribution and the extent of the collaboration.
Inclusion of Published Work
The thesis may contain work previously published or exhibited by the student, and reference to such publication shall be made in the thesis.
Where publications are jointly authored by the student and others, the student’s contribution to the publication must be specified.
It is acceptable to self-reference elsewhere in the thesis if a published article explores a topic in more detail than is shown in the thesis and it is acceptable to provide a list of published work.
The justification of the students own methods using their own publications that contain such methods will not be accepted.
Copyright
Copyright in the thesis or creative works is normally held by the student unless an agreement, in writing, has been made to transfer it, for example to a sponsor.
Where the thesis or creative works includes copyright material belonging to someone else (third party copyright material), this must be fully acknowledged, and the thesis appendices will contain a copy of the written permission to publish the copyrighted material.
If a student intends to include material in their thesis they have already published, they must check if the publisher will permit this.
Source Material – Referencing
All sources referred to in the thesis must be included in the reference list.
In some subjects, a bibliography may be appropriate.
Normally, University of Wolverhampton students use the Harvard Referencing System for citations and referencing throughout the thesis.
However, it is recognised that different disciplines have different conventions, and the supervisory team should confirm the appropriate referencing system for the discipline.
Please use the Specimen Title Page (Word doc 30k) template for the thesis.
Following the award of the degree, an electronic copy of the theses (E-theses) will be published in the University's on-line repository unless an application for confidentiality has been approved by the Dean of Research.
The E-thesis will be accompanied by completed and signed hard copies of the:
Following the award of the degree by the Research Awards Sub-Committee (RASC), Registry will send the electronic copy of the thesis to the library for deposit in WIRE.
Once the thesis is deposited digitally, the copyright agreement in the E-Thesis Deposit Agreement will come into effect.
It is the responsibility of the student to send a copy of the thesis to any Collaborating Establishment.
The E-Thesis should be submitted as a single merged file, either a Word document or PDF file.
The electronic document is accepted in the following formats:
Preparing the thesis for deposit
Prior to submission of the final E-Thesis, students should read the online guidance on preparing the thesis for deposit on WIRE https://www.wlv.ac.uk/lib/research/preparing-your-thesis/ .
This includes information on how to identify copyrighted material that needs to be cleared or removed from the deposited version of your thesis.
The E-Thesis will be publicly available and therefore third-party copyright material (e.g.
material created by someone else such as photographs, maps, extracts from another work etc.) must be either cleared for deposit with the copyright holder or removed from the thesis before deposit.
This does not affect the inclusion of fully referenced third party material in the thesis submitted for examination purposes: it only applies to the deposit of the thesis into WIRE.
This material can remain in the hardcopy, examination version of the thesis as long as it is considered unpublished.
Personal or sensitive data that relate to identifiable individuals must also be removed from the thesis before deposit.
Further guidance can be found on the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) webpages https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/guide-to-data-protection/guide-to-the-general-data-protection-regulation-gdpr/key-definitions/what-is-personal-data/ .
The University’s Scholarly Communications team at wire@wlv.ac.uk can provide further advice and assistance with clearing third party material or removing personal data.
If material has been removed from the version of the thesis to be deposited, submission of two copies of the E-Thesis will be required, which are clearly identified in the file name as ‘full unedited version’ and ‘redacted version’.
The full unedited version must be identical to the copy submitted for examination, save for any amendments approved by the examiners, and the redacted version (if applicable) must have copyrighted material or personal data removed.
The full unedited version will be archived under embargo (not published online) and the redacted version will be published online.
This procedure relates to students registered for a postgraduate research award conferred by the University of Wolverhampton.
An “assessment offence” is the generic term used to define cases where a student(s) has sought to gain unfair academic advantage in the assessment process for themselves or another student(s) and/or not complied with internal or external ethical approval processes or breached a principle of research integrity.
An assessment offence may be committed in relation to a “piece of work contributing to a research award of the University”.
There are many forms of assessment offence including (this is not an exhaustive list):
In addition, allegations of misconduct in research may be investigated using this procedure if they relate to an assessment.
Examples of misconduct in research include (this is not an exhaustive list):
Plagiarism
Plagiarism is the submission of an item of assessment containing elements of work produced by another person(s) in such a way that it could be assumed to be the student’s own work.
Examples of plagiarism are:
Copying or close paraphrasing with occasional acknowledgement of the source may also be deemed to be plagiarism if the absence of quotation marks implies the phraseology is the student’s own.
Plagiarised work may belong to another student or be (purchased) from a published source such as a book, report, journal, or material available on the internet.
Use of Text Matching Software
The University encourages and promotes academic excellence and integrity.
Text-matching software is used by the University to:
Text-matching software allows the comparison of electronically submitted papers with Internet content, published works and related proprietary and commercial databases, and other works submitted to the software.
The University will make text-matching software (currently Turnitin) available to staff and students.
All research students are required to use text-matching software to produce an originality report, which will be submitted alongside assessed work, including:
The Director of Studies is required to confirm that the originality report has been discussed with the student and that any issues arising have been addressed.
The University reserves the right to submit any assessment item to a text-matching database for electronic originality checking with or without a student's consent.
Collusion
Collusion occurs when two or more individuals collaborate to produce a piece of work submitted (in whole or in part) for assessment and the work is presented as the work of one student alone, without due acknowledgement of the contribution of others.
In the context of these definitions: where research students are working in closely related fields to one another, or are supported by technical staff, it is important that each student takes care not to claim deliberately or inadvertently that a given piece of work carried out by someone else is their own work.
Due acknowledgement must always be made to the contributions of others, whether in work submitted for assessment, presented at a conference, or placed in the public domain through publication or any other medium.
Investigation and Making an Allegation
Where a supervisor, independent assessor or examiner is concerned that an assessment offence has been committed, the case is referred to the Associate Dean of Research from the relevant Faculty, within 5 working days of the matter coming to light.
The Associate Dean of Research is responsible for determining if there is sufficient evidence that an assessment offence has occurred and in so doing, determines the nature of the formal allegation to be put to the student (e.g.: plagiarism, collusion etc.).
They may seek advice from the Conduct and Appeals Unit in considering the matter.
If there is no evidence to support the allegation that an assessment offence of any nature has occurred, no formal allegation is made against the student and no further action is taken.
If a prima facie case for further investigation is established, the Associate Dean of Research must inform the Head of the Conduct and Appeals Unit.
Stage One:  Hearing
A letter inviting the student to the hearing will be sent by Registry.
A copy of this letter will be sent to the Student’s University email account.
A standard invite template, which must be used, will be provided by the Conduct & Appeals Unit.
The student will be given at least 7 working days’ notice of the hearing.
The letter will clearly state the allegation that is being made and identify in which piece of assessment the offence has allegedly been committed.
The letter will contain a statement in relation to the standard of proof to be applied.
The standard and burden of proof is for the University to prove the allegation(s) of misconduct and if on the available evidence it is more likely than not that misconduct has occurred then the burden and standard of proof is fulfilled, and a penalty will be imposed as appropriate.
The letter will inform the student that they have the right to present evidence in person and provide written statements if they are unwilling or unable to attend the meeting.
The student will be informed that a digital recording will be taken of the meeting.
Students who would prefer a note taker instead will be required to request this in advance.
The student will be provided with information about what to expect in the hearing to help them to prepare for the meeting.
Where a face to face or online meeting is not possible or practical the Conduct and Appeals Unit will provide copies of the evidence to be considered and advice on how to interpret this evidence.
This will be sent to their university and personal email address.
The student will be given up to 14 days to respond to the allegation.
It will be made clear to the student that if they fail to respond then a decision will be taken based on the available evidence.
It must be made clear to the student that if they fail to attend the meeting or submit a statement without a valid reason then a decision will be taken in their absence.
The student will be informed that they can be accompanied by a “friend”.
This will normally be a fellow student, or an Officer of the Students’ Union.
Under no circumstances will it be appropriate to bring a member of university staff as a “friend”.
The hearing will have in attendance:
During the meeting the student will be given the opportunity to discuss with the panel the circumstances, which have led to the assessment offence, which is at the centre of the allegation.
The standard and burden of proof is for the University to prove the allegation(s) of misconduct and if on the available evidence, it is more likely than not that misconduct has occurred then the burden and standard of proof is fulfilled, and a penalty will be imposed as appropriate.
The student will be informed in writing of the outcome of the hearing by the Head or Deputy Head of the Conduct and Appeals Unit to their University and personal email account.
The letter will confirm whether the Panel found the case proven and if so why.
It will clearly state the penalty to be imposed and may contain further advice where appropriate.
This will normally be sent within seven working days.
It must be noted that at busy times of the academic year there may be delays.
In these circumstances, the student will be notified by email to their university email account of any delay, within the seven working day deadline.
Penalties
Where a serious allegation of an assessment offence or misconduct in research has been proved or admitted, the student is expelled from the University.
A student who is expelled under the Academic Misconduct process is not entitled to receive an intermediate award of any nature.
For courses, which attract academic credit, a transcript detailing the academic credit attained is issued.
A serious allegation is defined to include:
If during the process the student provides evidence of extenuating circumstances that they assert directly led to the assessment offence being committed, such information does NOT impact on the Panel’s decision as to whether the assessment offence has occurred.
However, if the Panel believes that, as a result of the extenuating circumstances, the prescribed penalty is exceptionally inappropriate they can, at their discretion, refer the matter to the Academic Registrar and Dean of Research, to review the appropriateness of the penalty.
The Panel is not authorised to amend the penalty themselves.
The referral must be supported by relevant documentary evidence.
The Academic Registrar and Dean of Research consider the case within ten working days of receiving the request to review the penalty and are authorised to impose an alternative penalty.
Right of Appeal
A student will have the right to appeal against the decision reached by a Stage One panel.
The grounds for appeal are:
Appeals must be made within 20 working days of the receipt of the letter, which informs the student of the penalty imposed.
Appeals must be submitted in writing by email to Conductandappeals@wlv.ac.uk .
Students are advised to contact the Students’ Union for advice and support prior to submitting an appeal.
The Head of the Conduct and Appeals Unit (where they have had no previous involvement with the case) or the Dean of Research will review the request for an appeal to determine whether the appellant has demonstrated valid grounds for an appeal to proceed.
To determine whether it is appropriate for the appeal to be considered by a Stage Two Appeals Panel additional documentation may be requested.
If it is determined that the student has demonstrated a valid case for an appeal to proceed, then the case will be referred to a Stage Two Appeal Hearing.
If this is not found to be the case a Completion of Procedures letter will be issued, in accordance with the format prescribed by the Office of the Independent Adjudicator for Higher Education.
An appeal review should normally be completed in no more than 30 working days.
Stage Two: Appeal Hearing
The membership of a Stage Two Appeal Panel will be:
Members of the appeal panel shall not have been involved in the original hearing.
Also present will be:
A digital recording will also be taken.
Students who would prefer not to have a digital recording made will be required to request this in advance.
Both parties may call witnesses to appear before the panel.
The appellant must be given written notice, at least 7 working days prior to the hearing, of the date and place of the hearing, and a copy of these regulations, drawing attention to the appellant’s rights.
The standard and burden of proof applied will be the same as at stage one of this procedure.
Students will be advised to contact the Students’ Union for advice and support.
At least 5 working days before the hearing, members of the Stage Two Panel and the appellant and the representative from the faculty will be provided with the appropriate documentation.
The appellant may also provide an additional written statement to the panel.
The student has the right to appear before and be heard by the Stage Two panel.
They may be accompanied by a friend (the student shall be responsible for notifying the Conduct and Appeals Unit of the identity of the friend or witness not less than 2 working days prior to the hearing).
The role of the friend can be either to provide support (in which case they would not be expected to speak) or to act as a representative (in which case the student would attend but the representative would speak on their behalf).
In all cases, the student will be expected to answer questions put to them by the panel.
The student would normally be expected to attend the stage two hearing.
If the student fails to attend the meeting without a valid reason, then a decision will be taken in their absence.
Students who do not wish to attend the meeting may submit written representations, which should be received no later than 2 working days prior to the hearing.
A representative is not permitted to attend the meeting in the absence of the student.
The Chair of the panel shall have discretion to manage the conduct of the hearing including to adjourn, continue or postpone a hearing and to limit the length of the hearing, the questioning of witnesses, and the number of witnesses called.
The student and the representative from the stage one panel may present evidence and call witnesses, who may be questioned by the other party and by the stage 2 panel.
The student will always be afforded the opportunity to make a final closing statement.
The panel will consider its decision in private.
The panel, at the end of its deliberation will either uphold the appeal in whole or part or dismiss the appeal.
Where the appeal is upheld, the panel can decide to impose an alternative penalty or to rule that no penalty should be imposed.
The decision taken by this panel will be final.
The student will be informed of the outcome and reasons in writing within 7 working days of the hearing.
A Completion of Procedures letter will also be issued to the student, in accordance with the format prescribed by the Office of the Independent Adjudicator.
The Panel decision will be communicated to the Chair of the Research Awards Sub-Committee (RASC).
It is anticipated that the full appeal process will take no longer, than 90 calendar days to conclude.
Office of the Independent Adjudicator
If having exhausted all Stages of the University’s internal procedure, the student considers that the University has failed to consider and respond to their appeal appropriately, they can refer the case to the Office of the Independent Adjudicator for Higher Education (OIA).
This office provides an independent scheme for the review of student complaints and appeals.
To refer their case to the Office of the Independent Adjudicator they will require a Completion of Procedures Letter.
A Completion of Procedures letter will be issued when all applicable stages of the procedure have been exhausted.
The letter will be issued in accordance with the format prescribed by the Office of the Independent Adjudicator.
Details of the rules of the scheme and information about how to make an application for review by the OIA are available at their website: www.oiahe.org.uk
Students are advised to contact the Students’ Union for advice and support prior to submitting a complaint to the OIA.
PDF Version of the Appendices for download.
The handbooks were replaced from 2023/24 onwards, with more detailed regulations and appendices.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/phd-postgraduate-research-in-built-environment:
This program is designed to address the challenges of modern construction, urban planning, and sustainable development through rigorous research.
You'll work with a team of expert supervisors committed to helping you develop groundbreaking solutions that shape the future of our built environment.
Dr Suresh Renukappa currently serves as a Reader in Sustainable Value Creation at the Faculty of Science and Engineering at the University of Wolverhampton.
He holds a PhD in managing change and knowledge associated with sustainability initiatives for improved competitiveness.
The PhD in Built Environment at the University of Wolverhampton offers an exceptional opportunity to contribute to the development of sustainable, innovative, and resilient solutions for modern architectural and urban challenges.
Here’s why this program stands out:
This program provides a holistic platform to develop expertise and make a meaningful contribution to the evolving built environment landscape.
The PhD in Built Environment at the University of Wolverhampton is designed to stand out through its distinctive features and unparalleled opportunities:
These unique attributes make this program an ideal choice for aspiring researchers and professionals eager to make a lasting impact in the built environment sector.
The PhD program in Built Environment follows a structured path to ensure students develop and execute impactful research.
Here’s an overview of the key milestones:
This well-structured progression ensures a rigorous yet supportive environment for doctoral candidates, fostering innovation and excellence in research.
You!
Urban Planner
Construction Project Manager
Sustainability Consultant
Architectural Researcher
Building Performance Analyst
Policy Advisor
Real Estate Development Specialist
Designing and implementing sustainable urban developments.
Leading complex construction projects from concept to completion.
Advising on eco-friendly building practices and green certifications.
Innovating in architectural techniques, materials, and methodologies.
Optimising energy efficiency and operational performance in structures.
Shaping regulations and frameworks in urban development and construction sectors.
Overseeing large-scale property developments with strategic planning.
The University of Wolverhampton (UoW) is home to approximate 23,000 students.
The UoW’s research and innovation activities have won the 2013 UK Knowledge Transfer Award, and the 2014 UK Collaborative IMPACT award.
It is also the holder of the Athena Swan Bronze Award and the HR Excellence in Research Award.
In addition to the regular supervision provided by supervisors, our PhD students will also be provided with training opportunities by the Faculty of Science and Engineering and the University’s Doctoral College.
University Research Conference – The University Research Conference is held in June for research active staff and PhD students to showcase their areas of research and exchange research initiatives.
Research students are welcome to make presentations during their period of study.
Research students are also encouraged to disseminate final results of their research prior to submission.
University Research Training - Students are encouraged to participate in training provided by the Doctoral College not only because of its intrinsic value but also because these sessions may facilitate meetings with post-graduates outside the school.
Teaching Skills Development - At the School of Architecture and The Built Environment, we understand that postgraduate research students wish to develop their academic CVs while with us.
For this reason, research students are provided the opportunity to undergo teaching skills development.
The School of Architecture and The Built Environment seeks to ensure, wherever possible, that PhD students have the opportunity to teach on relevant undergraduate modules.
The PhD program in Built Environment equips you with a robust set of skills that are essential for academic, research, and industry success.
These skills are developed through a combination of rigorous research activities, hands-on experience, and professional training:
This diverse skill set prepares graduates to excel in academia, industry, or policy-making roles, contributing innovative solutions to the built environment sector.
Applicants for a research degree shall normally hold either:
• a first or upper second class honours degree, or
• a master’s degree, or
• evidence of prior practice or learning that is accepted by the Dean of Research.
For an Applicant whose entry award was not delivered in English, or non-native speaker of English shall be required to demonstrate proficiency in English at least to the level of an IELTS score of 6.5 (writing no less than 6.5, and no less than 6.0 in any component) or its equivalent.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/phd-postgraduate-research-in-chemistry:
Our PhD programme in Chemistry offers an advanced research environment for doctoral candidates pursuing cutting-edge chemical research.
Based at the University of Wolverhampton's School of Life Sciences, you'll work alongside expert supervisors who are leading authorities in their specialist areas.
Arun Arjunan is the Director of the Centre for Engineering Innovation and Research (CEIR) at the University of Wolverhampton.
He also leads the Additive Manufacturing of Functional Materials (AMFM) research group.
The PhD in Chemistry at Wolverhampton offers a comprehensive research experience with expert supervision from leading academics in their fields.
Each supervisory team includes at least one academic with a proven track record of successful PhD completions, ensuring robust guidance throughout your research journey.
Our School of Life Sciences provides exceptional support to postgraduate researchers, including:
Our emphasis on both theoretical understanding and practical application prepares you for a successful career in either academia or industry.
The School's strong track record of research publications and external collaboration provides an ideal platform for developing your research profile in chemistry.
The PhD programme follows three key milestones:
Registration
Progression
Examination
Research Chemist
Analytical Scientist
Drug Development Scientist
Materials Researcher
Environmental Analyst
Academic Researcher
At Wolverhampton, you'll benefit from:
Teaching Skills Development - At the Wolverhampton School of Sciences, we understand that postgraduate research students wish to develop their academic CVs while with us.
The
Technical Skills:
Research Skills:
For an applicant wishing to pursue a Research Degree in the area of Chemistry, whose entry award was not delivered in English, or non-native speaker of English shall be required to demonstrate proficiency in English at least to the level of an IELTS score of 6.5 (Writing - 6.5 and no less than 6.0 in any other component) or its equivalent.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/phd-computing-and-mathematics:
Our PhD programme in Computing and Mathematics offers a dynamic research environment for students pursuing advanced research in computational sciences and mathematical theory.
The programme offers unique advantages for researchers:
PhD students at the School of Mathematics and Computer Science are supervised by academics who are leading experts in their particular area of expertise.
At least one academic in each supervisory team will have a track record of successful supervisions.
The School of Mathematics and Computer Science prides itself on the levels of support provided to postgraduate research students in the course of their PhD journey.
Our academics meet regularly with their supervisees, and work closely with them at all stages of the project, from inception to completion.
The University of Wolverhampton provides a collegiate research environment and first-class facilities to its PhD students, including a dedicated postgraduate research room, access to the University’s Harrison Learning Centre and leading databases in the electronic resources.
Postgraduate research students are encouraged to present their research to University academics and fellow PhD students at colloquia within the School of Mathematics and Computer Science, which provide an encouraging and friendly environment for students to sharpen their research and presentation skills.
Our postgraduate research students are afforded the opportunity to develop their research skills through participation in training events organised by the Faculty of Science and Engineering and the University’s Doctoral College.
The PhD programme follows three essential milestones:
Progression (18 months full-time/36 months part-time)
Throughout these milestones, students receive:
Research Scientist
Data Science Specialist
Algorithm Developer
Scientific Software Developer
AI/ML Research Engineer
Computing Science Lecturer
We welcome research proposals in areas including:
Teaching Skills Development - At the School of Mathematics and Computer Science, we understand that postgraduate research students wish to develop their academic CVs while with us.
The School of Mathematics and Computer Science seeks to ensure, wherever possible, that PhD students have the opportunity to teach on relevant undergraduate modules.
For an applicant wishing to pursue a Research Degree in the area of Computing & Mathematics, whose entry award was not delivered in English, or non-native speaker of English shall be required to demonstrate proficiency in English at least to the level of an IELTS score of 6.5 (Writing - 6.5 and no less than 6.0 in any other component) or its equivalent.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/phd-postgraduate-research-in-computer-science:
The PhD in Computer Science at the University of Wolverhampton provides a unique opportunity to contribute to cutting-edge advancements in computing and technology.
This programme allows you to delve into areas such as artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, data science, and software engineering, equipping you to address complex challenges in the digital age.
The PhD in Computer Science at the University of Wolverhampton combines expert supervision, access to advanced resources, and a supportive research community.
Here’s why this programme is the ideal choice for aspiring researchers:
This programme offers an exceptional platform for those looking to make meaningful contributions to computing and technology, preparing you to excel in academia, industry, or research-intensive roles.
The PhD in Computer Science at the University of Wolverhampton stands out for its unique combination of academic excellence, cutting-edge facilities, and opportunities for impactful research.
This combination of rigorous academic training, professional development opportunities, and impactful research ensures that the PhD in Computer Science at Wolverhampton prepares you for a successful and innovative career.
The PhD in Computer Science at the University of Wolverhampton is carefully structured to ensure a fulfilling and impactful research journey.
The programme includes key milestones that guide your progress, from registration to thesis submission.
This structured approach ensures a comprehensive and rewarding research experience, preparing you for success in academia, industry, or entrepreneurial ventures.
Principal Software Architect
Research Scientist (AI/ML)
Computer Science Professor
R&D Technical Lead
Data Science Director
Computing Research Consultant
Chief Technology Innovation Officer
The University of Wolverhampton offers an ideal environment for pursuing a PhD in Computer Science, combining academic excellence, state-of-the-art facilities, and opportunities for impactful research.
The programme is designed to support your personal and professional development while advancing cutting-edge research in computing and technology.
Expert Supervision
Advanced Facilities
Comprehensive Training and Development
Interdisciplinary Research Opportunities
Networking and Professional Exposure
Flexible Study Options
The University of Wolverhampton welcomes research proposals in a variety of cutting-edge areas, including:
This combination of expert guidance, cutting-edge research opportunities, and real-world impact ensures Wolverhampton is the perfect place to achieve your research ambitions in computer science.
The PhD in Computer Science at the University of Wolverhampton equips you with an extensive set of skills, preparing you for advanced roles in academia, research, and industry.
These skills prepare graduates to excel in diverse roles, including research leadership, technical innovation, and academic excellence, ensuring a lasting impact in the field of computer science.
For an applicant wishing to pursue a Research Degree in the area of Computer Science, whose entry award was not delivered in English, or non-native speaker of English shall be required to demonstrate proficiency in English at least to the level of an IELTS score of 6.5 (Writing - 6.5 and no less than 6.0 in any other component) or its equivalent.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/phd-postgraduate-research-in-engineering:
Research degrees in the School of Engineering can provide students with opportunities in a multitude of career paths, including academia, government, and the private sector.
The PhD in Engineering at the University of Wolverhampton offers a distinctive opportunity to advance your expertise within a cutting-edge research environment, addressing some of the most pressing challenges in engineering.
Here’s why this programme is the ideal choice:
This programme equips you with the skills, knowledge, and connections to excel in diverse roles and make a lasting impact in the field of engineering.
The PhD in Engineering at the University of Wolverhampton provides a structured and supportive framework to guide you through your research journey, ensuring you achieve academic and professional success.
This structured progression ensures a rigorous and rewarding research experience, equipping you with the expertise to excel in your chosen field.
Senior Research Engineer
Principal Innovation Scientist
Technical Director
University Academic/Researcher
R&D Manager
Engineering Consultant
Chief Technology Officer
The University of Wolverhampton is an exceptional choice for your PhD in Engineering, offering world-class expertise, cutting-edge facilities, and a thriving research community.
Additionally, the University welcomes research proposals in diverse and impactful areas, ensuring your work contributes meaningfully to the engineering discipline.
Renowned Academic Expertise
State-of-the-Art Facilities
Professional and Academic Development
Industry Partnerships
Supportive Research Environment
The University of Wolverhampton welcomes research proposals in areas such as:
This combination of academic excellence, cutting-edge resources, and diverse research opportunities makes Wolverhampton a prime destination for your doctoral studies in engineering.
The PhD in Engineering at the University of Wolverhampton equips you with a diverse and advanced skill set, preparing you for leadership roles in academia, industry, and research-intensive organisations.
These skills position you to excel in a range of engineering roles, driving innovation and influencing progress in the discipline.
For an applicant wishing to pursue a Research Degree in the area of Engineering, whose entry award was not delivered in English, or non-native speaker of English shall be required to demonstrate proficiency in English at least to the level of an IELTS score of 6.5 (Writing - 6.5 and no less than 6.0 in any other component) or its equivalent.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/funding-costs-fees-and-support/fees-and-costs/research-fees:
*Full time programmes will be charged at the fee for 2024/25 per annum plus a yearly increase in line with inflation for the entirety of the programme (up to the maximum registration period of 4 years).
Students will have the option to apply for a reduced write-up fee of £1000 charged for a maximum of 12 months (terms and conditions apply, see the Research Student Handbook for details).
Any student who does not complete and submit the written thesis within this 12-month period will revert to full fees for the remainder of their maximum registration period.
**Part time programmes will be charged at the fee for 2023/24 per annum plus a yearly increase in line with inflation for the entirety of the programme (up to the maximum registration period of 8 years).
All the above fees are provisional and are subject to final ratification.
Please note: The university does not offer Tier 4 sponsorship for part-time courses.
If you are an international student you will need to demonstrate you have a right to study in the UK.
Other Fees
Research Support fees (sometimes called Bench fees) are a fee charged to provide funding to cover research-related items/activities which are essential in order to carry out the research.
Research Support fees are an annual charge which will apply in addition to the tuition fee in each year of the programme, except the writing up year.
The amount of such charges will be agreed at the outset.
For full details of the fees and what they cover view the Policy on Research Support Fees for Postgraduate Research Students (Word doc 25k)
Check out the opportunities for financial support for research study .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/study-here/money-matters/financial-support/postgraduate-study/loyalty-discount-for-postgraduate-research-students:
You can get a 20% discount on a postgraduate research course if you're a University of Wolverhampton graduate.
From 1 st August 2018, the University will be offering a generous 20% Loyalty Discount to students progressing from an undergraduate programme and/or a taught postgraduate programme to a postgraduate research programme, where both courses are University of Wolverhampton Awards.
You do not have to apply for Loyalty Discount, the 20% reduction will automatically be applied to your fees once you have enrolled on the course.
Terms and Conditions
The discount applies as follows:
Students who receive a loyalty discount are not entitled to combine with any other tuition fee discount, bursary or scholarship.
To qualify for the discount for a postgraduate research course you must have completed a full undergraduate programme and/or a postgraduate taught course from the University of Wolverhampton.
Please note that this discount only applies to students who are enrolling to study at postgraduate level at one of the University's UK campuses.
The undergraduate or postgraduate taught award may have been studied either at the University or at any of our international partner institutions - where the award is from the University of Wolverhampton only.
Further information about payment dates (by instalment) and methods of payment are available at How to Pay .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/funding-costs-fees-and-support/financial-support/postgraduate-study/postgraduate-loyalty-discount:
The University offers a generous 20% Loyalty Discount to students progressing from an undergraduate programme to a taught, on-site postgraduate programme, where both courses are University of Wolverhampton awards.
There is no time limit on how long ago you completed your degree as long as this is your first Master's-level qualification.
The discount applies to the first attempt at each year only (so does not apply if you have to retake any modules).
You do not have to apply for the Loyalty Discount, the 20% reduction will automatically be applied to your fees once you have enrolled on the course.
The 20% discount is for UK 'home' students.
We also offer separate international scholarships.
Most Level 7 awards are eligible (including Master's level, postgraduate certificates and diplomas), with the exception of PGCE, Pre-registration Nursing and AHP courses (eg.
MAN and MMHN), MArch, CIM qualifications and integrated Master's.
The following Doctoral awards are also eligible:
To qualify for the discount you must have completed a full undergraduate programme and been awarded an Honours degree from the University of Wolverhampton.
You are entitled to the discount whether you continue directly onto a Master's or wait for a few years.
There is no time limit on eligibility for the award.
Please note that this discount only applies to students who are enrolling to study at postgraduate level based at one of the University's UK campuses.
The undergraduate award may have been studied either at the University or at any of our international partner institutions - where the undergraduate degree is a University of Wolverhampton award only.
Part-time students will receive the discount over the first two years of enrolment only (the discount may not exceed, in total, 20% of the equivalent full-time fee).
Further information is available about payment dates (by instalment) and methods of payment .
We also offer a Loyalty Discount for Postgraduate Research Students .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/funding-costs-fees-and-support/financial-support/dennis-turner-hardship-fund:
Hardship fund is now closed for new applications
The Dennis Turner Hardship Fund can be accessed* confidentially by any students, home or international, who are struggling to make ends meet.
The fund is not classed as public money and does not affect the visa status of international students.
These hardship funds are non-repayable, and can provide a short-term solution to students in this position.
Processing timescales can be from 2 to 4 working weeks, rising to 8 working weeks depending on volume of applications**.
The Dennis Turner Hardship Fund (DTHF) opens towards the end of October each year and closes for standard applications in April .
Should any students need support from us between April and July we may still be able to offer support for exceptional circumstances.
*Apprenticeship students, those studying stand-alone modules, distance learners (as stated in the actual course title including online only courses), studying a course at our partner UK institutions and TNE (International students who are studying in their home country) are not eligible
** These processing times are also dependant upon correct completion of form and provision of all relevant evidence.
Please note that it clearly shows a confirmation message upon submission and will send you a confirmation email to your university email address.
For a more in depth explanation of the evidence you may need to supply, including tips on how to do this, please see our What evidence is required?
page.
Please note - hardship funds cannot be used to pay tuition fees.
See the Hardship Fund FAQs below for more information about how to apply.
All current (i.e.
enrolled) students, home and international, including those studying at partner institutions are eligible to apply for the hardship fund.
UK/Home Students can apply to the Hardship Fund if you:
You should have made provisions to pay your tuition fees and cover basic living costs before you commenced your studies if it is a condition of your visa.
You can apply to the Hardship Fund if you have had a significant change in circumstances since enrolling on the course, and are struggling to cope financially.
Applying for the Hardship Fund does not affect your visa status.
We would also recommend that you seek advice from our UKVI Visa team ( visa-enquiries@wlv.ac.uk ) if your change in circumstances is affecting your ability to study – for example if you have your IT facilities blocked or if you are unable to complete your enrolment when required.
If your circumstances have changed it may affect your visa, so it’s best to discuss this as soon as possible.
The hardship fund opens towards the end of October each year and closes for standard applications in April, or until the funds are depleted, whichever is the sooner.
The fund completely closes for a maximum of a week at the end of July each year for financial end of year.
The Specific Bursaries (DSA and SpLD Assessment support) remain open all year but may be subject to update and/or change in criteria between academic years (September to July).
When the fund is open, you can request to apply via e:Vision .
You will be asked a series of questions to ensure your eligibility to apply for the fund.
Once eligibility has been confirmed.
you will then be redirected to complete the online application form.
NB: you will have to be signed into your Microsoft 365 University account to access (university email and IT password).
If you have any issues with this, please email us at money@wlv.ac.uk with your student number and a brief description of your issue and we will try our best to get this sorted.
Please make sure you have all relevant evidence saved and ready to upload in the correct format (pdf) before you apply.
You will not be able to complete the application without it.
You can leave the application at any time, and it will temporarily keep your information to continue later.
Help and support for applying can be found via:
Please note: you can only submit this form once, so please ensure you have answered all questions accurately and provided all relevant evidence before you click the submit button.
Once the fund has closed, if you are experiencing exceptional circumstances that we may be able to support you with please email money@wlv.ac.uk (with your student number) clearly explaining your circumstances and with any pertinent evidence.
When we allocate awards, we are asked to give priority to the following groups:
If you are not in one of the priority groups you can still apply but you must provide as much evidence as possible to show why you have a particular need.
If you are successful, your award/instalments will be paid into your WLV Wallet account.
Further instalments may be subject to your continued engagement with your studies, seeking advice from the Advice and Representation Centre (ARC) of the Students' Union or other external advice and support agencies/charities (CAB, StepChange, etc).
Once awarded, you will receive an email from the WLV Wallet Team containing instructions on how to access these funds including how to transfer as much or as little as you want into the bank account of your choice.
Instructions on how to withdraw your funds as cash can be found at: https://www.wlv-wallet.co.uk/cash-withdrawal-sso If you have any queries about the physical payment or how to access it, please contact the WLV-Wallet team at student.info@wlv-wallet.co.uk as we do not have access to this.
Please check here to see if you are eligible to apply (UK/Home students only)
A student who has entered higher education from care for the period of time spanning their 16 th birthday (regardless of age now).
We have a dedicated team who provide ongoing support, advice and guidance throughout your student journey, from making an application to Wolverhampton through to graduation.
They can also provide a link between the University, your local authority and/or your Care Leaving Team.
As a care leaver you may be eligible for one of our Access Bursaries which take the form of a cash payment paid over two years.
To register as a Care Leaver simply complete the online consent form at: www.wlv.ac.uk/care which will include uploading relevant evidence (below):
Please note that you will have to complete a consent form every year to ensure your details are kept up-to-date.
You may also be eligible to receive a bursary in each year of study (this money does not have to be repaid) which will automatically be allocated once your registration/consent form is processed every year.
This award will be released for payment through your WLV Wallet account .
Please click this link for more information on the WLV Wallet itself.
For details of additional support available please visit the Support for care leavers and estranged students web page ( www.wlv.ac.uk/care ) or drop an email to nolonewolves@wlv.ac.uk (with your student number).
A student who has entered higher education who does not have a family support network, who are 18 to 24 and have no communicative relationship with either living biological parent, or often their wider family.
All new starters may be eligible for one of our Access Bursaries which take the form of a cash payment paid over two years.
To register as estranged simply complete the online consent form at: www.wlv.ac.uk/care which will include uploading relevant evidence (below):
You may also be eligible to receive a bursary in each year of study (this money does not have to be repaid but is subject to engagement with your studies) which will automatically be allocated once your registration/consent form is processed every year.
A student who is in receipt of help via the DSA for computer equipment but have to pay the 1st £200 themselves.
NB: if you are an Apprentice student you are NOT eligible to apply for Dennis Turner, but other funds may be available.
Please contact disability-inclusion@wlv.ac.uk (with your student number) stating that you are an Apprentice and would like to discuss support with an advisor.
To get help paying for the £200 towards your equipment costs through DSA simply complete the online application for, click the link: Support for DSA Computing Equipment form
You will need to be logged in to office.com via your University account (university email address and IT password).
You will also need to upload the following evidence:
Have the evidence ready so that you can upload it during the application process (you will not be able to submit your application without it).
Please email us once you have submitted this form.
A student who needs help to pay for a full SpLD assessment.
The Dennis Turner Fund may be able to help with this cost.
NB: if you are an Apprentice student you are NOT eligible to apply for Dennis Turner but other funds may be available.
Please contact disability-inclusion@wlv.ac.uk (with your student number) stating that you are an Apprentice and would like to discuss support with an advisor.
The University has linked with specific qualified assessors with whom students can book and get the assessment done for a set price.
As long as students book with one of these we will cover the cost of the assessment for you.
The Assessor will confirm both the booking and attendance and will be paid directly by the University.
Your report will automatically be forwarded to the Disability and Inclusion team to ensure any support you are eligible for can be put in place as soon as possible.
Even though you may still need to apply to the Disabled Students Allowance (DSA), the Disability & Inclusion Team may be able to put interim support in place whilst this is completed.
External assessments can cost from £350 - £750 so it may be advisable to look around for the best price.
Students who have applied for and in receipt of the Childcare Grant from Student Finance.
The Dennis Turner Hardship Fund can help with additional financial support towards the childcare costs you need to pay to the registered provider yourself.
Once the form has been processed you will receive confirmation of amount awarded and award date.
This award may be split into more than 2 instalments depending on amount and your study programme.
Processing should take no longer than 2 weeks.
If you need support with your application, or for advice on funding you can now book a drop-in appointment to speak with a member of the Funding Team by clicking the above link.
You can quickly and easily book an appointment via our online booking systems.
You can choose whether to have a face-to-face, virtual (via Teams) or phone appointment.
Please complete the online form where you can easily choose a suitable day and time.
Please be as clear as you can in the description box as to why you need the appointment.
You will need to be signed in to your office.com using your university email and IT password.
If you cannot access this please drop money@wlv.ac.uk an email (including your student number) to explain and we will sort something out for you.
Once booked you will receive a confirmation email which you can link to your calendar.
You will also receive a reminder email the day before, if applicable, your appointment and a text message reminder if you add your mobile phone number.
You can book a slot up to one hour prior to the time available or up to 2 weeks in advance.
If there are no suitable slots available please email money@wlv.ac.uk with your student number clearly stating why you need a slot as soon as possible and the team will do their best to accommodate you.
Please note: there are only limited slots available and we will work on a first come, first served basis.
Please keep the confirmation email in case you need to reschedule or cancel the appointment.
If we need to reschedule or cancel the appointment for any reason we will do our utmost to inform you as soon as we can and offer you an alternative.
The virtual drop-in is via Teams so make sure you are logged into the Teams app on a PC/Laptop/Tablet.
This will allow for screen sharing should you need us to help with applications.
You can also get in contact:
by email: money@wlv.ac.uk
or log a helpcall via the ASK@WLV tab on your e:Vision account
In the event that you find yourself in a financial emergency please get in touch at the details above.
Please provide your full name , student number and a brief statement of your individual circumstances and we will advise you.
This may include referral to food banks.
We can only ever offer minimal help and would encourage all students who are facing additional financial hardship to seek further support from such resources such as:
For additional advice for surviving on a student income have a look at Funding and budgeting webpage as it does contain tips and links that you may find useful.
Just go to www.wlv.ac.uk/budgeting-tips .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/current-students/student-support/the-chaplaincy:
The University Chaplaincy supports the spiritual, cultural and pastoral needs of students and staff.
Online and in person we meet with people for one to one support, host events to build understanding between communities and develop friendships, and offer advice and training in relation to religion and faith.
Our Chaplaincy centre on Molineux Street offers hospitality to everyone, of all faiths and none, who simply want to drop in and have a chat or find a quiet place amidst a busy university.
There is a lounge, kitchen and meeting room bookable for events that are in accordance with the ethos of the Chaplaincy and the University, student bookings are given priority.
We also offer private and confidential conversations and support online, and over the phone.
Chaplains attend events in churches, mosques, gurdwaras and other community venues.
We announce these visits as and when they are due to occur.
Also, check out what Student Faith Societies are currently running via the Students' Union.
Chaplain Sarah was ordained as a priest in the Church of England in 1997.
After working in parish churches in Manchester and Wolverhampton she joined the University of Wolverhampton in 2018 as Lead Chaplain.
Her role combines Christian Chaplaincy alongside managing the full team of Chaplaincy staff and activities, she also advises on issues of faith and belief across all areas of the University.
As an academic Sarah has specialised in issues of institutional culture especially in relation to women, she is currently working on a book based on her PhD thesis exploring the impact of Church of England's institutional culture on the experience of female clergy.
As an Anglican priest she has served on the Church of England's Faith and Order Commission, Archbishops' Council and General Synod, she is currently an Honorary member of Lichfield Cathedral's College of Canons and Assistant Area Dean for Wolverhampton.
Sarah, and all her colleagues are happy to work with students and staff of all faiths and none and welcome opportunities to discuss how the Chaplaincy might engage with the wider university and local faith communities.
Email Sarah
Is the Roman Catholic Priest at St Peter and St Paul's in Wolverhampton.
Born and bred in Birmingham, he has lived in Rome, South Yorkshire and London occupying himself in a variety of activities, studying, gardening, nursing, singing and playing musical instruments.
He was until recently Rector of Oscott College.
Email Mark
Chaplain Shyam brings to the team over three decades of experience as a Sikh Granthi, both in India and Wolverhampton Gurdwaras.
He is a specialist in reading the handwritten Sri Guru Granth Sahib Ji.
Alongside his work in Higher Education Giani Shyam works a Sikh Chaplain at the Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust, Walsall Health Care Trust and Children Hospital Birmingham.
Email Shyam
Imam Mohammad Asad is an Imam, Scholar and Minister of Religion.
He is a Hafidh (memorised the Qur’an).
The Imam/Lecturer at Birmingham Central Mosque.
An executive member of Association of Muslim Schools, the national Coordinator for Association of Muslim Supplementary Schools, a school inspector and a member of various interfaith groups/projects.
On the occasion of the Queen’s Platinum Jubilee, he was honoured with an MBE in recognition of his services to Charitable Fundraising and to the NHS during Covid -19.
He is a member of the Birmingham Faith Leaders Group.
He successfully gained his NPQSL (National Professional Qualification for Senior Leaders).
He has been a senior leader in an Independent faith school for over 15 years.
He delivers training for teachers on many different topics.
He is a Muslim Chaplain for UHB, SWBH and BCH NHS Trust hospitals.
He is a Muslim Chaplain for West Midlands Police, Fire and Ambulance Service.
He has delivered workshops to health professionals on various topics.
He has contributed to various guidance’s for the Muslim communities.
He is a member of UK Board of Healthcare Chaplaincy and Police Chaplaincy UK.
Email Mohammad
Rabbi Fishel is an Associate Chaplain, a volunteer who is approved and supported by the Multi Faith Chaplaincy.
He makes occasional visits to campus and can be contacted throughout the academic year via the Chaplaincy or directly via the MyChaplaincy Rabbinic Chaplaincy website .
Rooms for prayer and reflection are available on our campuses.
These are referred to by different names but are essentially the same whether a Faith Centre, Multi-faith Prayer Room, Reflection Room, or Quiet Room.
We strongly encourage you to bring your own prayer mat, Bible or other prayer resource rather than share.
Inside Library - No ablutions available.
Chaplains frequently attend places of worship in Wolverhampton, please contact the Chaplaincy for details of places of worship that welcome students close to all our campuses.
Shap calendar of Religious festivals January to December 2025.
Click the link to open the calendar.
SHAP CALENDAR OF RELIGIOUS EVENTS 2025
Take this opportunity to light a candle:
Complete the SSW Online Contact Form or contact us directly:
The main Chaplaincy building (MP) is situated between the Housman Building (MX).
If you would like to see a Chaplain then please telephone The Chaplaincy Team on 01902 32 2903 .
Your call may go to voicemail but we will reply.
We are unable to provide a crisis service.
You can also email or contact us through our Facebook page .
The Chaplaincy
University of Wolverhampton MP Building Molineux Street Wolverhampton WV1 1DT
Tel: (01902) 32 2903 Email: chaplaincyenquiries@wlv.ac.uk or: SSW@wlv.ac.uk
Online Contact form

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/meet-our-postgraduate-researchers:
The contribution of our postgraduate research students helps to enrich our research community.
Current Research Students
Please click here to view the academic profiles of some of our current research students.
Find out more about some of the recent research projects  undertaken by our research students by viewing the videos below:
Researching a doctorate at the University of Wolverhampton has opened the door to a variety of careers for our alumni.
Here’s what some of our alumni had to say about their experience of research degrees at the University and what they are doing now.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/research-application-guide:
Expectations at British universities are for MPhil and PhD applications to begin to address: the area for research, why that area, and the suggested approach or approaches to that area.
In short : we need to know what you want to research, but also a little bit about the specifics of your proposed research.
First steps We engage in a process of support and feedback to help you in the preparation of your application.
We are always happy to receive informal inquiries, and are happy to meet and talk about your proposed research too.
We can also support you via Skype or telephone conference call – please email for details.
Dr Fran Pheasant-Kelly ( f.e.pheasant-kelly@wlv.ac.uk ) and Professor James Rees ( james.rees@wlv.ac.uk )
Dr Hilary Paniagua ( h.paniagua@wlv.ac.uk )
Please do spend some time on our website, and identify academics and research groups that would be able to support you during your proposed research.
We offer a wide range of subjects, internationally noted academics, excellent facilities , and world-leading research, and we would like you to be part of that environment.
The Application Form When making your PhD or MPhil application, in addition to completing your personal information and qualifications you will be asked to outline the topic that you wish to research in a ‘Research Statement’.
What to include in your Research Statement?
We recommend that you include the following in your research statement:
Example So if you wished to look at the effectiveness of representations of healthy lifestyles in children’s television programmes in South America, a number of questions can be raised.
Has anyone else engaged in this research?
If so, what more now needs to be done?
Does your research then hold the potential to break new ground and so generate new knowledge?
Any proposed research will need to engage with published writing already in the field.
You will need to note this writing in your research statement: who are the key authors / thinkers?
What groups of experiments / investigations have already occurred in the area that you are looking to?
It may be easier to divide this writing into “Primary Sources” and “Secondary Sources”.
Tip: Use Google Scholar to quickly hunt down references to academic writing already published in your area!
At the same time, you would need to begin to discuss possible ways in which you intend to analyse the material.
In short: the expectation is that you will begin to suggest a possible method for your research – that is, your methodology.
These questions will determine the structure of the proposed research.
How do you propose to divide up the three years (for full-time PhD research)?
This can be done in blocks of six months, and typically fieldwork would occur during the second year.
This will offer us a suggested timeline for the research, so that we can see how, after the three years are up, you’ll be able to submit your thesis for examination.
Please note that this would only be a draft timeline, and subject to change further to discussions with your supervisor team once research has begun.
We would typically expect a draft title for the research.
But this does not need to be definitive: we will not hold you to using this title, if you later decide on the need to change it.
And the title can, at this early stage, just be descriptive: “A study of…”, “An investigation into…”, “An examination of…”, “A new approach to…”
We are keen to hear something about you as well, in terms of your academic and professional experiences.
When we have received your application we will be back in touch once we have reviewed it.
This typically takes about 3 weeks.
We will offer you formative feedback and, if are able to accept your application, we will ask you to complete a full Research Proposal.
We will offer you support and guidance for this.
Once the Research Proposal has been accepted, we will be happy to issue you a formal offer letter for a place to study with us.
You will be able to begin your studies with us during any month of the year.
We look forward to hearing from you!
Examples of PhDs recently awarded by the University:
Faculty of Arts, Business & Social Sciences
Faculty of Education, Health and Wellbeing
Faculty of Science and Engineering
Further reading:
Writing a PhD Research Proposal
Writing a Good PhD Research Proposal
How to Write a PhD Proposal with 5 Tips

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/pre-prepared-proposals---faculty-of-arts-business-and-social-sciences:
Faculty of Arts, Business and Social Sciences
The below projects, for PhD and MPhil study, exemplify our areas of research expertise at the University of Wolverhampton.
If you are interested in completing a research degree in the below areas, or variations of them, please copy and paste the project directly into the application.
We can then move your application ahead with that project, which will save you needing to devise or prepare a project yourself.
Applications can be made via: https://www.wlv.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/pre-prepared-proposals-in-the-faculty-of-education-health-and-wellbeing:
Applications can be made via: https://www.wlv.ac.uk/research/research-degrees /

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/apprenticeships/apprentices:
An apprenticeship is a work-based training and education programme that allows you to earn as you learn.
On-the-job training is delivered alongside academic learning, helping you work towards a nationally recognised qualification.
At the University of Wolverhampton we offer higher and degree apprenticeships in a wide range of subject areas, from teaching to engineering, and midwifery to podiatry.
You can see our full course list here.
(link to course list)
An apprenticeship is a fantastic option if you're looking to develop new, future-focused skills, gain real-world experiences and further your career.
You'll also have a full-time job and earn a competitive salary whilst you learn.
Our Aspiring Apprentices course offers a bespoke 6 week programme which explores essential skills and helps overcome apprehensions about embarking upon a degree apprenticeship.
Working in partnership with Skills Builder, the programme provides an opportunity to develop skills and prepare for progression into a degree apprenticeship.
If you are interested in becoming an apprentice, please contact us at Apprenticeship Growth - Register Your Interest - University of Wolverhampton

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/business-services/apprenticeships/employers-:
Apprenticeships provide a cost-effective option for employers seeking to boost workforce skills and attract new, fresh talent into their organisation.
Government funding is available to help off-set apprenticeship costs, so the investment required is minimal, whether you’re a large corporation or small company.
The benefits speak for themselves, with most employers citing the following:
The University is extremely proud of its partnerships with leading organisations and local SMEs.
It also values its collaboration with FE partners which allow pathways to be created between apprenticeship programmes, to help support an apprentice’s wider career aspirations and journey.
If you are interested in recruiting an apprentice, please contact us at Apprenticeship Growth - Register Your Interest - University of Wolverhampton
The Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust provides exciting apprenticeship opportunities in both clinical and non-clinical roles.
You'll earn a salary while you learn on the job, gaining a nationally recognised qualification and paving the way for career progression.
Our apprenticeship programmes provide further learning opportunities for new and existing staff.
At The Dudley Group NHS Foundation Trust we are committed to the development of apprenticeship opportunities.
We recognise the value apprentices can bring in gaining a greater wealth of diversity and talent, enabling us to develop and grow our own teams with the values and skills needed.
Walsall College offers a diverse range of apprenticeships from roofing to management, customer service to dental nursing and so much more.
Apprentices develop practical skills alongside academic study, working towards industry-recognised qualifications.
With strong employer partnerships and tailored support, our programmes provide a structured route into skilled employment across multiple sectors.
Walsall's apprenticeships offering.
Information for employers.
City of Wolverhampton College is a leading provider of further education and is ranked in the top three in England - and number one in the West Midlands - for student achievement rates.
The college offers a wide range of A -levels, as well as career-focussed industry-recognised vocational qualifications, apprenticeships, T Levels and higher education programmes.
The Chartered Management Institute (CMI) partners with the University of Wolverhampton to deliver the End-Point Assessment (EPA) for the University’s management and leadership apprenticeships.
This means your work is assessed by the leading professional body for management and leadership, adding significant prestige to your apprenticeship qualifications.
See a list of our current apprenticeship programmes and their provisional start dates*.
An Expression of Interest (EOI) for each programme needs to be received by us to 2-3 months before commencement date.
Please email your EOI to apprenticeshiphub@wlv.ac.uk at your earliest possible convenience.
* Start dates are subject to change so please keep updated via these web pages.
Current list of WLV Apprenticeships Programme Starts 25/26 (At June 2025)
Start date - September 2025
Start Date - December 2025
Start Date - May 2026
Start Date - September 2026

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2024/november-2024/outstanding-graduates-recognised-at-annual-awards-ceremony-.php:
The University of Wolverhampton held its third Alumni Awards ceremony recognising the incredible achievements, careers and impact of the University's graduates and dedicated volunteers.
More than 100 nominations were made across ten award categories with 32 finalists who are making a difference locally, nationally and internationally.
Attendees from as far as the USA, Bangladesh, Malaysia, Singapore, Zimbabwe, Spain and Nigeria attended the ceremony.
Five outstanding individuals were also inducted into the University of Wolverhampton’s Alumni Hall of Fame.
The ceremony was held at The Chancellor’s Hall at City Campus on 7 November and was streamed live around the world on YouTube .
Award categories included: the Apprenticeship Award, Alumni Honour Award for Lifetime Achievement, Leadership Award, Young Alumni of the Year Award, Professional Excellence Award, Humanitarian of the Year Award, Wulfrunian of the Year Award, Entrepreneurial Award, International Alumni Volunteer of the Year Award and the UK Alumni Volunteer of the Year Award.
Among the winners was Sabrina Ffrench who picked up the Young Alumni of the Year Award.
Sabrina, a nursing graduate from the University, was recognised for going above and beyond in volunteering at her workplace on top of her working shifts to support patients and the next generation of student nurses.
Sabrina said: “I didn’t expect to receive the award at all.
The University of Wolverhampton has done so much for me and they helped me throughout my Adult Nursing course.
From a young 17-year-old with no nursing experience to where I am now, I’d like to thank the University, adult and children nurses and learning disability nurses as well as my family for helping me get to where I am now.”
Another winner on the night was Dr Clare Dickens, Student Life and Deputy Designated Safeguarding Lead at the University of Wolverhampton, who won the Wulfrunian of the Year Award.
Clare has gained national and international recognition for her work in suicide prevention and higher education student and staff mental health wellbeing.
For her pioneering and impactful work, Clare was awarded an MBE in 2023 for services to Education and Improving Suicide Awareness by King Charles III.
On her award win, Clare said: “Last month marked 24 years since I first walked through the doors at the University of Wolverhampton.
I was petrified at the time, but Wolverhampton is now home and I love this city.
“I want my legacy to be that I put in a good shift.
I remember my father saying to me that education has to matter, it has to contribute to something, and it has to make a difference.
I still haven’t forgot those words.
“Thank you to all my family, friends and colleagues for your support and Wolverhampton is the best.”
One inductee of this year’s Hall of Fame was former British and Olympic gymnast Kristian Thomas.
Wolverhampton born and bred, Kristian is now Player Care and Engagement Manager at the Premier League.
Kristian was part of the British team that won gold at the 2012 European Championships and bronze at the 2012 Summer Olympics in London.
In 2015, he won his first major international title, gold in the floor exercise at the 2015 European Artistic Gymnastics Championships.
Kristian said: “It was great to hear so many inspiring stories from graduates from the University and the impact they’re making.
I joined the University of Wolverhampton in 2016 and making the transition from a full-time athlete to becoming a full-time student wasn’t easy.
“I’d like to thank the University for their support and guidance and creating opportunities for me that I didn’t know existed.
The University helped me identify transferrable skills from being an athlete into the role I’m currently at, at the Premier League.”
List of winners and Alumni Hall of Fame inductees
Jack England
Apprenticeship Award
Adeola Odedina
Alumni Honour Award for Lifetime Achievement
Nely Stephanie Nasir
Leadership Award
Sabrina Ffrench
Young Alumni of the Year Award
Ljubica Butkovic
Professional Excellence Award
Nathalie Flores
Humanitarian of the Year Award
Clare Dickens MBE
Wulfrunian of the Year Award
Chris Carter
Entrepreneurial Award
Chima Victor Kalu
International Alumni Volunteer of the Year Award
Adedapo Fasinro
UK Alumni Volunteer of the Year Award
Claire Darke
Hall of Fame Inductee
Kristian Thomas
Adesua Etomi-Wellington
Shani Dhanda
Michael Cumming
David Wedge, Deputy Head of Alumni Relations at the University, said: “Congratulations to all our finalists and winners.
These awards are a very special occasion in the University's calendar and it was a pleasure to welcome some of our most inspiring and celebrated graduates from across the globe.
“Our alumni provide inspiration for our current students, for staff who taught them and for applicants who are looking to study at the University.
It’s truly amazing to see how far some of our graduates have travelled and we wanted to officially recognise this and to celebrate their individual achievements.”
Graduates are encouraged to keep in touch with the Alumni team and take advantage of a range of benefits and support on offer to them including a discount for Postgraduate study and opportunities to benefit from volunteering and career advice.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2024/july-2024/maria-wins-apprenticeship-leadership-award.php:
Maria Glover, Cardiac Rehabilitation Nurse Manager at The Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust (RWT), has won the Apprentice Awards 2024: Embracing Inclusion and Diversity – Leading on Innovation in their Organisation award from the University of Wolverhampton.
Following a 15-year break from the classroom, the 54-year-old is studying for her Chartered Management Institute (CMI) Level 7 Diploma in Strategic Management and Leadership.
Maria will obtain this qualification when she sits her end-point assessment in September with the CMI.
Maria will graduate from the Postgraduate Diploma (PGDip) in Management Studies – a two-year postgraduate diploma, which is the second level of Master’s education – on 11 September, 2024.
She starts her final year on 3 October for her Master of Business Administration (MBA) top-up, which will result in an MBA in Senior Leadership on 18 September 2025.
“I’ve always loved studying – I love opportunities for learning and development, both personally and professionally,” added Maria, whose team of 12 at New Cross Hospital sees an average of 300 patients per month.
“I decided to pursue a Master’s in Senior Leadership to improve my strategic vision, decision-making, and innovation in my role, ultimately improving patient care and team effectiveness.
Maria, who has been with RWT since 2015, has a lifelong passion for learning that hasn’t been dimmed by parenthood or the passing years.
Her last time in the classroom was to complete a Leadership and Management Graduate Certificate at Staffordshire University in 2009.
“Returning to study after 15 years has been incredibly rewarding, reigniting my passion for learning and enhancing my professional skills,” she added.
After qualifying as a Registered General Nurse in 1993, Maria graduated with a BSc (Hons) in Nursing Studies from Staffordshire University in 2003 and gained a teaching qualification, a PGDip BSc (Hons), also from Staffordshire University, this year.
Maria, from Stafford, added: “Receiving this award is a testament to the power of innovation, the strength of leadership, and the beauty of inclusion and diversity.
“Together, we are creating a future where everyone has the opportunity to shine.
I am thrilled.”
Maria, who has worked at RWT since 2015, was nominated for the award by Javin Dacosta, her Senior Lecturer and Degree Apprentice Coach, for embracing the learning.
Javin said: “Congratulations to Maria.
She has made significant changes within the NHS, particularly with her work on the MyHeart app.
“The app will provide cardiac rehabilitation patients with access to healthcare professionals and allow them to self manage their cardiac condition Truly deserved!”
He added: “Maria has wholeheartedly embraced her personal development journey as a senior leader and has demonstrated exceptional dedication throughout her apprenticeship.
“Her unwavering commitment to growth is evident in her consistent efforts to enhance herself and others.
“One of Maria’s standout qualities is her proactive approach to seeking feedback.
By actively soliciting input and insights from others, she displays a strong desire for continuous improvement in her leadership abilities.
“Maria’s remarkable resilience has been a cornerstone of her progress, allowing her to navigate challenges with determination and perseverance.
Her joy for learning will truly be missed.”
Maria was also recognised for supporting her peers, and leading on innovative projects such as MyHeart app, PREHAB – preparing patients for surgery – and the Lipid Optimisation Service, a cholesterol pathway for patients.
“I actively promote diverse perspectives, ensure equitable opportunities, and create inclusive environments where everyone’s voice is valued and respected,” added Maria.
ENDS

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2024/march-2024/funding-to-boost-growth-and-widen-participation-for-degree-apprenticeships.php:
The funding will also allow us to collaborate with the Aspire to HE/UniConnect team in working with local communities, schools, colleges and employers to widen participation and increase awareness of the degree apprenticeship route.
The OfS will distribute funding for up to two academic years, designed to grow and build capacity and increase equality of opportunity in apprenticeships provision across higher education providers.
£40m has been made available through a competitive bidding exercise over the academic years 2023-24 and 2024-25.
The aims of the strategy, that all students, from all backgrounds, with the ability and desire to undertake higher education, are supported to access, succeed in, and progress from higher education.
Professor Ebrahim Adia, Vice-Chancellor at the University, said: “The University of Wolverhampton was ranked number 1 in the UK this year in the Daily Mail University Rankings and League Table 2024 for teaching first generation students – those who are the first in their family to go to university.
“The OfS vision is strategically aligned to our ambition of improving social mobility for all students and this funding will help us to open up the apprenticeship route to a much wider group of people through our extensive outreach programme.
“W e are proud of the contribution our apprentices make to our local communities and the wider region and are committed to enhancing our provision to ensure we continue to support the development of the regional and national workforce.”
The University is designing three new degree apprenticeship frameworks which will include Children's Nursing (July 2025), Podiatrist (September 2025) and Paramedic (April 2025).
Jenny Cannon, Head of Academic Business Development at the University, said: “The University of Wolverhampton is committed to ensuring degree apprenticeships continue to grow, by creating new degree apprenticeships and by providing positive opportunities and routes to employment for individuals across the region.
“We will be working closely with Aspire to HE, our UniConnect partnership, Adam Vasco, the University’s Director of Inclusion and Diversity in Professional Practice, and local employers to ensure that this funding will be used to raise awareness of degree apprenticeship and increase participation.”
Gemma Kay, Director of Aspire to HE, said: “We are committed to ensuring equality of opportunity for all and will be working with key stakeholders, through our ‘Aspiring Apprentices’ programme to ensure a fully inclusive approach when promoting and delivering our degree apprenticeship programmes.
“Working in partnership, we envisage this project will help to make positive steps towards ensuring that diversity within degree apprenticeships mirrors that of the region.”
John Blake, Director for Fair Access and Participation at the OfS, said: “With this second round of bids, we were looking for universities and colleges to not only describe how OfS funding would expand their degree apprenticeships student numbers and course provision, but also to further demonstrate how they would prioritise recruiting and supporting students from all backgrounds to succeed.
I’m pleased to say that all the successful bids have risen to this challenge.
“We know that degree apprenticeships are so important as a route for students looking to engage in higher education in less traditional ways, and the benefits they bring to local and regional economies, which is why are investing up to £40 million over the next two academic years to increase the range and availability of these programmes.
We have been inspired by the ambitious and forward-looking plans we have received, and I look forward to seeing how this funding can make a real difference to students and our future workforce over the next year and beyond.”
For more information about apprenticeship courses at the University check out the website or visit one of our Open Days.
Picture caption left to right: Gemma Kay and Jenny Cannon.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2022/july-2022/class-of-2021-degree-apprentice-graduates-after-booking-herself-a-first-class-degree-.php:
Manjit Kaur, 47, is the Leisure Operations and Projects Manager at Walsall Council’s Central Library and Archives.
She passed her Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship with Chartered Manager status having achieved a Distinction after studying for three years part-time.
She recently attended her graduation ceremony at The Grand Theatre in Wolverhampton with her family.
Her son is also due to graduate this week.
The Degree Apprenticeship was funded by her employer of 21 years, Walsall Council, through the Apprenticeship Levy.
The Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship is designed for professional managers who take lead responsibility for people, projects, operations and/or services to deliver long term organisational success.
The three-year part-time course covers all aspects of business, including management, marketing, human resources, finance and operations management.
Delivery is by a mixture of face-to-face, distance learning and in-house company mentoring and training support.
Learning focuses both on theories and the application of all aspects of management.
Councillor Ken Ferguson, Portfolio Holder for Internal Services at Walsall Council said: “Congratulations to Manjit - what an amazing achievement.
Manjit was one of our first Apprentices to enter this Apprenticeship programme and has flourished with the experience, gaining a First Class degree.
“As a council we support and encourage our employees with their aspirations to gain relevant qualifications.
Endless Possibilities, our Apprenticeship scheme is delivered with our partners such as the University of Wolverhampton to offer a range of education and skill development opportunities.
“I wish Manjit every success and encourage anyone that wishes to further their education to find out more about Apprenticeships and how they can support in career development and progression.”
Simon Neilson, Executive Director, Economy, Environment & Communities at Walsall Council, said: “Manjit is a credit to the council.
She has ably combined a very demanding job with intense studies – reflecting the dedication colleagues know her for.
Degree Apprenticeships are a great way to invest in our workforce, and we are delighted to see the benefits of our partnership with the University of Wolverhampton.”
Manjit said: “I didn’t have many aspirations and I started working straight away after my A Levels.
When I came into this post one of the employment conditions was to be working towards a degree or a relevant qualification so that was my foot in the door and luckily my employer was offering the Degree Apprenticeship route.
“I wasn’t sure what to expect coming back into studying after 20 years but I started to use what I was learning in my modules quite quickly – from aspects of marketing and HR through to managing people through change.
It was all really useful as we were relaunching the building after a refurbishment project
“To complete my degree at the same time as my children is a real achievement for me, but also to achieve this during the pandemic, while juggling work and family life, is something I’m very proud of and it was amazing to finally graduate and pick up my award.”
Employers or employees interested in taking a Higher or Degree Apprenticeship through the University of Wolverhampton should contact the University’s Apprenticeship Hub on 01902 321000 or email: apprenticeshiphub@wlv.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2022/february-2022/build-the-future--alex-expands-his-horizons-with-degree-apprenticeship-.php:
Alexander Jones, 32 from Telford, has expanded his horizons by studying for an Occupational Therapy Degree Apprenticeship at the University of Wolverhampton.
Alex is an Apprentice Occupational Therapist working in the Crisis & Resolution Home Treatment Team for Midlands Partnership NHS Foundation Trust based in Telford which is funding his studies through the Apprenticeship Levy.
After leaving school, Alex decided to go to college but didn’t complete his A Levels, unable to settle into education.
He worked in a variety of jobs before joining the NHS as an administrator and, watching his colleagues, he realised that he wanted to progress in order to make a positive change in people’s lives.
He said: “I saw the variety of roles on offer – nurses, social workers and occupational therapists – and they were all working together to improve patient care.
I was enamoured by that, but I just needed to find a role that suited my mindset.
The drive was non-medicalising common mental health conditions such as depression, anxiety and isolation and I realised that’s where my passion lay because that’s the core discipline of Occupational Therapy.”
Alex’s employer, Midlands Partnership NHS Foundation Trust, paid for him to study an Access to Higher Education Health & Social Care course at a local college, which gave him the foundations to study a higher-level degree at university and he applied for the new Degree Apprenticeship in Occupational Therapy – a three-year fast-tracked Apprenticeship offered by the Faculty of Education, Health and Wellbeing at the University of Wolverhampton.
Alex, who studies one day a week whilst working full-time, said: “I’m in my first year of study and, in a way, this first cohort of students is helping to shape the course.
I’m surrounded by support from tutors at the University, my colleagues at work and the people I work with on my placements.
“This was my first time coming to a university and you really have the best of both worlds.
I have the support of someone behind me who is investing in me and believes that I can go forward but also they are funding this for me meaning I don’t have a student loan to worry about and I have job security.
“My horizons are opening more and more as the course goes on.
The support that we get on the Apprenticeship is quite amazing.
There was a period in my life when I left school where I didn’t have a goal that was my passion, but once I joined the NHS, I saw something in my colleagues that gave me drive and my passion turned to that’s what I want to be.
So I was really encouraged to go for it and jump in with both feet and I haven’t looked back since.”
Find out more about how Degree Apprenticeships can benefit you or your business: www.wlv.ac.uk/NAW2022/.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2022/february-2022/build-the-future--rosie-builds-a-future-in-construction-with-degree-apprenticeship-.php:
Rosie Peach-Robinson, 19 from Wolverhampton, is building a future in construction by studying for a Degree Apprenticeship in Building Surveying at the University of Wolverhampton, with the studies being wholly funded by her employer, Kartar Consulting, based in Fort Dunlop, Birmingham.
After completing her A Levels, Rosie didn’t have a set idea about what she wanted to do for a career and began to look out for other opportunities.
She didn’t want to go down the traditional university route and started to look at Apprenticeship programmes that might suit her.
She said: “Going to university full-time didn’t feel right for what I wanted to do.
I began to look into roles in construction and wasn’t aware of how many opportunities there were outside of trades.
“In a construction vocation, I think it’s really important to have practical experience as well as theoretical knowledge which is why the Degree Apprenticeship was perfect for me.
I think I’ll have a step up that a lot of people who do full-time degrees might not necessarily have because you learn how quickly the world of construction changes.
“This degree also gives me the opportunity to get chartered at the end of it with RICS (Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors).
“Having opportunities academically alongside the opportunities I have with my employer practically will definitely give me the step up compared to other universities.”
Siana Pemberton, a Degree Apprentice graduate and Associate Director at Kartar Consulting, said: “We’ve taken on quite a lot of new Apprentices at Kartar and I was one of the first.
“As a small business, it provides us with opportunities for exposure in terms of the individuals as well as bringing people into the industry at quite an early age and stage in their career.
“I’m certainly a strong advocate for Apprentices and Apprenticeships and it’s definitely a route that a lot of people should look to explore.”
Picture caption: Rosie on the left, Siana on the right.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2022/february-2022/build-the-future-kiera-is-the-first-in-her-family-to-graduate.php:
Kiera Matthews, 29 who is originally from Cornwall but lives in Cannock, is the first member of her family to graduate after she successfully completed a Nursing Associate Foundation Degree Apprenticeship at the University of Wolverhampton.
Kiera works as a Nursing Associate in Orthopaedics at New Cross Hospital, Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust, who funded her studies through the Apprenticeship Levy.
She originally studied for a Level 3 BTEC in Health & Social Care after completing her GCSEs and has worked in the healthcare sector for over 10 years, moving from domiciliary care to more specialised care for patients with complex conditions such as brain injuries and strokes.
She worked her way up to becoming a Team Leader, doing risk assessments for brain injuries before moving to care for people with learning disabilities.
She said: “I had always wanted to go to University and get a degree.
No one in my family has a degree and it was a personal goal of mine.
Unfortunately, at the time it didn’t slot in with my life circumstances so I joined the NHS in Cornwall but wasn’t sure which speciality I wanted to focus on so I worked in a multi-disciplinary team to gain more perspective.
“When I joined RWT in 2016 I worked as a Bank Health Care Assistant, before joining Orthopaedics in 2017.
I did lots of things to develop myself like dementia training and studying for a Care Certificate.
I had almost completed an Access course in 2016 and gained a place at university to become a nurse but struggled to manage the workload.
When I was accepted in 2018, I was excited and nervous about starting the Nursing Associate Degree Apprenticeship.
“Studying has identified both strengths and weaknesses for me, which is a good thing.
I’ve had to focus my efforts on time management but had lots of support from the University and my employers.
It hasn’t been an easy road to the finish line but I always wanted to do better and I enjoy learning.
I am extremely proud to say that I now have a degree with distinction and my NMC PIN.
“I’ve made lots of friends, the module leads and tutors go out of their way to support you and I’ve learned that you can and should reach out for help if you need it.
I’m looking forward to continuing to develop new skills in my new role as Nursing Associate and the wide ranging responsibilities that go with that.”
Anyone looking to study at the University of Wolverhampton should register for one of our forthcoming Open Days.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2022/february-2022/build-the-future--chris-taps-into-social-work-expertise-with-degree-apprenticeship.php:
Chris Taylor, 35 from Walsall, is tapping into a new career by studying for a Degree Apprenticeship in Social Work at the University of Wolverhampton, with his studies being funded by his employer, Walsall Council, through the Apprenticeship Levy.
Chris currently works in Adult Social Care at the council and is in his third and final year of the Apprenticeship, due to qualify in August this year.
He left school with no formal qualifications and trained and worked as a plumber, following his dad’s advice to get a trade behind him.
Even though he wasn’t sure what he wanted to do, he knew he didn’t want to work in a job which involved manual labour.
He said: “I decided to apply for a job at my local council as an administrator and luckily for me they gave me the opportunity.
I worked in a variety of different roles, typing meeting notes and doing some data inputting.
I knew I didn’t really want a desk job so I volunteered to work in Children’s Services to boost my experience, eventually joining the Family Support Team where I realised I wanted a career in Social Work.”
Chris had been in the care system when he was a child and, whilst he had never thought he could be capable of having a career in Social Work, the experience he gained made him realise that he had the potential to work in the field.
“I was never very academic, but when the opportunity to do the Degree Apprenticeship came up, I knew I wanted to further my education.
My employer has offered me lots of opportunities to gain qualifications and their support has been invaluable.
Even though I was nervous about going back to studying, there is lots of support from my employer and from the University.
“Qualifying as a Social Worker will bring me a sense of pride, being the first member of our family to go to university and get a degree.
I want my kids to have a good role model.
My advice to anyone considering doing a Degree Apprenticeship later in life is believe in yourself, believe in education and it will help you to change your life.”

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2022/february-2022/build-the-future--emma-finds-freedom-to-change-careers-with-a-degree-apprenticeship-.php:
Emma Thomas, 44 from Wolverhampton, found the freedom to switch careers by studying for a Degree Apprenticeship in Social Work at the University of Wolverhampton, with her studies being funded by her employer, City of Wolverhampton Council, through the Apprenticeship Levy.
She said: “The pressures of work made me reflect on what I wanted for my future so I decided to take another career path.
I applied for a job in Family Group Conferencing with City of Wolverhampton Council because I felt like I wanted to do something more positive.
The job is all about supporting families and that felt like a really positive change for me.
“It’s great that my employer is paying for my training and it’s a really rewarding feeling to know that the families you work with have benefited and that they are reaping the benefits of those positive changes.
“What I find really beneficial about doing it through the Apprenticeship route is that, as you’re learning in the University, you’re applying it to your practice so it’s really useful.
“I’m looking forward to being qualified and working with children and families and then, in terms of career progression in the future, it’s hard to know right now but I’m looking forward to being a qualified Social Worker in the first instance.”

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2022/february-2022/build-the-future----award-winning-teaching-degree-apprentice-is-graded-outstanding.php:
Christopher Thompson graduated from his Teaching Degree Apprenticeship in 2021 and scooped an Apprentice of the Year Award in Shropshire Council's Virtual Apprenticeship Awards 2021.
"Chris was awarded an ‘Outstanding’ grade at his end point assessment.
Always taking on board feedback to improve his teaching.
We are incredibly lucky to have Chris as a member of our team.
I can’t think of a newly qualified teacher who has made such an impact in teaching at such an early stage in their career."
Christopher was one of the first Apprentice Primary School Teachers in Shropshire, studying for his Degree at the University of Wolverhampton's Walsall Campus one day a week, with his Apprenticeship studies funded by his employer, Shropshire Council, through the Apprenticeship Levy.
Chris said: "Winning the Apprentice of the Year award last year was without doubt a real shock but a huge honour.
I feel very lucky that in these strange times that we all find ourselves in, not only am I in a job that I had always dreamed of doing (and I still find it strange seeing the word 'Teacher' on my lanyard!), but that I work for a school community that I am incredibly privileged to be a part of.
I owe a huge thank you to every single member of staff - particularly headteacher Angela Alkureishi and our the governing body for their 'go for it' approach to upskilling staff - at Norton-in-Hales CE Primary school for helping and supporting me throughout the duration of the course.
I firmly believe that this is an award for all of them and their dedication to the apprenticeship approach.
"I'd always wanted to teach from a young age but felt that, at 35, the chance to do so had passed me by and I was happy and content in my role at Norton-in-Hales, working as a Teaching Assistant in the morning and delivering PE across the school in the afternoons.
When senior leaders at the school first mentioned the Apprenticeship route into teaching however, I jumped at the chance to try and achieve a life long dream.
I wasn't in a position to leave the school to return to University and also didn't wish to leave the school community so the Apprenticeship route seemed an excellent course to take.
Further to this, I much prefer to learn by doing, so by being assigned to our Year 3 and 4 class I was able to follow this learning style; learning from mistakes I made and being given plenty of opportunity to reflect and revise on my approach.
This is where I feel my mentors were key in my development.
They were available daily, even with the pressures of their own classes to run and I feel I benefited hugely from team teaching with them one day a week as well.
"I also spent four weeks across the academic year at the University of Wolverhampton at its Walsall Campus.
These weeks were vital too as it was a chance to gain exposure to more experts in each individual subject, as well as meeting fellow professionals at the same point in their careers.
Although I was in a cohort of just four, this bond - along with our mentor Karen Amos - was one of the highlights of the Apprenticeship; we shared experiences, successes, failures and advice that got us all through the course...
and our WhatsApp group still buzzes now!"
Angela Alkureishi, Headteacher at Norton in Hales CE Primary School in Shropshire, said: "Chris was one of the first apprentice teachers in Shropshire.
"Having worked at Norton in Hales as a Teaching Assistant it was clear as soon as I started as Head Teacher that Chris has a special gift to connect with children.
Chris had previously embarked on his teacher training but after a few challenging incidents decided to leave the teacher training programme at that point in time.
"Thankfully Chris decided to try again and embarked on the Postgraduate Teaching Assistant route.
The University of Wolverhampton was one of only a handful of universities offering the course.
Chris was selected by the University to represent the primary division as he was a strong trainee that had made great progress and a very positive contribution to children’s learning and development and the wider life of the school in general.
Together with his own commitment and conscientiousness he has benefited greatly from having the right support from our school and a senior leadership team who have collectively spotted the potential in Chris and agreed to put him through this route whilst adhering to the partnership contract.
Chris has also championed the apprentice route into teaching and was also approached by the Local Authority to talk to other potential candidates even though he was juggling a demanding workload as well as becoming a parent with a newborn son.
Find out more about how Degree Apprenticeships can benefit you or your business: www.wlv.ac.uk/NAW2022 .
Primary and Secondary Post Graduate Teaching Apprenticeship places are available at the University of Wolverhampton this June 2022.
Attend our Virtual Employer Information Event to find out more about the programme on offer: https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/post-graduate-teaching-apprenticeship-employer-event-tickets-244387749337

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2022/february-2022/build-the-future--sam-takes-control-of-her-future-with-a-degree-apprenticeship.php:
Sam Pearson, 26 from Cannock, took control of her future by studying for a Degree Apprenticeship in Building Control Surveying at the University of Wolverhampton, with the studies being funded by her employer, Walsall Council, through the Apprenticeship Levy.
Sam graduated last year and secured her new position as Building Control Surveyor in the Building Control Team at the Council.
After taking her A Levels, Sam studied for a Geography degree and began to take a keen interest in the built environment, particularly in relation to construction and seeing how projects were delivered from ideas, to the development stage and construction through to completion.
She studied for a Foundation Degree in Construction Management in the University’s School of Architecture and Built Environment before applying for the Degree Apprenticeship.
She said: “I thought that the Apprenticeship would be a really good fit with my previous studies and I had developed a really keen interest in the construction side of my built environment studies.
“I thought that being able to study while I was working would be invaluable and everything I learned on the course, I was able to put into practice every day while I was working – the theory really related to the practice and it was a really great fit, covering all aspects of the variety of my job role.
“Building Control is an important part of the construction industry and is facing lots of changes with regards to competency of the surveyors.
The degree course has undoubtedly helped me become a competent Building Control Surveyor with thanks to my employer for the support and the opportunity to study.”

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2022/february-2022/build-the-future-degree-apprenticeship-breathes-new-life-into-careers-of-prospective-midwives-.php:
The Midwifery Degree Apprenticeship, approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC), has been designed to support prospective midwives achieve the knowledge, skills and behaviours to meet standards outlined by the NMC.
The role of the midwife acts as a catalyst for improving the health of families and has a strong focus on current public health priorities, the care of vulnerable groups, and the increasingly complex health needs of childbearing women.
Apprentices studying for the Degree Apprenticeship, which is funded by their employer through the Apprenticeship Levy, will be employed in a job with legal and contractual terms and conditions.
Following successful completion of the programme the Apprentices are awarded a Bachelor of Midwifery (with Honours) Apprenticeship qualification and an Apprenticeship Award Certificate.
They are also then eligible to enter the NMC register as a midwife.
This programme offers “added value” opportunities such as Resuscitation Council approved Neonatal Life Support (NLS) training and Undergraduate PrOMPT (Practical Obstetric Multi-Professional Training) courses, as well as providing full training to become competent in NIPE (Newborn and Infant Physical Examination) prior to registration.
Alexandra Birch, Senior Lecturer in Midwifery in the University’s Faculty of Education, Health and Wellbeing, said: “We do need more midwives out in practice and this is a good way to get people into the workforce.
It’s a relatively new Apprenticeship and we’re one of the first Universities to offer the programme.
“It’s really important to have Degree Apprenticeships available.
People may struggle for a number of reasons entering Higher Education, particularly financially, so Apprenticeships are a really great way for people to fulfil their potential and help them to live their dream.
They’re in employment receiving a wage while they’re training which helps to keep them afloat financially, helping them to support their families, and being able to utilise the Apprenticeship Levy means they don’t get into debt while training.”
Vicky Crump, 40, who is an Apprentice working at The Royal Wolverhampton Hospitals NHS Trust, was previously a primary school teacher who had always wanted to be a midwife.
After she had her own children and they started to grow up, she decided to switch careers and pursue her dream of becoming a midwife.
She said: “I’m studying full-time for this degree so there are challenges associated with that with assignments due in and exams, especially when you’re balancing that with family-life.
But we get lots of support from the University with study skills from the library, from lecturers and in the workplace.
“Everything we learn we can apply in practice, so when we’re learning about anatomy and physiology I now know why we do those tasks in the workplace which is really useful from a practical perspective.”
This year, the 15th annual National Apprenticeship Week (#NAW2022) is running from Monday 7 February through to Sunday 13 February 2022 with the theme ‘BUILD THE FUTURE’ and the University is showcasing the impact Apprenticeships have on communities, local businesses and regional economies.
Throughout the week we will be shining the spotlight on some of our employers who are committed to upskilling their workforce and some of our Apprentices who, despite the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic over the past two years, are continuing to learn or who have already graduated.
Employers who are interested in talking to the Apprenticeship Hub about Degree Apprenticeships check out the website , telephone 0800 953 3222 or email apprenticeshiphub@wlv.ac.uk .
Anyone wanting to find out more about how Degree Apprenticeships can benefit employees and business, check out this page on the website: www.wlv.ac.uk/NAW2022 .
Picture caption from left to right: Vicky Crump (Apprentice), Alex Birch (Senior Lecturer in Midwifery), Ellie-Mai Humphries (Apprentice) and Evie Hawker (Apprentice).

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2022/february-2022/build-the-future-degree-apprentices-engineer-a-very-civil-partnership-.php:
Clive Kenton, 62, and Eden Turley, 20, are both studying for Civil Engineering Degree Apprenticeships in the University of Wolverhampton’s School of Architecture and Built Environment at its £120 million brownfield regeneration project on Springfield Campus.
At either ends of the learning spectrum, the two Apprentices have supported each other since starting the part-time Apprenticeship and are in their fourth year of the five-year course.
Clive has worked for Walsall Council for 33 years having secured an Ordinary National Diploma (OND) in Building Studies and a Higher National Certificate (HNC) in Civil Engineering after a stint in the Army.
He has recently been promoted to Principal Engineer at the Council.
Eden joined Walsall Council after completing his A Levels and is a Degree Apprentice Civil Engineer.
The two Apprentices have supported each other from the beginning of the Apprenticeship, with Clive offering experience and knowledge gained throughout his career, and Eden helping with the more technical aspects of the degree.
Councillor Mark Statham, Walsall Council’s cabinet member for internal services said: “I’m delighted that our Civil Engineers are able to access high quality training within the workplace and that they have been able to work closely together throughout the programme.
They make a great partnership and we are all very proud of both of them.
“Here at Walsall Council we believe Apprenticeships are good for business, as Apprentices can be moulded and shaped in their area of expertise, to deliver the exact skills our business needs.
The Apprenticeship programme also means our employees who have many years of work experience can actually gain recognition for those skills but also enhance their knowledge of their area of expertise.
It really is a win, win for us.
“It also shows the wide variety of Apprenticeships available leading to a career within Local Government - Apprentices are the future decision makers, managers and leaders of Walsall Council and continuing to bring Apprentices into the business, even in such difficult times, is important to protect our future, whilst ensuring we continue to deliver the vital services our communities depend upon.
We would urge all employers to continue to recruit, and to benefit from government incentives to ease financial burden, whilst offering exciting and rewarding careers opportunities to Apprentices.”
Clive said: “When I started out on my career path at Walsall Council, at the time, you had to pay for your degree and I couldn’t afford that.
It was great to find out, when Eden arrived, that I could start to study for a degree regardless of my age.
“Having Eden at my side has really helped me.
I’m supposed to be his mentor, but for the first two years he was pulling me along and helping me with my Maths.
Later on, those roles reversed and I started to help him out more with report writing utilising the more in-depth knowledge and experience I’d gained over the years throughout my career.
“My aim is to get my Incorporated Engineer (IEng) certification through this degree and the opportunity offered by my employer, Walsall Council, to achieve this qualification at my age has shown that it really is never too late to learn.”
Eden said: “I wasn’t sure what I wanted to do with my future.
I did some work experience in Civil Engineering and it really helped to prepare me with the job at the Council and the learning on the degree.
“Me and Clive get on really well, Clive is more academic and has had a lot more experience and I’m more technical in terms of Maths and research and Clive is a lot better at report writing so we help each other.
“My aim through this Degree Apprenticeship is to become Chartered and move into the structural side of things - because with Civil Engineering you can actually see what you’re doing and you can make some sort of meaningful impact on the world.
You also get a lot more experience on an Apprenticeship than you would going to university full-time.”
Councillor Statham added: “The Endless Possibilities Apprenticeship programme continues to go from strength to strength and we have more than 400 Apprentices in various roles across Walsall Council — growing from just a handful in 2017.
“Clive and Eden are fantastic examples of what the council’s Apprenticeship programme sets out to do, and that is to provide people from all backgrounds with real opportunities to reach their full potential through real jobs with real training, peer support and continuous professional development.
“The benefits go both ways; our Apprentices are helping us to modernise what we do, address imbalances in the workforce across age, gender and ethnicity and bring new energy, ideas and fresh perspectives into the council.”
The University has recently secured accreditation for its Civil Engineering degree courses from four leading professional bodies.
Courses have been accredited for the next five years by the Institute of Civil Engineers , the Institute of Structural Engineers , the Institute of Highways Engineers and the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation.
The new School of Architecture and Built Environment offers specialist teaching and social learning spaces, design studios, specialist labs, multi-disciplinary workshops, lecture theatre, cafe, offices, meeting rooms, ICT rooms and a top floor super studio with double height ceilings.
It provides space for nearly 1,100 existing students and 65 staff, with the number of students projected to grow over time to 1,600.
The School specialises in supporting skills in architecture, construction, civil engineering, building control, building services, facilities management, quantity surveying, planning, construction management, housing and commercial.
Home to the Thomas Telford University Technical College (UTC), the University’s School of Architecture and Built Environment, and the Elite Centre for Manufacturing Skills, the regeneration of the former Springfield Brewery is central to the University’s vision of enhancing the student experience and supporting business growth.
It will also be home to the University’s new National Brownfield Research Institute for which the University recently secured £14.9 million funding from the BCLEP through the government’s Get Building Fund.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2022/february-2022/university-showcases-degree-apprentices-during-national-apprenticeship-week.php:
The University of Wolverhampton has been providing Degree Apprenticeships for five years, helping to plug skills gaps in key industry sectors across the region and further afield.
We opened our Apprenticeship Hub five years ago and, since then, have welcomed over 1,000 Degree Apprentices onto programmes, steadily growing our work-based learning of Higher and Degree Apprenticeships.
Our Faculties now offer a wide range of Higher and Degree Apprenticeships and we work with over 350 employers and local authorities including Telford & Wrekin, Dudley, Walsall, Shropshire, Staffordshire and Sandwell Councils, public and private health care providers such as the Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust, Walsall NHS Trust and Priory Group as well as a number of small and medium sized employers.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2021/october-2021/minister-opens-landmark-institute-of-technology-to-boost-skills-in-dudley.php:
Built as one of only 12 IoTs nationally, the £22 million scheme on Castle Hill was developed as part of the government’s £170 million drive to develop higher-level skills across the UK, with £17.36m of funding secured for the institute through the Department for Education programme and a further £2m from the West Midlands Combined Authority.
The BCIoT offers a variety of technical training opportunities including higher level apprenticeships, degree level programmes as well as short courses designed for people in-work; in key sectors focussing on medical engineering and healthcare, advanced engineering and manufacturing, and modern methods of construction.
The University of Wolverhampton will be offering Degree Apprenticeships at the new Centre in Manufacturing Technology Engineering and Product Design and Development Engineering from January 2022 - subject to validation.
In common with other IoTs nationally the BCIoT brings together employers, and further and higher education providers to offer higher level technical education, help close the skills gap in key science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) areas and drive technological innovation in the region.
At Dudley, this partnership is made up of a range of employer partners which includes The Dudley Group NHS Foundation Trust, Thomas Dudley and the Marches Centre for Manufacturing Technology who alongside Dudley College of Technology are working in partnership with private training provider In-Comm training and both the University of Worcester and Wolverhampton.
Commenting on the venture Michelle Donelan Minister of State for Higher and Further Education said: “I’m so pleased to open Black Country & Marches Institute of Technology, which will play a vital role in closing skills gaps in key areas, such as manufacturing, construction and healthcare, in Dudley and the wider region.
“Institutes of Technology represent the height of technical training.
By uniquely bringing together further education colleges, universities and businesses, they ensure people can get the skills they need to progress into better paid jobs, and that businesses get the talented workforce they need to thrive.
Echoing this Neil Thomas: Principal and Chief Executive of Dudley College of Technology, the lead further education provider in the venture, commented: “Developing a technically skilled workforce and providing an even wider range of career pathways for the people of Dudley and the wider region is what this Institute is all about.
“One of the great strengths of the IoT is the degree of collaboration involved.
The IoT is bringing together the further and higher education sectors, alongside local employers to shape and design the delivery of courses, in this way we will make sure we provide training that responds to the region’s STEM skills gap.”
The project has changed the landscape of Dudley with the development of a three-storey 4,750m 2 building sited on Castle Hill adjacent to the new Metro stop, the Very Light Rail Innovation Centre and the Black Country Living Museum.
The IoT will also operate from a central Telford base in conjunction with delivery partner In-Comm Training Services.
Mayor of the West Midlands; Andy Street who had given his backing to the venture through the financial support of the West Midlands Combined Authority was on hand to talk to employers about the opportunities the new Institution would bring for them to upskill staff.
Commenting on the remit of the IoT he said:
“Ensuring residents have the right skills to move into the well-paid jobs of the future is at the heart of my 100,000 jobs plan, and Dudley’s phenomenal new IoT will play a major part in helping to make that happen.
“By focussing on key sectors such as engineering, manufacturing, and healthcare, the IoT will be able to help skill up the region’s workforce to meet the demand of employers.
This is exactly why the WMCA were so keen to work with Dudley College and other partners to make it happen.
“Today is a real landmark day for education in the Black Country, and I am absolutely delighted that this key facility is now officially open.”
The building itself is spread over three floors, and provides technical classrooms, IT facilities, break out and communal spaces, catering facilities and a triple height workshop space.
The scheme is as not only one of the first of its kind as an Institute of Technology, but also only the third project delivered under the ‘game changing’ Integrated Project Insurance (IPI) model, as part of the government’s trial strategy for delivering new models of construction procurement – with the first, Advance II, also delivered on behalf of the College in 2017.
Partners in the IPI scheme included, IPInitiatives, Speller Metcalfe, Derry Building Services, GCA Consulting, Cundall, Cullinan Studio and Fulcro, many of whom have successfully worked on other Midlands projects including the Museum of Making at Derby Silk Mill.
The BCIoT is part of Dudley Council backed £1billion investment in 9 projects which are designed to regenerate the fortunes of Dudley Borough, under the leadership of the Councillor Patrick Harley who heralded today’s opening as game changing for the town:
Councillor Patrick Harley, leader of Dudley Council, said: “This is a momentous occasion for Dudley.
We’ve long talked about the significant investment we’re bringing into the town centre, which will turn the tides of fortune in favour of our historic market town.
“And now it’s all becoming reality, with the opening of the Institute today as well as the near completion of our new leisure centre and the significant progress being made with the Very Light Rail and the Metro extension.
“All of this investment will open up opportunities for Dudley residents, enhance the town’s appeal, open up transport links and boost the local economy.
Dudley, it’s our time and I’m really proud of what has been achieved so far.”
Numbers at the centre are forecast to grow with 2000 learners set to be taught at the institute by 2025.
Picture caption from left to right: Julie Nugent, Director of Productivity and Skills, Councillor Patrick Harley, leader of Dudley Council, Neil Thomas, Principal and Chief Executive of Dudley College of Technology, Michelle Donelan, Minister of State for Higher and Further Education and Andy Street, Mayor of the West Midlands.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2021/october-2021/graduate-surveys-another-career-highlight-with-award-shortlisting-.php:
Ryan Allen, 28, from Solihull, has been shortlisted for the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) Matrics Young Surveyor Awards 2021.
Now in their 8th year, the awards have become one of the highlights in the RICS calendar.
The prestigious awards recognise the inspirational and diverse young surveying professionals in the UK and showcase the highest standards of professionalism and innovation within the built environment, providing an opportunity to identify the leaders of the future.
He graduated with a First Class Honours Chartered Surveyor Degree Apprenticeship and works as a Senior Consultant, Contract Services with Turner & Townsend who funded his degree studies through the Apprenticeship Levy.
Ryan studied part time for the three-year Apprenticeship whilst at the same time working towards becoming a Chartered Member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS).
He said: “I’m really thrilled to have been shortlisted in these prestigious awards.
A huge thanks to my colleagues who nominated me and congratulations to all the other finalists.
“It’s really important that your employer is 100% behind you when you’re studying for a Degree Apprenticeship and I had so much support from my line manager as well as the academics on the course.
It’s really helped me to achieve and put me on the path to go much further in my career than I ever thought possible.”
Ryan is the first employee at Turner & Townsend and University of Wolverhampton graduate to complete the Chartered Degree Apprenticeship route, successfully achieving RICS Chartership.
The awards ceremony will be held at The Hilton Park Lane, London, on 19 November 2021, where the winners will be announced.
Find out more about how Degree Apprenticeships can benefit you or your business: www.wlv.ac.uk/apprenticeships.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/contact-admissions:
Our admissions team are happy to speak to our prospective applicants during the admissions process and help you become a student with us.
Our admissions team are responsible for the following recruitment areas
We have various communication channels for you to be able to contact us with.
Phone: Our phone lines are open from 11am – 3pm for both UK and International applicants .
Please see below for the relevant phone numbers:
UK Applicants (residing in the UK, Ireland and Channel Islands): 01902 323505 International Applicants (residing outside the UK): + 44 1902 323505
Our UK Applicant phone lines will have extended opening times on the below dates only:
Please be aware that the University is closed for standard UK holiday dates.
If you have already submitted an application to us you will have an e:Vision account.
If you have any applications questions you can contact us through e:Vision.
If you have a general question about applying to the University of Wolverhampton we have an admissions enquiry team who are supporting applicants through those very early admissions stages.
You can contact us on the following email accounts

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-arts-business-and-social-sciences/university-of-wolverhampton-law-school/law-career-essentials/dwf-mentoring-scheme-for-law-students:
Coaching and mentoring provides an opportunity to discuss concerns with your study and career plans, enabling you to share professional difficulties that you may be experiencing, and focus on your future professional development.
In addition, coaching and mentoring will help you enhance your confidence by having someone to believe in you, and will provide you with the opportunity to develop communication and other inter personal skills.
The University of Wolverhampton has a range of coaching and mentoring schemes suitable for all members of its community.
Check out the schemes below, or ask us a question about mentoring now .
Coaching and Mentoring Handbook
Mentoring and coaching can provide a much-needed sounding board as we work towards our research goals.
The University Coaching and Mentoring Scheme can help you find the right mentor or coach.
Click here for more information about how coaching and mentoring can help you as a researcher .
This scheme is designed to identify and support staff who are at the beginning of their research career.
Applications for ERAS Fellowships are assessed by a panel, with successful applicants being provided with a mentor.
Click here to find out more about the ERAS .
This provides an online platform to allow mentoring interaction between alumni and current undergraduate and postgraduate students.
Postgraduate researchers are invited to provide mentoring for current Undergraduate and postgraduate taught students who are considering Postgraduate Research as their next step.
Postgraduate Research students are also invited to receive mentoring from member of the University alumnus.
Click here to find out more about the Alumni Mentoring Scheme .
Online peer mentoring/tutoring is embedded in 6CW004 Teaching Writing module.
For more information contact FoAmentoring@wlv.ac.uk
The purpose of this scheme is to link first year undergraduate students with final year student to offer support and guidance.
This is currently available in the following areas:
The Sport Scholarship Scheme provides competitive financial scholarships to support student who represent the university in student sports competitions.
The scheme is intrinsically linked to our Focus Sports (football, basketball, combat sports and netball); athletes outside these sports are still considered and more favourably if their sport is recognised within the BUCS framework.
Mentoring Support: Each scholar will be assigned a mentor with relevant experience/interest in their sport where possible.
Mentors will meet with their scholars on a monthly basis.
Mentors are volunteers and will receive mentoring training.
For more details please contact sportscholarships@wlv.ac.uk or 01902 518900.
The Business School has a fantastic opportunity for final year business school students to join a mentoring scheme to help them get ahead onto the first step of their career ladders.
You will be able to seek advice and encouragement from a Senior Manager, Director or Chief Executive who will communicate regularly with you during your final year and offer support and guidance as you work towards getting your first graduate level position.
This is your chance to express ideas, career aspirations, ask questions, gain knowledge, learn techniques and discover the secrets of being successful from a CEO, Managing Director and/or an Entrepreneur.
Whether studying Business, Marketing, Accounting, Human Resources, Economics, Leisure or a combination of these subjects, you could have a wealth of relevant knowledge and experience at your finger tips, through your mentor.
Find out more about the IoD Mentoring Scheme or contact Jenni.jones@wlv.ac.uk
This scheme is aimed at developing employability and career prospects for post graduate and final year undergraduate Law students.
Aimed at providing law students with the opportunity to receive careers guidance from mentors working in commercial legal practice, available to final year Law, CPE, LLM and LPC students.
The scheme is run in conjunction with international law firm DWF.
Level 3 and 4 students are supported by level 6 and 7 students by providing a variety of support interventions.
These can involve hands on help in computer laboratories, drop in study support sessions, or one-to-one buddying.
For more details please contact FSEstudentsupport@wlv.ac.uk
Designed to support staff who are completing applications for Fellowship of the Higher education Academy.
For further details contact Kudos@wlv.ac.uk
To mentor Looked After Children as part of a wider project to raise aspirations and attainment.
To support students, graduates and members of staff to start and run their own business.
For further details contact: Tel: 01902 518960 E-mail: enterprise@wlv.ac.uk
Provide coaching and mentoring to all staff in the University of Wolverhampton.
For further details contact mentoringandcoaching@wlv.ac.uk
Purpose of project is to support students to settle into University life, make and maintain friendships, improve mental health and wellbeing.
You can find out more or sign up to become a befriender by visiting wolvesunion.org/befrienders

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-arts-business-and-social-sciences/university-of-wolverhampton-law-school/legal-advice-centre:
The University of Wolverhampton’s Legal Advice Centre provides free legal advice for the local community.
Especially for those unable to obtain legal assistance through other charitable organisations, for example the Citizens Advice.
Free legal advice is provided by the University’s law students, supervised by the Legal Advice Centre Manager, their lecturers or practising lawyers from local law firms.
The University's Legal Advice Centre builds upon a long tradition of student law clinics, where it is recognised that both the community and students would benefit from experiential legal education.
The clinic work prioritises the community’s needs for legal services and clients’ interest, which complements legal education in developing students’ legal skills, experiencing law in operation and reflecting on ethics and conduct of legal practice.
The service of the University's Legal Advice Centre includes providing preliminary legal advice on whether you have any legal rights or claim and identifying:
This is to enable you to consider whether you have a legal case or claim and what you can do to resolve it.
The Legal Advice Centre does not provide a client representation service but you will be given information, where possible, about further steps or actions that can be taken.
We advise on a variety of areas of law, including:
We do not provide advice on:
We reserve the right not to give advice in any particular case.
Please note, we do not offer appointments ‘on the spot’ and can only facilitate pre-arranged appointments.
We cannot provide immediate legal advice, so if your matter is urgent, you need to contact a solicitor.
We will not tolerate any form of abuse directed towards our students or staff at the Legal Advice Centre and University.
Any service users of the Legal Advice Centre who are rude or aggressive towards students or staff will be asked to leave the premises and we reserve the right to cease assisting in such cases.
The University of Wolverhampton Legal Advice Centre is situated in The George on the corner of Wulfruna Street.
This is a shared space with the University’s ‘Gateway’ service.
At present, services have resumed with face-to-face appointments.
We will try and accommodate virtual appointments via Microsoft Teams if you are unable to attend the Legal Advice Centre in person.
Should you have a query, please contact us via the online enquiry form, which can be accessed here.
We do not give legal advice over the phone or by email.
The Legal Advice Centre is currently closed and due to re-open October 2025.
Meetings are by appointment only.
We are able to accommodate appointments either face-to-face or via Microsoft Teams meetings.
Please remember that this is a student led service, reliant on volunteers.
If you require urgent legal advice, you may need to consult with a solicitor, or seek alternative advice.
Students studying in the University’s Faculty of Arts, Business and Social Sciences can volunteer at the Legal Advice Centre alongside their studies.
Student legal volunteers gain experience through experiential learning.
Students are expected to deal with enquiries from the general public who have legal issues, and in some cases signpost to other local services which may be available to them.
Students also gain experience in taking client interviews, researching the law and applying legal principles to real legal problems, providing general advice on issues concerning employment, probate, property and civil law.
Volunteers will also benefit from being able to practise legal drafting and writing skills.
To volunteer at the Legal Advice Centre, you must be a student enrolled at the University of Wolverhampton, ideally studying towards a degree in Law (this can include combined degrees such as Business and Law, for example), or a degree in another social science, whether undergraduate or postgraduate.
You should declare your interest in volunteering to the Legal Advice Centre Manager, submitting a CV and a short covering letter detailing why you wish to volunteer at the Centre.
Send to beverley.rizzotto@wlv.ac.uk
Legal Advice Centre - Covid-19 Information, Rules and Guidance: Notice for service users
Please adhere to the following guidance:
Employment Law Clinic
The Legal Advice Centre will be holding pop-up clinics on the dates below in collaboration with Martin Kaye Solicitors.
If you have an employment law query (for example contractual issues, discrimination or making a claim to the Employment Tribunal) and require some advice, please visit our clinic which will be held at The George, Stafford Street, Wolverhampton WV1 1LZ.
General advice will be given by a qualified solicitor, who will be shadowed by a student at the University as part of their studies.
All information will be kept strictly confidential.
Wednesday 19th March, 2pm-4pm
To book your appointment or register your interest, please contact the Legal Advice Centre Manager via email on legaladvice@wlv.ac.uk.
Family Law Clinics
The Legal Advice Centre will be holding pop-up clinics on the dates below in collaboration with Martin Kaye Solicitors.
If you have a family law query (for example separation, divorce, child contact) and require some advice, please visit our clinic which will be held at The George, Stafford Street, Wolverhampton WV1 1LZ.
Dates and times to be confirmed.
To book your appointment or register your interest, please contact the Legal Advice Centre Manager via email on legaladvice@wlv.ac.uk .
Windrush Legal Advice Clinic
The University of Wolverhampton’s Legal Advice Centre is teaming up with the Wolverhampton Windrush Legal Advice Clinic to help members of the community make applications to the Home Office for compensation under the Windrush Compensation Scheme.
No appointments are necessary.
The purpose of the appointment will be for our students to take your details and information, in order to assess whether you are eligible to make a claim.
We can then refer you to the Wolverhampton Legal Advice Clinic, who may be able to assist you in making a claim to the Home Office, and who may be able to offer you representative.
Please be advised that this is a free service, and all information will be kept confidential.
We are independent and we do not work in collaboration with any government agencies.
If you have an enquiry relating to the Windrush Compensation Scheme, please contact the Legal Advice Centre Manager, by email: legaladvice@wlv.ac.uk
The Legal Advice Centre will be holding pop-up clinics on the dates below, in collaboration with Martin Kaye Solicitors .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-arts-business-and-social-sciences/wolverhampton-school-of-art/creative-enterprise/student-case-studies/dan-eccleston:
School of Creative Industries / Creative Futures / Student Case Studies
I am a pretty laid back 35 year old with a love of all things Looney Tunes.
I have lived in Wolverhampton all my life so was a no brainer attending this uni.
I was a late bloomer becoming a student as I was well into my 20's when I started but it was the perfect move for me to get some motivation to enhance my hobbies and talents such as drawing and writing.
I thought the lecturers were fantastic, each one different but all friendly, it was clear that they were all experts in their fields.
I didn't really have an experience in Animation, but I was soon clued up through helpful lectures that had the perfect balance of hands on work and Auditory learning.
I cannot put my finger on a favourite memory as I have too many - I really enjoyed the trip to Paris as well as the many events held by the university.
I loved all of the lectures, even ones I didn't think I would and found a new love for Art History, as an avid fan of early animations such as Looney Tunes etc.
I gained a new love for them through the history of the animators / characters.
Since completing my course, I started to use many aspects of my learning into my job at West Midlands Police.
My drawing skills are known force wide and I am often asked to create images for use in presentations and most recently in e-Learning.
I feel that through the types of lectures and interactions with lecturers I have gained excellent interpersonal skills as well as the ability to speak in front of a crowd and properly manage a project from start to finish.
Learning about colours and different art styles has really helped me excel in web design as well as other graphic design areas.
I must admit I don't draw as much as I would like to but I know the skills are there when needed.
If you have an interest in cartoons (new and old) and a have an interest in drawing and learning new styles of art then this course is for you.
I was really surprised at how much knowledge in different areas I gained by the time I had completed the course such as
- SFX (recording / editing) - Video Editing - Filming - Creative Writing - Art History - 3D Modelling / Clay Modelling / Stop Motion
…and that is just to name a few, this is a well balanced course with fantastic equipment from the get go.
A great experience enhanced by knowledgeable lecturers and a well planned learning journey.
Take your drawings and make them MOVE!

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-arts-business-and-social-sciences/wolverhampton-school-of-art/creative-enterprise/student-case-studies/huseyin-kavas:
I was born in 1985 in Istanbul to a family full of doctors and engineers.
This family dynamic forced me to study law for two years.
But my passion for art made me quit law school to become an artist.
Thanks to my professors and classmates, the 3 years I spent at the university were by far the best years of my life.
Art is a major that develops with experiences.
Every day we were experiencing something new.
With the guidance of our tutors, we have developed an urge to explore something new and never afraid of making mistakes.
For this reason, it is impossible for me to choose my favourite memory.
I can't thank my tutors enough.
Right after I finished Wolverhampton University Art and Design Animation, I graduated from Bournemouth University 3D Computer Animation.
And I started to work as a CGI artist in the UK.
In 2011 I moved back to Turkey.
After working in post-production and animation companies for a couple of years, in 2013 I decided to open my own company called Far Land Studios.
Since then, I am creating contents for the advert and future films.
I am currently working as a corporate identity and design senior specialist in the MarCom department at Mercedes-Benz Türk.
I am responsible for all the digital and the print media for all brands and sub-brands of Mercedes-Benz Türk.
I am also the owner of a small FX and animation studio for 7 years, based in Istanbul/Turkey, called Far Land, working as a manager/producer and creative director.
Highlights of my experience and position in the studio include: team and pipeline management, budget keeping and creative directing as well as asset creation, modelling, character design, animation and motion graphics.
Based on more than 10 years of experience, I believe the most important thing is to always try new things and keep learning.
Try to gain as much experience as possible in the field you want to progress.
Repeat what has been done before and examine why and how they were made.
When you try something the first time, if it works, it mostly depends on luck.
If it works on the 100th time that depends on how much you want it to work.
Instagram: @huseyinkavas_art

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-arts-business-and-social-sciences/wolverhampton-school-of-art/creative-enterprise/student-case-studies/ravnita-rayet:
Hi, I’m Ravnita!
I’m a West Midlands based illustrator, animator and designer.
I specialise in digital illustration, but I love to experiment on canvas with acrylics and can also customise on pretty much anything!
I have had the pleasure to work with some really cool people like Nike, Timberland and Harvey Nichols.
I worked as a content creator for a fashion company before diving into the world of self-employment in 2018.
I’m now the co-founder of an independent creative studio and have had the pleasure to work with some really cool people/brands along the way.
I recently started a brand of customised thrifted clothing too.
Animation Studies unlocked so many skills I never knew I was capable of achieving and creating.
It taught me to step out of my comfort zone and take on new challenges, yet still have fun with it.
The lecturers made me feel at ease when it was deadline time and always offered that extra helping hand during times of struggle and uncertainty.
The lectures were a place to hang out, experiment and learn new things - all whilst having the best time, surrounded by a bunch of creatives just having fun.
Oh and I'll never forget I won the end of year award for the most talkative...
that was definitely for me bombarding the lecturers with 1001 questions!
I'm so grateful for the skills I picked up on this course and for the mentors that brought the best out of me.
10/10 would recommend ;)
You'll have the best time!
As long as you work hard as well as playing hard, it'll be a memory you'll never forget.
Ask questions, connect with people and have fun.
You never know when you're going to create your best work, so be willing to experiment.
Website: www.ravnitarayet.com | Twitter: @ravnitarayet | Instagram: @ravnitarayet

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2021/december-2021/fast-growing-digital-agency-stones-throw-media-mark-10-years-of-success-with-ce.php:
The Wolverhampton-based digital agency, whose clients include leading brands such as Redrow, JLR, Greene King and Wolverhampton Wanderers, marked its first 10 years in business with a party for clients, partners and staff at the Molineux Stadium on Friday night.
Following the addition of a Marketing Manager in April, Stone’s Throw now employs eight staff.
Stone’s Throw Media was launched in 2011 by founders Mike Chinn and Matt Weston after they met on a University of Wolverhampton media course.
Representatives of Briggs Equipment, Redrow and Wolverhampton Wanderers were among those to join the celebrations, which included a drinks reception and a celebratory cake.
They have grown the company to provide services for clients across a broad spectrum of sectors, both in the West Midlands and further afield.
The founders bill the business as being for clients “looking to grow” with video, animation and digital events.
Their highlights for 2021 include creating a film promoting Redrow’s campaign to cut back on construction waste and working with Birmingham Royal Ballet for the first time by recording pre-performance talks and panel discussions featuring Director Carlos Acosta.
Stone’s Throw has also taken on work with national sports governing body British Triathlon, national property maintenance company Novus Property Solutions and manufacturer Adventa in 2021.
In September, Stone’s Throw Media broadcast one of its most prestigious productions to date, a four-day international conference for the International Association for Hydrogen Safety (IA HySafe) and the Scottish Government.
The agency has been instrumental in launching Creative Chain, a group for digital businesses in Wolverhampton, and Mike Chinn was named as a finalist for Online Event Producer of the Year at the CN Agency Awards, organised by industry title Conference News.
Matt Weston said: “Given the challenges for digital businesses to get established, it is pleasing to be able to mark 10 years with our most successful year to date.
We have grown revenues and profits while extending the team with investment in new roles, including dedicated marketing resource.
“There is plenty more to come from Stone’s Throw Media as we are working with a leading national and international brand with the first fruits of our partnership to be made public in the spring.”
Mike Chinn said: “When we started Stone’s Throw Media our ambitions were to develop our own skills and make careers in video and animation.
To have grown to our current level and employ a team of such talented people is a massive achievement.
We are proud to remain in Wolverhampton, close to the University where we met, proving Black Country businesses can offer high quality services in the digital sector.”
The Stone’s Throw Media journey began in 2011 when Matt and Mike decided to launch their own business with the aim of “making the world of corporate video more exciting and visually stimulating”.
The company was set up using funds from the University’s SPEED Plus programme, which has allowed the team to progress the business.
SPEED is a business support project offering tailored support packages for students and graduates of the University of Wolverhampton looking to start a business.
Lead by the University of Wolverhampton and part-funded by the European Regional Development Fund; SPEED offer support via Specialist Workshops, Match-Funded Grants, fully funded Business Consultancy and the potential opportunity to access professional office space free of charge for up to 12 months.
The project is open to all students and graduates of the University of Wolverhampton, whose business is or will be trading within the Black Country and Marches, as long as the business has been trading for less than 12 months.
For more information on Stone’s Throw Media, go to: https://www.stmedia.co.uk/

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-arts-business-and-social-sciences/wolverhampton-school-of-art/creative-enterprise/student-case-studies/avgousta-zourelidi:
For current students embarking on their career journey - stay curious, be professional and enjoy the ride!
I'm currently working as an animation director on Bea's Block at A Productions, a pre-school comedy series in partnership with Sesame Workshop for HBO Max.
In my spare time I write and direct live-action short films.
I also have my own podcast 'Directors In Animation Podcast' where I interview fellow directors from the industry.
After graduating from the University of Wolverhampton I studied an MA in Animation Direction at the National Film and Television School.
Since then I have worked as a director on many award winning productions from around the world.
In 2016 I directed Monster Hight Electrified, a feature animation film for Mattel, at Flaunt Productions.
I've worked as an Episode Director on the Emmy Nominated series Moominvalley, as well as the Angry Birds series.
Winning the Best Children’s Film at the Fredrikstad Animation Festival for my episode ‘Portrait’.
I've also worked as a Development and Series Director for several studios.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2022/august-2022/be-who-you-want-to-be-graduate-puts-new-career-in-the-frame-by-scoring-a-football-club-job.php:
Annie Benton, 24, from Wolverhampton, studied for an Undergraduate degree in Photography at the University’s Wolverhampton School of Art.
Annie Benton is a Wolverhampton-based photographer, whose fine art practice explores areas of Feminism and Women's rights within history and the modern day.
She worked as a Graduate Teaching Assistant (GTA) at the University for 2 years, and since graduating from her degree in 2019, has expanded her practice commercially into videography and visual content creation for social media.
Annie recently worked as a content creator for the Commonwealth Games, as part of the Queen’s Baton Relay.
As well as representing the Organising Committee internationally, Annie also travelled around England and Wales, supporting the delivery of the relay, and producing a range of visual content on its journey around the 72 nations that competed at the Games, which took place in Birmingham recently.
In her new role at Aston Villa FC, Annie is responsible for the production and output of content and communications for the Aston Villa Foundation, creating engaging content to promote the Foundation’s many impactful projects and campaigns within the surrounding communities.
The role sees her being responsible for understanding the Foundation’s audience and bringing case studies of inspiring and engaging stories to life.
Whilst studying for her Photography degree, Annie was put forward for some work experience to take photographs for the Black Country Chamber of Commerce’s redesigned Prosper Magazine which was launched in September 2019.
One of the articles in the magazine focused on the West Midlands Mayor, Andy Street, and Annie took a series of photographs of him in the School of Art’s photographic studios, as well as attending Chamber events to provide a catalogue of images for use in other stories in the magazine.
Annie said: “The support and guidance I received from my tutors on the Photography course gave me the skills to develop my photographic practice into something that I am very proud of.
“The experience whilst studying at University – both practical and academic, especially in my teaching role – has more than equipped me to move ahead in my career and I was delighted to get the job with the Aston Villa Foundation, where I hope to further hone my skills and create some great content for them.
“My advice for new and current students is that they should be in those studios as much as they can and be open to what they try and create!
You take for granted how much time and space you have to explore your work while studying.
Do not be afraid to expand your skills and utilise everything the School of Art has to offer.
Do not be afraid to “fail”- and I say this in quotations, because there is no failure in art, it is just development.”
Check out more of Annie’s work and process on her Instagram account: @abentonphoto .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2022/august-2022/be-who-you-want-to-be-graduate-bags-an-emmy-nomination-for-stranger-things-.php:
Manolo Mantero, 49 from Spain and now living in Canada, graduated from the University of Wolverhampton School Art in 1998 with a degree in Computer Graphics and Fine Art – the Graphic Design/Visual Communication Undergraduate degree course which is now delivered in the University’s brand-new Screen School based in Wolverhampton.
Manolo has been nominated in this year’s Emmy Awards for Outstanding Special Visual Effects in A Season or A Movie – 2022 for his work on Stranger Things.
The nominees for the 74th Emmy Awards were announced on 12 July 2022 with the Awards Ceremony due to take place 12 September 2022 live on NBC.
The Emmy Awards recognise excellence within various areas of television and emerging media and are administered by three sister organisations , which focus on various sectors of television and broadband programming – Television Academy (primetime), National Academy of Television Arts & Sciences (daytime, sports, news and documentary) and International Academy of Television Arts & Sciences (international).
Manolo is an accomplished VFX supervisor with over a decade of experience in delivering exceptional visual effects for feature films, episodic and commercials.
He is currently supervising Stranger Things season 04 and, as part of a team working on the hit film, Dune, he won an Oscar in March 2022.
He has also been nominated for Baftas and VES awards.
Manolo worked on renowned projects such as Bryan Singer’s ‘X-Men: Apocalypse,’ Warner Bros.’ ‘Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them,’ and Ridley Scott’s ‘Alien: Covenant’ as CG Supervisor.
Recently, Manolo finished working as Sequence Supervisor on Denis Villeneuve’s highly anticipated ‘Dune’ and Kenneth Branagh’s ‘Death on the Nile.’ Prior to these, he served as a VFX Supervisor on Netflix’s ‘Rim of the World’ and on Sony Pictures’ ‘Men in Black: International’ supervising Montreal's sequences.
On the commercials side, Manolo has worked with several high-profile clients, including Procter & Gamble, Publicis, Grey Global, Saatchi & Saatchi, TVE and more.
Manolo said: “I had always been interested in art, my father is a painter, and I remember visiting a big exposition in Seville which was all about 3D design, and I was blown away by the holographs and the special effects in the films and shows on display there.
“I had always been interested in 3D graphics and, at that time, it was all new and growing so fast that I knew I wanted to explore a career in that area, combining my love of art with computers.
I had already studied for a degree in Fine Art in Spain but I managed to get some European funding to pursue another course in England and I chose the University of Wolverhampton School of Art because my sister lived in Wolverhampton and the course looked to be exactly what I wanted .
“My course in Spain didn’t offer me much in the way of career opportunities but when I started studying in Wolverhampton the course was so different and really equipped me with all the practical and life skills that I needed and it gave me a clear view of what I wanted to do.
The industry connections really prepared me for the world of work and without my Wolverhampton degree, I wouldn’t be where I am today.
“It feels so great to be part of something like Stranger Things – my first TV series, having worked on major Hollywood blockbuster movies like Dune, Men in Black and Alien.
I’ve really had a magnificent career and, whilst it took a while to get there – I worked locally in the Midlands doing commercials before moving to London and then Australia where I worked on my first film – the journey has been incredible.
“Studying the degree course I did really opened up doors for me.
And it’s a very clear career path in the world of visual effects – there are many different types of openings, from animation, compositing, layout, concepts, rigging – and the industry really needs more people who are equipped with these types of skills because it’s growing so big and it’s difficult to find people to do the jobs.
“This degree has really opened up the world for me.”
Manolo has lived and worked in the UK, Europe, Australia, and Canada.
He is a trusted partner to creatives across the globe striving to achieve the highest calibre of visual effects work.
Graduates are encouraged to keep in touch with the Alumni team and take advantage of a range of benefits and support on offer to them including a discount for Postgraduate study and opportunities to benefit from mentoring, volunteering and career advice.
The University officially opened its new Screen School in March, an extensive refurbishment project at its City Campus in Wolverhampton that has seen £5 million invested in new facilities for students studying for digital arts and media production courses.
The new Wolverhampton Screen School has been transformed with investment in industry-standard, state-of-the-art equipment with the aim of boosting skills in the digital arts and media industries.
Students are benefiting from a new production space, an equipment media store, a video studio with movable partitions and a large multipurpose studio.
There are also new Mac labs, edit suites, staff offices and a production base room.
The facilities also include a green-screen, three-camera TV studio with an adjoining production gallery alongside a new radio studio which reflects the layout of BBC local stations.
News readers have access to a second bulletin studio and the technical kit and software will enable the replication of the workflows of national news journalists and the running orders of professional news programmes.
The core courses taught at the Wolverhampton Screen School are animation, computer games design, film and television production, multimedia journalism, computer science, cyber psychology alongside proposals for a new course in visual effects.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-arts-business-and-social-sciences/school-of-art/creative-enterprise/creative-jobs:
Wolverhampton School of Art has been at the centre of the city's creative and industrial strategy since the 1850s when our first purpose-built art school was commissioned.
Our iconic home was opened by Charles Wheeler in October 1970 and has dominated the Wolverhampton skyline ever since.
Socially engaged and community arts practice is core to our history and vision and the Wolverhampton School of Art has a long tradition of working with industry, civic and community partners.
We embrace a diverse student body and aim to provide targeted and public access opportunities through an outreach programme that includes school/college experience days, the annual Artsfest and degree shows, exhibitions, conferences and public lectures.
View the work of our talented graduates in Animation, Graphic Design, Illustration, Fine Art, Photography and more
Jobs in the creative industries are diverse and exciting.
Art and design graduates find work in a huge variety of roles.
We have outstanding facilities, including purpose-built workshops, specialist equipment and dedicated studio spaces
Many of our graduates have gone on to become successful in their chosen field.
The Centre for Art, Design, Research & Experimentation accommodates researchers within the Wolverhampton School of Art.
An ambitious and innovative training network for Early Stage Researchers (ESRs) in art and social engagement.
We invite an eclectic range of new and established artists, to use ArtsFest as a platform to enhance their careers.
Attainment, Belonging, Learning and Equality.
George Wallis Building, University of Wolverhampton, Molineux Street, WV1 1DT
Enquire

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-creative-and-professional-writing:
We are one of a handful of UK universities to offer a single honours programme in Creative and Professional Writing, offering you the unique opportunity to solely concentrate upon the act and art of writing for different audiences.
We are one of a handful of UK universities to offer a single honours programme in Creative and Professional Writing , offering you the unique opportunity to solely concentrate upon the act and art of writing for different audiences, in different contexts and genres, and with a view to fulfilling ambitions in your own practice.
We believe Creative and Professional Writing to be an art, a vocation, a craft, occupation, and practice that can be historicised, theorised, genderised, digitalised and regionalised, and all of our modules are dedicated to offering you the best start to your writing career.
With a real emphasis upon employability, we are passionate about nurturing new voices and encourage you to explore the subjects and stories you want to write about.
It is why our programme is specifically designed to enable you to take ownership over your own learning from Level 5, giving you the choice of pursuing a specific learning pathway in a particular medium to develop your expertise – poetry, prose, professional – or to continue with the traditional piecemeal approach.
There is also the chance to get involved and participate in The Wolverhampton Literature Festival.
Taught by a dedicated team of published writers with national reputations with an as you write it, we’re writing too ethos, we offer a variety of specialist modules that draw from our own practice and expertise including:
In your final year, alongside your Independent Study Project, we have the unique opportunity to not only begin a novel in semester 1, but to continue working on that novel and perhaps towards completion, with a practising novelist throughout semester 2.
We also offer a dedicated Writing Week where you will have access to guest authors, industry speakers, and masterclasses, and be encouraged to write for personal projects.
There is also the opportunity to perform your own work at the various Literature Festivals we partner in the region and to join us for our End of Semester panel events discussing the subjects that challenge us writers today.
This course is one of the few in the country to combine English with creative and professional writing (most exclude the former).
Thus there is a real emphasis on employability.
The Black Country's only dedicated Creative & Professional degree course.
Extensive calendar of events including the Wolverhampton Literature Festival and workshops run by acclaimed visiting writers.
Our creative pathways allow students to tailor their own degrees
Academic expertise, taught by published and continuing-to-be-published novelists, short story writers and poets.
A department that inspires and nurtures, celebrating success and achievement, where future creative careers are at the centre of our teaching.
Tackling a broad range of creative and professional writing strategies to encourage experimentation, critical engagement and ever-improving creative writing practice.
Level 4 provides an essential overview of Creative and Professional Writing practice by focusing upon the fundamental skills and techniques writers use and how they might apply to your own work.
You will take six core modules across two semesters that are designed to challenge and develop your own practice and to further understand the writing process.
We’ll introduce you to the craft of short fiction and the various strands of creative non-fiction.
You will engage in how to read and write poetry and be introduced to the ideas behind the authorial intention and the reader-engagement theories underpinning subjective interpretation in Reading as a Writer.
You’ll be introduced to the art of Screenwriting and explore the literature by writers living and working here in the Midlands, past and present.
Level 5 shows our dedication to your writing career and is therefore all about your module choices.
Here, you take ownership over your own learning by choosing to pursue a particular learning pathway – in poetry, prose or professional writing – in order to specialise in a medium and further develop your practice within it, or to pursue the traditional piecemeal approach which enables the flexibility to try your hand at multiple writing crafts.
This means no core modules and a stronger focus upon where you intend to take your writing.
We offer more specialist topics in terms of genre writing, such as
whilst enabling you to advance your studies in Creative Non-Fiction via the Life Writing module or to develop your poetry practice in From Page to Stage.
Professionally, our module Writing Features introduces you the foundations of journalism and features writing with the opportunity to contribute your work to our departmental blog.
Level 6 offers a continuation in your learning pathway or to again embrace the piecemeal approach.
The poetry pathway shifts the focus to Geo-Poetics and Eco-Narratives, and the prose pathway offers you the unique opportunity of producing a novel (or part of) over 2 semesters, better preparing you for the publishing industry.
Our Writing Futures module enables practice within the multitude of writing-specific careers, and Literature in the Digital Age explores how writers have adapted to and used the medium of cyberculture as a means of production.
You will also be expected to complete an independent creative writing study as a way to reflect and represent your 3 years here as a student of Creative and Professional Writing.
Many of our modules have Book Clubs discussing set texts, collaborative writing opportunities, group presentations, informal workshops, and online discussion forums to continue thinking beyond the seminar.
Our dedicated Writing Week is scheduled in week 7 each semester, its aim to bring all students of all levels together as one learning community to engage in a series of events and masterclasses and have access to guest authors and industry speakers.
Our End of Semester panel events culminate a semester’s learning by discussing the topics that continue to challenge writers with a guest author in the hot seat.
This module aims to: acquaint students to a wide range of ideas about language and writing; develop a foundational understanding of language, text and the craft of writing for future creative and professional writing experiences; enable students to make informed judgments about the nature and function of language and writing; and apply their understanding by writing original texts.
This will be a team taught module that utilises the expertise of the entire team and will cover a range of texts from different eras, cultural heritages, genres and forms, but all with a local connection to the West Midlands region.
This module aims to integrate the critical reading of creative non-fiction with the student's choice of writing assignment.
You will examine theories of self-representation in various forms and cultures and consider past and contemporary markets, publication outlets and trends for creative nonfiction texts.
You will be encouraged to explore the possibilities of different forms, genres and sub-genres encompassed in the term of creative non-fiction (e.g.
the lyric essay, the graphic memoir, travel writing, nature writing, food writing, true crime, the comedic essay...).
Special attention will be paid to narratives that address the complexity of the self in all its different iterations including gender, sexuality, class, race, health and more.
This module will explore a broad and inclusive selection of poetry from different periods of literary history and representing diverse voices, including Black, Asian, and minority ethnic poets from global backgrounds.
Using these examples, our emphasis will be on learning techniques for formal analysis (close reading), creative expression (writing poetry), and performance.
We will consider aspects of reading, writing, and performing poetry, including form, rhythm and meter, diction, figurative language and sound.
We will also consider the development of particular genres (e.g.
the ballad, the sonnet) and forms (e.g.
blank verse, free verse) over time and across cultures, from the medieval period to the present, with an emphasis on the reader expectations that accrue around poetic forms and genres.
This module will teach students how to read with an eye for technique.
It will focus on how writing is structured and the various ways in which authors create compelling narratives.
It will address a variety of modes of writing and genres including novels, short stories, poetry, and creative non-fiction, and tap into reading and critical theories.
Students will be given the opportunity to experiment creatively within those modes, and reflect on what can be learned from the study of other people's work.
This module will introduce students to the devices and concepts of narrative structure in film, and provide models with which to analyse narrative and its various functional elements.
We will consider the particular aspects of film narrative, and how these have been drawn from and, in turn, influenced other narrative forms.
This will include addressing the processes through which written and graphic text, and dramatic performance, become transferred and adapted into film narrative.
These issues will be explored further through a group assessment exercise in which a scene from a short written narrative will be adapted into a scene from a screenplay.
This module offers a critical and creative engagement with literature written for children, designed for Creative Writing and English students.
In studying the historical trajectory of children’s literature, students will be encouraged to analyse texts in relation to their cultural, social and gendered contexts, and mindful of the changing politics of childhood as an identity category.
What did ‘childhood’ mean in different eras, and what was the literature intended for them meant to do?
This module aims to integrate the critical reading of horror and speculative fiction with the student's own choice of writing assignment.
You will examine theories of representation in various forms and cultures and consider past and contemporary markets, publication outlets and trends for horror and speculative fiction texts.
Especial attention will be paid to ways in which the horror and speculative fiction genres can be made more diverse and inclusive by means of addressing contemporary debates around sex, gender, race, class and health through fiction.
How do we think about the outside world, the relationship between our environment, humanity and its living inhabitants?
What cultural and philosophical, religious, political and racial attitudes shape the literature of space, and place and do they affect our daily lives?
This module examines historical and contemporary cultural attitudes to nature and the environment by examining a range of texts across multiple genres, places, cultures and periods which engage with notions and representations of 'nature', place, the pastoral, cities, development, agriculture, animals, gardening, outdoor leisure, environmentalism, industry, climate change, social justice and the ways in which humans have conceptualised our relationships with the natural world.
You will engage with poems, plays, novels, non-fiction, religious texts from multiple traditions, film, television and other media from across the world and throughout history, plus appropriate critical and theoretical work including eco-fiction theory.
This module studies the personal essay across a range of cultures and periods, examining its diversity, its formal properties and its social and personal value as witness to oppression, a form of consciousness- raising, personal testimony and literature.
This module also takes from other similar forms such as memoir and biography to offer the students a wide array of techniques and approaches to writing about the self.
This module explores contemporary culture’s continuous reworking of texts across different media.
It investigates film and television adaptation as a heightened example of postmodern approaches to originality and authorship which encourage us to think of “all texts as intertexts, all reading as rereading, all writing as rewriting” (Leitch 2005, p.239).
The sessions explore historical explanations of adaptation, from fidelity analysis to dialogism, and apply these ideas to diverse adaptations of both canonical and non-canonical sources.
This module explores professional approaches to writing scripts for film and television, and gives you the experience of creating and developing a short screenplay.
You will be introduced to two common practices for script development: the increasingly common "writer's room" practice; and the scriptwriter/script editor practice.
Verse-atile - Poetry for Page, Stage and Beyond.
Poetry is a constantly changing landscape.
These changes are heightened in the light of our digital and multimedia cultures.
You'll place your work in this context with this module.
The focus on this module is to explore and experiment with new and radical ways of exploring poetic practice.
Each week we'll experiment with some of the cutting edge practices in contemporary poetry, and explore different ways of presenting these.
You'll study Ekphrastic Poetry, Geopoetry, Conceptual Verse, Hybridity, Film Poetry, Instapoems and Performance Poetry.
Each week’s key concept or theme will be used as a way of considering different non-traditional forms.
As such, the reading for each week will include a filmpoem, a performance piece and a non-traditional text form, as examples of the theme or concept we’ll explore in that session.
Through this you will play with a diverse range of different forms and concepts; expanding and stretching your understanding of poetry, poetics and presentation.
You will consider different and non-traditional forms of poetry for the digital age, in the anthropocene, in a hypermodern context.
Together, we'll move, on one large project, from concept through to execution - producing sequences of poems  Assignment: You will be required to submit a portfolio of work including: a sequence of poems based on one of the forms and concepts studied during the module; an in-class group performance or group filmpoem screening (as part of a public event); a critical reflection that discusses your poetics and considers the relationship between language, form and presentation.
In this module you'll research the readership and style of various magazines, websites (including blog spaces) and organisations, with a view to writing perfectly pitched feature articles.
You will learn the varied forms of the feature and get practical experience of working on real-world publication ideas.
This practical experience will also include the establishment, design and up-keep of an independent blog space, to provide a working knowledge of journalism/feature writing online.
You will also have to produce a professional profile for yourself as a writer.
Practical application is emphasised in this module and the assessment is relevant to the current freelance writing industry.
In this module students will develop an understanding of the narrative approaches used in writing crime and psychological thriller fiction.
We will also consider the different target groups these works may be written for.
Students will analyse examples of crime and thriller fiction, and then use their acquired knowledge of the conventions and possibilities in those genre to create and evaluate examples of their own crime and thriller writing.
Throughout the semester, students will be given the opportunity to present work and receive feedback for such work, in both written and verbal form.
This will culminate in a portfolio assessment at the end of the semester, where written feedback will again be provided.
This module offers students the opportunity to explore ways of working creatively with region and identity in their writing, particularly with regard to how the former impacts on the latter.
It will consider the significance of setting, and the extent to which voice and character can be determined by place.
It will create a context in which students can reflect on, and respond creatively to, their own environment as a means of producing original writing in a variety of forms.
The module aims to provide for the initiation of an in-depth individual writing project focussing specifically on the production of a first novel.
The module will address some of the issues involved in researching and developing an extended narrative.
Students will create the opening of an original novel together with a synopsis of the complete story and an account of how the project might be marketed once complete.
Combining both classroom-based teaching, independent study, and tutor supervision, it aims to help students create the kind of documentation required to approach prospective publishers.
The various futures of writing involve a number of emerging practices.
Good writers and editors can put their skills to use in a myriad of professional careers, including content writing and editing, book and magazine publishing, corporate communication, podcast writing, video games, publishing, web content development, arts promotion, advocacy, and many others.
Although the career opportunities are wide and various for this discipline, all of them assume that practitioners have learned to handle text professionally and can apply key skills in a variety of industry contexts.
In this module, you will learn different writing skills and registers to build your own portfolio as a professional writer.
You will become familiar with professional fields such as marketing, content writing, podcasts, video games, journalism, and more.
You will also explore other aspects of the professional writing career such as having a writing routine, dealing with rejection, creating professional relationships with agents and publishers, finding a writing community and many more.
Assignments will build your skills in document design, writing in multiple modes and media, usability testing to develop more accessible texts, and ethical considerations for communication in professional settings.
Why is Austen's work filmed, adapted, re-read and referenced across different cultures, social classes and ethnic communities in such profusion?
This module examines the evolving history of Jane Austen fandom, the changing cultural position of Austen's work across a range of global cultures, sexual identities and communities, the different critical perspectives brought to bear on her work including Marxist, feminist and decolonising lenses, and a range of adaptations, sequels, retellings and responses across different media.
You will study some of Jane Austen's work as well as films, novels, fan fiction and Austen-related material in various media.
We live in a time of fraught climate, ecology and nature debates and poetry is taking a centre stage in these discussions.
This module is a creative exploration the cutting-edge practices of Geopoetics - The Expression of the Earth.
This module will develop your awareness of geological, ecological and geographical debates and concerns and consider how the Earth Sciences can be used in conjunction with poetry.
You will be encouraged to offer your own creative voices to the existing poetic conversations about nature, climate and the living world.
This module provides an opportunity to apply academic skills and knowledge to a project negotiated with an external organisation.
Students are required to identify, negotiate and research an issue which is relevant to both their academic study and the external organisation.
This enables the student to demonstrate an awareness of academic research within an organisational context, together with an understanding of the parameters of research methodologies within an academic framework.
The Creative and Professional Writing Project enables you to work independently in an area of your choice and under the supervision of an appropriate member of staff, who then serves as the supervisor of that project.
It allows you an opportunity to pursue an interest in a given subject/issue related to creative or professional writing or to produce extended creative writings to a greater depth and breadth than before.
At the same time, it provides you with the chance to display the skills in organisation and research methods you’ve acquired in previous modules, as well as to demonstrate your mastery of the craft of creative and professional writing.
This module maps, historicises and analyses our rapidly changing experience in the digital age, which confronts us with new and diverging forms of social relationships, identities and changing human behaviour.
The module explores how narrative form is changing by paying attention to new modes, media, formats, platforms and reading devices with new temporalities and possibilities, such as literature published via Twitter, gaming narratives, cell phone novels, and new genres such as 'tech thrillers'.
We also analyse game narratives.
Particular attention is paid to gender representation in the digital age, digital inequality in relation to class and ethnicity, and how technology responds to post-secular contexts.
Relevant theoretical contexts include post-humanism, digital humanities, AI and computational literary studies.
The aim of this module is to   	Familiarise you with the scope of employment and enterprise opportunities available to graduates engaged in the active pursuit of a career in the creative industries.
Enable you to effectively investigate and then demonstrate knowledge of the current professional creative industries landscape and to contextualise this in relation to your own career goals and personal development needs 	To assist you to identify, understand research and reference information pertinent to your personal career ambitions.
To provide opportunities for you to utilise written, verbal and visual presentation techniques in order to develop your transferable skills and gain confidence in applying for and attending formal  job interviews.
An opportunity to produce a body of evidence to secure the University of Wolverhampton Enterprise and Employability Award   You will produce a variety of documents/artefacts to support entry into the creative industries and actively engage in class exercises to enhance your personal development.
The exact scope of these will be outlined in the assignment brief in accordance with your specialist subject.
This module approaches medieval literature through the lens of feminist and queer studies.
It covers texts from the tenth to sixteenth centuries which either trouble or resist categories such as male/female; heterosexuality/homosexuality and Christian/Muslim/Jewish, or which disrupt heteronormative narratives and time.
The module reads and workshops medieval poetry, drama, prose and art from a wide variety of genres in relation to key queer and feminist theorists.
It covers early examples of what we would now term gay, lesbian, bisexual and asexual narratives; cross-dressing and trans narratives; female masculinity; the relationship between gender, race and oppression in the medieval imagination and early evidence of the emergence of what we now consider ‘queer’ art forms, such as camp and drag performance.
This module explores the ways postcolonial texts challenge dominant discourses of 'race', gender, sexuality, class, disability, and religion.
Students will study a range of texts by authors of colour from Britain, the U.S.
and other parts of the world and consider the intersections between different constructions of identities in literature and culture.
Postcolonial cultural theory and critical race theory will be central to this module, alongside feminism and disability studies.
Guest speakers will contribute towards the module at various points.
Alongside the set texts on the module, students will be encouraged to bring literary and cultural texts from their own experiences to the classes, and to feed into the assessment.
Students will have the opportunity to work together to produce a digital artefact which communicates their expert knowledge of this topic to audiences beyond academia.
This module draws on a range of texts and cultural practices to address the extremes of representation.
We will examine some examples of the ‘high’ and ‘low’ cultural texts that are hidden from mainstream society, and those which are rejected by both/either the populace and the academy.
Our objects of enquiry will be representational strategies, and their real effects on individuals and on society.
Topics may include debates around representations of racism, genocide, disablism, sexual 'deviance', blasphemy, obscenity, political extremism, cancel culture, screen violence, animal rights and wrongs.
Students are asked to contribute their own examples of problematic texts and to engage with current and ongoing culture wars.
A wide range of theoretical approaches will be applied, including postcolonialism, psychoanalysis, queer theory, cultural materialism, animal studies, disability studies.
This module follows on from 6CW001 Writing the Novel: Planning, Process & Preparation with the unique aim to enable you to continue to develop a longer work of prose at UG level.
Since you will have already completed the first 4,000 words of an original novel together with a synopsis of the complete story as part of your 6CW001 submission, this complementary follow-on module will take you beyond those first chapters, enabling you to have the vision of the whole work as you continuing writing towards a mid-way point and/or beyond.
This module will, therefore, be completely unique in its pedagogical strategy by tailoring weekly module content according to your collective and individual writing objectives.
This will mean a fair percentage of self-directed study to further your creative process and in terms of meeting more personalised learning outcomes.
For example, as per your requests, we might focus upon managing the genre balance or ensemble cast storylines; the techniques used in narrative tension for story arcs; instigating subtexts out of contexts.
In essence, you will take ownership over your own learning as devised from your own practice.
Module teaching will, therefore, be a combination of seminar and workshop, peer review, tutor supervision and peer mentoring, close reading analysis, publication pitches, guest speakers, and self-promotion techniques.
You will look to complete the next 4,000 words of your project, including an account of how the project will add to existing canons, and how it may be pitched to prospective publishers.
Copy Writer
Technical Writer
Copy Editor
Commissioning Editor
Proof Reader
Professional/
Freelance Writer
Publishing
Press & Publicity
Marketing & Sales
Comments from our External Examiners on provision: “The team in themselves are highly active and productive as writers - their publications in contemporary fiction, humour writing, literary criticism and creative writing pedagogy are important contributions to their respective fields and ensure the relevance and currency of their teaching."
On successful completion of this course, you will be able to:
# Undergraduate part-time fees for 50% rate of study
Typical entry requirement: 96 UCAS points
Use the UCAS Tariff calculator to check your qualifications and points
Other Requirements
Students must usually have studied for a minimum of two years post GCSE level.
However, we will consider applications from mature students who do not have two years of post-16 study, where they have relevant work experience.
Please see http://wlv.ac.uk/mature for further information.
Tuition Fees Loan (Home Fee Status):
Most students will be able to apply for a loans to pay for these subject to eligibility.
To find out more information please refer to the government Student Finance website.
Changes for EU students:
EU citizens living in the UK with 'settled' status, and Irish nationals living in the UK or Ireland, will still be classified as Home students, providing they meet the usual residency requirements, for more information about EU Settlement Scheme (EUSS)
Self-funding:
If you don’t want to take out a loan to pay your fees or if you aren’t eligible to receive a loan, you might want to take advantage of the University’s scheme to pay by instalments: See How to pay.
Your employer, embassy or organisation can pay for your Tuition fees:
If your employer, embassy or organisation agrees to pay all or part of your tuition fees; the University will refer to them as your sponsor and will invoice them for the appropriate amount.
We must receive notification of sponsorship in writing as soon as possible, and before enrolment , confirming that the sponsor will pay your tuition fees.
Financial Hardship:
Students can apply to the Dennis Turner Opportunity Fund.
Bursaries and Scholarships:
In addition the University also offers a range of Bursaries and Scholarships packages
Find out how our course is rated on Discover Uni, the official website for comparing UK higher education courses

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/current-students/careers-enterprise-and-the-workplace/jobs-and-placements/student-support:
We regularly add opportunities for our current students to gain some extra money during their studies or gain some course related work experience.
If you need help in finding employment then feel free to visit us, we are here to help you!
Click on the buttons below for more information on our services.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/alumni/case-studies/zahid-jeelani:
“Formal education will make you a living; self-education will make you a fortune.“ Jim Rohn

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2021/october-2021/graduate-shares-computing-expertise-at-global-conference--1.php:
Ricki West, a Computer Science Master’s degree graduate who studied in the University’s School of Mathematics and Computer Science, took part in IBM Z Day - a global on-line conference introducing people round the world to new ideas in enterprise computing.
Ricki who completed his studies in 2019 is now an Associate Db2 & CICS z/OS Consultant at BMC Mainframe Services (previously RSM Partners) on its graduate programme, Mainframer in Training (MIT), based in the company’s Bromsgrove office.
He is also a 2021 IBM Champion.
In a session titled “Into the Mainframe: How to get in and how to get on” , Ricki and his former University lecturer, Dr Herb Daly, discussed the specific challenges of being an early career Mainframer, taking questions from people around the world.
Mainframes are a specialist computing platform designed for enterprise scale processing used extensively by banks, airlines and major retailers processing billions of transactions every day.
Ricki and Herb were joined by Piara Bhama, a specialist from Lloyds Banking Group, discussing experiences and practical ways to make progress as the newest generation on the IBM Z platform.
Ricki said: “When I was studying at the University, Herb introduced me to mainframes and encouraged students to attend key mainframe conferences and after attending a GenZ workshop at RSM’s headquarters, I was inspired to establish a Mainframe Student Society (MaSS).
“When I was finalising my Master’s degree, Herb mentioned the RSM Partners’ MIT programme and that it was looking for a Customer Information Control System person.
I like the idea of mainframes: solid, old school, hard coding: what I’d call proper computing.
I’m really interested in that solid coding, backroom programming, rather than front end artistic graphical design.
I understand usability, sure, but I also like logical stuff: what’s going to happen, and how.
“Mainframes provide graduates with an edge.
After we’d set up Wolves’ mainframe student society, we organised a trip to the IBM Research Labs at Hursley, which included workshops and a tour.
More recently, I was at the Wolverhampton Students’ Union Freshers Week to promote the society to the new intake of students with RSM sponsoring the society’s stand.
“Our goal is to get more students into mainframes.
It’s difficult enough to find a job, so you need an edge.
I think mainframe skills and knowledge give you that edge.
Everyone who goes to university and does computing can pretty much build a website or do Windows programming.
But most don’t know the mainframe, how its programming languages work – and the older generations of mainframers are retiring.
It’s an opportunity.
“For students, getting into mainframes can be one of the best career moves they can make.
It opens up so many avenues, across so many sectors, where you can use what you learn at university: programming, cyber security, web services and the mainframe; you can use all that, as well as applying your project management skills.
And you can be sent all over the world.
I’m very much enjoying the MIT programme.”
Dr Herb Daly said: “I’m really proud of what Ricki has achieved since winning a place on BMCs prestigious graduate programme Mainframer in Training (MIT).
“He has gained so much experience since he started and now manages the systems of some major household names.”
Ricki was a founder of MaSS – the University of Wolverhampton Mainframe Student Society, a group supported by industry partners.
Students in the group take part in special events and activities, learning about the tech and meeting community practitioners.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2019/august-2019/getting-results-computer-student-analyses-a-future-in-sport-1.php:
Available documents: /news-and-events/latest-news/2010/august-2019/getting-results-computer-student-analyses-a-future-in-sport-1.php (mistyped character) /news-and-events/latest-news/2011/august-2019/getting-results-computer-student-analyses-a-future-in-sport-1.php (mistyped character) /news-and-events/latest-news/2018/august-2019/getting-results-computer-student-analyses-a-future-in-sport-1.php (mistyped character)

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2022/september-2022/wolverhampton-clinches-cyber-university-of-the-year-award-.php:
The awards have been set up to reward those who are committed to cyber innovation, cyber crime reduction and protecting citizens online.
The university offers a range of undergraduate, postgraduate and doctoral programmes in cyber security and computer science at its Wolverhampton City Campus and it officially opened the new Cyber Quarter – The Midlands Centre for Cyber Security in Herefordshire last year.
The centre is a joint venture between the University of Wolverhampton and Herefordshire Council and is part-funded by the Government’s Local Growth Fund, via the Marches Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP) and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
The cyber team has engaged with over 100 businesses, assisted nearly 60 SMEs to improve their cyber defences, started 30 cyber related Research and Development projects and supported over 19 new to firm or new to market products.
The academic team has also helped set up 5 new cyber related spin-out companies and are leading several regional and national Cyber networks.
Professor Prashant Pillai, Centre Director Cyber Quarter – Midlands Centre for Cyber Security and Professor of Cyber Security at the University, said: “We were delighted to have been named finalist for the second year running in these prestigious awards and it was amazing to have clinched the top prize as ‘Cyber University of the Year’ at the recent awards ceremony.
“The expertise and specialist focus of our new centre is part of a wider, growing ecosystem of cyber sector companies based within the Cyber Quarter on Skylon Park in Herefordshire.
The area is already home to a highly regarded cyber economy, and the knowledge, expertise and opportunities that the centre brings along with the strong academic expertise at the University is helping to establish Herefordshire as one of the capitals of the cyber security sector.
“It’s a magnificent new Centre that brings to Hereford a brand- new research and innovation, training and incubation hub that focuses on how we can develop the cyber skills of the future with the research and innovation that many of our companies need.
This is a major innovation in the area and one that will firmly put Hereford and Wolverhampton on the map in terms of cyber security.”
The winners were announced on Monday 26 September 2022 at the awards evening at Novotel West in London.
You can see the full list of finalists on the website at www.thenational cyber awards.org
Cyber Quarter – Midlands Centre for Cyber Security offers a package of tailored security testing, training, Research & Development and sector expertise to businesses and investors.
Supported by the university’s cyber academic team of the Faculty of Science and Engineering, the centre offers product testing and certification, CPD and short courses and cyber conferences such as the recent Cyber Fringe Festival which attracted experts from across the globe.
The 2,000 square metre building provides significant resources for research and development across three cyber laboratories, advanced training facilities and additional business space for up to 16 cyber companies.
The centre, which secured £2.82m of funding via the Marches LEP’s Growth Deal with Government in 2017, is part of the new Cyber Quarter at Skylon Park, already home to numerous defence and security sector businesses.
The new centre incorporates a full height glass atrium to provide a dual break-out space and function hall, alongside the main three storey building which houses business suites, innovation rooms, IT workshops and a ‘Cyber Range’ – a cutting edge facility that will defend against the global rise of hacking.
Anyone interested in courses offered or businesses looking for incubation space can find out more about the Cyber Quarter – Midlands Centre for Cyber Security on the website.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/research/research-centres/the-sport-and-physical-activity-research-centre:
Our research centre aims to improve health and performance across a person's life span through disciplinary research.
We work in partnership with community partners, the public sector, and industry to support the use of physical activity and sport to promote performance, health, and wellbeing .
Our research center I made of three clusters.
Physical activity and health, Equality diversity and inclusion, Performance enhancement.
Highlights/Recent Stories
Events
Knowledge exchange
Facilities

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlv-sport/team-wolverhampton:
Our aim at WLV Sport is to enable students to play competitive sport whilst studying at University of Wolverhampton.
We enter teams across a range of sports; Basketball, Netball, Judo, Badminton, Futsal, Football and Touch Rugby, in the national BUCS (British Universities and Colleges Sport) competition programme.
We also offer the opportunity to enter individual BUCS competitions and championships throughout the year for individual sports.
To compete for a University of Wolverhampton BUCS team, students need to purchase the WLV Sport membership which gives the following benefits:
Cost: £80
To purchase the WLV BUCS Membership please download the 'WLV Sport' app and click BUCS Membership tile.
When purchasing the membership, the Code of Conduct also needs to be read and signed.
For more information or help please email TeamWolves@WLV.ac.uk
For 25/26 we are introducing a new membership option for students participating in BUCS who would also like to take out a gym membership for the academic year.
WLV Gym membership:
BUCS Membership:
Cost: £155
The University of Wolverhampton aims to create a community with an atmosphere of trust, harmony, and mutual respect.
Good standards of communal life need to be maintained for the benefit of all members.
Students should also show proper concern in their behaviour generally and in particular where this might reflect on the reputation of the University, and of its members.
WLV Sport is committed to promoting and supporting students to participate in sporting activities safely, inclusively, and responsibly.
The aim of the WLV Sport Code of Conduct is to:
https://forms.gle/tbjZ4fD3KLcoXAeR9
Our Sports Scholarship Programme aims to help talented student-athletes realise their sporting potential whilst supporting them through their academic studies.
Click here for more information.
Walsall Sport Centre
City Sports Centre
British Universities & Colleges Sport is the national governing body for Higher Education sport in the UK.
BUCS works with its member institutions to get more students active more often through competitive sport and providing physical activity opportunities.
To compete against other Universities as part of a sport club, students must be registered with BUCS Play.
Registration can be completed at the BUCS Play website.
The University of Wolverhampton currently operates a high performance sports programme across the focus sports of Football, Basketball, Netball, Judo and Futsal.
Our strategy is to deliver the best sporting experience/ excellence within these sports for students.
This programme includes performance in BUCS, National representation and in some cases, International representation via events such as; Olympics, Paralympics and the Commonwealth Games.
In doing so, the University of Wolverhampton commits to supporting students to compete at the aforementioned sporting competitions with complete honesty and integrity.
We also adhere to UKAD policies while keeping our athletes informed and educated around all areas of clean sport.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-football-coaching-and-performance:
The University of Wolverhampton has a long and successful history in academia, priding itself on being the university of opportunity.
Inclusivity is central to the university’s ethos.
The university offers a wide range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses, many of which are accredited by professional regulatory bodies.
We’ve continued to expand our global reach, working with institutions around the world to deliver University-approved courses and internationally recognised qualifications.
We’ve invested millions of pounds across our campuses to ensure that our facilities for students are cutting-edge and world-class.
It is providing students with industry-leading technology and experiences to equip them with the skills needed for a career on the frontline, as well as enabling those already working in the health and social care sector to gain new skills.
The University of Wolverhampton is a central location at the hub of the UK transport network within easy reach of Birmingham, Manchester and London.
Combining academic study with practical experience, this three-year course is designed to develop your knowledge of coaching techniques, performance analysis and sport science, all essential in the modern game.
You’ll learn from industry-experienced lecturers who are all Union of European Football Association (UEFA) qualified coaches and who have extensive applied knowledge and experience within grassroots to international level football.
You will also gain access to cutting-edge facilities to ensure you graduate as a confident and capable football professional.
The degree has a strong practical focus, with all assessments utilising skills that are required in the football sector.
Throughout the course, you will be provided with opportunities to visit local football academies and gain insight into what it is like to work at a professional football club.
Many of our students also take up opportunities to coach over the summer in America, via our links with Challenger Sports and Camp America.
Our Partners:
The module aims to introduce students to important interpersonal and technical principles in a football coaching.
It will encourage students to apply football-specific knowledge through thoughtful engagement in pedagogical practice, while developing an understanding of the relational nature of their role in securing participant learning.
The module aims to develop your understanding of the sports industry and the position of coaching within it, both in the UK and internationally.
You will also discuss cultural and societal processes involved in coaching and how recent developments, trends, and initiatives have affected the coaching workforce.
You will have an opportunity to discuss and evaluate a range of research methods to collect and review data on the coaching workforce and will explore the workforce in a chosen setting.
This module encourages you to consider your career goals and aspirations and understand what is required to secure graduate-level employment in your selected industry.
You will explore the local job market to understand what skills and experiences employers value.
You will complete a range of tasks that enable you to understand where you currently are in developing a relevant skill set in relation to what is required.
You will develop an action plan that will enable you to work towards your career goals.
You will identify your current knowledge, experience and interests in a selected area of study and create an action plan to support your progression into Higher Education.
You will describe how your previous experiences have provided a platform for you to study sport at university.
This will provide a basis to create and develop an action plan for your first year of study.
In doing so, you will develop your ability to retrieve information and improve your communication skills.
The module will develop the students conceptual and applied awareness and understanding of performance analysis in football, with particular reference to coaching and performance.
The students will be provided with a football placement where they will analyse the team and disseminate their interpretation of the performance data to the teams coach.
This module introduces you to the role of the coach in a participatory sport& nbsp;and activity context.
You will experience& nbsp;and examine the coaching process and acquire basic pedagogical skills through planning, delivering and evaluating sessions.
You will be expected to micro-coach, working with a peer mentor to support your development.
The module aims to develop your awareness and understanding of the importance of individual philosophy and ethically based practice in coaching and pedagogical contexts.
You will explore methodologies that will enable you to understand, communicate and utilise your own individual philosophy& nbsp;and identify ethical practice.
You will explore how identified philosophies may direct coaching practice.& nbsp; You will engage in activities designed to develop and stimulate reflective practice.
This module will allow you to consider a range of pedagogical and sports coaching theories and how they are use in practice.
Specifically, you will explore scenarios in a problem-based learning approach to coaching and plan and execute practical activities in light of your proposed solutions.
This module requires you to undertake a work-based placement related to your career aspirations.
You will develop your identity as a professional in your field, including a set of values, skills, and attributes required for graduate employment.
You will build on your understanding and self-awareness developed at Level 4 to negotiate a set of developmental goals that will enhance your employability.
Both during and following your placement, you will reflect on your learning and heightened self-awareness of areas for further development.
You will develop your capacity to articulate your readiness for employment to others.
This module will provide students with an insight into how sports science is informed and informs current provision within football environments.
You will build on your understanding of football and demands of the sport at Level 4 and begin to understand and evaluate the key determinants of performance and factors which can affect this.
This module aims to develop your knowledge and understanding of the project management of an event in a sporting context.
The module focuses on the development of your capacity to engage with the policies, procedures and practices involved in the effective planning, organisation, staffing and operational management of sporting events.
In learning about the challenges of organising these events, you will draw on concepts and theories from the sports industry.
Problem based learning and industry case studies will be used to support your learning in this module.
Examples will be drawn from the whole spectrum of sports events ranging from local voluntary participatory occasions to highly commercialised and globalised elite sports competitions.
The module aims to examine the tactical aspects of football.
You will use technology to analyse the strategy a team employs and explore ways to counteract it.
You will use Dartfish, SPSS and video analysis software to support your analysis and explore different ways you can feed this information back to the coach.
This module will give students an opportunity to evaluate their coaching practice through a series of practical, theoretical and workshop activities.
The module will take a plan-do-review approach and give students the opportunity to devise a specific tactical plan, use recommendations and evaluation from previous training to inform planning and set& nbsp;individual and group learning objectives using& nbsp;The FA Four Corner Player Development Model& nbsp;and the England DNA playing philosophy.
Once the practical is delivered during the module they will undergo a review process which includes a review against the intended learning objectives and the England DNA playing philosophy.
The evaluation will also explore their coaching behaviours through the use of performance analysis software and advanced pedagogical tools.
The students will then reflect on their practice, with the aim to develop their professional development.
This module aims to provide students with the skills and experience to conduct coaching sessions with diverse populations.
You will attend, observe and plan to deliver coaching sessions and  use reflection to enable continuing development.
The aim of this module is to challenge students to use analytical and problem-solving techniques to deal with complex and multi-dimensional sports coaching related problems.
The module intends to allow flexibility when further developing your applied skills relevant to the& nbsp;sport& nbsp;and physical activity industry.
You will have opportunities to conduct self evaluation and identify a focus area for development (coaching, analysis, sport science support, etc).
You will have face to face and online learning opportunities, but the majority of your work will be conducted in a placement.
Your placement and chosen area of development should be discussed with your module tutor& nbsp;who will facilitate the process and support you when needed in your independent work.& nbsp;Much of your work on this module will contribute to the Wolverhampton Enterprise and Employability Award.
The Professional Project is the culmination of your undergraduate degree course which will enable you to work independently in an area that excites and interests you.
The Professional Project enables you to engage with a substantial programme of independent study which allows you to define and explore in some depth a topic relating to your course or intended future employment, as well as developing advanced skills in managing an extended project.
The Professional Project provides experience of critically evaluating and reflecting upon the particular methodologies of your subject area.
The project may include practical elements, dependent upon the subject discipline being studied.
For students continuing from level 5 within the Institute of Sport, a project proposal will have been completed during a Level 5 module.
The module is year-long and it will be your focus while you participate in the taught content during Block 1 which will lead to your submission of an ethics application (proposal).
By the end of Block 4 you will submit both a written submission (project) and for participation at the school of sport student conference, either a either a mind map or pictorial representation of your project, which you will decide upon in discussion with your project supervisor.
The presentation will be delivered to a small group of your peers and your supervisor/ second marker at the Department of Sport Student Conference (in the style of a viva voce).
This should be considered a professional celebration of your studies moving into your employment.
We therefore advise that you choose a topic that fuels your passions and interests, and that is relevant to your desired career path(s).
You will work in partnership with your supervisors, and with their facilitation work towards a memorable end to your undergraduate studies.
For more information about sport at the University of Wolverhampton please see our WLV Sport Page
*Destination of Leavers from Higher Education survey
You will engage in regular coaching and performance analysis, where our placement modules will allow you to gain hands-on experience and receive mentorship within professional environments.
This includes opportunities with our key partners Wolverhampton Wanderers FC, West Bromwich Albion FC and Walsall FC, amongst 50+ other professional, semi-professional and grassroots clubs that we work with.
The first two years of the degree will prepare you to complete the Football Association (FA) Introduction to Coaching Football Award, Multiskills Level 2 Award, Hudl Level 1 certificate and the UEFA C coaching qualification.
N.B.
Completion of these qualifications will require additional tasks outside of the degree programme and align with your regular coaching.
Our employability modules enable you to explore careers in football coaching and engage in career development planning that prepares you for graduate-level employment in the football industry or elsewhere.
Each year you will also have opportunities to participate in career development activities and network with employers from local football clubs, sports businesses and performance sport organisations.
Mandatory Costs
Optional Costs
Further information on these additional costs will be provided prior to the start of your studies
Typical entry requirement: 96 UCAS points
Entry to this course requires a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) Check and an Occupational Health Check.
Free Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) and Occupational Health Check :
Due to the professional nature of some of our courses you may also be required to complete a Declaration of Health and Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) Check.
We will coordinate both of these non-academic conditions with you should your course require this and you receive an offer from us
There will be no cost for the DBS this is free to applicants who have secured an offer and have chosen to study at the University of Wolverhampton.
Here is one of our 2024 graduates, Tom Wilkes, who is now working for Aston Villa Football club, as well as running a successful coaching business:
Graduation photos
Endorsed by the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA).

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/fd-science-sports-coaching:
Designed in line with The International Council  for Coaching Excellence (ICCE) coaching degree standards, this course employs a blend of technology enhanced coaching and hands-on experience via placement modules, preparing you for a digital world and offering mentorship within professional environments.
Our employability modules enable you to explore a career in coaching and you will have opportunities to participate in career development activities each year, networking with employers from the world of sports business and building towards obtaining the University of Wolverhampton Enterprise & Employability Award.
This experience and these qualifications will aid in your future career planning, opening employment opportunities in a wide range of occupations.
Module content will focus on learning field tests and observational methods to assess movement analysis in the context of coaching.
This will then transfer to observing coaches and athletes interact and applying sport science theory and research methods to this interaction.
Finally, you will be required to develop this knowledge into an experiment and write up your findings using the scientific method.
The module aims to develop knowledge and understanding of the skills needed to manage sport coaching events.
Such events may include tournaments, fundraisers and team events (team selection camp and end of year award ceremony).
This module will help develop students' skills focusing on policies, procedures, and practices involved in planning, organising, staffing and operations related to the sporting events listed above.
Problem-based learning and case studies will be used to support students learning in this module.
The module aims to develop your ability to use technology to analyse performance.
You will learn how to develop a system to& nbsp;analyse& nbsp;performance using Dartfish software.
You will also learn how to perform statistical analysis on data to inform and enhance performance.
The purpose of this module is to develop your applied research and insight skills.
You will explore a range of issues within sport from a multi-disciplinary perspective, developing your understanding of the research process in an applied manner.
You will examine potential solutions to the issues under investigation, exploring how research and insight can help to develop understanding and encourage innovation within your subject discipline.
This module underpins the Professional Project module at Level 6.
In this module, you will start to develop a Professional Project idea which will become the focus of your Level 6 Professional Project.
This module aims to develop the ability to create knowledge in sports coaching.
You will carry out experiments using small changes in previously published experiments.
You will be expected to use a ‘building block’ philosophy to develop knowledge.
Choice of the experiment and its impact on sports coaching will be a common theme.
It is expected that this knowledge construction will allow you to be able to be a leader in the field of sports coaching – carving out an area of expertise and developing your reputation in sports coaching
This module will teach the basics of media use in a sports setting.
You will learn where this media fits within the context of sport performance settings, social media marketing, and mobile learning.
Some of the media formats you might use could include video production, audio production, still/action photography and sports performance analysis to name a few common technologies used in sports business.
social media marketing,
Key entry Requirements - 40 UCAS points
either
Students must have studied a minimum of two years post GCSE level.
However, it is expected that some applicants will be mature students with work experience, who wish to further their career development.
These applicants will be processed through standard procedures, which may involve an interview as part of the process.
Entry to this course requires a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) Check and Occupational Health Check.
This course is not available at present to International applicants.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlv-sport/wlv-sport-scholarship:
The University of Wolverhampton Sport Scholarship Programme offers performance packages for elite athletes, aspiring coaches, match officials and leaders.
Across the three programmes our support services enable our students to maximise their potential as a dual-career scholar in their sport.
WLV Sport Scholarships are awarded on a case by case basis and to be eligible, applicants must be competing, coaching or officiating in a sport included in either the British University and Colleges Sport , Olympics, Paralympics or Commonwealth programme.
To be eligible for a sport scholarship:
The Scholarship Scheme is reviewed annually although the Panel reserves the right to make changes and / or amendments at any time.
The Panel also reserves the right to withdraw a Scholarship offer at any time.
Applications for 25-26 are open
Deadline for applications Saturday 4th October 2025
To apply for a WLV Sport Scholarship in 2025/26 please fill out the application form here
Contact Robert Sargent - Robert.Sargent@wlv.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-primary-education-qts:
Our Primary Education degree offers top-tier training for aspiring primary school teachers.
With exceptional teaching,9t superior academic support (94% student satisfaction), and national recognition (ranked 9th in the UK for Education), our programme stands out.
You will be taught by knowledgeable lecturers who are all qualified teachers with a wealth of experience and are passionate about primary education.
The course is enhanced through the involvement of expert colleagues and intensive training and practice.
You will focus on the teaching of the National Curriculum for primary schools and specialise in teaching Key Stages 1 and 2 whilst also having valuable opportunities to experience alternative educational settings such as Early Years, Secondary and SEND settings as well as enhancement opportunities that support your development as you train to teach.
We have partnerships with a large number of schools and educational settings across the West Midlands and wider area for your placements and enhancement experiences throughout your course.
We work with trained and passionate school mentors who will support you with every step of your placements.
You will be taught at Walsall Campus, just a short walk from Walsall town centre and a bus ride from the centre of Birmingham and Wolverhampton.
Our provision includes lecture theatres and classrooms as well as social learning areas, which include the Student Union.
The Walsall Campus is a welcoming campus with a community feel.
The course is designed for a cohort size where all students and staff are able to get to know each other and build a sense of belonging.
We have strong partnerships with schools across Walsall, Wolverhampton, Staffordshire, Sandwell and Birmingham, which allow you to experience a diverse range of teaching practices that will equip you with the knowledge and skills to be a resilient and responsive teacher.
We are a widening participation university, which means that we are committed to breaking down perceived barriers to Higher Education.
We work to inspire, engage and enable everyone, including those who may not have previously considered higher education, to fulfil their full potential.
We strive to create opportunity, deliver social mobility and transform lives.
You will work with a range of staff, including lecturers who themselves were first-generation graduates.
We live, work and immerse ourselves in the local community with a keen focus on high aspirations, targeted support and understanding of our students.
This is reflected in our student satisfaction results again with 94% student satisfaction for Academic Support.
Our clear and student-focused timetable is designed to ensure that there is time to complete assessments as well as engage in social activities.
You will also have the opportunity to learn from both current trainees and alumni to demonstrate how to develop your practice further.
We offer a range of additional opportunities beyond the standard requirements, such as an option to undertake time within a SEND school setting, engage with a short-term international teaching experience and a range of employability and subject-focused research conferences.
Our trainee teachers are equipped with the knowledge, skills and behaviours required of a primary school teacher.
Trainee teachers gain not only the subject knowledge across Early Years, Key Stage 1 and Key stage 2 curriculums, but also the skills that develop high aspirations, such as self-confidence, critical thinking, compassion, inclusion & diversity, wellbeing, digital literacy, time management, independence, creativity and an understanding of the importance of belonging for staff, students, pupils and the wider education community.
Assessments largely take the form of coursework or projects that are aligned to practical experiences of placement in schools.
Trainee teachers are also assessed within practical school placements, where partner schools and university staff help to develop students’ confidence and ability in teaching.
We believe firmly in the ability to link theory to practice, and our modules and assessments reflect this.
They also encourage critical reflection, creativity, and problem-solving.
This module aims to introduce and equip trainee teachers with the expectations and fundamental skills required to successfully access this primary ITT course.
Students will work towards developing a secure understanding and knowledge of how to use the VLE platform Canvas, including how to upload assignments and view feedback, and other available resources to best support their outcomes.
Students will identify their areas of strength and those to develop in relation to studying in higher education.
Students will engage in sessions with expert colleagues to develop their academic writing and presentation skills to further maximise their outcomes and role of a future teacher.
This module aims to inspire and motivate trainee teachers, equipping them with a pedagogical understanding of how to teach English, Maths and Science in the primary school and early years’ settings while developing their subject knowledge.
Trainee teachers will identify ideas and concepts that underpin teaching and learning theories and examine issues from a number of perspectives, demonstrating their understanding of the diverse needs of learners.
Students will engage in independent reading allowing them to evaluate and reflect on their practice.
Trainee teachers will develop a secure knowledge and understanding of: the aims, principles, content and design of relevant curriculum documentation and guidance (e.g.
the National Curriculum and the Early Years Foundation Stage); how children’s learning in core subjects can be affected by a range of factors, including their physical, intellectual, linguistic, social, cultural and emotional development.
Trainee teachers will be able to plan, teach and evaluate lessons in the primary classroom and/or early years’ settings; and evaluate their own practice and that of other practitioners to improve their teaching and the children’s learning in core subjects.
Trainee teachers will be able to consider learning theories and relate this to effective learning and teaching in core subjects; communicate effectively and accurately (at appropriate levels in oral, visual and written forms) with children, colleagues, parents and carers; confidently organise teaching and learning resources and understand how to use this effectively in the classroom.
This module introduces trainee teachers to the key concepts and basic pedagogical principles of teaching the foundation subjects in primary schools.
Subject knowledge will be developed while trainee teachers are shown how to engage children in learning across the foundation curriculum.
Trainee teachers’ engagement with and enthusiasm for the different subjects will be developed simultaneously.
They will develop their ability to evaluate, select and design appropriate activities for each subject.
Trainee teachers will be introduced to key documentation including the National Curriculum and the Ofsted subject reviews.
They will also begin to develop their understanding of how to plan lessons in each of the different subjects.
Trainee teachers will explore issues in each subject from different perspectives including a variety of theoretical frameworks.
They will also consider how classroom management differs from subject to subject while they explore the variety of facilities and resources required across the foundation curriculum.
Students will engage with reading and self-study to enhance subject knowledge and they will also develop their presentation and planning skills through the assessment activities.
This is the first of three assessed school placements which the trainee teacher undertakes during the BA (Hons) in Primary Education course.
In this module you will be provided with an initial consideration of early child development and formal education.
We will have a clear focus around ‘how’ children learn, including relevant learning/child development theories and up to date research.
The module will enable you to understand how schools and early years settings are organised and the structure and balance of the curriculum in the early and primary years.
The module will then progress to initial teaching and learning strategies providing an understanding of classroom organisation, behaviour management, common assessment tools, keeping children safe and how all of these impact on pupil progress and form the ‘art of teaching’ (Pedagogy).
This module builds on the Level 4 Module Introduction to the Core Subjects in Primary Education.
Its purpose is to develop further subject, pedagogical and curricular knowledge and understanding which underpin teaching and learning in English, mathematics and science.
Trainee teachers will engage with a variety of principles and philosophies in relation to suggested current and agreed classroom practice.
This module provides an in-depth exploration of the National Curriculum programmes of study of the core subject areas in Key Stage 1 and 2 and Communication and Language, mathematics, Literacy and selected parts of Understanding the World Areas of Learning in the EYFS.
This module provides is a greater emphasis on the core curriculum for KS2 but all age phases are examined, especially key ideas first explored in Core module in Level 4.
Students will develop knowledge and understanding of national documentation, planning, assessment and suggested teaching approaches across the core curriculum.
In English, trainee teachers continue their learning journey in systematic synthetic phonics and their developing pedagogies for use in the literate classroom, there are emphases on the use of language as a tool of communication, digital literacy, performance, personalisation and inclusion.
There are also focuses on the development of reading and writing, from children’s first steps in these through to independence and mastery in these skills.
In mathematics the concept of teaching for mastery (TfM) and its associated pedagogies are a key focus.
Trainee teachers are supported to develop a deep understanding of the underpinning structures within mathematics and how to draw these out as part to effective teaching.
Students learn to appreciate curriculum coherence, develop fluency, their understanding of variation, how to expose and use different  representations and become confident mathematicians who can problem solve and reason alongside their pupils.
In science, trainee teacher development focuses on developing deeper understanding of a wide range of scientific ideas.
They learn to work and think scientifically themselves and then to develop these traits in the pupils they teach.
Whilst undertaking deep study of the substantive science content in the programmes of study, trainee teachers develop as scientists, learning how to select appropriate ways to answer questions and use different types of scientific enquiry.
Trainee teachers develop the skills and confidence to support their pupils in drawing conclusions based on their scientific activity.
Trainee teachers will develop a deeper understanding of the underlying curriculum concepts within core subjects and become more proficient in developing these within pupils.
Trainee teachers will also build theoretical understanding and be able to connect this to their experiences in the classroom.
Subject, pedagogical and curriculum knowledge development go hand in hand with each other.
Trainee teachers analyse pedagogical practice and develop a growing knowledge of how to respond to the diverse needs of learners.
The module encourages independence, exercising of initiative and developing responsibility as trainees prepare for complex teaching and learning situations.
The module will specifically support trainee teachers in developing more robust teaching strategies and will also help them consider the needs of specific groups of students, such as those with SEND, those who use English as an additional language (EAL) and those who may be designated as ‘greater depth’ or 'rapid graspers'.
The module draws upon guidance and key materials provided by the DFE and other professional bodies and explores how it may be used in the classroom.
This module will build upon the level 4 Introduction to the Foundation Subjects module.
It will further develop students’ subject knowledge across the foundation subjects alongside their ability to plan and teach lessons.
This module will focus on the following factors:   Subject specific skills and knowledge – students will focus on how to develop pupils’ skills which are unique to each subject such as skills of historical enquiry or performance skills in music.
Planning sequences rather than individual lessons in order to develop pupils’ skills and knowledge.
Developing students’ awareness of progression within and across year groups.
Develop digital competence and capability of trainee teachers    Support digital pedagogies across the curriculum
This is a placement-based module where trainee teachers are placed in schools/EY settings for an assessed teaching placement.
There are pre-placement, post placement briefings, group and individual tutorials.
Trainee teachers and their school-based staff and mentors are supported and guided by a university tutor.
This module examines issues relating to adaptive teaching of children with a range of inclusive barriers within primary and early years settings.
The module will allow trainee teachers to develop an understanding of pupils' varying needs which can create barriers to learning.
Trainee teachers will then have the opportunity, via expert colleagues, academic research, and relevant source materials to identify strategies to adapt teaching for a range of SEND and inclusion barriers to learning, which can be observed through engagement with partner schools within the module and associated scenario tasks.
Trainee teachers will be able demonstrate, via an understanding of the code of practice, the role of the teacher and wider professionals/parents for adapting teaching which ultimately provides challenge and aspiration for all pupils.
In this module you will be begin to explore the purpose and importance of research in education and will begin to explore an area relevant to primary teaching that you are particularly interested in.
You will develop an understanding of the background and issues pertaining to the area of interest by reviewing published literature.
You will begin to consider the suitability of different approaches to research and will evaluate critically design research instruments and apply this knowledge in a research proposal.
The module will prepare you for more detailed planning and carrying out a research investigation in an Early Primary or Primary educational setting at Level 6.
This module aims to support trainee teachers to implement their understanding of a range of key concepts from the English, maths and science primary curriculums.
It aims to support trainee teachers to consider how interdisciplinary approaches can be utilised to plan meaningful and real-world learning opportunities.
Trainee teachers will be able to critically evaluate approaches to teaching the core subjects.
This module builds on the corresponding Level 4 and Level 5 modules in continuing to embed students’ subject knowledge and understanding of the key principles underpinning the teaching of the foundation subjects.
This module will develop students’ ability to critically evaluate different approaches to teaching.
The module aims to equip students with the ability to critically analyse and evaluate schemes and pre-existing planning in order to be able to make necessary adaptations.
They will also critically reflect on their own ethos and teaching style which will inform adaptations and support them in identifying developmental targets as they move towards the start of their careers.
Students will develop their ability to use different assessment approaches relevant to different subjects in order to plan sequences of lessons for progression in subject specific skills and knowledge.
The module will help students to appreciate the connectedness of curriculum, teaching and assessment.
This is the third and final of three assessed school placements which the trainee teacher undertakes during the BA (Hons) in Primary Education course.
The module will enable trainee teachers to continue to enhance skills as a critical, reflective practitioner in readiness for their ECT (Early Career Teacher) years.
This module provides students with the opportunity to enhance subject knowledge in a chosen area relating to primary education, as well as the development of professional behaviours to equip students with skills and experiences to support early career teaching.
The module will allow students to identify and select an area of development relevant to modern primary education.
Through the use of expert colleagues, taught input, relevant up to date research and engagement with field trips and school experiences, students will have the opportunity to secure subject knowledge to motivate pupils and teach effectively.
Students will then gain experience and opportunities to explore strategies for modelling to develop accessible concrete ideas, through the development of scaffolded original resources to make learning concrete and accessible for learners.
Alongside these opportunities, students will engage with reflective practice, supported by feedback and input from expert colleagues to understand that long term, high quality professional development and collaboration with professionals can help teachers improve and develop sustainable practices.
In this module you will initiate, carry out and write a small-scale education research project, relating to a special area of interest in early primary or primary education.
You will construct a detailed research design for your investigation, building substantially and critically on initial work and tutor feedback from the Level 5 Research module.
You will apply for and acquire ethical approval to do your investigation.
You will arrange to collect research data in an early primary or primary educational setting, carry out your investigation there, interpret and analyse critically the data you collect and produce a precise and well organised final written project for submission.
Throughout the module you will be expected to work to a great extent independently, while making full critical use of printed, online and face-to-face guidance and discussion.
Qualified Primary School Teacher
What do Ofsted say?
The University of Wolverhampton provision is particularly effective in developing highly professional teachers with the skills to reflect critically on the quality of their teaching in order to improve it.
They are valued highly by the schools, colleges and other settings where they secure employment in the region.
The university has an excellent reputation that enables it to build strong partnerships across the region to support high-quality teacher training and educational improvement.
Employment rates in all phases are high, with many former trainees working in the region.
Ofsted (2021), Initial Teacher Education Inspection Report, London: Ofsted
Looking for 1-1 advice?
OPEN EVENTS - FIND OUT MORE
Come to one of our Open Days , or, where you will have the opportunity to talk to staff and students who are currently studying and find out more about the course and our facilities.
Applicants must have achieved a standard equivalent to a grade 4 (previously Grade C) in GCSE English, Mathematics and Science (Biology, Chemistry, Physics or Combined Science).
If you are unsure whether you hold an acceptable GCSE equivalent qualification for ITT, please contact our Admissions Department admissions@wlv.ac.uk for clarification.
Please note we do NOT accept GCSE Short Courses or GCSE Equivalent Tests from other institutions or organisations, Key Skills Level 2 or Functional Skills Level 2 .
PLUS
Your personal statement is an important part of the application process.
We will be reviewing your personal statement to find out more about you and we will also be reviewing your spelling, grammar and punctuation and you have followed the UCAS (for undergraduate applications) or DfE Apply (for post graduate applications) guidance regarding length and what to include.
Your application will not be successful if you do not demonstrate the high standards of accuracy the teaching profession demands.
Important Requirements
As part of the Department for Education (DfE) ITT compliance, if you are successful you will be required to provide your ORIGINAL certificates to the University of Wolverhampton Admissions Unit.
We will not accept applicants onto our professional courses who have been unsuccessful on professional courses at other institutions of higher education.
You will also take part in a rigorous selection process designed to assess your readiness to train to teach.
Further information regarding the interview process can be found at https://www.wlv.ac.uk/apply/how-to-apply/4---after-youve-applied/subject-specific-applications/.
Interview and Selection
First Stage: All applicants that are successful with their application will be invited to complete a set of short professional scenarios involving reading, writing and numerical tasks.
These will provide us with an audit of your existing strengths as well as indicate any areas where you need to develop your knowledge and understanding during your course.
If you are offered a place following interview, you will be required to demonstrate your professional readiness through successful completion of all of the tasks as one of your conditions of acceptance before the course starts.
This may mean that you are asked to attend support sessions in English and mathematics during your course to enable you to demonstrate a satisfactory level of proficiency by the completion of your course.
Any work to address shortfalls in English and Mathematics must be undertaken by the trainee teacher in addition to other aspects of their training.
It is the trainee’s responsibility to secure these fundamental skills before being recommended for Qualified Teacher Status.
Second Stage: You will undertake either an observed group task or a subject-specific activity (if you are applying for secondary teacher training).
Third Stage: You will engage in individual face to face interview with one of the primary teaching team.
International Applicants: Due to logistical constraints, an online interview that will also involve a reading task with competence measures to assess your suitability to teach and engage in the course..
Throughout the application process, we will be assessing your ability to be able to meet the Teachers’ Standards by the completion of your course.
Those successful in the audits and at interview will be subsequently required to meet enhanced DBS checks, fitness to teach and medical check and prohibition order check requirements.
You will be expected to complete these forms once you have been successful and have a Conditional Offer.
If you have accepted a Conditional Offer made by the University of Wolverhampton you will receive correspondence asking you to complete an enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check.
This will be free of charge.
You will also need an Occupational Health Check and a prohibition check prior to starting the course.
Please look out for the pre-induction course support.
Details can be found here: Pre-induction course support
Georgie Pratt – BA (Hons) Primary Education Graduate, Mature Student
‘One of my favourite things about the course was partaking in the international trip to India and Dubai.
This opportunity provided a unique chance to explore diverse cultures alongside building long-lasting friendships.
It also broadened my understanding of international teaching opportunities, which can be explored and skills that can be applied back here in the UK’.
Georgia Evans – BA (Hons) Primary Education Graduate, Sports Scholar
Studying Primary Education at the University of Wolverhampton has been an incredibly enriching experience, which has provided me with countless opportunities and experiences within my degree which will be of lifelong benefit.
This is due to the high level of support you get from the lecturers, which is phenomenal; there is always somebody to turn to.
Nothing compared to any other uni!’
Chaahat Takhi – BA (Hons) Primary Education Graduate
‘Even as a mature student, I felt this course helped me grow as a person, as well as an educator.
I have a better understanding of children’s needs and have the confidence to address them.’
David Thomas – BA (Hons) Primary Education Graduate, Mature Student
‘The course really equips you for school life and the lecturers ensure that the sessions are interactive and engaging.
The staff are super helpful and encouraging.
Overall, a really fun and interesting course.
Attending a variety of special schools really helped me in terms of what to expect in my own class, I’m genuinely grateful to have such supportive lecturers, schools and university staff who supported me during placement.
Rumanique Gill – BA (Hons) Primary Education Graduate
‘I feel that the practice in schools during the course is really effective as you gain experience and opportunities, you really do feel like a teacher.
All the lecturers are supportive, and I definitely have learnt what it takes to become a teacher, thanks to this course’.
Karolina Grygiel – BA (Hons) Primary Education Graduate

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pgce-primary-education:
Our Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) in Primary Education provides a high standard of training for those preparing to take up a teaching post in the primary school sector.
This PGCE provides the necessary training and knowledge required to become an effective primary school teacher, with successful graduates being recommended for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).
This is required by those who wish to teach in a maintained primary school.
The course commences the first week of September and ends mid-July.
It is a full-time course.
There are 3 academic modules:
7PE021: Professional Knowledge and Understanding.
Trainees will be introduced to 4 out of the 5 core areas of the Framework: Behaviour management; Pedagogy; Assessment and Professional Behaviours.
They will develop a foundational understanding and knowledge of 7 out of the 8 strands and will apply these during placement 1 and be monitored and quality assured through target setting of:
ITTECF 1: High expectations
ITTECF 7.
Managing behaviour
ITTECF 2.
How pupils learn
ITTECF 4.
Classroom practice
ITTECF 5.
Adaptive teaching
ITTECF 6.
Assessment
ITTECF 8.
Professional behaviours
7PE022: Core Content and Pedagogical Knowledge
This module covers
ITTECF 2: How Pupils Learn
ITTECF 3: Subject and curriculum
ITTECF 4: Classroom Practice
ITTECF 5: Adaptive Teaching
ITTECF 6 Assessment
7PE023/26: Wider Curriculum and Enhancement
This module develops knowledge and understanding in the foundational subjects of the National Curriculum to develop your behaviours and skills within the primary classroom.
Two school-based provisions with at least 120days provision:
7PE024: Placement 1, Beginning Pedagogical Content Knowledge (from October to December) 7PE025: Placement 2, Embedding Pedagogical Content Knowledge (from March to July)
All assessments align to a connectedness approach so that centre-based provision aligns to purposeful school-based provision
Further details about the course can be found HERE.
The purpose of this module is to develop subject, pedagogical and curricular knowledge and understanding which underpin teaching and learning in English, mathematics and science.
This module provides an in-depth exploration of the National Curriculum programmes of study of the core subject areas in Key Stage 1 and 2.
It includes aspects of early pupil development related to core curriculum areas.
This is the first of two assessed placements which the trainee teacher undertakes during the PGCE Primary Education course.
During this first supervised teaching placement, trainee teachers will be given the opportunity to:    begin to develop an understanding of teaching and learning strategies including classroom organisation, behaviour management, common assessment tools, keeping children safe, how these form the ‘art of teaching’ and influence pupil progress;    observe good practice in teaching and learning across a range of subjects;    undertake school-based activities;    work with and support individual pupils and small groups;     collaboratively plan and teach lessons under direction of expert colleague/s;    reflect on and discuss their learning, their teacher identity and understanding of pedagogy;    demonstrate consistently high standards of personal and professional conduct.
This is the second and final of two assessed school placements which the trainee teacher undertakes during the PGCE Primary Education course.
This module will address key aspects from: Behaviour Management, Pedagogy, Assessment and Professional Behaviours.
The pedagogical knowledge gained from these sessions will support connectedness of teaching and assessment in placement-based provision.
This module introduces trainees to the key concepts and pedagogical principles of teaching the foundation subjects in primary schools.
Subject knowledge will be developed while trainees are shown how to engage children in learning across the foundation curriculum.
Trainees’ engagement with and enthusiasm for the different subjects will be developed simultaneously.
They will develop their ability to evaluate, select, design and assess appropriate activities for each subject.
Trainees will be introduced to key documentation including the National Curriculum and the Ofsted subject reviews.
They will also develop their understanding of how to plan lessons in each of the different subjects.
Students will critically explore issues in each subject from different perspectives including a variety of theoretical frameworks.
Students will engage with reading and self-study to enhance subject knowledge.
They will also develop their ability to critically analyse and evaluate existing plans and schemes in order to employ principles of adaptive teaching to their modification based on teaching style, children’s needs and school priorities.
The module also allows for an enhancement option, where participants develop a deeper understanding within a chosen area of interest and explore that field through school visits and write extensively on the subject with the aim of attaining an expertise that can be used in their subsequent teaching careers.
Ambition for Teaching Excellence: Be Informed, Inspiring and Influential
The Institute of Education trains teachers for all phases, all routes and all contexts.
At the heart of our work is a commitment to improving education and opportunities across the region.
We are one of the UK's largest and most established providers of Initial Teacher Education.
Our ambition is for all our qualified teachers to be informed, inspiring and influential.
We are highly committed to developing the professional workforce across education, and our ambition for teaching excellence is centred on developing professionals as lifelong learners and future leaders who will influence educational change.
We see providing teachers for the region as a key aim of our work, and we strive to be the provider of choice for people wanting to teach in the Black Country and the wider West Midlands.
However, we also work closely with a range of partners across other areas of the UK.
PGCE Course Provision Mission Statement: Upon completion of our initial teacher training course, our trainees will be able to embrace the value and contribution of reflective and reflexive practice as tools for continued professional development and improvement.
Their practice will be underpinned by being critical thinkers and evidence-informed practice with strong subject knowledge to deliver outstanding pedagogical content knowledge in readiness for their ECT induction period.
The course also offers an ambitious curriculum to develop further opportunities to lead within the field of study.
QTS provides a license to teach in England in maintained schools.
Whilst the course is designed to teach in primary settings, with relevant experience, gaining a PGCE Primary Education with QTS permits you to teach in secondary, SEND and other educational settings.
These fees relate to new entrants only for the academic year indicated for entry onto the course, any subsequent years study may be subject to an annual increase, usually in line with inflation.
For example Bachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of science (BSc) etc.
or similar .
They are sometimes known as 'undergraduate' or ' first ' degrees .
Please note we do NOT accept GCSE Short Courses , GCSE Equivalent Tests from other institutions or organisations, Key Skills Level 2 or Functional Skills Level 2 .
If you unsure please contact our Admissions Department admissions@wlv.ac.uk for clarification.
Any work to address shortfalls in English and mathematics must be undertaken by the trainee teacher in addition to other aspects of their training.
Third Stage: You will engage in individual face to face interview
We will be assessing your ability to be able to meet the Teachers’ Standards by the completion of your course.
The charge for this will be a dbs fee of £38.00 and a £6.00 ID check service fee.
Please note that:
Application forms should be able to demonstrate not only your depth of knowledge of the role of a Primary teacher but also your enthusiasm and commitment to a career in teaching.
Free Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) and Occupational Health Check:
We will coordinate both of these non-academic conditions with you should your course require this and you receive an offer from us.
Karisma Takhar
Completed PGCE Primary Course: July 2024 Year 1 Teacher Crocketts Community Primary School
“ The teaching and lectures at Wolverhampton were incredibly informative and helpful.
Each session was beneficial, preparing us for the necessary skills required to succeed as teachers.
The support continued whilst on placement; the lecturers were always just an email away and always happy to help.
I always felt looked after and could tell they cared about my well-being just as much as they did about my progress.
Completing my PGCE through Wolverhampton was definitely one of the best decisions I made; whilst it was hard work, the people I met along on the way, the structure of the course and the children I got to work with made it worthwhile.
”
Jonathan Madhoo, PGCE alumnus
“ As a young teenage boy, I always dreamed of inspiring the next generation.
Becoming a teacher gave me the job satisfaction that only a few jobs will experience.
Other than parents, as teachers, we have arguably the biggest influence on a child's life.
The pride I take in playing a part in a child’s development of intelligence is the best part of becoming a teacher.
This would not have been possible if I had not taken the plunge and applied for a PGCE school’s direct course.
With already having a sport, coaching and development BA degree, this allowed me to join the course.
Wolverhampton University has a strong reputation for exemplary teaching, and the University is known for delivering a high-quality PGCE course.
The course was difficult and hard (especially while raising a newborn child at the same time), however, the support from the university lecturers and the structure of the curriculum assisted me in completing the course successfully and finishing with an overall 96%.
If I were going to give any advice to future applicants, it would be “ go for it ”!
The helpful nature of the PGCE course mentors well help guide you through your high-quality course and assist with securing your first teaching job.
I passed this course over seven years ago, and I still use key techniques I learnt at university.
The skills and techniques taught will help you throughout your teaching career .”
Chris Evison, alumnus PGCE trainee, 2017
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_rl2jFxj1kk
" The trip to India and Dubai organised for the Primary Education students of the University of Wolverhampton was something that I will remember forever.
This experience that the course offered attracted me right away as not many University students can graduate leaving their course with an opportunity to work in education internationally.
The memories and the friendships that the trip gave us will stay with us forever.
I would like to thank the University of Wolverhampton for this trip and would recommend this experience for any future student at Wolverhampton.
"

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pgce-secondary-education-mathematics:
Mathematics is an exciting secondary school curriculum subject.
The subject covers topics such as number, algebra, shape and data.
Our Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) in Secondary Education provides a high standard of training for those preparing to take up a teaching post in the secondary school sector.
The course complies with the statutory guidance from the Department for Education for Initial Teacher Training courses.
The PGCE in Secondary Education is specifically designed to ensure that those who are successful will be recommended for the award of Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) - the professional award required by all those who wish to teach in a maintained school.
Additionally, the new examinations require mathematics teachers to be skilled at teaching deciphering text (worded questions) and promoting mathematical mastery and fluency.
As a trainee, you will learn how to teach mathematics to pupils in the 11-16 age range within the secondary age phase, with additional primary and post-16 enhancements.
You will learn how to develop skills, knowledge and understanding for teaching mathematics through a combination of university-led and school-led training.
Successful completion of the course will lead to recommendation for the award of Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), along with 60 credits at Master’s level, which lead to the Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE).
Over the one-year course, you will undertake learning at university and other educational settings.
You will spend 120 days divided between at least two different school placements across the 11-16 age range within the secondary age phase.
You will also undertake an additional 20 days of Intensive Training and Practice, focussing on specific ITT curriculum themes to enhance your professional practice.
Your university tutor team is available to assist you throughout your training, supporting development of reflection.
Every effort is made to ensure that high-quality school placements are provided to you, facilitating learning through observing, co-teaching and being observed by experienced teachers in the classroom.
All course modules provide examples of good practice in pedagogy which you will reflect upon as you develop your own teaching style - you will be expected to actively participate in your own learning and development.
Teaching on the course comprises a variety of methodologies that will prepare you for life in the classroom including teacher-led discussions, pupil-led exploration, peer-group discovery, problem-based learning, e-learning and the provision of individual targets.
You will be assessed in a variety of ways including written assignments; classroom-based investigation and other school-based activities, and appraisal of practical teaching skills.
Typical activities may include:
PGCE: Programme Structure
The PGCE course takes place over 180 days, and 120 of those days are spent in a school.
You will have one school attachment during the autumn term and another (in at least one different school) in the spring/summer terms.
One of our strengths is that we have a vast network of high-quality partnership schools in which to place you for the extended school placements.
We ensure that you receive high quality school-based training by selecting schools with highly trained mentors and a proven track record of excellent trainee outcomes.
We will also take other factors into consideration when placing you, such as your geographical location and transportation, to provide you with the best possible experience in a convenient and suitable setting.
The University-led elements of the course take place at our Walsall Campus.
Our PGCE starts in early September and ends in June, and it is an intensive academic and professional training course that effectively prepares you for your first teaching post and beyond.
The course comprises of two extended school placements in your subject specialism and two periods of University-based teaching – September to October and January to February.
Additionally there are 20 days of Intensive Training and Practice delivered across the year which focus on specific curriculum themes, this element of training takes place on campus and in different education contexts.
The programme also includes a short Primary school placement and additional opportunities for a range of enhancements to your course; for example, experience of teaching pupils with special educational needs, teaching pupils at post-16 level or teaching pupils for whom English is an additional language.
This module is tailored to identify successful candidates who can be endorsed to the appropriate professional body for the acquisition of Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) – the essential accreditation for individuals aspiring to teach in a maintained school.
Aligned with the exacting quality standards outlined by the national government agency, this module fully adheres to the teacher standards framework (UK).
This will be a non-credit bearing module that is assessed via placement evidence on a pass/fail basis.
This module will support you to explore the ways that pupils learn in your subject.
It will involve investigating and critically appraising a range of teaching approaches that make learning in your subject effective for pupil progress.
The purpose of this module is to enable you to enhance your subject specialism skills as a teacher of this subject.
You will undertake a critical analysis on one aspect of subject pedagogy, then develop your creativity in planning, teaching and assessment of learning activities associated with this aspect.
This will require you to undertake a reflective analysis of your chosen aspect of teaching your subject within the context of your educational setting and apply theoretical ideas into your practice, plan for the implementation of these ideas and critically reflect on its impact on pupil progress.
Although a significant proportion of the teaching associated with this module will be developed through university-based sessions, the classroom practice which forms the basis of this module will be undertaken during your school placement, supported by school-based subject mentors and professional mentors.
This module builds on your knowledge, skills and understanding that you have gained through prior experiences to support your development as a teacher.
This year - long module will enable you to enhance your skills as a critical, reflective practitioner in readiness for your Early Career Teacher (ECT) years.
engage with theories of teaching and learning across your chosen area within the ITT Core Content Framework (CCF);  2.
critically relate these theories to your strengths and areas for development as a practitioner in the context of classroom and in the wider professional context(s).
You will be required to demonstrate a deep knowledge and understanding of your practice;  3.
demonstrate, articulate, evaluate and critically reflect on your needs to enable you to continue to develop your professional identity as a teacher.
Although a significant proportion of the training associated with this module can be delivered through university­ based sessions, the major part will take place in the school-based environments, supported by school-based colleagues.
Trainee teachers on this course have the opportunity to engage in a variety of field trips and events which are specific to their subject, and phase, such as educational workshops with theatre companies, seminars with national and international specialist guest speakers, examination board and specialist skills workshops, regional SEND events, along with the opportunity to gain additional sports-specific awards, and computing qualifications through the National Centre for Computing Education.
Employability skills are enhanced through our employability conference, where trainees work with school leaders to develop their skills in all aspects of the recruitment and selection process for teaching, preparing them well for employment opportunities across the region and beyond.
You will have to possess a real interest and aptitude for mathematics and an ability to think creatively about presenting the subject to pupils.
Trainee mathematics teachers will be expected to teach topics across the attainment range, with additional opportunities available such as teaching or observing post-16 mathematics, or involvement with specialist SEN mathematics teaching.
Above all, you will need to be able to form strong relationships with learners and professionals, and develop resilience when under pressure.
Also you will need:
Please note we do NOT accept GCSE Short Courses OR GCSE Equivalent Tests from other institutions or organisations, Key Skills Level 2 or Functional Skills Level 2 .
Postgraduate Loyalty Discount:
You can get 20% discount on a taught postgraduate course if you’re a University of Wolverhampton Graduate.
The University offers a generous 20% Loyalty Discount to students progressing from an undergraduate programme to a taught postgraduate on-site programme, where both courses are University of Wolverhampton Awards.
There is no time limit on how long ago you completed your degree as long as this is your first Masters level qualification.
The discount applies to the first year of enrolment only.
Students who receive a loyalty discount are not entitled to any further tuition discount or bursary.
For full terms and conditions click here.
If you are paying for the fees yourself then the fees can be paid in 3 instalments: November, January and April.
More information can be found by clicking here.
Sponsored - Your employer, embassy or organisation can pay for your Tuition fees:
Your employer, embassy or organisation agrees to pay all or part of your tuition fees; the University will refer to them as your sponsor and will invoice them for the appropriate amount.
Students can apply to the Dennis Turner Opportunity Fund for help with course related costs however this cannot be used for fees or to cover general living costs.
Charitable Funding:
You might also want to explore the possibility of funding from charitable trusts.
Please contact Association of Charitable Foundations,   Directory of Social Change or Family Aid.
Most charities and trust funds offer limited bursaries targeted to specific groups of students so you will need to research whether any of them are relevant to your situation.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pgce-secondary-education-english:
The course aims to develop reflective teachers who care about pupils’ language development and who understand how to ensure progression in pupils’ written, reading and oral skills so that they develop into skilled and critical readers, writers and speakers.
If you have a passion for language and the exploration of ideas through all forms of written and verbal media and wish to communicate your enthusiasm with young people, this course will prepare you to do this effectively.
You will be encouraged to develop effective and inspirational practical teaching skills underpinned by a sound grasp of theoretical concepts.
As a trainee, you will learn how to teach English Language and Literature to pupils in the 11-16 age range within the secondary age phase, with additional primary and post-16 enhancements.
You will learn how to develop skills, knowledge and understanding for teaching English Language and Literature through a combination of university-led and school-led training.
You will have to possess a real interest and aptitude for language and an ability to think creatively about presenting the subject to others.
On the course, trainee teachers will be expected to teach English topics such as: the study of novels, plays and poetry; study and teach texts from the English Literary Heritage as well as texts from twentieth/twenty-first centuries; learn how to manage group and class discussions; integrate drama and media into English teaching as well as study these topics in their own right.
Above all, you will need a real commitment to the education of young people and an interest in their language development.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pgce-secondary-education-social-sciences:
Social Sciences is an exciting secondary school curriculum subject area and is designed to ensure that those who are successful are recommended for the award of QTS.
It covers topics such as:
As a trainee, you will learn how to teach social sciences to pupils in the 14-19 age range within the secondary age phase, with additional experience in the 11-14 age range and primary enhancements.
You will learn how to develop skills, knowledge and understanding for teaching social sciences through a combination of university-led and school-led training.
You will have to possess a real interest and aptitude for social sciences and an ability to think creatively about presenting the subject to others.
Candidates will be expected to teach from potentially any area of sociology; health and social care; and personal, social, health and economic education, as agreed between you, the placement school and the University tutor.
Above all, you will need a real commitment to the education of young people.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pgce-secondary-education-biology:
If you have an interest in all aspects of science; but in particular life processes and living things and enjoy investigating this in a practical setting, then our biology course will suit you.
Our course looks at the key ideas which underpin the teaching of science in schools today and the way children's understanding of concepts develops.
As a trainee you will learn how to teach biology to pupils in the 11-16 age range within the secondary age phase, with additional primary and post-16 enhancements.
You will learn how to develop skills, knowledge and understanding for teaching biology through a combination of university-led and school-led training.
Successful completion of the course will lead to recommendation for the award of Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), along with 60 credits at Master’s level.
The PGCE in Secondary Education leads to recommendation for QTS, and enables you to take up a qualified teaching post in a secondary school.
In secondary schools you could be considered for a Teaching and Learning Responsibility (TLR), which may comprise any of the following:
Later, you could progress to a senior leadership position such as a deputy or assistant head and head teacher - at which point you will have overall responsibility for the leadership and management of a school and the education its students receive.
Following successful completion of this award, you could also use your 60 Master’s level credits towards any of our Master’s degrees in the field of education .
Ofsted (2013), Initial Teacher Education Inspection Report, London: Ofsted
Come along to one of our Postgraduate Open Evenings , or Virtual Events where you will have the opportunity to talk to staff and students who are currently studying and find out more about the course and our facilities.
If you are successful you will be recommended for the award of Qualified Teacher Status and you will be prepared to teach pupils in the 11-16 age range within the secondary age phase with primary and post-16 enhancements.
You will also gain a Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) which includes 60 Master’s level credits.
You will also be given help to find your first post in school.
The course will provide you with an excellent start to your teaching career as you experience teaching in two separate secondary schools with trained school-based tutors to aid your development.
You will have the opportunity to help develop the teaching within this fast-developing subject and have a real impact on children’s education.
You will be enabled to become a critically reflective teacher with high levels of subject knowledge and a wide understanding of educational theory and practice.
You will also develop the professional skills required to achieve outstanding results in relation to student progress including lesson planning, assessment methods, data analysis, and communication.
You will also have access to high quality, bespoke subject knowledge enhancement courses which will develop your capability within biology but also across the sciences.
You will have interest in all aspects of science along with a particular aptitude for biology, along with an ability to think creatively about presenting the subject to others in original and practical ways.
Candidates will be expected to teach the whole science curriculum, but with a particular focus on life processes and living things.
Profile of a successful student
Iian completed his PGCE in secondary science last year at the University of Wolverhampton, so becoming the teacher he had always wanted to become.
His A' level course in biology motivated him so much that he studied for a BSc in Microbiology and Genetics at Wolverhampton.
Following this he started a PGCE with the University of Wolverhampton.
The PGCE motivated him immediately, with time to discuss his needs and development while given the independence to feel like a proper teacher.
He feels though that the most important thing the PGCE taught him was how to manage his time, an invaluable skill when teaching a full timetable.
Iian was offered a teaching post at his first attachment school, which he accepted.
He felt that he wanted to start teaching where he could make a difference:
'It's great to see how you can brighten a child's day simply by giving them a merit mark!' There are some difficulties with the occasional pupil but says 'I enjoy every day, there is always one character in the room who makes me smile'.
The head of science at the schools feels it is good to have someone who is so enthusiastic 'he is a breath of fresh air!'

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pgce-secondary-education-physics:
If you have an interest in all aspects of science; but in particular the physical sciences associated with forces, energy, electrical effects and enjoy investigating this in a practical setting, then our physics course will suit you.
As a trainee you will learn how to teach physics to pupils in the 11-16 age range within the secondary age phase, with additional primary and post-16 enhancements.
You will learn how to develop skills, knowledge and understanding for teaching physics through a combination of university-led and school-led training.
You will also have access to high quality, bespoke subject knowledge enhancement courses which will develop your capability within physics but also across the sciences.
You will have interest in all aspects of science along with a particular aptitude for physics, along with an ability to think creatively about presenting the subject to others in original and practical ways.
Candidates will be expected to teach the whole science curriculum, but with a particular focus on physical processes.
Profile of a successful student Russell completed his PGCE in secondary science last year at University of Wolverhampton , following a number of years working as an avionic technician working on aircraft with the RAF.
He had always enjoyed all aspects right from his time at school largely due to the impact of a motivational physics teacher.
He completed a part time degree with the Open University following on from a BTEC in Engineering.
After a few visits to a secondary school he realised that following the example of the teachers that had inspired him was the way to feel true fulfilment in his career.
The PGCE motivated him immediately, with time to discuss his needs and development while given the independence to feel a proper teacher.
He learned a lot from the contrasting schools available to him during his PGCE and the committed colleagues who willingly offered advice and guidance during the programme.
Russell easily secured a post teaching in a school close to his home well before the end of the programme.
He is now enjoying the challenge of motivating the next generation of scientists.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pgce-secondary-education-lead-delivery-partner-strategic-alliance-art-and-design:
Art and Design is an exciting secondary school curriculum subject and incorporates a wide range of design disciplines including Art, Textiles, Ceramics and Photography.
As a trainee you will learn how to teach art and design to pupils in the 11-16 age range within the secondary age phase, with additional primary and post-16 enhancements.
You will learn how to develop skills, knowledge and understanding for teaching art and design through a combination of university-led and school-led training.
Over the one year course, you will undertake learning at University and other educational settings.
Your University tutor team is available to assist you throughout your training, supporting development of reflection.
Teaching on the course comprises a variety of methodologies that will prepare you for life in the classroom including teacher-led discussions, pupil-led exploration, peer-group discovery, problem based learning, e-learning and the provision of individual targets.
You will be assessed in a variety of ways including written assignments; classroom based investigation and other school-based activities, and appraisal of practical teaching skills.
You will have one school attachment during the autumn term and another (in a different school) in the spring/summer terms.
One of our strengths is that we have a vast network of high quality partnership schools in which to place you for the extended school placements.
The course comprises of a two day professional placement in mixed subject groups, two extended school placements in your subject specialism and two periods of University-based teaching – September to October and January to February.
Ofsted (2013), Initial Teacher Education Inspection Report , London: Ofsted
Did you know about our teaching specific ' Choose to Teach' open events we host at our Wolverhampton Campus twice a year?
' Choose to Teach' offers a brilliant opportunity for you to meet university staff and schools and get one-to-one advice about your journey to becoming a teacher!
Alternatively why not attend one of our Postgraduate Open Evenings , where you will have the opportunity to talk to staff and students who are currently studying and find out more about the course and our facilities.
We have Open Evenings taking place at our Wolverhampton Campus .
You will need an enthusiasm for Art and Design and be committed to developing the range, breadth and variety of art, craft and design education in schools.
You will be an enthusiastic artist/designer/craftsperson, with a desire to pass on your enthusiasm to learners of all abilities.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pgce-secondary-education-chemistry:
If you have an interest in all aspects of science, but in particular the chemical and material world and enjoy investigating this in a practical setting, then our chemistry course will suit you.
As a trainee, you will learn how to teach chemistry to pupils in the 11-16 age range within the secondary age phase, with additional primary and post-16 enhancements.
You will learn how to develop skills, knowledge and understanding for teaching chemistry through a combination of university-led and school-led training.
You will have interest in all aspects of science along with a particular aptitude for chemistry, along with an ability to think creatively about presenting the subject to others in original and practical ways.
Candidates will be expected to teach the whole science curriculum, but with a particular focus on materials and their properties.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pgce-secondary-education-computing:
Computing is an exciting secondary school curriculum subject.
It covers topics such as algorithms, programming, computational thinking, communication and data.
You will have to possess a real interest and aptitude for computing and an ability to think creatively about presenting the subject to others.
Candidates will be expected to teach computing topics such as programming, computer architecture, algorithms, data transmission and representation, number conversion and abstraction.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pgce-secondary-education-dance:
This course transforms passionate individuals into thoughtful teachers who can respond effectively to the learning needs of young people in school by providing a balanced dance and physical education programme.
We also want to inspire a generation to become physically literate and active by providing well-prepared, high-quality dance experiences for all students.
As a trainee, you will learn how to teach dance to pupils in the 11-16 age range within the secondary age phase, with additional primary and post-16 enhancements.
You will learn how to develop skills, knowledge and understanding for teaching dance through a combination of university-led and school-led training.
You will need to possess a real interest and aptitude for dance and an ability to think creatively about presenting the subject to others.
Candidates will be expected to have experience of teaching or leading dance activities and engage in enhancement areas such as gymnastics, swimming and athletics.
Above all, you will need a real commitment to the education of young people and a desire to inspire a generation.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pgce-secondary-education-design-technology:
This transformative one-year PGCE course combines 120 days of immersive school placements across different settings with specialised university training.
Design and Technology covers a number of subject specialisms and encompasses the teaching of designing, making and evaluative skills as well as developing technical knowledge.
It involves working with a range of materials and processes, including resistant materials, systems and control, CAD/CAM, textiles, food technology and hospitality.
You would be expected to specialise in one of these areas and develop skills in a range of the others.
As a trainee, you will learn how to teach design technology to pupils in the 11-16 age range within the secondary age phase, with additional primary and post-16 enhancements.
You will learn how to develop skills, knowledge and understanding for teaching design technology through a combination of university-led and school-led training.
You will need an enthusiasm for design technology and be committed to developing the range, breadth and variety of design technology education in schools.
You will have a high level of confidence in one or more of the following areas of design technology; engineering, 3D design, electronic engineering, product design, food technology or textiles with a desire to pass on your enthusiasm to learners of all abilities.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pgce-secondary-education-geography:
You will have interest in all aspects of geography, along with an ability to think creatively about presenting the subject to others in original and practical ways.
Candidates will be expected to teach the whole geography curriculum.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pgce-secondary-education-history:
If you have an interest in all areas of History and a desire to develop the skills and knowledge of secondary age pupils in aspects of British and world history, then this Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) will suit you.
Our course looks at the key ideas which underpin the teaching of history in schools today and the way children's understanding of concepts develops.
As a trainee, you will learn how to teach history to pupils in the 11–16 age range within the secondary age phase, with additional primary and post-16 enhancements.
You will learn how to develop skills, knowledge and understanding for teaching history through a combination of university-led and school-led training.
Our PGCE in Secondary Education provides a high standard of training for those preparing to take up a teaching post in the secondary school sector.
You will have interest in all aspects of history, along with an ability to think creatively about presenting the subject to others in original and practical ways.
Candidates will be expected to teach the whole history curriculum.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pgce-secondary-education-physical-education:
Our Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) in Secondary Education for Sport provides a high standard of training for those preparing to take up a teaching post in the secondary school sector.
The aim of the Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) in Secondary Physical Education course is to develop thoughtful teachers who can respond effectively to the learning needs of young people in school by providing a balanced physical education programme.
We also want to inspire a generation to become physically literate and active by providing well-prepared, high-quality Physical Education experiences for all students.
As a trainee, you will learn how to teach Physical Education to pupils in the 11-16 age range within the secondary age phase, with additional primary and post-16 enhancements.
You will learn how to develop skills, knowledge, and understanding for teaching physical education through a combination of university-led and school-led training.
You will have to possess a real interest and aptitude for physical education and an ability to think creatively about presenting the subject to others.
Candidates will be expected to teach physical education topics such as gymnastics, swimming and athletics.
As competition for places is very strong , increasing numbers of applicants are combining these minimum requirements with additional features such as:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pgce-secondary-education-physical-education-with-ebacc:
The aim of the Physical Education with EBacc course is to develop thoughtful teachers who can respond effectively to the learning needs of young people in school by providing a balanced physical education programme.
We want to inspire a generation to become physically literate and active by providing well-prepared, high-quality physical education experiences for all students.
In addition to this, you will also be able to effectively teach the EBacc curriculum as a second subject.
As a trainee, you will learn how to teach Physical Education and your chosen EBacc subject to pupils in the 11-16 age range within the secondary age phase, with additional primary and post-16 enhancements.
You will learn how to develop skills, knowledge and understanding for teaching Physical Education and your chosen EBacc subject through a combination of university-led and school-led training.
You will have to possess a real interest and aptitude for Physical Education and an ability to think creatively about presenting subjects to others.
You will also be expected to have good curricular knowledge of your EBacc subject.
For example Bachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of Science (BSc) etc.
Please note degree content will not be accepted as a replacement for the additional requirement of an A-level (or equivalent) qualification within the second subject.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pgce-secondary-education-lead-psychology:
Designed to blend academic training with practical classroom expertise, this course prepares you to inspire and educate the next generation of psychology students.
You will have to possess a real interest and aptitude for psychology and an ability to think creatively about presenting the subject to others.
Candidates will be expected to teach psychology topics such as cognitive psychology, social psychology, bio-psychology, developmental psychology, psychopathology, psychological approaches, applied psychology, issues and debates in psychology, research methods and statistics Above all, you will need a real commitment to the education of young people.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pgce-secondary-education-engineers-teach-physics:
In our long-standing tradition of providing teacher education in the West Midlands, the University of Wolverhampton offers this initial teacher course to support trainees with a background in engineering and material science.
Training, based on leading education research and administered by teaching experts, will prepare you for work in various settings.
Our learning facilities include teaching rooms, learning spaces, lecture theatres and a social learning environment.
You will have access to high-quality, bespoke subject knowledge enhancement courses and free professional skills test support.
With these resources and support with your workload and wellbeing, we intend that you graduate as a committed, reflexive practitioner of teaching in practical environments.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pgce-further-education:
This qualification equips graduates with the knowledge, skills and behaviours required to teach students aged 14 years and above across all areas of further education and lifelong learning, including sixth form colleges, Further Education Colleges and Adult & Community learning settings.
Studying a PGCE in Further Education is ideal for those looking to further their education career and make a real difference to the lives of students.
Our PGCE has been designed to equip graduates with the knowledge, skills and behaviours required to become successful teachers within the further education and lifelong learning sector.
The PGCE will offer you an opportunity to gain invaluable experience in teaching learners aged 14 years or over in further education colleges or other lifelong learning settings.
This qualification is critical for developing teaching knowledge of both theory and practice within further education, such as face-to-face teaching, online teaching, digital pedagogies, working with support staff and creating effective assessment strategies.
You will be supported by a personal tutor as you develop your identity as a teacher who can provide learning experiences to students while remaining mindful of cultural and linguistic diversity and reflecting on your own performance.
Completing this course will enable you to pursue Qualified Teaching, Learning and Skills status (QTLS), equivalent to Qualified Teaching Status (QTS), supporting a range of careers in Lifelong Learning including Further and Adult Education lecturing.
This type of PGCE focuses primarily on teaching adults, including students over 14 years of age and those studying at a higher education level.
The programme covers all aspects of teaching post 14 students and promotes an understanding of how adult students can be supported through their learning journey.
The course content for a PGCE in Further Education will provide beginning teachers with an introduction to educational theories such as behaviourism and constructivism, as well as methods for assessing student progress.
In addition to this, trainees will also learn about planning and teaching lessons for adults, exploring different approaches to meeting the needs of various student groups.
This module – along with Reflecting on Self and Identity and Personal and Professional Development -  forms the heart of the PGCE and will prepare new teachers for a career in the Lifelong Learning Sector by establishing a foundation in planning, teaching and assessment of learning as well as developing skills in reflective practice.
This module will support participants in their classroom practice.
The focus of the module is developing learning resources within a chosen subject discipline.
Participants will appraise a variety of learning resources taking into account the learning needs of 21st century learners.
The module also considers the significance of learner evaluation as a tool for reflective practice and  identifying continual professional development needs.
The module will prepare students for teaching in post compulsory education.
This is an introductory module and will therefore cover a number of key themes.
The module considers the different contexts and curriculums within post compulsory education.
Students will be introduced to professional roles, responsibilities and relationships within teaching.
They will also be introduced to a range of strategies for teaching, learning, assessing and feeding back.
This module runs across both semesters and complements 6PC014 (Constructing Self and Identity) and 7PC005 (Reflecting on Self and Identity).
It contains pragmatic elements such as personal action planning for enhancing practice, and theoretical elements such as critical reflection-on-practice.
This module is designed to help students develop an understanding of how professional practice is positioned within a globalised and marketised policy discourse.
The impact of policy on lifelong education and professional practice will be explored.
A range of theoretical concepts will be introduced to help students to critique policies, strategies and practice within institutional and professional contexts.
The module will also provide a framework for conducting a piece of small-scale educational research.
After undertaking a literature review students will design and carry out a piece of research linked to their professional practice.
This module - along with Constructing Self and Identity and Personal and Professional Development - forms the heart of the PGCE.
It further develops concepts of planning, teaching and assessing as well as exploring notions of self and subjectivity in relation to developing and continuing wider professional practice.
Higher Education Lecturer
Adult Learner Tutor
Field Trip Coordinator
Educational Consultant
Project Researcher
We provide classroom-based experience and theoretical insight, which means that the course equips students with the necessary groundwork skills to become successful teachers.
The PGCE includes taught elements across a range of topics relevant to the further education and lifelong learning sector, as well as training sessions which allow student teachers to practise teaching under supervision.
These sessions cover theory and practical lessons plans, allowing student teachers to gain a deeper understanding of their field.
In addition, support is also provided regarding assessment approaches and methods for engaging students.
By combining these elements together, the University of Wolverhampton provides an effective learning environment that enables its beginning teachers to develop into well-rounded professionals with an understanding of contemporary educational approaches.
Please note we do NOT accept GCSE Short Courses or GCSE Equivalent Tests.
Please see equivalent GCSE qualifications we do accept .
You will be required to provide evidence of your original qualifications.
You must be sure that you wish to embark on a career of teaching in Post-Compulsory Education before applying for this course.
In order to achieve this we recommend that you gain some experience within the post compulsory sector.
We expect you to research your subject area within the post-compulsory context, and to visit a further education establishment to make an informed decision about how your subject specialism fits into the national vocational framework.
All applicants that are successful with their application will be invited to an interview.
This will include a presentation and a panel-based interview.
Please view information regarding interview preparation .
POST COMPULSORY EDUCATION Frequently Asked Questions

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/apprenticeship-courses/postgraduate-teaching-apprenticeship-:
This route is ideal for candidates who have experience of working in school and are looking to gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).
The Postgraduate Teaching Apprenticeship is an employment-based initial teacher training programme, which enables Apprentice trainee teachers to develop professional skills in the classroom whilst demonstrating evidence towards meeting the Teachers Standards for Qualified Teacher Status.
Apprentices at the University of Wolverhampton follow either the Primary or Secondary Route.
The route will commence in June for the 2025/26 intake.
Applicants are advised to complete the candidate application and school pack before the Easter break, to enable sufficient time to process applications.
Successful completion of the Postgraduate Teaching Apprenticeship, leads to the award of Qualified Teacher Status and the meeting of the Apprenticeship Standard.
Gaining Qualified Teacher Status ensures that apprentices will be well placed to gain employment in UK schools and other education settings, with access to further career opportunities and pay progression in school.
The course has also been designed to develop school teachers who will be: • Empathetic and committed to pupils' learning; • Critically reflective and reflexive; • Enthusiastic and innovative; • Open-minded and research-aware; • Capable of engaging in collaborative inquiry and practitioner research; • Flexible and creative decision-makers.
The course will also help the apprentice to develop as a teacher who understands the link between subject knowledge and the curriculum knowledge needed to teach specialist subjects.
Equally apprentices will develop as teachers who understand the needs of the individual pupil and the school community in which they will work.
The Apprentice collects a portfolio of evidence to demonstrate the knowledge, skills and behaviours contained in the Teachers' Standards to be recommended for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) at the end of the initial teacher training year.
To successfully complete the Apprenticeship, the Apprentice must negotiate the 'gateway' to be entered for the formal end-point assessment.
This requires an additional fourth term of teaching in school and the assessment, including a lesson observation and a professional discussion based on the portfolio of evidence.
The Postgraduate Teaching Apprenticeship requires that the main training school releases the Apprentice for 20% of their time for university-based training and activities.
A second school experience of 30 days enables the apprentice to demonstrate meeting the Professional Standards for Teachers, in a contrasting and complementary school setting, as required by the Department for Education.
Candidates working in SEN schools have to undertake an additional 30-day placement, in order to demonstrate meeting all of the professional standards.
A subject / phase specialist skills coach is provided by the University to support and undertake observation and feedback visits every half term.
The skills coach not only provides subject specialist input, but also provides professional development support for their Apprentice teacher.
The Postgraduate Teaching Apprenticeship is specifically designed to ensure that those who are successful can be recommended to the relevant professional body for the award of Qualified Teaching Status ( QTS) - the professional award required by all those who wish to teach in a maintained school.
Successful completion of the End Point Assessment leads to the award of the Apprenticeship Standard.
Please note that this course provides QTS only and does not lead to a PGCE.
For employers with a payroll below £3 million: The Government will pay 95% of the cost of the apprenticeship training and assessment for apprentices of any age, for employers who will not be paying the apprenticeship levy.
You may also be eligible for extra employer incentives.
For employers with a payroll above £3 million: Since May 2017 employers are able to use their Apprenticeship Levy contributions towards the cost of the apprenticeship using their digital account.
We will agree a payment schedule and discuss funding availability before you start your apprenticeships and ensure the cost to your business is clear upfront.
Academic Pathway:
For this apprenticeship programme we require applicants to have achieved the following admissions conditions
We also accept Level 3 qualifications that are equivalent in depth to those listed above for example the Level 3 Apprenticeship in Health and Social Care or related subject area, if you are unsure if your previous qualifications are acceptable, please register your interest and we will be able to confirm if you are suitable for this course.
Due to the professional nature of our course, you will be required to complete a Declaration of Health and Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) Check.
We will coordinate both of these non-academic conditions with you should your course require this, and you receive an offer from us.
There will be no cost for the DBS this is free to applicants who have secured an offer.
Initial Teacher Training Entry requirements for this route are as stated in the ITT criteria that all entrants have:
Equivalent of grade 4 in GCSE English and mathematics (and a science subject for those training to teach the primary school age) - the University provides equivalence tests for candidates who are suitable for the route but do not have the required GCSE qualifications.
These candidates will also be required to undertake level 2 qualifications in English and Maths during the programme • A degree awarded by a UK higher education provider, or a recognised equivalent qualification • Been successful in a rigorous selection process to assess a candidate's suitability to train to teach.
Please note that all certificates of course completion and grades must be provided before the course start date.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/applicant-hub:
We want to ensure we provide you with as much support as possible before you start and help you get set for university.
We have a range of events, activities, on-demand content, and student community groups for you to join to chat with your tutors and future coursemates and support your transition to university.
Guidance for Interviews, PFF days & Portfolio Reviews
Respond to your offer via UCAS Hub
Respond to your offer via e:Vision
Respond to your offer via DfE Apply

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/how-to-apply/transferring-to-wlv:
At the University of Wolverhampton, we have a large portfolio of courses available for students who want to transfer and complete their studies with us.
Transferring from one university to another is simple, and the information below will explain how you can do it.
Firstly, to be eligible to transfer and gain an advanced entry offer you will need have achieved one of the following:
At the University of Wolverhampton, you can apply directly to us.
Please be aware that to be successful in transferring to us for advanced entry you will need to provide us with the following:
Once we have received your application and supporting information, we will assess with our faculty teams to define whether the content of your studies aligns to the course you would like to transfer onto.
Where similar study is apparent, it may be possible for us to award recognition of prior learning (RPL).
In this situation, advanced entry onto a course will be offered to you.
Due to the nature of this process, it can take slightly longer while we gather evidence and work with faculty staff to get you the correct answer.
All applications are considered on an individual basis.
All degree courses are broken down into several modules.
Each module has a credit value, and from an undergraduate perspective each academic year usually consists of 120 credits.
A credit value for each module showcases the depth of that module, and modules can vary in size but usually range between 10 and 60 credits.
Learning outcomes are key teaching themes which specify the knowledge areas a student should understand and have demonstrated through each module assessment.
These are usually found in your module handbook for your course.
All of this information aids institutions in the process of exempting students from repeating the same modules of study at a new institution.
The University of Wolverhampton is an active member of the Midlands Credit Compass, which promotes a climate that supports student mobility, progression, and lifelong learning.
It demonstrates our joint commitment to putting students at the heart of the system, supporting student access, choice and flexibility.
Apply for help from the Midlands Credit Compass - MEU

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/how-to-apply/making-your-application/personal-statement-guide:
Download our free guide to writing your UCAS personal statement.
We know that writing a personal statement can seem a bit overwhelming.
That’s why we’ve pulled a downloadable guide together to help to provide you with information, advice and support.
A personal statement is personal to you and is your opportunity to tell universities about your interest and enthusiasm for your chosen course, whilst also bringing in your skills/experience.
To get a download link for the guide, simply provide your details .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/evision:
If you are a staff member, current student or External Examiner, click the tile below to log in.
If you have already started an application, click the button below to go to the Online Application log in page.
Online Applications
If you have not yet started an application, go to www.wlv.ac.uk/courses/ and search for the course that you want to apply for.
Your username is the 7 digit student number that will appear any correspondence you have received about your application.
If you applied to us directly, your e:Vision password will be the as the password that you used for your online application.
If you applied to us through UCAS and have not logged into e:Vision previously, your password should have been sent to you with your Welcome email from our Admissions team.
Passwords are case sensitive, so check that Caps Lock is not on.
If you still have problems, use the ‘Reset Your e:Vision Password’ button below to request a new password – this will be sent to the email address that we hold for you.
This may take a few minutes to reach you – check your Junk folder if you don’t receive it.
If you still can't log in with your new password, or you don’t receive the email, please contact us at evisionsupport@wlv.ac.uk
The easiest way to log in is to use your IT account details - click the Log in with your IT account button.
This will be your University email address.
Your IT account password (the same one that you use to log into the university network, Canvas, University email etc.).
To change your IT account password or unlock your account, please click the button below.
Reset your IT Password
If you are having trouble with the self service password reset for your IT account please call the IT Service Desk on (01902 32) 2000.
We recommend that you use your IT account details to log in, but if you have trouble with this or you cannot access your IT account, you can set up a separate password for e:Vision.
This will be your student number.
If you do not have an e:Vision only password, or you do not know your password, please click use the 'Reset your e:Vision Password' button below.
This password will ONLY work for e:Vision and must NOT be the same as your University IT account password
Your username is your 7 digit student number.
Use the Log in with your IT account button.
If you need to change your IT account password or unlock your account, please click the button below.
Reset Your IT Password
For Agents – this will start with AGN- or TNE-
For NHS Practice placement/Trust staff – this will begin with NM
For External Advisors – this will begin with the first 3 characters of your surname
Please note – you do not need to enter your Date of Birth
Reset your e:Vision Password

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-economics-and-finance:
The distinctive BSc (Hons) Economics and Finance course is designed to provide you with a strong background in economic principles as well as knowledge of the financial foundations of firms, financial markets and institutions with an international perspective.
As part of your study of economics and finance you will develop skills in the organisation and analysis of statistical data, the interpretation of economic issues and the communication of economic and financial concepts.
The practical activities aim to equip you with a holistic understanding of how an organisation functions, with specific emphasis on key issues such as how organisations are financially structured and how they manage the cash flows.
We find many opportunities for you to work with practising managers, from company projects, guest lectures.
Studying at Wolverhampton will allow you to develop the skills businesses demand including IT, project management, team working and leadership.
The tutors on this programme will have had experience as practicing managers, have worked with business in an advisory capacity or will be researching business and management,
You will study a wide range of economics and finance modules, with a mix of lectures, seminars and workshops.
There will be opportunities to do group work, to learn from industry experts as well as from analysts with a high standard of research achievement.
The course’s modules employ a variety of assessment methods, including report writing, essays, portfolios, posters, presentations, in-class tests, time-constrained assignments, and a final research project.
You will gain the analytical, quantitative, computing, presentation and other transferable skills required to work in the financial sector, including banks, insurance companies, pension funds, investment and unit trusts, and financial advisory work as well as other industries in both the private and public sectors.
Also, the programme will provide an excellent foundation for postgraduate study in finance and economics.
Our purpose-built Business School, the Lord Swraj Paul Building, sits at the heart of the University's City Campus - Molineux, right next to Wolverhampton Wanderers' Molineux Stadium.
The six storey centre is home to an executive education suite, innovative teaching and learning spaces, an IT suite, consulting rooms and a central social space and café.
Take a tour here.
This module seeks to develop the conceptual and practical aspects of financial accounting.
In this module you will be exposed to the underpinning accounting theory and basic rules of financial accounting, as well as practical methods of book-keeping.
This module focuses on Macroeconomic principles and aims at developing students understanding of economic thinking through rigorous and analytical assessment of Macroeconomic key concepts such as national income and its measurement, economic growth, unemployment and inflation rates.
The module will encourage students to consider the importance of becoming a responsible economic professional, embed critical thinking and develop their analytical skills so they understand and can use data and a range of information sources that help  interpret and analyse macroeconomic issues.
This module provides an introduction to the theory and practice of contemporary microeconomics and aims at developing students understanding of economic thinking through rigorous and analytical assessment of Microeconomic key concepts.
The content includes supply and demand analysis, theories of the firm and individual behavior, competition among firms and market failures.
Furthermore, particular emphasis is placed on how economic analysis may be used to explain a wide variety of contemporary policy issues.
This module provides a transition into your university programme, introducing necessary skills for success in your university studies and knowledge and understanding that will be developed in later modules of your course, and also aims to encourage you at an early stage to take control of your own personal development - both your skills and your future career.
Professional people undertake Continuous Professional [Personal] Development (CPD) where they reflect regularly on their strengths and weaknesses and look for opportunities to address their weaker areas and also develop their strengths.
This module provides an opportunity to analyse your individual strengths and weaknesses and encourage you to take independent responsibility for your own learning.
Also, some key areas of knowledge will be developed, particularly numeracy, Excel spreadsheets and Ethics - all of these areas are vital for accounting and finance and will form vital foundational knowledge for your future studies and to equip you for your future career.
The module can be divided into the following themes: - Theme 1: Essential knowledge - maths, Excel Theme 2: Personal development - skills analysis, future career planning, ethical awareness
This module aims to provide students with an introduction to the data handling techniques and methods of statistical analysis using the appropriate software for data collection and analysis.
It will enable students to select and apply key quantitative tools to investigating issues in finance area.
This module has two main strands:  The first is the development of basic numeracy so that students are proficient at the mathematical operations that essential for the study of economics.
The second focuses upon the development of study skills and the creation of a personal development plan by the student.
This will involving developing an appreciation of how we learn and benefits of reflection by the student.
The strand will also help the student to develop transferable skills and increase their employability.
This module allows students to develop an understanding of the quantitative methods and tools that economists use and how they can be appropriately applied and interpreted.
Students will develop the ability to apply these quantitative techniques to real-world problems/data sets using the SPSS statistical software.
You will acquire relevant analytical and quantitative skills to be able to appraise work in the area of applied economics.
This module focuses on various aspects of financial institutions (Central Banks, Traditional Banks, Non-Banking Financial Institutions, Fund and Wealth Management) and markets (Derivatives, Equity and Debt) that form the basis of contemporary financial and monetary systems.
The UK as well as international financial markets and their financial systems will be considered with reference to current financial news and affairs.
This module will also explore the main theories and concepts of financial markets and provide a sound basis for students progressing to the study of finance at a higher level.
This module aims to provide students with an introduction to the principles of financial economics.
This will provide students with the primary theoretical and conceptual frameworks of finance to enable students to study finance at a higher level.
This module focuses on Macroeconomic Theory and Policy and aims at developing your understanding of economic thinking through rigorous and analytical assessment of Macroeconomic theoretical models and policies.
The module will encourage students to consider the importance of becoming a responsible economic professional, embed critical thinking and develop their analytical skills so they understand and can use metrics, data and a range of information sources that help form the basis of effective macroeconomic decision making.
This module seeks to develop the skills and abilities developed in the costing module.
Specifically it seeks to analyse and conclude from different financial situations using advanced costing and management techniques.
These techniques will include break even analysis, investment appraisal and the incorporation of risk into decision-making.
What influences your choice of holiday destination?
How can you tell whether the car you buy should be reliable?
Why is the government directly involved in the provision of education but not the provision of food?
To answer these questions we need to understand the economics of decision-making and market efficiency.
We will begin by examining consumers’ decision-making using rational choice theory.
This will be followed by an investigation of how the consumers’ decision-making process would differ in an environment of incomplete information, uncertainty and bounded rationality.
The impact of such an environment on decision-making by firms will also be considered.
We will apply our understanding of decision-making in individual markets to the overall economy and discuss issues related to market efficiency.
The alternative policy options available to government in addressing issues concerning market efficiency will be discussed.
This module examines the critical theories and concepts of corporate finance and behavioural finance relevant to the strategic planning and financial positioning of organizations.
The module builds on concepts covered in level 5 introductory financial economics module but also introduces behavioural finance, mergers and acquisition and Advanced investment decision making.
The construction of efficient portfolios and capital structure is included which necessitate the understanding of efficient sources of and management of finance as well as risk assessment of a wide range of financial assets which ensures that the wealth of organisations are not eroded by poor investment decisions.
In addition, this module will embed critical thinking and problem-solving skills and develop analytical skills so that students understand and can use indexes, data and a range of information sources that help form the basis of effective financial decision making.
This module will expose students to alternative perspectives in Economics.
The module intends to develop a critical understanding of heterodox schools of economic thought, including though not limited to Marxian, Austrian, Post-Keynesian (Modern Monetary Theory), Institutionalist, and Behaviouralist perspectives.
It will also consider differing methods and approaches drawn from feminist and ecological perspectives.
The module will equip students with a greater appreciation of alternative economic theories, models and methods through which they can critically assess government economic policy.
Why do some countries grow rich, while others remain poor?
This module introduces students to contemporary microeconomic and macroeconomic issues in development economics.
It is concerned with general theoretical and empirical themes explaining income differences between countries and their growth processes.
Topics covered in the module include theories of economic growth and development, the impact of factor accumulation (physical capital, population growth and human capital), foreign aid, the environment on growth and development.
Small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs), no matter how they are defined, make a significant contribution to employment and turnover in different economies.
They are also agents of industrial change and innovation and a major source of economic growth.
Irrespective of the critical contribution, SMEs are often restrained by the limited financial resources.
The dearth of finance creates the barrier and hampers their growth.
The module aims to explore approaches small firms can follow to secure finance, where different options of financial support will be investigated including: bank finance, trade credit, venture capital, angel finance, as well as factoring, leasing, and loan guarantee scheme.
Agency theory, pecking order logic, and institutional perspective will be introduced as the theoretical underpinning.
This is parallel to the debate on finance issues in firms led by women or ethnic minority entrepreneurs and microfinance institutions.
Beyond these, government initiatives and policy agenda are also showcased, whilst the impact of institutional intervention is evaluated.
This research-based module will enable students to investigate an economic problem through independent study.
The module allows students to integrate different aspects of their previous study of Economics and apply their learning in the discipline by carrying out and independent investigation of a closely defined economics issue/problem.
Students will be able to select a topic of specific interest related to staff interest and expertise.
This module locates management accounting within the wider organisational context.
It requires evaluation of the role of management accounting within corporate governance and the strategic decision making processes of an organisation.
It requires an evaluation of the role of management accounting within management control systems.
It will show how the use of a range of strategic management accounting techniques can enhance the operational and strategic processes within organisations.
Equity data analyst
Financial analyst
Research analyst
Taxation analyst
Investment analyst
Research officer
A supportive professional study environment
Your learning experience at the Business School will be enhanced by: Tutors who know about business .
Tutors on this programme have experience as practicing managers, worked with business in an advisory capacity or will be researching economics and business to ensure that what you learn is current, leading-edge thinking which has real relevance to the world of business.
A friendly and supportive environment .
We are known for the support we provide to our students.
Your personal tutor and course leader are there to give you support, whether pastoral or study advice, when you need it.
Blended learning .
The School has developed a blended learning approach where lecture and tutorial activities are supported by online learning to become a seamless learning experience both in and outside of the classroom.
Flexibility .
The programme offered gives you flexibility over your study options as you progress and develop, whether this involves choosing to study abroad, taking an internship or being able to move between the courses we offer.
Internationalisation .
Our international student and staff body and a curriculum underpinned by internationalisation will enable you to learn how to operate in a global business environment.
At the end of the Course, you will be able to:
”Thanks for being a wonderful economics team and providing us with quality education through the years.
You have always managed to make your subjects interesting and most importantly showed us how relevant and related to our daily life they are.”
3 rd year Economics student
“I just wanted to extend my gratitude for all your help and support over this academic year.”
1 st year Economics and Business student
“I would like to personally thank you for your help, and I look forward to the advanced module next year.”
2 nd year Economics and Finance student

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-economics-and-finance-with-foundation-year:
The Foundation Year (level 3) is designed to equip applicants who do not have the required qualifications to enter directly onto level 4, with a robust toolkit of the academic, digital and personal skills required for successful study in Higher Education and also with an understanding of, and insight to, the economics discipline.
Successful completion of the Foundation Year will allow progression onto level 4 of BSc (Hons) Economics and Finance
This module will introduce you to various philosophies and theoretical concepts of management with a focus on 21st century developments and real-life scenarios that managers face.
A range of themes will be explored including; social responsibility, ethics, globalisation, international cultures, technology and entrepreneurship.
This module is designed to introduce you to university life.
It will support you in exploring the university environment.
It will also introduce you to the wide variety of academic skills needed to succeed at university and will support you in the development of these skills.
This module aims to provide you with an introduction to the general environment in which businesses operate.
Through studying this module you will develop an understanding of the contemporary debates on the nature and management of modern enterprises.
The module covers internal and external aspects of business – such as people at work, marketing, financial information and operations.
In this module, you will work collaboratively with other students on a project that reflects an area of shared interest relating to the broad themes of Business, Law or the Social Sciences.
You will have the opportunity to work as a small team to devise, design and plan a project relating to a topic of shared interest.
In many aspects of life and work, teamwork and collaboration are the norm to solve real world-problems.
This group-based project will allow you to develop a range of skills, including leadership skills, time-management, negotiation, communication, creativity, problem-solving and critical thinking skills.
By investigating and responding to a complex question, challenge or problem, you and your group will acquire a deeper knowledge of your topic.
The module will conclude with a conference, where your group’s project will be presented to the other groups in your class.
Equity Data Analyst
Research Officer
Research Analyst
Data Analyst
Investment Analyst
Taxation Analyst
Financial Analyst
Financial Advisor
Economic Policy Advisor
Prepare for Foundation Pathway:- We will consider applicants who have not achieved 48 UCAS points (equivalence) from prior level 3 qualifications, if you have a keen interest in this subject area or hold relevant experience.
You will be required to attend and pass a compulsory Prepare For Foundation assessment day where you will take part in a variety of activities which will assess your suitability for the course.
If you would like more advise and guidance about this admissions pathway, please contact the Gateway team to discuss and support you in making an application to us.
Contact the Gateway - University of Wolverhampton (wlv.ac.uk)
“I just wanted to extend my gratitude for the Economic team help and support over this academic year.”
“I would like to personally thank the Economic team for your help, and I look forward to the advanced module next year.”
“Having completed my studies and began my career within economics, I have significantly broadened my horizons with how the world works.
This is all thanks to the amazing economics department and lecturers who have provided me with support and opportunity at Wolverhampton, be it day or night; it’s been a once-in-a-lifetime opening.”

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-economics-and-finance-with-sandwich-placement:
A placement can be undertaken locally, nationally or even, in some instances, international.
During a placement, you will be doing similar work to a normal employee of the private, public or not-profit organisation.
You will be able to have a unique insight into your chosen profession or sector, to acquire crucial personal skills and also you will have the opportunity to build a network of useful contacts.
Many companies that employ graduates use placement programmes as a method of recruitment so you could be fast tracked into employment or onto one of their graduate schemes if you impress them.
This module represents an opportunity for students to apply and develop, through work experience, the skills and knowledge they have gained on their course.
This module involves a year long placement in a business related area, supported by a workplace mentor and UWBS Employability and Placement Unit (EPU).
The year-long placement provides students with the opportunity to gain experience of graduate level work.
In this way students can gain a second, world-recognised qualification with no extra work.
Employers are very keen to employ graduates who have already had work experience as part of their course and this contributes to a student’s unique selling point.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-architectural-design-technology:
The popular course is designed to provide you with a sound knowledge of the architectural design process, and the opportunity to acquire the necessary skills to become a professional architectural technologist.
This course is accredited by the:
The popular BSc Architectural Design Technology course is designed to provide you with a sound knowledge of the architectural design process, and the opportunity to acquire the necessary skills to become a professional architectural technologist.
Architectural technologist works closely with architects and other building professionals in both the public and private sectors.
Throughout the programme, specialist skills in areas including the science of architecture, building design and construction are steadily introduced, providing you with the ability to understand and form the link between concept, design and physical construction.
The course enables you to negotiate and manage the design process, whilst also understanding how to implement technical knowledge in developing practical and creative solutions, to meet existing working practices and legislations.
Successful completion of this course will give you an internationally accredited and recognised qualification and will form the basis for excellent career prospects as an architectural technologist throughout the world.
Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (CIAT)
This degree is also accredited by the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (CIAT).
The CIAT is a dynamic, forward-thinking and inclusive global membership qualifying body for Architectural Technology.
It represents those practising and studying within the discipline and profession.
This membership organisation represents 10,000 members within the discipline who wish to be professionally recognised.
CIAT Accreditation implies that the programme has been assessed in terms of content, structure, resources and has met the Institute's requirements.
The benefit of studying on a CIAT Accredited Programme is that it will support individuals wishing to become Chartered Architectural Technologists, MCIAT.
On this course you will take part in a wide range of lectures, tutorials, design studios and practical workshops.
All of these will equip you with the skills and knowledge to take up a future role as an Architectural Technologist.
Our structured curriculum develops your knowledge and skills as you work through each year of the course.
In the first year you will be introduced to some of the fundamental skills including architectural detailing in our dedicated studio, physical model making based in the workshops and using software tools to design and communicate your projects.
The second year will provide more opportunities to develop a range of design projects whilst learning more around materials, sustainable design, advanced detailing techniques and construction methods.
The final year is an opportunity to work on a major project which is exhibited at the annual end of year show.
In addition you will learn more about advanced technologies such as VR and AR and work in our dedicated Construction Holodeck to understand how these are applied to architectural technology.
This module aims to: •	Provide a balance of theoretical, practical and contextual cultural studies that will develop your skills, imagination, creativity, associated knowledge and understanding, communication and abilities applicable to your specialisms.
•	Encourage you to develop these skills through practical investigations and appropriate given projects.
This module introduces students to the concept of Building Information Modelling (BIM) including the process and technologies.
Students will develop skills in the production of accurate and professional 3D models using BIM authoring tools and the subsequent generation of professional 2D architectural details from the model.
Students will also be introduced to current industry-standard workflows.
This module aims to develop your understanding of the design process, think beyond traditional limits and constraints culminating in the communication of design solutions.
The module will also provide you with an experience of construction/production issues, including regulatory control, as well as an understanding of how design is prepared, tested and communicated.
It is your tool for practice and generating design technology that combines pragmatic, genetic, and technical rational in one design concept.
As Technologists, you will experience the transformation of conceptualisation into an integration of the state of technology and design theories.
The complexity of the design process involves incremental comprehensive concept development which integrates DESIGN, TECHNOLOGY, and SUSTAINABILITY.
In the studio, you will bring together all three components to resolve problems and reveal design concepts.
Your choices of self-reflection, research, schemes of analysis, and study shape your experience.
The module aims to provide an introduction to, and a broad overview of some of the basic elements, concepts, materials and techniques used in building construction.
It provides an introduction to architectural detailing, Health & Safety and environmental and sustainability issues related to it.
This module aims to provide a broad overview of the principles of working as a professional within a modern construction team.
The module continues by assessing the environmental impact of design projects on the built environment.
The aim of this module is to build on the knowledge from level 4 studies and introduce you to advanced building systems & technologies and means of deploying them in buildings.
This will investigate the various types of structures available including concrete and steel and the technology behind their use.
Additionally the module will introduce the concept of modular construction whilst also reviewing how smart buildings can play a crucial role in today’s built environment.
The module aims to demonstrate how to manage the design process from inception to completion through the implementation of prevailing BIM philosophies.
The module will cover the selection of an appropriate design team and the use of collaborative workflows that engage the team in a professional manner without detriment to the initial design concept, facilitating seamless construction and maintenance of the project.
The aim of this module is to familiarise you with the history, theory, and evolution of the urban environment, along with its strategies and methodologies.
You will explore various topics related to urbanism through place and precedent, including the historical aspects of planning, the social and political challenges of urbanism, and the environmental, financial, and economic impacts that architecture can have on the broader urban landscape.
The module aims to introduce you to some of the key legislation, which is required when designing, and constructing buildings in the UK.
This module investigates the restoration of old/disused buildings.
The module considers refurbishment techniques whilst encompassing the clients’ brief and environmental issues.
The module also introduces you to an in-depth and demanding refurbishment focused architectural design project.
The module aims to provide an introduction to the preparation of production information, in particular working drawings.
You will also investigate how to prepare and evaluate tender documentation, in addition to understanding how Architectural Technologists can monitor and review this information to facilitate a successful project
This contextual module will further expose you to the architectural professional practice-working environment where a broad range of supporting activities, beyond that of design, necessarily take place.
In the first instance you will be introduced to the varying types of practice that you might encounter and the module then develops to consider the rigour of the applicable codes of practice for architects and the associated legalities of operating in such an environment.
You will also explore methods of procurement and the complexities of contract administration.
The expectation is that you will conduct broad based research into specific case studies in order to develop your own strategies for solution.
Building on the Major Project Research module undertaken in Semester 1, this module aims to provide the opportunity for students to carry out a self-managed design project related to their specialist field.
The scope of the project covers the identification of a need, production of a customer brief or design specification, through to the detailed design and verification of the preferred solution.
Emulating professional practice, the module culminates in an exhibition of design solutions and supplementary work.
The aim of this challenging module is to ensure that you have the opportunity to undertake a significant piece of written academic work, which involves the analysis, and synthesis of a specific specialist topic.
The dissertation will be required to engage with construction, art and built environment issues and should lead to the development of novel concepts, which have the potential to inform robust architectural solutions.
You will be encouraged to undertake the task with a perspective conducive to examining a significantly broad cultural mix and you will be required to demonstrate an advanced level of independent critical enquiry.
This module explores the integration of digital architecture and heritage conservation within the field of architectural technology.
It will critically examine how emerging technologies—such as digital surveying, artificial intelligence (AI), virtual reality (VR), augmented reality (AR), Building Information Modelling (BIM) for heritage (HBIM), and parametric design—enhance our knowledge and methods of conservation architecture.
The module emphasises both theoretical frameworks and practical applications while addressing contemporary challenges in sustainable heritage preservation, adaptive reuse, and the role of architectural technology in protecting the UK's heritage.
Through practical workshops, case studies, and digital simulations, this module provides students with the technical skills and problem-solving abilities necessary to tackle modern conservation challenges using innovative digital approaches.
Architectural Technologists
Project Manager
Technical Designer
Building Regulations Consultant
BIM Coordinator
Construction Manager
Providing you with the technical knowledge and design flair to work in today’s ever-changing industry is our aim.
Not only is this course accredited by CIAT but it is developed in close consultation with industry practitioners to meet professional standards and ensure it is up-to-date and meets the needs of the construction and property development sector.
Our Lecturers are a blend of respected academics and experienced professionals.
We utilise a combination of teaching methods which match professional practice, including studio and drawing office sessions using the latest Computer Aided Design (CAD) software to develop your design work.
There's never been a more exciting time to join the School of Architecure and Built Environment.
And you now have the opportunity to study in our new super-campus!
With Wolverhampton’s rich heritage and unique geographical position within the Black Country region, seen by many as the birthplace of the industrial revolution.
You’ll have a unique opportunity to study in our £45 million SoABE Building, a 12-acre, Grade II listed former brewery.
We’re one of the few universities in the UK to house multiple fully-functional industrial laboratories, as well as purpose-built facilities with access to latest visualisation technologies, design studios and equipment.
Not to mention our National Brownfield Institute (NBI) will also be located on our £120million Springfield Campus.
The new £17.5 million building will be a world-class institute that focuses on developing modern methods of building through innovation and partnerships within the construction industry - meaning our collaborations with Local Authorities and Private Companies centers our students as part of this change.
And all of these state-of-the-art facilities are home to our Architecture and Built Environment students.
See where you could be studying!
Take a look at our amazing campus .
On successful completion of the course, you will:
Voluntary trips Trip to House of Commons and other estate buildings Student pays (train tickets circa £75)
GCSE English and Maths at grade C+/4 or an accepted equivalent.
PLUS EITHER
International entry requirements and application guidance can be found at http://www.wlv.ac.uk/international/apply
English language requirements also apply
Those who do not meet the entry requirements may be offered an alternative course.
"Going to the University helped me access an industry that seemed very difficult to enter.
To learn what I did and to achieve my degree opened doors that were simply closed before.
I came out of my degree during a recession a had to work for free to gain some experience but I would have struggled obtaining my first role without the degree behind me.
I had a quick rise through the industry due to economic growth and gradually honed my skills as an AT but found myself drawn into other areas.
What’s great about this career and industry is that you can make it your own, just don’t be scared to follow what’s right, and to believe in yourself."
Tom Martin, Project Director.
Studied BSc (Hons) Architectural Design Technology.
"The University of Wolverhampton’s a uni that is for the students!
Hard work really does pay off and you get out what you put in."
Reuben Caesar , Architectural Technologist.
“The best thing about the course generally was that I started out not really knowing that much about how I could use my drawing skills for the building industry.
We started off learning how to use traditional free-hand drawing and scaling, then learning how to use CAD from 2D to 3D and 4D.”
Sabrina Thomas , Turnball Tweedale Ltd.
Studied BSc (Hons) Architectural Design Technology.
See what some of our Alumni had to say!
Watch our Alumni discuss their experiences
Accredited by the Chartered Association of Building Engineers (CABE).
"Accredited by the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (CIAT), and demonstrates that the programme has been assessed in terms of content, structure and resources and has met the required educational standards.
Graduates from an Accredited programme will receive full academic exemptions from the professional qualification when progressing to Chartered Architectural Technologist status."

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-architectural-design-technology-with-foundation-year:
The course is designed to provide you with a sound knowledge of the architectural design process, and opportunity to acquire the necessary skills required to become a professional architectural technologist.
The popular BSc Architectural Design Technology course is designed to provide you with a sound knowledge of the architectural design process, and opportunity to acquire the necessary skills required to become a professional architectural technologist.
The course enables you to negotiate and manage the design process, whilst also understanding how to implement technical knowledge in developing practical and creative solutions, which meet existing working practices and legislation.
In Year 1, you will examine the process of design, the factors that affect it and the various communication methods available to the modern designer, including Computer Aided Design (CAD) and other supportive visualisation software.
You will investigate the human factors of design to ensure fit for purpose designs and also develop your understanding of architectural practice and the development of architectural design.
In Year 2, you will specialise on the core skills of the architectural technologist by studying how to detail and construct new build and refurbishment projects including how to integrate services.
You will also investigate the legal responsibilities of the architectural technologist.
In Year 3, you will complete a major design project and enter design competitions, in addition to studying the contracts involved in a design project and how to set up your own business.
We are currently reviewing our foundation course to enhance student learning and success.
Course details may be subject to updates.
Please keep an eye on our pages for updates.
The aim of this module is for students to be able to develop and effectively use the necessary range of appropriate skills in reading, study, written and oral communication and research required for their future career development.
A basic level of numeracy and mathematical competence is needed for every course at University and this module will equip you with the knowledge and skills needed to succeed.
You will have weekly lectures as well as team based learning sessions which have been specially designed to help you to overcome any difficulties that you might encounter.
This module is designed to give you some more advanced mathematical skills and tools which are needed in courses with a stronger maths focus such as computer science or engineering.
In this module you will be introduced to the fundamental concepts and principles common to modern computer systems, including the underpinning mathematics where required.
This will enable you to develop an understanding of abstraction, data and number representation.
You will use a programming language to develop solutions to problems using algorithms and applying computer logic.
For the practical work you will use a simple, inexpensive computer that you will study from both software and hardware perspectives.
This will culminate in you developing and testing a complete system to meet the requirements specified.
This module seeks to develop students'  knowledge and understanding of pre-construction activities in the context of project development.
This will include  an introduction to the concepts of design and development of the infrastructure requirements of civil engineering and buildings in the Built environment..
This module introduces the fundamental principles of problem solving.
It focuses on practical problems from within the disciplines of Science and Engineering, and the identification of potential solutions.
The implementation of solutions is supported through the use of suitable IT applications.
Indicatively, the practical examples used follow a set number of themes reflecting the multi-disciplinary nature of the Faculty of Science and Engineering
This course brings together an exciting range of skills and subjects including creative design, new technology, sustainability and construction methods which can lead you into a worthwhile professional career within the construction industry.
Taught by staff with industry experience we utilise a combination of teaching methods which match professional practice, including studio and drawing office sessions using the latest Computer Aided Design (CAD) software to develop your design work.
The course is developed with input from industry professionals to ensure that it is up to date and meets the needs of the construction and property development sector.
Due to this industry relevance, the course is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologies (CIAT).
Students in the School of Architecture and the Built Environment will be taught in our brand new £120m Springfield Super Campus which is Europe’s largest construction centre of excellence.
Find out more about Springfield Campus.
Sabrina Thomas, Turnball Tweedale Ltd.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-architectural-design-technology-with-sandwich-placement:
The popular BSc Architectural Design Technology course is designed to provide you with a sound knowledge of the architectural design process, and opportunity to acquire the necessary skills required to become a professional architectural technologist.
https://ciat.org.uk/
The Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (CIAT) is a dynamic, forward-thinking and inclusive global membership qualifying body for Architectural Technology.
It is a membership organisation representing 10,000 members within the discipline who wish to be professionally recognised.
The third year is spent on a placement related to your studies.
The placement provides an opportunity for you gain real world experience and put your academic learning into practice.
During the placement you will be required to keep a log book of your experiences and this counts towards a dedicated academic module.
Our work experience team in the University can support you in finding the placement in addition to helping with skills such as CV writing and whilst on placement you will be visited by a nominated tutor.
The Industrial Placement within APD provides an opportunity for professional development in the work place and as such, enhance employability skills, and the prospect for you to find a rewarding full time position at the end of your studies.
Help is given to find suitable placements by the school, however this does not preclude the individual securing a placement, which will increase your contact with industry.
Normally a member of staff will visit you once during the 48 week placement, but contact and support is avaible throughout the year.
You will widen your technical awareness, and benefit from personal development, through vocational interaction with real life projects and situations.
Design and Build Coordinator
Planning and Development Consultant
Project Coordinator (Architecture/Construction)
Lead the technical design of building projects from concept through to completion.
Manage and coordinate digital building models across project teams using Building Information Modelling tools
Produce detailed construction drawings and specifications that bring architectural visions to life.
Liaise between design and construction teams to ensure seamless project delivery.
Advise on building regulations, sustainability, and project feasibility.
Manage schedules, documents, and team communications in architectural projects.
Apply design knowledge to promote energy efficiency and eco-friendly building solutions.
Some of our graduates are now working with well respected practices and manufacturers including Skidmore Owens and Merrill, Kingspan, Tweedale and several local authorities.
In addition, some of our graduates have chosen to further their knowledge by undertaking postgraduate studies.
Reuben Caesar, Architectural Technologist.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-architecture:
This RIBA-accredited degree provides you with the knowledge and skills you need to excel in a wide range of associated design careers, including becoming a professional architect.
Guardian University Guide, 2025
This course is accredited by:
A BSc (Hons) Architecture degree provides you w ith the knowledge and skills you need to excel in a wide range of associated design careers.
Take your first step towards becoming a professional architect by completing this degree, which is prescribed by the Architects Registration Board (ARB) and validated by the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) as a Part 1 qualification.
Experience a professional design studio in our new purpose-built facilities, which include dedicated studio spaces and individual workspaces.
In this course, you will get the opportunity to collaborate with our passionate and supportive staff and develop your architectural and professional skills.
You’ll learn through design projects that reflect real-life, client-driven architectural work.
By studying BSc (Hons) Architecture, you’ll develop key communication skills, such as hand drawing and model making, as well as skills in using professional industry software.
You will also get hands-on experience with the latest architecture and design technologies such as 3D laser scanning, VR tools, and 3D printing – designed to prepare you for employment.
With our wide network of collaborating companies, this degree gives you the opportunity to meet future employers, and you will also have the opportunity to showcase your work at our annual Degree Show.
We help enhance your experience and knowledge of architecture with visits to major national and international cities.
Past trips have included London, Berlin, Rome, Paris, and Dubai.
Our BSc (Hons) Architecture offers a unique educational experience grounded in design, technology, and science.
Our mission is to inform good design that improves people’s lives, whilst minimising the detriment to our earth’s ecosystems.
Design is at the heart of the curriculum which then underpins modules including design studio, history and theory of architecture, urbanism, building science, sustainability, structures, construction, and professional practice.
There is a strong emphasis on understanding the context, materiality, and function of design.
Projects progress in scale and complexity, beginning with the human scale in the first year, urban scale in the second year, and holistic in the third year.
This approach provides a broad education in architecture, with a clear pathway to guide those transitioning from school and college to become self-motivated, fully autonomous learners within higher education.
Our philosophy is focused on welcoming and valuing distinct views that broaden each of our own perspectives through critical thinking and respectful debate.
There is no one singular style of architecture attached to the school.
The aim of this module is to develop effective communication skills in a range of media and to use these skills to convey ideas effectively.
You will acquire knowledge and techniques by developing the cognitive processes associated with drawing exploration.
In the first semester you will explore technical and visual aspects of communication sketches that will help document your drawings whilst introducing you to free hand and geometric drawings  	In the second semester principles of one point and two point exterior and interior perspectives are introduced along with shades, shadow projections and modelling.
This dedicated design module will reinforce the skills and understanding of the design journey introduced last semester.
You’ll achieve this, responding to a new project brief, requiring you to design a small home, connected to it's community and natural environment.
The aim of this module is to introduce you to the fundamental principles of design, visual aspects of form, their perception and their architectonic applications.
You will address a range of concepts that impact on designs including texture and space whilst also considering 2 and 3 dimensional form.
The aim of this module is to familiarize you with the development of architecture through the ages and explore the work of prominent Architects through history, you will also explore various theories of architecture can help you to enhance your creativity and thinking ability and contribute to you development as a designer.
In this module you will learn how architects must react to the climate emergency, using bioclimatic design principles to regenerate our shared environment as we utilise renewable energy and passive, fabric-first strategies for both architectural and urban design.
This includes understanding how human comfort and vernacular architectural principles will improve our future designs.
Additionally the module will introduce the new legislation and methods of analysis guiding and assessing environmental performance in the built environment.
This module aims to provide you with the opportunity to develop knowledge of a range of construction technologies and implement these into a design project.
By using a single project & utilising the BIM process, you will develop understanding of the whole design process including researching the initial problem, developing a brief, analysing the site and developing a complete architectural concept.
The aim of this module is to provide you with the knowledge of how architecture fits into the genre of urban design.
The module will explore the fundamental concepts and processes of urban design, including the urban design process and the role of urban structure
This penultimate module has been designed to consolidate on the previous design orientated modules by focusing on architectural programming which draws in the involvement, and hence integration, of all interested parties from an early stage of the design process and facilitates data gathering and analysis to support robust decision making.
In most cases this module will consider small scale or mixed use neighbourhood projects as the vehicle for delivering the module content.
This module offers the opportunity to undertake a substantial self-directed design project.
This module enables you to utilise and integrate your acquired knowledge, formulating a critical design stance and proposal, along with a definitive conclusion for your degree.
The product is a rigorously evaluated project that encompasses a synthesis of spatial, structural, and construction competencies, demonstrating your maturity in knowledge integration, innovation, and self-directed professional efforts.
The design submission provides a conclusive chance to exhibit architectural design proficiency, accompanying documentation, and expertise in the architectural design process to improve your job readiness.
Architectural Assistant
Architect (with further study and registration)
Urban Designer
Interior Architect
Planning Consultant
3D Visualiser
Architectural Technologist
Support qualified architects in design, planning, and project development.
Design and manage building projects from concept to completion.
Plan and design functional, attractive urban spaces and environments.
Focus on the interior design and structural layout of buildings.
Advise on planning permissions and building regulations for new developments.
Create detailed digital models and visualisations for design presentations.
Apply technical knowledge to building design, detailing, and construction.
The School of Architecture and Built Environment (ABE) has been a cornerstone of the University since its inception as a technical college in the early 20th century, giving BSc (Hons) Architecture students the space and facilities to thrive .
The experience within the School of ABE is unique as it mirrors the sector.
It draws together students from across the various disciplines of architecture and related to the built environment, and is the only school in the world that offers dedicated degree courses for every stage of the lifecycle of a building, from design to demolition.
Our school has recently moved into the new Springfield Campus, a £100 million project, turning a 12-acre Grade II-listed former brewery into Europe’s largest specialist design, construction, and built environment campus.
Besides housing the School, this site will also house the National Brownfield Institute , a government-supported institute focusing on transforming brownfield land into new communities through next-generation thinking and techniques.
This vibrant learning environment creates a unique and exciting place for students to learn and socialise.
The Architecture course has dedicated studio facilities at the Springfield Campus, providing each student with a dedicated workspace for the entire academic year.
This enables us to develop a professional, office-based working environment to support your learning and prepare you for professional practice.
In addition to having your own individual workspace, you also have full access to our model-making facilities, including facilities for hand model making and 3D printing.
As part of the course, most of the materials you will need to create models are available without additional cost to you.
Within the School of ABE, our apprenticeships align with both our social mobility ethos to provide higher education for all, while also highlighting the strong industrial links we have both regionally and nationally.
After graduation, you'll have the theoretical and practical foundations to pursue postgraduate study and advance your journey to becoming an architect.
There are also opportunities to pursue other careers within the architecture, sustainability and construction industries, such as architectural design, urban design, and landscape architecture.
Key Entry Requirements
Either:
International entry requirements and application guidance can be found here
Plus:
Validated by the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) at Part 1 level for the purpose of eligibility for membership of the RIBA.
Prescribed by the Architects Registration Board (ARB) at Part 1 level for the purpose of registration in the UK.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/hnc-architectural-studies:
This Higher National Certificate (HNC) course is designed to provide you with a broad technical understanding of the architectural design process including the application of management, technology and preparation of drawings and specifications.
The HNC Architectural Studies course is designed to provide you with a broad technical understanding of the architectural design process including the application of management, technology and preparation of drawings and specifications.
You'll gain a technical understanding of the fundamentals of construction technology, environmental and sustainable issues, modern methods of construction and construction project management.
The course will provide you with the knowledge, understanding and skills required to take on vocational roles such as architectural technicians, providing technical support to Architects and Architectural Technologists.
This highly vocational qualification will provide you with the knowledge required to take up a position in the construction industry and will also provide a progression route onto professionally accredited courses within including the BSc (Hons) Architectural Design Technology .
Current industry practice is studied as part of the course which will allow you to examine issues relating to construction regulations, methods and environmental impact.
In addition you will develop practical skills in implementing emerging design techniques such as Building Information Modelling (BIM) to support your projects.
These skills will enable you to provide, co-ordinate and communicate innovative solutions.
Throughout your course, you'll have the opportunity to examine the process of design, the factors that affect it and the communication methods available - including how to produce accurate and professional 2D drawings.
You will also learn the process of creating professional-quality 2D and 3D digital models using industry standard software tools such as AutoCAD and Revit.
You will have the opportunity to put these skills into practice and use various communication methods to assess the impact of architectural solutions on existing settings.
BIM Technician
Support the development and management of digital models for building projects using BIM tools.
The course has both a theoretical and practical content that brings together a range of skills and subjects including design, new technology, construction methods and sustainability.
Consequently the course should be of interest to existing skilled technicians and those interested in furthering their career opportunities.
The course is taught by staff with industry experience using a combination of methods that match professional practice, including studio and drawing office sessions and using the latest Computer Aided Design (CAD) software to communicate design schemes.
We have developed this course with input from industry professionals to ensure that it is up to date and meets industry needs.
And all of these state-of-the-art facilities are home to our Architecture and Built Environment students!
Typical Entry Requirements
You will be required to attend an interview, where a sample of your work will be reviewed and you will have the opportunity to visit our excellent facilities.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-business-and-accounting:
Financial analysis and general business awareness are at the heart of this joint degree course.
The course is designed to allow students to develop an awareness of modern business practice through practical activities which aim to equip students with a holistic understanding of how an organisation functions, with specific emphasis on accounting and financial record keeping.
A practical and practice-based programme, this course will equip students with the agile, reflexive and critical thinking skills which are vital for success in modern organisations.
Emphasis will be given to the rapidly evolving financial landscape post-pandemic through both teaching material and real-world examples.
Through the use of a wide range of concepts, approaches, critical reflection and e-learning forums the course is designed to equip students with a range of personal and intellectual skills in preparation for a career in accounting and general management fields.
You will acquire core financial skills through case studies, online activities and live projects, through interactions with guest speakers from the financial and business world and through reflecting on your own practice.
Specifically, the course will create business managers who have an in-depth knowledge of accounting techniques which should be valuable both in general management and within the financial and accountancy services sector.
The degree can also be used as the basis for postgraduate study in the area of finance and general business management for example the Business School has an MSc Finance & Accounting which dovetails in with the knowledge and skills obtained on this programme.
Our purpose-built Business School, the Lord Swraj Paul Building, sits at the heart of the University's City Campus - Molineux, right next to Wolverhampton Wanderers' Molineux Stadium.
The six-storey centre is home to an executive education suite, innovative teaching and learning spaces, an IT suite, consulting rooms and a central social space and café.
Studying with the Business School gives you a head start in your career through offering:
Professional body exemptions - The course provides the opportunity to gain exemptions for Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) which will make you attractive to employers as you will be a significant way towards becoming a fully qualified accountant.
Internships - You can choose to gain valuable work experience through taking an internship (sandwich placement) as part of your programme of study.
Full support in preparing and securing internships is provided through our dedicated support team.
Study abroad - You can choose to undertake one semester or a full year study abroad at one of our EU partners, as part of your programme of study.
Working with real managers - We find many opportunities for you to work with practising managers, from company projects, guest lectures and site visits through to short internships or full year long sandwich placements.
Developing real business skills - Studying at Wolverhampton will allow you to develop the skills businesses demand including IT, project management, team working and leadership.
Careers support and guidance - You will be able to gain an Employability Award.
Having developed your CV and enhanced your interview skills you will be able to undertake a short internship to prepare yourself to gain employment on graduation.
Volunteering - You can gain valuable employability skills through volunteering.
Opportunities exist for you to work with voluntary organisations.
Starting your own business - Not only will you develop the business acumen necessary to start and manage your own business but ongoing support is available both during your studies and on graduation to help you make a success of your business start-up.
Management mentors - You will have the opportunity to be mentored by a senior manager from the region through our Institute of Directors mentoring scheme or alumni.
This module is designed to give you a basic introduction to cost and management accounting techniques.
In this module you will learn different techniques of accounting for costs and how to use this information to analyse different financial situations and produce information that will help decision-making.
This module develops knowledge and understanding of the workings of the market economy, as well as the role of government within the system.
The economic environment within which business organisations operate will be explored and those economic factors that influence the behaviour and performance of firms and industries identified.
This will include: a microeconomic perspective, which deals with firms, markets and customers; and a macroeconomic perspective, which considers the impact of changes in the national and international economies on business organisations and their stakeholders
This module will explore what it takes for a business to be innovative; as you will be introduced to various theoretical views and opinions in the areas of creativity, innovation and enterprise.
Those who study this module will be challenged to consider where, how and why ideas are generated; how ideas are implemented; and who and what type of people/teams develop new ideas.
This module will introduce students to responsible business practices with an emphasis on professional, moral and personal responsibility.
This module will encourage the development of personal and professional development skills and self-reflection as a personal development tool.
This module focuses on the theme of Budgeting and Financial Control.
Developing from the basic budgeting covered in Level 4, this module will introduce students to Revenue and Capital budgeting.
It also introduces techniques of budget monitoring and standard costing  and discusses their use as a form of financial control.
The module will then critique budgeting practices and discuss possible alternatives.
This module explores the customer journey from prospect or enquiry to loyal customer or advocate.
In this module, students will learn about the marketing strategies and tactics involved in attracting new customers and keeping them.
Research suggests it can cost between 5 and 10 times as much to acquire a new customer as it does to retain an existing customer, with the commonly quoted average being 7 times more expensive to acquire a new customer.
So why do so many companies spend more time chasing new customers than keeping existing ones?
This is the paradox of customer retention and acquisition.
This module will enable students to understand the role of customer acquisition and retention in designing contemporary marketing strategies for organisations.
Students will gain practical experience of planning marketing campaigns designed to attract, win and retain customers.
This module follows on from Financial Accounting Principles  at level four, in its focus on financial accounts.
The module continues to develop the themes of conceptual and practical aspects of financial accounting, focusing in more detail upon specific, significant accounting rules and regulations.
Students will study some key financial accounting standards and concepts learning the different methods of application.
This module provides a solid framework of the principles of UK taxes affecting individuals – covering income tax and capital gains tax.
It also introduces basic tax planning techniques to assist in decision making and strategic planning.
In this module you will learn how to calculate individual and sole trader tax liabilities, as well as start to understand some of the principles underpinning tax planning.
It is therefore a very practical module designed to give students a working knowledge of UK tax.
The aim of this module is to develop students’ understanding of management and leadership principles, and to explore the influence various leadership and management approaches have on key Human Resource Management functions, including Change Management.
Through the study of emerging leadership concepts, such as super-leadership, students will develop an appreciation for the development of self as a method to support others in their development.
Reflective practice underpins the module to support students in assessing their own approach to learning and development.
The module aims to give a practical insight to the Auditing process followed by auditors and the reporting context.
The ethical background and regulatory framework of auditors and the corporate governance requirements for their clients will be considered.
The process of evaluating audit risk and the organisation’s internal control system to determine their impact on audit planning will be determined in case study scenarios.
Finally, the use of a variety of audit techniques to collect reliable and sufficient audit evidence to support appropriate audit report opinions will be considered.
This module provides a solid framework of the principles of UK taxes affecting companies– covering Corporation Tax, Chargeable gains and VAT.
This is an essentially practical module which focuses on the calculation of the tax liabilities generated by  corporate decisions and corporate activities as well as introducing  basic tax planning techniques to assist in corporate decision making and strategic planning.
The ability to effectively communicate with all internal and external stakeholders is key for business leaders.
The business environment is in constant flux and it is important to be able to navigate this space, whilst building relationships and networks.
This module will explore key communication and human resources theories and provide students with the tools to assess and develop their own communication skills.
The Professional Project capstone module is an independent study unit.
Students will be able to draw together learning form their previous subjects, focusing on their key strengths, in the production of a business artefact.
Alongside the artefact students will develop a written critical reflection, which is designed elucidate their rational for choice of artefact and reflect on the process of its production and dissemination.
Business Advisor
Business Manager
Account Manager
Management consultant
Your learning experience at the Business School will be enhanced by:
Tutors who know about business - The tutors on this programme will have had experience as practicing managers, have worked with business in an advisory capacity or will be researching business and management in order that what you learn is current, leading edge thinking which has real relevance to the world of business.
A friendly and supportive environment - We are known for the support we provide to our students.
Whether pastoral or study advice your personal tutor and course leader are there to give you the support you need, when you need it.
Blended learning - The School has developed a blended learning approach where lecture and tutorial activities are supported by online learning to become a seamless learning experience both in and outside the classroom.
Flexibility - The programme offered gives you flexibility over your study options as you progress and develop, whether this is choosing to study abroad or take an internship or being able to move between the courses we offer.
Professional body informed programmes - The school has strong professional body links and these are used to inform the curriculum to ensure they reflect the latest professional thinking and standards and to maximise the exemptions and accreditation you will gain alongside studying your programme.
Internationalisation - Our international student and staff body and a curriculum underpinned by internationalisation will enable you to learn how to operate in a global business environment.
At the end of this course you will be able to:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-business-and-accounting-with-sandwich-placement:
Through the use of a wide range of concepts, approaches, critical reflection and e-learning forums the course is designed to equip students with a range of personal and intellectual skills in preparation for a career in accounting and general management fields.
You will acquire core financial skills through case studies, online activities and live projects, through interactions with guest speakers from the financial and business world and through reflecting on your own practice.
Specifically, the course will create business managers who have an in-depth knowledge of accounting techniques which should be valuable both in general management and within the financial and accountancy services sector.
The degree can also be used as the basis for postgraduate study in the area of finance and general business management for example the Business School has an MSc Finance & Accounting which dovetails in with the knowledge and skills obtained on this programme.
On a sandwich course, your third year will be a supervised placement.
This gives you the opportunity to apply and develop the knowledge and skills you have gained in the first two years of your course, before you move on to your final year.
Starting your own business - Not only will you develop the business acumen necessary to start and manage your own business but on-going support is available both during your studies and on graduation to help you make a success of your business start-up.
Management Consultant

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-business-and-marketing-management:
This course provides you with the knowledge and understanding of the activities required to manage a business, and to ensure that it prospers, in a dynamic global business environment.
The BA (Hons) in Business and Marketing Management at the University of Wolverhampton is an excellent choice for students seeking to develop their knowledge and skills in this highly competitive field.
With a focus on both theoretical and practical elements, this three-year course provides an in-depth exploration into the complexities of business management, marketing strategies and leadership techniques.
Our business and marketing management course provides you with the knowledge and understanding of the activities required to manage a business, and to ensure that it prospers, in a dynamic global business environment.
It will also enable students to understand key marketing theories and their strategic applications to organisations operating within a highly digitised and challenging global business environment can be applied.
Upon completion of our BA (Hons) Business and Marketing Management degree, students will gain an invaluable understanding of the key principles, strategies, and tools used in modern business and marketing.
From developing effective business plans to implementing innovative approaches, graduates will be able to confidently apply their acquired knowledge into any professional setting.
Furthermore, the course includes practical elements, which gives students hands-on experience in simulated business scenarios as well as direct contact with industry experts.
The diversity of topic areas covered in the study programme will allow you to develop your own understanding of collective responsibilities as global citizens within local, national, and international communities.
Our business and marketing course will:
provide you with the knowledge of the activities required to manage a business and ensure its longevity.
emphasise the role of marketing in underpinning the success of business organisations, while placing this role in the context of other business functions such as finance and human resource management.
help you understand the various types of environment within which a business operates.
help you advance your ICT skills through the use of application software and digital technologies
You will also investigate issues such as the types of competition that a business will face from their rivals, being aware of the role of stakeholders in the operation of a business and consider how changes in society may impact on the market for a product.
The content of the business management course will be delivered using a wide range of approaches and you will be encouraged to use e-learning forums to interact with staff and other students.
During this course, you will have the opportunity to:
advance your ICT skills through the use of application software and digital technologies.
develop your own understanding of collective responsibilities as global citizens within local, nation and international communities through the diversity of topic areas covered.
pursue a one-year work placement, either in the UK or internationally.
You will have the opportunity to pursue a one-year work placement in employment, either in the UK or abroad.
Accredited Chartered Institute of Marketing centre
On successful completion of the BA (Hons) Business and Marketing Management course, students will be eligible for exemptions from some modules on the CIM Certificate and Diploma qualifications.
This will enable students to gain these valuable industry-recognised qualifications in significantly less time and at a reduced cost.
Graduates from this course will be able to continue to complete the CIM professional qualifications or study our MSc Digital Marketing Management course.
The wide range of relevant skills gained by the end of the course would provide you with opportunities to progress into various business and marketing management positions.
The content of the course will be delivered using a wide range of approaches and you will be encouraged to use e-learning forums to interact with staff and other students.
6th in the UK for Business and Management courses (The Guardian University Guide 2025)
BA (Hons) Business and Marketing Management is a 3-year marketing course.
Each year is comprised of two semesters and every semester contains two 30 credit modules.
As we focus on employability, we aim to teach you the marketing skills which marketing employers are looking for in a marketing graduate.
This undergraduate degree enhances your knowledge and experience in business and marketing across several core areas of study and development:
Basics of marketing
Marketing tools
Key marketing skills
Networking
Online personal branding
The IoD Student Mentoring Scheme
WLV Marketing Bootcamp
You start your marketing course learning the basics of marketing management.
Similarly, in all other further modules you will explore key marketing and management theories and their application in order to solve real-time business issues, such as website development and design, search engine marketing (SEM), search engine optimisation (SEO), content marketing, consumer behaviour, green and ethical marketing, data analytics, management and leadership, and finally digital marketing.
The marketing industry is heavily relying on marketing tools to make internal and external processes seamless.
We have embedded some of these key marketing tools into our modules to prepare you for the industry, such as content management systems (CMS), search engine optimisation (SEO) tools, keyword analysis tools, email marketing tools, advertisement tools, social media management tools, marketing research tools, data analytics tools and search engine tools.
We are fully aware of marketing trends and expectations of marketing employers.
According to the CMO survey and the Chartered Marketing Institute, marketing experts think that website optimisation, digital media and search, direct digital marketing to customers, data analytics, MarTech systems/platforms, online experimentations and/or A/B testing, customer relationship management (CRM) and user experience are some of the key marketing skills.
We have strong links with the industry and there are many businesses working with us.
We also have some consultancy style modules where you get to work with real-time businesses as a marketing student to solve their real-time marketing issues.
Moreover, we also invite marketing experts in our modules to talk about key marketing issues in the industry.
These modules help you network with marketing experts.
This networking could bring a lot of opportunities for you in the form of jobs, work placements, and internships.
In your final year you will develop your own online personal brand with the use of social media platforms.
This part of the course helps you identify the industry route you want to take, your strengths and weaknesses, career opportunities, competition in the industry, development of your online presence and finally set your short-term and long-term objectives.
A fantastic opportunity for our final year marketing students to join a mentoring scheme connected to the IoD (Institute of Directors) to help you get ahead on the career ladder.
You will be able to get advice and encouragement from a senior manager, director or chief executive.
WLV Marketing Bootcamp is a series of hour-long marketing events.
We invite marketing experts from industry and academia to talk about contemporary issues in marketing.
We also give opportunities to our marketing students to share their marketing experience and share the stage with experts.
We also organise marketing workshops to provide hands-on training on different digital marketing tools.
The module is sectioned into two parts.
The first part of the module aims to provide students with a practical understanding of the digital business, the need for digital transformation to support innovation and to continue to have a competitive advantage in the marketplace.
The various digital business models are explored along with the importance of digital capability.
The second part of the module introduces students to the information systems that support todays digital business.
A range of information systems are examined including those that support the operations of the digital business, through to its sales and marketing functions.
The importance big data and business intelligence are introduced before examining how today’s digital business can apply business intelligence to develop new products and services long with improvements in efficiency and its business processes.
This module provides students with knowledge of frameworks to understand the importance of marketing and digital marketing tools within the business environment.
Activities will provide students with the opportunity to understand the marketing concepts an organisation will need to use in order to compete in today's dynamic market place.
This module will further engage students towards developing a clear understanding of some these key issues and apply concepts and techniques discussed during the sessions and through independent academic research.
Website Development and Design will examine the creation and management of a website, as well monitoring and measuring its performance.
This includes measurement of digital marketing activities such as Search engine  Optimisation (SEO), Keyword analysis, Marketing Mix, Competitor Analysis, developing a buyer persona, Social Media Integration, Email Marketing, Online Advertisements and Key performance indicators (KPIs).
Students will gain practical experience of using the latest techniques for measuring and analysing digital performance.
Todays contemporary market spaces are highly competitive and turbulent.
It is important that organisations are creative and adopt an innovative approach to marketing, in order to maximise their competitiveness and enhance their capabilities.
This module develops an understanding as to what drives innovation and disruption across a range of industries, and the relationship between marketing and innovation.
This module will develop your communication and practical skills to cultivate and implement marketing innovations, and develop capabilities.
You will explore online and offline tools to support specific innovations
This module will provide the student with understanding market research methods and analysis of data and evaluation of information relevant to Marketing planning and financial decisions.
It will provide the student with an understanding of the complexities of a Marketing plan and steps taken in developing a plan for a range of business organisations.
The module will develop students understandings of the processes and methods used in pricing, monitoring, implementing, and controlling a Marketing plan.
Marketing and Digital Strategy explores the complexities of a strategic marketing approach that every organisation needs to employ to develop and sustain competitive advantage.
A critical appreciation of the external and internal elements that influence strategic decisions and how organisations create and sustain competitive advantage.
The module expands the knowledge and understanding of traditional and digital marketing.
A critical understanding of the strategic positioning of products and brands offline vs online.
It will also assess the role of marketing from a strategic perspective.
This module will examine the role of social media, search engine and freelance marketing in targeting and communications.
The module will also examine the strategic and practical application of social media and freelance platforms, with particular focus on competitor analysis.
Students will gain exposure to digital marketing tools, and develop capabilities in Search Engine Optimisation (SEO), Keyword Research, Search Engine Marketing (SEM) and Content Marketing.
Students on this module will benefit from guest speakers who will share their knowledge and experience in the field of social media and freelance marketing.
At the end of this course you, the student, will be able to:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-business-and-tourism-management:
The course is designed to allow you to develop an awareness of modern tourism business practice through practical activities which aim to equip you with a holistic understanding of how tourism businesses and destinations function.
NSS, 2025:
Sustainable, resilient and reflexive thinking skills are at the heart of this tourism management programme.
A practical and practice-based programme, this course will equip you with the agile, reflexive and critical thinking skills which are vital for success in tourism organisations.
The course is based around four core pillars of being digital, sustainable, innovative and responsible tourism professionals.
You will explore the functional areas of tourism through these themes giving an immersive experience which will result in a thorough understanding of the challenges and opportunities faced by tourism organisations and destinations in the 21 st century.
The University is an Institute of Travel and Tourism (ITT) Centre of Excellence which recognises leading universities who work particularly closely with the Institute to develop and maintain high professional standards throughout the travel and tourism industry.
The tourism course will grant an annual ITT Centre of Excellence Student of the Year award to a student identified by the university.
The course is also aligned to membership with the Association of British Travel Agents (ABTA), providing you with the opportunity to access vital industry information and webinars.
ABTA also facilitate an internship programme which you have the opportunity to apply for in the final year of your degree.
By studying the BA Tourism Management degree at the University of Wolverhampton, you will learn about and experience the range of issues and opportunities that affect this dynamic and fast-paced sector.
Within a highly supportive, student-focused environment, you will learn about critical topics such as destination sustainability and resilience, tourism placemaking and customer experience and relationship management.
This course is designed to meet the increasing demand worldwide for graduates, who possess the required competencies and knowledge to operate in multiple parts of the global Tourism industry and beyond.
Working closely with our industry partners, ABTA and The Institute for Travel and Tourism (ITT), we’ll provide you with a range of opportunities to apply your academic studies to what is happening in the industry right now.
As an ITT Centre of Excellence, we will bring exciting experiences, such as the ITT Future You Conference direct to our city centre based campus.
Throughout your degree, you will also acquire a range of transferrable skills, which graduates from this subject discipline are expected to possess, effectively preparing you for a career in the UK tourism industry or abroad.
The demand for tourism products is returning at pace, and tourism professionals are needed to help with the rebuilding of this amazing industry!
Why not become one of them by achieving your tourism degree with us?
We can’t wait to meet you and help you to unlock your potential!
Our new, purpose-built Business School, the Lord Swraj Paul Building, sits at the heart of the University's City Campus - Molineux, right next to Wolverhampton Wanderers' Molineux Stadium.
Take a tour.
This module aims to introduce tourism students to the range of theories and concepts in sociology, culture and planning as they relate to tourism and tourism destinations.
The module will focus on how tourism can engender a sense of placemaking and identity formation through regeneration and creative practices.
This is an introductory module to tourism and the tourism industry.
It provides an overview of the basic concepts and principles of tourism as an industry and subject of study.
The module draws upon the multidisciplinary nature of tourism exploring and applying perspectives from history, geography, psychology, business and economics.
The module provides an analysis of marketing and management in tourism destinations.
The module explores the role of marketing in destination development and draws upon challenges facing destination marketing/management organisations (DMOs) in analysing increasingly complex tourism market structures and external trends.
The researching and selecting of marketing opportunities and threats will be investigated.
Specific treatment will be given to the analysis of creative marketing aspects including destination product development, positioning, image generation and branding.
The module will also examine different tourism planning approaches and discuss their role within the context of destination development.
The aim of this module is to provide an introduction of a range of financial and accounting skills to the business students, which will help their understanding and managerial decision making skills.
Learners will evaluate the organisation’ financial statements, identify the principles for setting and managing budgets and understand finance within the organisation.
This module has been designed to enhance the learner’s confidence and credibility in financial management, which will translate into improved management skills
This module will introduce students to contemporary research topics in Leisure through a lens of research approaches.
The module is designed to flexibly incorporate emerging concepts and context in leisure research.
The contemporary themes within the module will explore a variety of academic debates and industry issues at local, national and international levels.
Tourism is impacted upon by a number of external factors and events including terrorism, war, financial crisis, pandemics and natural disasters.
Furthermore, the economic, social and environmental impacts of tourism results in destinations needing to develop sustainable strategies that consider tourisms resulting impact.
The module critically explores strategy and management plans for ensuring long term sustainability and resilience in destinations.
Tourism can both influence and be influenced by a number of external market trends.
A deep analysis of these trends will equip you with the skills and knowledge to exploit market trends as they arise in the future.
The module explores and investigates different market trends in tourism analysing their emergence and growth.
The module will also analyse and appraise products and destinations that are emerging in tourism.
The strategic business module will equip students with the knowledge required to make strategic decisions at both a corporate and functional level.
Students will also develop the skills required to evaluate the success of implemented strategy within an organisational context.
This will inform decision making at a corporate and functional level.
Tour Operations
Destination manager
Marketing
Business Analytics
Information management
Digital business roles
2020 Entry

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-business-management:
Our stimulating business management course provides students with an in-depth study of general business and management.
The Guardian University Guide 2025
95.6% of students were satisfied with how their course introduces subjects and skills in a way that builds on what they have already learned.
(NSS, 2025)
The course will develop analysis and evaluation skills that can be applied to real-world situations.
The four key areas that underpin this programme are:
During our business management degree, you will explore the functional areas of business, such as management, marketing, human resources, finance and operations, through the lens of the four main themes which run throughout the programme.
Entrepreneurship is a vital driver of successful economic growth and progressive organisational thinking is the bedrock of this programme.
You will develop knowledge and understanding of a range of management and business practices and the ability to apply them effectively in an entrepreneurial and innovative manner.
Independent and transferable personal development skills also take a key focus , and you will have the opportunity to develop them through interactive learning activities and self-reflection.
You will acquire core business skills through case studies, online activities and live projects, through interactions with entrepreneurs and business speakers, and through reflecting on your own practice.
All students have the opportunity to take an optional placement year which provides valuable work experience and significantly improves their employability on graduation.
The course aims to supply future managers and professionals to various business and management sectors as well as to provide key knowledge, skills and attributes that are vital to modern organisations so that our course is making a real difference to our graduates and business alike.
The Chartered Management Institute (CMI) is the Chartered Body for Management and Leadership disciplines.
For 75 years the body has worked with business and education to equip people with the skills and confidence required to be successful managers and leaders (CMI, 2022) The BA Business and Management course at Wolverhampton University is accredited to this body.
It is an internationally recognised organisation whose courses, membership and research are valued by a vast quantity of organisations (Ibid).
One of the main benefits of studying a CMI accredited qualification is that it enhances student employability; the body’s research suggests that 58% of graduates from a CMI Accredited degree were in professional roles within six months of degree completion (CMI, 2022).
The key word to focus upon here is “professional.” Many graduates gain employment following degree completion but not necessarily at the level of the organisational hierarchy that they had envisaged (Radermacher et al., 2014).
It is often stated that graduates aren’t recruited to managerial job roles due to a lack of practical experience (Ibid).
Studying a degree accredited by the CMI helps to resolve this difficulty by enhancing student’s practical skills.
Research conducted by the CMI (2022) suggested that 81% of students on CMI accredited courses recognised their ability to develop people and capabilities.
The BA Business management course is designed with the above principles in mind.
A variety of teaching and assessment methods are utilised with an emphasis upon the development of workplace skills including: problem-solving, team building and the development of emotional intelligence.
These soft skills can be neglected when utilising a traditional exam based structure (Hora et al., 2018; Cotronei-Baird, 2020).
The CMI also offer regular networking opportunities, which provide students with possible avenues to enhance their work place prospects (CMI, 2022).
To summarise the BA Business management course provides a stimulating academic experience whilst still developing practical work based skills, desired by the modern employer.
The course offers you the option of specialising in your final year by opting for a bracketed award in human resources, enterprise, or marketing.
Our business courses are hosted in our new, purpose-built Business School, the Lord Swraj Paul Building which sits at the heart of the University's City Campus - Molineux, right next to Wolverhampton Wanderers' Molineux Stadium.
At the business school we have many esteemed alumni including, Adnan Ali Cassim who graduated in 2016 and is now a deputy chief sub editor.
See what Adnan has to say about his experience studying our business management degree.
Accredited by The Chartered Management Institute (CMI) is the Chartered Body for Management and Leadership disciplines.
The University of Wolverhampton is 6th in the UK for Business and Management courses (The Guardian University Guide 2025)
The course offers you the option of specialising in your final year by opting for a bracketed award in human resources, enterprise, or marketing...
Our business management course is designed for students who want to embark on an in-depth study of Business Management with the opportunity to specialise in the final year in Enterprise .
The course provides students with the opportunity to study enterprise across wide and diverse disciplines; to learn enterprising skills and techniques; to enhance their employability potential and to aim for future success.
Many people have entrepreneurial talent that is often hidden and remains unchallenged.
This course enables you to identify, release and apply your enterprise talent in practical and beneficial ways that will inspire you towards achieving your personal ambitions and future career success.
The course recognises that entrepreneurship is a key force for successful economic growth and thus the course emphasises the development of knowledge and understanding of a range of management and business practices and the ability to apply them effectively in an entrepreneurial and innovative manner.
The specialised Enterprise route is not a standalone course.
This route is the final year of your overall BA (Hons) Business Management or BA (Hons) Business Management with Sandwich placement courses.
The course is designed for students who want to embark on an in-depth study of Business Management with the opportunity to specialise in the final year in Human Resource Management .
The course provides an opportunity for students to examine the importance of the human resources profession in developing the structure and strategy of organisations with an aim to prepare students for a professional career in Human Resource management.
The course recognises that people management is a key force for successful economic growth and thus emphasises the development of knowledge and understanding of advanced human resource management concepts and business practices and the ability to apply them effectively in an innovative manner.
The specialised Human Resources route is not a standalone course.
The course is designed for students who want to embark on an in-depth study of Business Management with the opportunity to specialise in the final year in Marketing.
While students develop analysis and evaluation skills as part of their overall BA Business Management course, this course is an opportunity to learn advanced marketing concepts and build a strong foundation for a career in Marketing.
The course emphasises on the development of knowledge and understanding for a range of advanced marketing concepts and business practices and the ability to apply them effectively in an innovative manner.
The specialised Marketing route is not a standalone course.
Placements are offered within the BA (Hons) Business Management with Sandwich placement , however we also offer experiences with many local and national business firms throughout the course.
There are many undergraduate courses available at our Business School, in subjects such as Business, Management, Leadership, Digital Marketing Management, Business Analytics, Innovation, Entrepreneurship, Finance, Accounting and Economics.
Browse our undergraduate Business School courses here.
As awareness of climate change, resource scarcity, environmental impact and social inequality rises, businesses are being held increasingly to account by consumers, governments and stakeholders.
This module will introduce students to concepts of sustainability within a range of Business contexts.
This module explores operations and supply chain management alongside the foundational principles of project management.
Designed to furnish students with the requisite skills, this module facilitates an in-depth analysis of contemporary challenges prevalent in business operations and supply chains.
It provides a comprehensive understanding of how businesses navigate these challenges, ensuring the seamless delivery of goods and services that meet customers' needs while embracing lean and capacity management methodologies.
Furthermore, the module sharpens students' teamwork and communication skills within a project environment.
Students emerge adept at defining, planning, and controlling projects throughout their life cycles, deftly balancing competing performance objectives and stakeholder requirements.
The curriculum includes an exhaustive examination of project planning tools such as the Gantt chart, Stakeholder analyses, risk planning, and critical path analysis, enhancing students' analytical capabilities.
The Organisational Behaviour module explores current knowledge around behaviour in contemporary organisations.
This module explores areas from an individual employee and manager perspective.
Students will engage with topics such as Identity, Power, Gender, Motivation, Change and Ethics.
This list is not exhaustive but indicative only.
Students will explore these topics from a critical, and in some instances, post-structuralist perspective.
The aim of the module is to equip students with a fundamental grounding in Organisational Behaviour in order to help them develop as managers of the future.
Human resource management
Marketing Manager
Consultant
Operations Manager
Entrepreneur
Studying this course will allow you to:
Accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI).

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-business-management-with-foundation-year:
This exciting and innovative general business programme is designed for students who want to embark on an in-depth study of business and management to develop analysis and evaluation skills that can be applied to real-world situations.
The Foundation Year (level 3) is designed to equip applicants who do not have the required qualifications to enter directly onto level 4, with a robust toolkit of the academic, digital and personal skills required for successful study in Higher Education and with an understanding of, and insight to, the business discipline.
Successful completion of the Foundation Year will allow progression onto level 4 of BA (Hons) Business Management or any degree in the Business School portfolio .
Innovation and enterprise; sustainability; responsibility and professionalism; and digitalisation underpin this programme: You will explore the functional areas of business, such as management, marketing, human resources, finance and operations, through the lens of these four main themes which run throughout the programme.
Entrepreneurship is a key force for successful economic growth and entrepreneurial thinking is at the heart of this programme in which you will develop knowledge and understanding of a range of management and business practices and the ability to apply them effectively in an entrepreneurial and innovative manner.
Independent and transferable personal development skills are vital in business, and you will have the opportunity to develop them through interactive learning activities and self-reflection to enable you to develop the professional skills required in the workplace.
All students have the opportunity to take an optional placement year which provides valuable workplace experience and significantly improves your employability on graduation.
The course aims to supply future managers and professionals to various business and management sectors as well as to provide key knowledge, skills and attributes that are vital to modern organisations.
Year 1 (Level 3) Modules
21st Century Management
Preparing for success at University
Principles of Business
Project based learning
Year 2 (Level 4) modules
The Responsible Business
An introduction to responsible business practices with an emphasis on professional, moral, and personal responsibility.
The Innovative Business
Exploring what it takes for a business to be innovative; you will be introduced to various theoretical views and opinions in the areas of creativity, innovation, and enterprise.
You will be challenged to consider where, how and why ideas are generated; how ideas are implemented; and who and what type of people/teams develop innovative ideas.
The Sustainable Business
As awareness of climate change, resource scarcity, environmental impact and social inequality rises, businesses are increasingly being held accountable by consumers, governments, and other stakeholders.
The module provides a holistic view of sustainability through a global lens where you will learn how the aforementioned factors impact the way we live and how businesses operate.
Learning how businesses adopt sustainable strategies across their various business functions such as marketing, supply chain and HR, you will also explore the macro and micro influences that impact these strategies.
Overall, the module will help create awareness of corporate as well as individual social responsibility through use of international case studies.
The Digital Business
The first part of this module aims to provide a practical understanding of the digital business, the need for digital transformation to support innovation and to continue to have a competitive advantage in the marketplace.
The second part of the module introduces you to the information systems that support today's digital business.
The importance of big data and business intelligence are introduced before examining how today’s digital business can apply business intelligence to develop new products and services along with improvements in efficiency and its business processes.
Year 3 (Level 5) modules
Customer Acquisition and Retention
Exploring the customer journey from prospect or enquiry to loyal customer or advocate, you will learn about the marketing strategies and tactics involved in attracting new customers and retaining them.
Research suggests it can cost between 5 and 10 times as much to acquire a new customer as it does to retain an existing one, with the commonly quoted average being 7 times more expensive to acquire a new customer.
This module will enable you to understand the role of customer acquisition and retention in designing contemporary marketing strategies for organisations.
You will gain practical experience of planning marketing campaigns designed to attract, win, and retain customers.
The Professional Manager and Leadership
The aim of this module is to develop your understanding of management and leadership principles, and to explore the influence various leadership and management approaches have on key human resource management functions, including change management.
Through the study of emerging leadership concepts, such as super leadership, you will develop an appreciation for the development of self as a method to support others in their development.
Reflective practice underpins the module to support you in assessing your own approach to learning and development.
Operations and Project Planning
Exploring operations and supply chain management, as well as the fundamentals of project management, this module aims to give you the skills required to analyse contemporary issues facing business operations and supply chain.
It also exposes you to the understanding of how businesses mitigate these issues to deliver goods and services of the quality and of the right quantity to satisfy customers’ need while adopting lean business approaches.
Equipping you with team working and communication skills in a project environment, you will be able to define, plan and control projects through their life cycle, while balancing competing performance objectives and managing competing stakeholder requirements.
Detailed study of management tools such as critical path analysis and PERT will be undertaken.
Managing Finance and Accounts
The aim of this module is to provide an introduction of a range of financial and accounting skills to business students, to help their understanding and managerial decision-making skills.
You will evaluate the organisation’ financial statements, identify the principles for setting and managing budgets and understand finance within the organisation.
This module has been designed to enhance your confidence and credibility in financial management, which will translate into improved management skills.
Year 4 (Level 6) modules
The Strategic Business
The strategic business module will equip you to make strategic decisions at both a corporate and functional level.
You will develop the skills required to evaluate the success of implemented strategy which will inform decision making at a corporate and functional level.
Organisational Behaviour
Exploring current knowledge around behaviour in contemporary organisations, this module explores areas from an individual employee and manager perspective.
You will engage with topics such as identity, power, gender, motivation, change, and ethics, from a critical, and in some instances, post-structuralist perspective.
The aim of the module is to equip you with a fundamental grounding in organisational behaviour to help you develop into a manager of the future.
The Professional Project
On this independent study unit, you will draw learning from previous subjects, focusing on your key strengths, in the production of a business artefact.
Alongside the artefact, you will develop a written critical reflection, which is designed to explain your choice of artefact and reflect on the process of its production and dissemination.
The Business Communicator
The business environment is in constant flux, and it is important to be able to navigate this space, whilst building relationships and networks.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-business-management-with-sandwich-placement:
This course adds a placement year to our Business Management degree programme.
This provides valuable workplace experience and significantly improves your employability on graduation.
On a sandwich course, your third year will be a supervised placement, giving  you the opportunity to apply and develop the knowledge and skills gained in the first two years of your course, before you move on to your final year.
One of the main benefits of studying a CMI accredited qualification is that it enhances student employability; the body’s research suggests that 58% of graduates from a CMI Accredited degree were in professional roles within six months of degree completion.
Year 1 (Level 4) modules
Year 2 (Level 5) modules
Year 3 (Level 6) modules
Enterprise
The course is designed for students who want to embark on an in-depth study of Business Management with the opportunity to specialise in the final year in Enterprise .
HR
Human resource management, marketing manager, project manager, consultant, freelance worker, strategist, operations manager, entrepreneur, business analyst

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-economics-and-business:
The BA (Hons) Economics and Business degree from the University of Wolverhampton aims to provide you with a strong background in economic principles as well as knowledge and understanding of the key requirements of successful business organisations with an international perspective.
Our economics and business degree equips students with a core understanding of the relationship between economics and business.
Students will gain a solid foundation in economic theories and principles, as well as practical skills in business management, marketing, accounting, and finance.
BA Economics and Business provides a solid foundation in economic principles and successful business practices, with an emphasis on international perspectives.
Students will gain practical skills in business management, marketing, accounting, and finance, as well as a deep understanding of economic theories and principles.
Studying economics and business offers an exciting opportunity to learn about the complex relationship between these two fields.
Economics provides a theoretical framework for understanding the decisions made by individuals, firms, and governments, while business management provides practical tools for making these decisions.
By combining the two fields, students can develop a comprehensive understanding of the economic and business environment, enabling them to succeed in a rapidly changing global economy.
Through studying a BA Economics and Business degree, you will develop an economic skill set in an applied context, focusing on real-world issues.
The course will enable you to apply theories to organisations operating within the changing global environment and to deal with case studies and real-world business scenarios.
The BA Economics and Business degree is delivered using a wide range of concepts, approaches, research techniques and learning forums.
The course intends to equip you with a range of personal and analytical skills in preparation for a career in economics, business, and general management.
Also, the programme provides an excellent foundation for postgraduate study in economics and business.
Tutors on this programme have experience as practising managers, worked with business in an advisory capacity, or will be researching economics and business.
This degree is delivered in the Lord Swraj Building, which is home to an executive education suite, innovative teaching and learning spaces, an IT suite, consulting rooms, and a central social space and café.
During this degree, you will study a wide range of economics and business modules, with a mix of lectures, seminars and workshops.
There will be opportunities to do exciting group projects and to learn from experts from industry, to gather an in-depth knowledge of economic principles and business functions which are valuable in both the private and public sectors as well as in the non-profit sector.
You will develop an economic and business skill set in an applied context, focusing on real-world issues , and the course’s modules employ a variety of assessment methods, including report writing, essays, portfolios, posters, presentations, in-class tests, time-constrained assignments, and a final research project.
Our purpose-built Business School, the Lord Swraj Paul Building , sits at the heart of the University's City Campus - Molineux , right next to Wolverhampton Wanderers' Molineux Stadium.
Take a tour here .
International economics considers how economies and the global economy have become more interconnected.
In this module, you will study theoretical models of international trade as well as the effects of trade policies such as tariffs and free trade agreements.
You will also explore international macroeconomic issues such as the balance of payments, the foreign exchange market and the links between the exchange rate and macroeconomic activity.
The module will develop student’s awareness of the role of international trade and sustainable development.
Economic data manager
Business growth officer
Business Analyst
Market researcher
Economic policy manager
Your learning experience at the Business School will be enhanced by: Tutors who know about business.
A friendly and supportive environment.
Blended learning.
Flexibility.
Internationalisation.
At the end of this course, you will be able to:
‘”Thanks for being a wonderful economics team and providing us with quality education through the years.
Level 6 Economics student
Level 4 Economics and Business student
Level 5 Economics and Finance student

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-international-business-management:
One of the phenomena of the 21st century has been that of globalisation.
This course will equip you with the knowledge and expertise to manage within this global framework.
As globalisation increases, more organisations have to work beyond their regional boundaries, compete in diverse global environments and find that their traditional domestic markets are open to global challenges.
These organisations need experts who can work across multicultural barriers, develop effective international strategies, and source products internationally.
This course will train you in these business key areas.
An interdisciplinary approach to global citizenship and will help you develop your understanding of complex notions in the international business environment.
Your digital literacy skills will be improved through use of applications software employed by contemporary organisations.
This course will equip you with the knowledge and expertise to manage businesses within the global framework through up-to-date industrial database across countries.
The Lord Swraj building is home to an executive education suite, innovative teaching and learning spaces, an IT suite, consulting rooms and a central social space and café.
Teaching
You will required to locate and evaluate appropriate digital information sources related to the modules on this course via Canvas, the virtual learning environment (VLE) used for teaching, and expected to participate in class and online forums and activities using this platform.
Student participation in a range of in-class and online discussions and activities is expected in order to consider theory and practice related to various topics in the modules taught on the course.
The international nature of this course means that you will be researching and discussing from a range of perspectives the theory and evidence in the context of global business and management.
This will enable you to develop personal and professional values to help you play a substantial role in a global business environment.
Yearly content
The first year of the course is designed to provide you with a practical understanding of responsible business practices, facilitating business activities in a sustainable way that does not ad.versely impact the environment, and the need for digital transformation to support innovation and to continue to have a competitive advantage in the marketplace.
The second year of the course aims to introduce you to the complexity of the contemporary global business environment.
You will be equipped with relevant skills to thrive within this environment.
The knowledge and skills gained this year are in the areas of human resource management, accounting and bookkeeping, operations, supply chain, and project management.
These skills are highly sorted after by employers.
In this year, we begin to build your employability.
The third year of the course will be used to complete your training in becoming a versatile business manager with a high level of critical reasoning.
You will be equipped with the knowledge and skills of strategic business planning and decision-making, using globalisation and international marketing to facilitate business success in an international context.
You will also be required to put all the skill you have learned on the international business management course through the years into a practical business project to graduate.
Employability in the curriculum
This course will equip you with the knowledge and expertise to manage businesses within the global framework through up-to-date industrial database across countries; digital literacy skills through the use of applications software employed by contemporary organisations; the ability to apply management practices effectively in an entrepreneurial and innovative manner.
This course provides access to a range of career opportunities, such as business analyst, operations and supply manager, relationship manager, project managers, and so on under multi-culture and multinational operational settings.
Our  purpose-built Business School, the Lord Swraj Paul Building, sits at the heart of the University's City Campus - Molineux, right next to Wolverhampton Wanderers' Molineux Stadium.
This module will enable students to understand the complexity of the contemporary global business environment.
Drawing perspectives from strategy, economics, and political sciences, and using frameworks and methodologies, students will be able to understand how these factors influence the development of business strategies for the long term.
A global human resources (HR) professional plays an important role in the operations of not only the HR department, but of the entire organization.
HR professionals are high in demand in today’s world where humans are more connected than ever and this module highlights some of the important practices and issues that require consideration when operating within an international environment.
This module develops the students understanding of the complex debate about the scale, nature, causes, consequences, and inevitability of globalisation.
While business rhetoric treats globalisation as a fact of life, serious discussion is required to understand complex controversies over what is happening in international business.
How these are understood will condition our analysis of international business in the decade to come.
In doing so, the module also aims to provide students with basic understanding of the rationale behind the decisions of multinational enterprises (MNEs) in a global business environment.
Students will also critically evaluate how globalisation has been shaping and changing the international business context for MNEs and how MNEs having impact on sustainable global world at both national level on host countries and international level.
International business manager
Project Management
Auditor
98% of our students are happy with the teaching on the course, and 96% are happy with academic support (NSS, 2024).
Students found that our lecturers are stimulating and are good at explaining taught content.
Our students find our lecturers approachable and have benefited from the opportunity to get help on career progression.
Many of our students gain employment in their dream jobs due to the learning gained from our taught modules and the support provided by our lecturers on the course.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-computer-science:
Our BSc (Hons) Computer Science degree course is designed to give students the skills to build a successful career in the international computer industry.
You'll learn under experts with significant research and industry experience, delivering engaging lectures with real-world relevance.
NSS, 2025
The course encompasses the core principles of computer science, integrating these with computer languages, tools, techniques and methodologies used by computer professionals worldwide.
With unrivalled flexibility, the course allows students to forge their own path, specialising in their areas of interest.
Choose from areas including web, databases, and networking to begin building the skills for your dream career.
We also ensure that the course syllabus is regularly updated to reflect current and future developments within the computer science industry.
We also offer a computer science degree with a foundation year for students looking to get a better understanding of the field before progressing to the full degree programme.
Our computer science degree is designed to inspire learning, giving students access to modern facilities, engaging lecturers, professional opportunities, and more.
You’ll also be able to:
Throughout the duration of your course, you will be exposed to a wide range of disciplines relating to computer science.
You will be given the opportunity to develop and enhance your knowledge as a programmer, from fundamental skills to advanced techniques.
This area of the course focuses on problem-solving, teaching students how to develop software that will meet the needs of their future clients.
You will also develop your very own piece of software for your final project.
In addition to programming, you will undertake studies in computer systems engineering and databases.
Throughout the computer science degree course you will also be given opportunities to pursue topics of particular interest to you, with selective modules in areas including digital media, networks, and the internet.
Not only will the programme provide you with the technical skills for a career in computer science, you will engage in studies focused on developing your academic and employability skills.
These skills will be tested and enhanced throughout the course, with ample opportunity to apply your theoretical learning to practical activities.
On completion of the second year of the course, you will have the chance to undertake a placement year and transfer to the BSc (Hons) Computer Science with Sandwich Placement course .
Placement years provide valuable industry insights and real-world experience, allowing you to put learned knowledge into practice and improve your employability further.
You will then return to complete the final year of your computer science degree course.
The course is delivered by experts in their field, and our lecturers have significant research and industrial experience.
Many staff members within the department are also fellows and members of the industry’s professional body, the British Computer Society .
As a student, you’ll benefit from this experience and knowledge throughout the duration of your computer science degree.
In this module, you will learn core mathematical concepts that form the foundation of problem-solving in computer science.
You will explore topics such as Set theory, Relations and Functions, Sequences and Series, Vectors, Matrices and Linear algebra, Differential and Integral calculus, and Graph Theory.
Building on this foundation, you will apply mathematical reasoning to develop algorithms and implement numerical methods for solving real-world problems.
Throughout the module, you will also learn and use Python Programming to translate mathematical ideas into practical computational solutions.
This module is designed to provide students with an understanding of fundamental computing concepts and allow them to use these effectively and efficiently.
The module will allow you to acquire the necessary knowledge and skills for both completing your degree and succeeding at your chosen field of work.
It is designed to be both easy to follow for students with little or no knowledge of the computing concepts to be covered but also to provide additional benefits for students that already have previous experience in the field of computing.
The topics that are covered include Logic and Boolean algebra, Truth tables, Computer Architecture,  Number Systems , Command line management of a computer,  Data processing, Digital Communications , Computer Security and Databases.
This module will enable you to develop skills in the creation of interactive 3D applications and environments.
Interactive 3D is the ability to interact and connect with the 3D digital content and worlds in the same way as the real world.
For example, architects can visualise and walkthrough their building designs, doctors can practise surgery, we can see and customise products we are buying, and instructors can simulate a home and educate people about cybersecurity risks within the home.
We are now in a world where interactive 3D content is the norm.
We all need some understanding of this technology as workers, creators, and customers.
We are going to explore the technology that powers interactive 3D content (i.e., games technology) and the skills that are important for the creation of interactive 3D experiences.
Through the exploration of interactive 3D applications, you will also develop the academic skills needed to successfully study in higher education.
This includes literature searching, academic writing, critical analysis, referencing and working in groups.
This module focuses on how modern software applications are built and structured, with an emphasis on understanding how different layers of hardware and software exchange data over the web via HTTP services.
You will also be introduced to database concepts and technologies.
You will learn to apply them to the development of modern software applications.
This module provides you with an introduction to an industry standard object-oriented programming language (e.g., Java, C#, or C++).
The module will give you an introduction to fundamental programming in an oriented programming language and an understanding of object-oriented programming, common data structures and algorithms.
In this module you will be introduced to the fundamental principles common to modern programming languages so that you are well prepared to learn to write programs in a variety of languages.
Principles include: problem solving, algorithm design and construction (sequence, selection, iteration, object and activity diagrams), variables, data types, assignment operators, logic, the fundamentals of object orientation (objects and classes, attributes and methods, encapsulation), programming pragmatics (style, testing, debugging), and simple data structures (arrays and lists).
This module builds on your programming and algorithm journey from the first year by expanding your knowledge of algorithm structure, programming techniques and data structures.
You will learn about algorithm design, using data structures in algorithms and explore different types of algorithms using mathematical notation.
This module also begins your journey from building serial programs using single threads of execution to concurrency (parallel computing).
You will learn about multi-threading algorithms, the pitfalls of multi-threading (such as deadlocks and race conditions) and how to modify algorithms to avoid them.
Simple methods of measuring performance may be analysed.
This module integrates the subject material studied in other level 4 and 5 modules and gives students experience of developing a software artefact in a team.
Working effectively as part of a team is a key skill in the modern world of software development and IT.
You will learn about team roles, collaboration techniques, software development techniques, project management tools and techniques, documentation, the commercial and economic context of development and information security.
A full stack developer is a person who develops both front end and back-end software.
This module introduces you to a range of tools and techniques for full stack web development.
The lecture material covers the technologies involved in the production and support of secure, dynamic websites using a server-side scripting language and a database.
They also code the design and implementation of a front-end interface.
During workshop sessions, you have the opportunity to practice lecture-taught material to develop your own website.
This module introduces students to the core principles of object-oriented design and programming, using industry methods and techniques to model, analyse, design, and develop software solutions.
Students will build upon foundational programming knowledge to explore advanced concepts, such as encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism, through the lens of the Java programming language.
Key industry-standard methodologies, including version control, testing, and software documentation, will be explored.
A special focus will be placed on integrating modelling practices, to design system architectures and visualize object-oriented structures effectively.
Additionally, students will address security considerations in software design to ensure robust and resilient systems.
This module explores a range of cloud technologies and culminates in a system being developed for and deployed to cloud infrastructure.
This is a technically orientated module where you will learn the principles of a modern networked environment, and how this extends to the internet.
It is a practical orientated view of networks with many opportunities to set up and configure typical network equipment such as switches and routers as used in real networks.
This module provides an overview of various tools, techniques and applications of artificial intelligence.
Through a series of lectures and workshops students will have the opportunity to examine the technologies and implement a practical software AI solution.
The student's portfolio will also offer the chance to research current innovations in the subject and understand why AI is considered to be a disruptive technology.
This module looks at different data processing and mining techniques and state-of-the-art data processing and mining tools.
The topics include: introduction to data mining and knowledge discovery process, data collection and processing with various data types from variety of sources, social web mining.
You will look at a variety of techniques and trends in data mining.
Learn how to create games and interactive applications/experiences using an industry standard programming language, game engine and formal development process.
You will develop skills in topics, such as (indicative list): games/app programming, input, physics and animation systems in a game engine, artificial intelligence (AI) for games/apps, mathematics for games/apps and interactive game/app design.
This module builds on High Performance Computing and Database modules to provide understanding and knowledge of the essential concepts, theories and practices of Big Data.
This will include Distributed System, latest advances and techniques in processing and managing big data.
In this module you will start by looking at the Professional issues related to working in the Computing and IT industry.
You will consider professional conduct and the social, legal and ethical implications related to the profession – in-line with BCS guidelines.
In the first semester you will also start to consider the subject of your final year project.
Following discussions with staff members you will produce a project proposal document and start a literature review on your chosen topic.
You will be assigned a project supervisor who will meet with you at regular intervals to provide you with feedback on your work as it progresses.
In your second semester you will continue to work individually on the main part of your final year project with regular meetings with your supervisor.
This supervisor plus another member of staff will assess your project.
This module builds on your full-stack development journey from the second year by providing an in depth understanding of full-stack web application development and emphasises the importance of architectural patterns and Service Oriented Architectures in full-stack Web Development.
It also takes a look at current and emerging full-stack web development technologies.
This module builds on your games and interactive application development journey from the second year by providing an in depth understanding of more sophisticated game and interactive application development topics and related technologies.
You will develop skills in topics, such as (indicative list): artificial intelligence (AI) for games/apps, multiplayer games/apps, mobile games/apps, mathematics for games/apps and games/app programming.
This module focuses students on the current and emerging area of artificial intelligence and machine learning in both domestic and commercial life.
Areas covered vary on research interests, but may include Robotics, Digital Entertainment and Industries, such as Automotive and Supply chain.
Students will be able to focus on a portfolio of work in their chosen course area supported by lectures and supporting tutorials.
Intelligent systems are advanced computer system that use artificial intelligence (AI) to perceive and respond to the world around them.
The aim of intelligent systems is to automate intelligent behaviours that traditionally only human beings have been able to perform.
Intelligent systems can take many forms, such as autonomous vacuum cleaners, robot delivery drones and personalized suggestions on web sites.
They can fill many roles in society, such as factory automation, medical care, education, recognition, and transportation.
This module provides you with an understanding of intelligent system theory and concepts and an awareness of the issues involved in creating intelligent systems.
You will also have the opportunity to develop intelligent systems.
This module focuses on the design, implementation, and testing of applications for mobile environments.
It gives you a good understanding of the issues, tools, techniques, and technologies involved.
It also gives you approaches to handling these issues, and the skills necessary in developing for contemporary mobile computing platforms.
The module also provides an awareness of the security issues involved when developing mobile applications.
The module aims to prepare you for a career in software development by first equipping you with theory and knowledge of Software Engineering and coupling it with practical application of current techniques.
The first part of the module aims to mimic a task similar to that faced by many software engineers in their first job.
The task involves the maintenance and extension of a legacy system and includes reverse engineering, automated regression testing and the application of refactoring and design patterns.
The second part of the module aims to make you aware of emerging techniques and technologies.
Two topics that are of current interest will be focussed and may vary over different runs of the module.
Example topic areas include Domain Specific Languages, Quantum Computing, Static Code Analysis.
Software Developer / Engineer
Data Analyst / Data Scientist
Cyber Security Analyst
AI / Machine Learning Engineer
Systems Analyst
Games Developer
Cloud / DevOps Engineer
Design, build, and maintain software applications for desktop, web, or mobile platforms using programming languages such as Python, Java, or JavaScript.
Work across sectors including finance, healthcare, and tech startups.
Analyse large datasets to uncover trends and support decision-making.
Use tools like SQL, Python, R, and machine learning techniques in industries such as retail, government, and finance.
Protect computer systems and networks from cyber threats.
Roles involve penetration testing, vulnerability assessments, and incident response, often in compliance with UK data protection laws and security standards (e.g.
NCSC guidance).
Develop intelligent systems and algorithms that can learn from data.
Typical applications include natural language processing, computer vision, and predictive analytics, especially in research labs or tech companies.
Act as a bridge between technical teams and business stakeholders, analysing and improving IT systems.
This includes gathering requirements, creating specifications, and helping deliver effective digital solutions.
Design and develop computer or mobile games, working with game engines like Unity or Unreal Engine.
This role combines programming, creativity, and problem-solving in the fast-growing UK gaming industry.
Build and manage scalable cloud infrastructure and deployment pipelines.
Use tools like AWS, Azure, Docker, and Kubernetes to ensure reliability, automation, and efficiency in software delivery.
Delivered by experts in their field, our lecturers have significant research and industrial experience.
Many staff members within the department are also Fellows and Members of the Industry’s professional body the British Computer Society.
Students are able to benefit from this experience and knowledge throughout the duration of their computer science degree course.
In addition to this, you will have the opportunity to undertake a placement year in industry to put your theoretical knowledge into practice and develop your practical and professional skills.
Placements will be completed in a real-life workplace environment, before returning to university to complete the final year of your course.
This experience is invaluable for students looking for employment on graduation helping to boost their CV and job prospects.
We frequently review the syllabus for our Computer Science (BSc) course ensuring that we cover the latest technologies to prepare students for life after graduation.
You will learn how cutting edge technology works and how to take advantage of it , receiving hands-on experience .
The course covers technologies such as programming multicore processors, GPUs and the embedded microprocessor systems that enable mobile computing.
By undertaking a Computer Science (BSc) degree with us, you will be able to demonstrate a knowledge and understanding of the essential facts, concepts, principles, theories and practices relating to Computer Science.
You will learn to apply the appropriate tools and methodologies to the design, implementation and evaluation of software systems on a variety of platforms and environments.
This course will also help you to develop transferable professional skills such as problem-solving, communication, project management, working individually and in teams as well as self-management and the ability to gather, synthesise, evaluate and reflect on information from relevant sources.
These skills will enable you to continue your development within the computer science industry in a worldwide context.
If you've got other qualifications or relevant experience, please contact The Gateway for further advice before applying.
International entry requirements and application guidance can be found at http://www.wlv.ac.uk/international/apply

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-computer-science-with-foundation-year:
Embark on your journey into the world of computing with our BSc (Hons) Computer Science with Foundation Year.
This program provides a solid grounding in essential mathematics and computing principles, preparing you for success in the full Computer Science degree.
The course aims to produce software developers who can seamlessly make the transition from University to the international computer industry.
This is achieved by providing a thorough grounding in the core principles of computer science and integrating these with computer languages, tools, techniques and methodologies used by computer professionals worldwide.
Our Computer Science course offers you the flexibility to pursue areas of particular interest to you such as web, databases, and networking.
Additionally, we will prepare you with the key skills needed to keep abreast of future developments.
To introduce applications of science of engineering within the mechanical and electronic / electrical sector.
To give an applied overview with in the subject using practical based themes, such as  "how do you make a headphones amplifier?", "why does a bridge not collapse?", "can I design an LED torch?", " what happens when I stand on a cardboard tube?"
Junior Software Developer
IT Support Technician
Web Developer
Database Administrator Assistant
Creating and maintaining software applications
Providing technical support for computer systems
Designing and building websites
Helping manage and maintain databases
This course will enable you to demonstrate a knowledge and understanding of the essential facts, concepts, principles, theories and practices relating to Computer Science.
You will learn to apply the appropriate tools and methodologies to the design, implementation and evaluation of software systems on a variety of platforms and environments.
In addition you will be given the opportunity to develop a range of transferable skills in such areas as problem solving, communication, project management, working individually and in teams as well as self management and the ability to gather, synthesise, evaluate and reflect on information from relevant sources.
You will develop a range of personal, organisational and professional skills needed for continuing professional development in Computing in a world wide context.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-computer-science-with-sandwich-placement:
Combine academic excellence with real-world experience in our BSc (Hons) Computer Science with Sandwich Placement.
This program includes a year in industry, allowing you to apply your knowledge in professional settings and gain a competitive edge in the job market.
The Industrial Placement provides an opportunity for professional development in the work place and as such, greatly enhances the prospects for you to find a rewarding employment at the end of your course.
You will have an opportunity to develop your technical skills, key skills and especially your personal skills, through being involved in a ‘real world’ placement.
Normally, academic staff visit you once during the placement period, but contact is continual with the University throughout the 48 week (minimum) placement.
In addition you will be given the opportunity to develop a range of transferable skills in such areas as problem solving, communication, project management, working individually and in teams as well as self-management and the ability to gather, synthesise, evaluate and reflect on information from relevant sources.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-cybersecurity:
BSc Cybersecurity aims to give students fundamental knowledge and skills needed to protect organisations, networks, IT systems and individuals against cyber threats, attacks, risks, and vulnerabilities.
This course is fully accredited by the British Computing Society (BCS), and the course covers all the main topic areas required for an accredited Cybersecurity degree.
BSc Cybersecurity includes core security concepts and skills needed to monitor, detect, investigate, analyse, and respond to cybercrime, cyberespionage, insider threats, advanced persistent threats, regulatory requirements, and other cybersecurity issues facing organisations.
The course emphasizes the practical application of the skills needed to maintain and ensure security operational readiness of secure networked systems.
This course provides an understanding of how to manage information and the risks to that information, as well as provide practical approaches to implement necessary controls to reduce that risk.
Several staff at the University of Wolverhampton are engaged in cybersecurity research and work closely with the wider industry to ensure that the course will produce graduates who have the skills which industry needs.
Employment in the area of cybersecurity is predicted to increase fivefold in the next two years, and there is already a severe shortage of trained graduates who are able to work in this area.
Therefore, the likelihood of gaining well-paid employment at the end of your degree is extremely high.
During your first year, you will develop an understanding of computer architecture and how data is used in organisations.
You will study areas of programming and problem-solving and will learn how modern software applications are built and structured.
You will also learn how to manage data in the cloud and virtual environments.
In the second year, you will gain an understanding of cybersecurity architecture and operations.
You will use specialist tools and equipment to develop your knowledge of computer networks and gain technical understanding of how to protect computer systems and networks.
You will also gain experience of ethical hacking and data mining.
In the final year, you will further develop and apply your knowledge in different applications and technologies, techniques, tools and methods in relation to cybersecurity.
You will learn digital forensics, investigate human factors which affect security, look at management of risk, information management and governance and cyber intelligence.
Themes covered will influence and support your final year project module and you will have the option to engage with industry to work on a real-life project.
Virtualisation is essential to key allow businesses to develop more IT efficient and flexible servers and systems.
This module has been designed for students to gain hands on experience of server management and virtualisation by deploying, migrating and testing servers in virtual environments.
The module focuses on the importance of testing and securing servers and related technologies alongside learning the role  operating systems have in server management.
Virtualisation technologies will be used and Cloud Computing will be introduced in this module through hands on activities.
In this module, you will learn about the basic technologies and features of the more popular server operating systems.
You will also learn about the various server functions and services that can be configure on a server and the role of different operating systems.
In addition, you will learn how to install, configure and maintain these servers.
A significant emphasis will be placed on practical tasks to gain valuable experience and skills required in industry.
This module provides students with a comprehensive understanding of designing, implementing, and managing secure systems within modern IT environments.
It explores core security principles, threat landscapes, and best practices for safeguarding information assets.
Key topics include security architecture design, identity and access management (IAM), network communication security, endpoint detection and response, and security operations using appropriate tools.
By the end of the module, students will develop the skills to assess vulnerabilities, design robust security solutions, and manage operational security effectively.
The purpose of this module is to provide knowledge in ethical hacking, penetration testing, and vulnerability assessment (VA).
The module provides you with a hands-on experience on ethical hacking, security testing, vulnerability assessment, and threat and risk assessment.
Security concepts and methodologies (e.g.
penetration testing, VA) are extensively covered in this module as part of the technical skills required.
The module addresses how threats can seriously compromise a network and its systems, and investigates the mitigation techniques that are available to protect against such threats.
The module will involve you performing ethical hacking tasks with the emphasis on ‘ethics’ throughout your work.
You will be working within a safe and controlled environment and abide by the terms of the Ethical Agreement of this module.
This module aims to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of network security principles, techniques, and applications.
Students will learn to identify, assess, and mitigate modern security threats in diverse network environments.
By the end of the module, students will be equipped with theoretical knowledge and practical skills to design and implement effective security strategies.
This module provides students with the environment to learn key theories and methodologies before place this knowledge into hands on tasks to conduct a safe and sure computer forensic investigation.
This module covers the phases of an investigation from seizure, evidence handing, data presentation, investigation, interpretation and report/documentation of findings.
You will use a range of operating systems and technologies that might shore digital evidence that might be seizure and used to determinate cybercrimes have been committed.
You will gain hands on experience of using best practice software, tools and techniques that are using in the digital forensics industry to understand how data is stored and received from electronic devices.
This module will develop an understanding of the risk and threats that may affect IT systems and electronic business through analysing the threats, vulnerability of systems and through selecting appropriate countermeasures to prevent such risks for impacting the confidentiality, integrity and availability (CIA) of data and systems.
The module will enable you to use tools and techniques to analyse those risks and evaluate their consequences.
You will learn how to apply countermeasures to eliminate those risks and reduce the consequences should an incident occur.
This module will cover the more advanced areas of networks and in particular current trends in network design and management.
It will have an opportunity to make use of widely used software commercial network design and performance simulation software.
This module will cover the theory and practice of& nbsp;Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI).& nbsp;Students will utilise and evaluate successful threat intelligence strategies and tactics.
An overview of related cybersecurity tools and techniques will be covered.& nbsp;Students& nbsp;will gain fundamental as well as advanced knowledge and skills to perform risk assessments and develop actionable threat intelligence and enables organisations& #39; security systems to anticipate, respond, and take action& nbsp;while appreciating the legal and ethical issues associated with CTI.
The module will also cover data-driven approaches to analyse human interaction in cyberspace and predict potential anti-social, illegal behaviour and threats.
Penetration Tester (Ethical Hacker)
Security Operations Centre (SOC) Analyst
Cloud Security Specialist
Simulate cyber attacks on systems, networks, or applications to identify weaknesses before malicious hackers can exploit them.
You may work in-house or for a specialist security consultancy.
Work within a Security Operations Centre, monitoring real-time threats and responding to security incidents.
This is often an entry point into cyber defence roles in both public and private sector organisations.
Protect data and services hosted in cloud environments (e.g.
AWS, Azure, Google Cloud).
Responsibilities include securing cloud infrastructure, managing identity and access controls, and ensuring secure deployment practices.
The course team have excellent links with industry and staff working in the field of cybersecurity, and are undertaking some exciting and interesting research which means that teaching is relevant and up-to-date.
The teaching on the course is outstanding, with all teaching staff possessing or in the process of gaining a relevant teaching qualification, and we are fully committed to ensuring you have an excellent student experience.
We have developed exceptional specialist facilities to support our students and have recently invested in extensive hardware and software to support the Cybersecurity course, meaning that students have the opportunity to gain practical skills which are highly valued in industry.
Our students have access to world-leading facilities including our £9 million cyber centre.
Our Midlands Centre for Cyber Security is a bespoke Cyber and Security ecosystem, which blends industry and innovation with academic excellence and expertise.
The centre is a joint venture between the University of Wolverhampton and Herefordshire Council.
The 2,000 square metre building provides significant resources for research and development across three cyber laboratories, advanced training facilities as part of the University’s Wolverhampton Cyber Research Institute, and additional business space for up to 16 cyber companies.
The course team works closely with the West Midlands Regional Cyber Crime Unit.
They regularly offer work placements and real projects to our students as well as delivering guest lectures.
The course team in return support them in various projects and public events.
We encourage our students to be really involved in their course and University life.
We have several clubs and activities which are largely student-led, such as the Cybersecurity club, the Coding Club and the Computer Games Society.
The BSc (Hons) Cybersecurity degree provides graduates with the full range of skills which the government recognises as essential for Cybersecurity personnel.
A fundamental understanding of Cyber and Information Security and associated technologies, an ability to manage security within organisations, and technical skills which support security are all outcomes of the degree.
Close links and the opportunity to work with industry means that graduates will also have a good level of business awareness.
The University of Wolverhampton Cybersecurity course also gives students extensive opportunities to develop excellent transferable skills, such as problem-solving, communication skills, project management skills, the ability to work effectively in teams and individually, self-management and the ability to gather, evaluate and reflect on information.
The course gives a very clear understanding of the cybersecurity field, giving a general covering of main topics such as network defence, ethical hacking and risk management.
This gives a solid foundation to delve deeper into several areas of interest.
Accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of partially meeting the academic requirement for a Chartered Engineer.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-cybersecurity-with-sandwich-placement:
BSc Cyber Security aims to give students a fundamental understanding of how to protect organisations, networks, IT systems and individuals against cyber attacks and cyber threats.
BSc Cyber Security aims to give students a fundamental understanding of how to protect organisations, networks, IT systems and individuals against Cyber attacks and Cyber threats.
This course covers all the main topic areas required by the British Computing Society for an accredited Cyber Security degree, and includes understanding of Cyber threats and attacks, and the criminal sub-culture which is increasingly profiting from those attacks, how to manage information and the risks to that information, practical approaches to implementing physical and process controls to reduce information threats, and the design of secure systems and products which will enable businesses to withstand Cyber attacks.
The course also includes aspects of Cryptography and Forensic Computing, and students will have the opportunity to engage with the latest software and forensic approaches.
Several staff at The University of Wolverhampton are engaged in Cyber security research and work closely with industry to ensure that the course will produce graduates who have the skills which industry needs.
Employment in the area of Cyber security is predicted to increase five fold in the next two years, and there is already a severe shortage of trained graduates who are able to work in this area.
Year One
Your areas of study during year one will include the fundamentals of Cyber Security, Information Management and security in organisations, Computer Programming and problem-solving, and Computer networks and operations.
By the end of year one, you will have good technical awareness and an understanding of the main issues associated with Cyber Security.
Year Two
In the second year, you will cover subjects in more depth and gain more practical experience of using technology to support Cyber security in a variety of ways.
This will include using specialist software, investigation of human factors which affect our security, looking at the management of risk, gaining a technical understanding of Computer and security architecture, and understanding how data is stored and used in organisations  You will also have the opportunity to study forensic computing, using industry-standard software and tools.
Year Three
In your third year, you will further develop and apply knowledge and experience of  a range of different applications and  various technologies, techniques, tools and methods in relation to Cyber Security.
You will continue to work with forensic computing techniques, and will extend your knowledge of database technologies.
You will also gain experience of ethical hacking and advanced networking.
Information Management and Governance and the protection of Information Systems is also covered this year.
Themes covered in this year will influence and support your final year project module, and you will have the option to engage with industry to work on a real-life project.
Optional Placement Year
The University of Wolverhampton is keen to ensure graduates have both the academic and work based skills required in industry.
Graduates have the option of a placement in industry between levels two and three.
This results in a four year degree which allows graduates to be awarded a BSc (Hons) Cyber Security with sandwich.
The university has state-of-the-art teaching facilities and computing labs, and students will experience a variety of learning environments, including practical labs, classroom teaching, visits to industry partners, and more formal lectures.
We have a fully-equipped network and security lab, and students will have the opportunity to engage in simulated hacking activities, build networks, and use forensic software, and cloud computing and database technologies.
Network Security Engineer
Cyber Risk and Compliance Officer
Monitor and defend IT systems against cyber threats.
Responsibilities include threat detection, incident response, and vulnerability assessment to protect organisations from attacks such as phishing, malware, and ransomware.
Design and implement secure network solutions to protect data and systems.
This includes firewalls, intrusion detection systems, and secure VPNs, as well as ensuring regulatory compliance (e.g.
GDPR, ISO 27001).
Help organisations manage cyber risk and meet legal, regulatory, and industry standards.
This role often involves auditing, policy development, and advising on security best practices.
The course team have excellent links with industry and staff working in the field of Cyber Security, and are undertaking some exciting and interesting research which means that teaching is relevant and up-to-date.
We have developed excellent specialist facilities to support our students, and have recently invested in extensive hardware and software to support the Cyber Security course, which means that students have the opportunity to gain practical skills which are highly valued in industry.
We encourage our students to be really involved in their course and University life, and have several clubs and activities which are largely student-led, such as the Code Club, and the Computer Games Society.
We also continue to invest in world-leading facilities including our £9 million cyber centre.
Our Midlands Quarter – Centre for Cyber Security is a bespoke Cyber & Security ecosystem, which blends industry and innovation with academic excellence and expertise.The centre is a joint venture between the University of Wolverhampton and Herefordshire Council.
The 2,000 square metre building will provide significant resources for research and development across three cyber laboratories, advanced training facilities as part of the University’s Wolverhampton Cyber Research Institute and additional business space for up to 16 cyber companies.
The BSc (Hons) Cyber Security degree provides graduates with the full range of skills which the government recognises as essential for Cyber Security personnel.
The University of Wolverhampton Cyber Security course also gives students extensive opportunities to develop excellent transferable skills, such as problem solving, communication skills, project management skills, the ability to work effectively in teams and individually, and self-management and the ability to gather, evaluate and reflect on information.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-creative-and-professional-writing-with-english-literatures:
This is one of only a few courses in the UK that offers English Literatures with Creative and Professional Writing.
You will have the opportunity to engage with a Learning Pathway choosing either Poetry, Prose, Professional or Specialist Writings via a range of optional modules at Level 5.
These pathways are designed to both enable you to take ownership over your learning and become more specialist within your writing practice, and work as complementary to English Literatures modules.
Some modules are interdisciplinary in their nature and delivery; others will offer you the opportunity to study writers of the region as your potential contemporaries, or to explore a form that can enhance written practice in terms of genre.
There are also modules that will offer insight into the multicultural literary landscape that now delineates the publishing industry.
This will not only better prepare you for industry and working within literary fields, but you will be equipped with the tools for the business of writing and to manage a portfolio career.
This programme is devised to enable writers to write and read widely around their subject; to develop skills, talent, and style within a variety of writing contexts, creative and professional.
This is all enhanced by the dual focus of analysing existing literatures in terms of genre and subject and understanding how historical contexts continue to apply to our writing today.
Led by a team of active published writers and leading academics in their fields of expertise, we work to the ethos that ‘as you write it, we are writing too’, offering an inclusive and supportive environment as one cohesive learning, reading, and writing community.
We are aware of what writers need to do in terms of the business of writing; how our knowledge and passion for literatures enables our practice, and therefore offer a continuous platform of support and guidance alerting students to the many career routes a writer can pursue.
Our new Learning Pathways programme will enable you to take ownership of your own learning from Level 5, allowing you to either pursue a more specialist approach to your writing, mastering your medium, work across the different forms and styles of writing we study, or opt for literatures-based modules to complement practice.
The programme will introduce you to the relevant concepts and theories associated with writing and readerships, and encourage you to work across disciplines via our collaborative partnerships with the School of Art.
A dedicated Writing Week in Week 7 brings the whole cohort together - UG and PG students - as one learning community, offering dedicated writing spaces and access to authors and industry experts.
This degree will not only nurture your reading, literary knowledge, critical skills, and practice by enabling you to foster a profound understanding of your authorial intentions and process, but enable you to communicate more effectively, and, through informal workshops, enhance your own creative and critical judgement.
Consequently, you will develop a range of vital transferable skills including presentation and oral performance; social media management and digital literacy; close reading skills for editing and proof reading; enterprise and entrepreneurship; project management and working collaboratively, all of which are of immense value in graduate employment and freelance/portfolio careers.
This module introduces you to the principles of drama in performance.
Aided by theatre professionals the module takes you through the practicalities and theory of putting on a play: interpretation, staging, directing, producing and acting.
Using the Arena Theatre's stage and resources, you'll take key scenes from the page to the stage.
This module explores the social, political and philosophical contexts of the English and global Renaissance through its literary culture.
This module will focus on the key themes, ideas and characteristics of the Gothic genre, situate them in their historical and philosophical context, and attend to the ways in which the representation of the Gothic has developed over the centuries since it first emerged out of the shadows of the Enlightenment.
We will begin with John Aikin's 'Sir Bertrand: A Fragment' and end with Helen Oyeyemi's 'White is for Witching' and in between examine a range of literary texts.
Close attention will be paid to the ways in which the genre has featured in a range of media and cultural environments, including, visual art, film, music, television and youth subcultures.
Topics such as cultural anxieties, the ideology of the sublime, sexual politics, and strategies of subversion will be foregrounded, as will the array of critical perspectives and readings that the Gothic has generated.
We also examine the ways in which themes such as gender, class and race intersect with the concern of the gothic tropes that we examine.
This module provides the opportunity for students to conduct their own research into a negotiated subject of their choice within the areas of English Language Studies or English Literary Studies.
It requires students to demonstrate the analytical skills acquired over length of their English degree, including the abilities to construct and sustain an argument, and to support it using evidence.
This module aims to provide students with an understanding of the Modernist period and the terms ‘modernism’ and 'avant-garde' in some of their classifying and critical uses, and to develop and deploy reading skills appropriate to modernist and avant-garde texts across a selection of works, including some from continental Europe and the USA and Latin American.
We will begin with a screening of Salvador Dali's film 'Un Chien Andalou' and end with a short story by the first openly gay black writer in the USA, Richard Bruce Nugent, in between we will examine the work of James Joyce, Latin American Frida Kahlo, Virginia Woolf, D.H.
Lawrence, T.S Eliot, David Garnett, and Leonora Carrington amongst others.
In addition, some sessions will be dedicated to the analysis of Modernist theory and the texts and to an examination of relevant contextual tropes such as gender theory, psychoanalysis and the concept of the fragmented subject (Freud, Jung and Spielrein) and theories of time (Bergson) and race (Walker).
Potential Career pathways after completing this degree could include:
Think critically, reflectively and creatively about writing
Engage in the comprehension, analysis and appreciation of written texts using a variety of written, oral and digital resources
Demonstrate key employment skills in self-management, self-discipline, digital literacy, enterprise, group and collaborative work
Produce artistically coherent, original and technically adept writing demonstrating knowledge and understanding of medium and genre as per the authorial intention
Articulate both orally and in writing knowledge and understanding of texts, discourse conventions, theories and narrative strategies relevant to the study of creative and professional writing in a multicultural context
Be able to source, research, assimilate and articulate material relevant to the production of creative and professional writing
Additional Field Trips: Small contribution for field trips may be requested.
Further information on these additional costs will be provided during your studies.
'Writing my dissertation encouraged a lifelong passion and gave me the confidence to pursue academic writing professionally.
I have a paper in the works that has been accepted as part of a collection curated by Fran Pheasant-Kelly by Edinburgh University press which is exciting!' - Alex Hackett

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-english-language-and-linguistics:
This course is for those who have a keen interest in the English language.
The course offers you the opportunity to study a wide variety of language-related issues in great depth: topics such as language and gender identity; accents and dialects; code-switching in bilingual families; style in literary and non-literary texts; conversational interaction; digital communication; and language and the mind.
As you study within a stimulating and multicultural environment and under the guidance of high-quality teachers, you will gain an understanding of key theories and frameworks in the field of linguistics.
Studying our BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics course will help you develop a range of subject-specific and transferable skills, higher order conceptual and communication skills, linguistic analytical skills, enterprise, digital literacy and IT awareness – all of which will offer great value to future employers.
You will acquire linguistic skills that will equip you to work in the areas of teaching, journalism, speech therapy and copy writing.
You will be taught rich content covering all aspects of linguistics by scholars who research and publish on dialect, sociolinguistics, teaching English, conversation analysis and corpus linguistics.
You will have the opportunity to gain relevant professional experience and the possibility for a sandwich year, work placements and relevant voluntary work experience in the museum sector, TESOL teaching, education and more.
4.
You will undertake own research at Level 6 concerning linguistics in the world.
Recent examples include the decline in the use of Cantonese at an official level in Hong Kong, language shift in the Panjabi diaspora of Wolverhampton and attitudes towards Mirpuri among Pakistani heritage speakers in the West Midlands.
5.
For your assessments, you will have opportunities to collect and analyse your own data with the guidance of experienced tutors, so you can research areas of language of interest to you.
Your first year of study will allow you to gain the base knowledge and skills to progress to a solid foundation for study at higher levels.
You will gain knowledge about the origins of English and will explore the ways we make meaning in language, using the cutting-edge technique of computer-aided analysis.
You will focus on sentence structure, the sounds of language, second language acquisition, and important issues in applied linguistics.
Employability is part of the curriculum and requires that you reflect on skills you are acquiring and their applicability in the world of employment.
You can also choose practical modules in foreign languages, writing skills, teaching English to speakers of other languages (TESOL), and volunteering in the community.
In your second year of stud y, you will develop upon the work you have completed in Year One, looking in greater detail at phonology/phonetics, morphology, and syntax.
You will study modules in sociolinguistics, stylistics, semantics and pragmatics, distinguishing in-depth the ways in which language use varies with regard to social context and how individuals utilise language to make meaning and to be creative.
You may develop your research and analysis skills in modules that explore research methods, working on a topic of your choice.
Additional language and voluntary modules are also offered in the second year of study.
Aspects of applied linguistics will be covered in the third year.
Modules will include gender and sexuality, language variation and change, psycholinguistics, conversation analysis, and cooperation, conflict and humour in face-to-face digital interaction.
In the final semester of your third year, you will work on an independent research project on a topic of your choice.
You may, however, choose the Community Link option instead, in which you carry out action research in a work- or volunteering-based placement and produce a report which showcases your research skills and is of use to the organisation in which you conducted the research.
For students who are particularly keen to enhance their employability prospects, the BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics degree is also available in ‘sandwich’ mode .
This includes a one-year 40-credit work placement module between Year Two and Three.
For full details, see BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics with sandwich placement.
The module aims to provide students with a foundation in the basic knowledge of English grammar and lexis and skills for linguistic analysis which students will need to successfully engage in further modules in English Language study.
Students will be introduced to theories of words, grammar and meaning.
The knowledge gained on the module will allow students to analyse a wide range of texts, both traditional and web-based.
They will develop digital literacy skills through the introduction to corpus analysis aimed at searching online language databases  in order to analyse contemporary language use in genuine contexts.
The assessment will cater for diversity, as students can act as topic co-creators for element 1 of the assessment and element 2  will include  a choice of three options.
This module is an introduction to TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages).
You will learn about practicalities of English Language Teaching, and will reflect on the importance of considering students' needs and backgrounds in your teaching.
You will also learn about the theory of language learning - known as Second Language Acquisition - and will be able to apply what you learn to your own experience as a language learner, whether you've learned a language in education, in the community or another environment.
You will have the opportunity to develop your reflective writing  through the formative and summative assessments on the module.
The module aims to: give students an insight into the unique and fascinating nature of human language, introducing the basic concerns of linguistics and theories concerning language change, language variation historically and within our own lifetimes, the sound systems of the world's languages, how children acquire language and how second language learners accomplish the same tasks.
The module equips students with core theories to explain language structure and language variation.
This module will introduce you to three separate threads related to ‘Structural Linguistics’: phonetics and phonology (the sounds of language), morphology (how words are formed from units of sound) and syntax (how words are combined to form phrases & sentences).
You will then go on to explore the basic concepts of two of the threads in greater depth; syntax, and phonetics and phonology.
In the phonetics & phonology strand, you will start by exploring how human speech sounds are made, how they can be identified, described and recorded according to their place and manner of articulation, and how they combine to form units of meaning as words, and parts of words.
In the syntax strand, you will learn how words can be classified into lexical categories such as nouns, verbs etc.
through their morphology (what they look like), and distribution (where they come in a phrase).
You will also explore the relationship between these word categories, how they can be ordered to form types of phrases within a sentence, and the functions that each phrase performs.
The module is practical in orientation.
You will be given ample opportunity to apply the concepts you have learned to the analysis of data of English and will also be encouraged to draw on your experience of other languages.
The module aims to develop students’ understanding of modern Standard English through the study of its history and the factors which have contributed to its development.
The module introduces students to theoretical frameworks for the study of the English Language and aims to provide students with the tools to describe and analyse examples of written and spoken English in a socio-historical context.
This module explores representations of crime in literature and culture from the Victorian era to the present day.
Students will learn about the cultural construction of criminality and deviancy, and consider the ideologies at work in crime, victimhood and punishment in relation to gender, sexuality, ethnicity, religion, class, and disability.
This module aims to introduce students to core linguistic theories and interpretative frameworks regarding the ways in which people produce and understand meaning through language.
At the end of the module, students will be able apply semantics (meaning) theories to instances of language use, using appropriate technical terminology, and draw meaningful conclusions.
The module aims to investigate the major concerns of sociolinguistics, that is, how language and social organisation intersect.
Several models which determine language variation are examined, both on a social-group scale (national language policies, dialects etc.) and on an individual scale (style-shifting, registers etc.).
The module's central tenet is to dispel myths about homogeneity in language.
Based on theoretical work and methods in sociolinguistics, the module explores the role that language plays in shaping our ideas about others, including power relationships along the lines of gender, race, class, religion, disability and sexuality, and in shaping who we are as individuals.
This module aims to give students insight into how language is used in everyday interaction.
Students will be introduced to key theories and concepts concerning the ways in which people use language to get things done, how they understand implied meaning, talk politely or impolitely to one another, and how they manage conversations.
Students will be introduced to key theories and concepts from the sub-disciplines of pragmatics and conversation analysis, such as entailment and presupposition, conversational implicature, relevance, speech act theory, politeness and impoliteness theories, preference organisation and floor management.
Students will apply knowledge and skills gained in the module to the analysis of spoken and written texts.
This module aims to help you prepare for your final year project by introducing you to the basic concepts, types and methods of research for English language, Linguistics and TESOL.
You will have the opportunity to design and carry out a mini-research project based on your own interests and experiences.
Topics can include but are not limited to first or second language acquisition, language variation, linguistic discrimination and discourse analysis.
This is a good opportunity to explore further something that has piqued your interest in a previous module or design a research question based on observations you have made about language in the real world.
This module builds on the Linguistics modules you studied at Level 4.
While you continue to develop a deeper understanding of the concepts of phonetics and phonology, and articulatory phonetics in particular, you will also deepen your understanding of syntax.
In phonetics and phonology you will move from investigating the physical production of speech sounds at segmental level to the exploration of syllable structure, stress, intonation and connected speech, and the systems and patterns of speech sounds in a language.
You will gather, transcribe and analyse examples of spoken data in order to draw conclusions about the articulation of sounds, and the regularities and patterns that underlie their use.
In the syntax strand, you will revise and build on work completed at level 4.
This module will equip you with the skills to carry out detailed linguistic analysis of a range of texts to uncover the ways in which linguistic norms and narrative devices can be exploited for stylistic effect.
The module examines the relationship between message and style in literary and non literary texts and covers topics such as linguistic deviation, the structure of oral and written narratives, narrative point of view, the representation of speech and thought, and the use of metaphor.
Students examine the use of stylistic effects in a range of text types such as speeches, poems, drama, literary prose, news texts, advertisements, and so on.
The module aims to provide students with the theoretical framework for the study of language from a psycholinguistic viewpoint in order to study language comprehension and production, both spoken and written.
The theoretical background to specific disorders of language comprehension and production, with an examination of such disorders along with relevant case studies will be considered.
This perspective on language pathology will enable a discussion of what constitutes typical language use, and from the insights gained, leads to an exploration of their applications in the world of careers such as speech and language therapy and education
The module aims to explore in greater complexity and detail some of the issues introduced in Language and Society relating to the mechanisms, motivations and outcomes of language variation and change.
Focus in the first half is on structuralist theories of language change and examination of English and the grammatical and lexical changes that happen via its speakers in the first 2000 years of its existence.
In the second half of the course, this knowledge is applied to examining world Englishes including Caribbean Englishes, English as it is spoken on the Indian subcontinent and dialects of English across the British Isles.
Students will examine the ideologies which circulate historically and today about language variation and change.
Particular attention will be paid to the use of case studies to test the key theories of language variation and change.
This module covers definitions of multilingualism, theories of code switching, theories of concurrent and sequential language acquisition.
It goes on to cover discussion of society and linguistics in configurations of multilingualism, and examines language maintenance and attrition, as well as language planning and policy.
The aim of this module is to raise students' awareness of the multi-faceted ways in which people exploit linguistic resources in order to achieve their interactional goals in everyday situations.
The module focuses on the ways in which individuals use language to express their concerns and to further their own interests.
In particular, it considers the ways in which people use language to cooperate with one another or to resist coercion, to foster harmonious relationships or deliberately cause offence and provoke conflict.
In the module, we analyse interaction in a variety of contexts and in a variety of modes.
We analyse the way solidarity or conflict is realised in everyday speech and written texts.
We consider the use of online communities to create identities and offer support and  the use of online media as a site for debate and resistance.
During the course of the module, students will work both individually and in small groups.
They will carry out fieldwork, gathering and analysing data, and will conduct debates in class.
In this module, you have the opportunity to conduct a piece of independent research in the area of English Language, Linguistics or TESOL.
You will choose your own topic of study and will be supported by the module leader and your dissertation supervisor as you craft and carry out your project.
For the most part, however, you are expected to work independently.
To help you plan your research, you are required to submit a research proposal and gain ethical approval, where relevant.
This module, as its title suggests, looks at how social actions and meanings are communicated between interactants, using Conversation Analytic (CA) techniques.
You will be introduced to the methods CA theorists have established, and their key findings.
You will apply these techniques to spoken data, using Jeffersonian transcription.
You will analyse both everyday and institutional data in terms of practices (eg overlap, repair) and actions (eg requests), depending on the data you and the class collect.
TESOL Teacher
Primary or Secondary School Teacher
Speech Therapist
Computational Linguist
Careers Advisor
University or Local Government Administrator
Public Relations
Our team prides itself on celebrating individuality, committing to student wellbeing and inclusion.
We believe in interactive learning and value every student's participation from all of our external examiners, who have consistently lauded our innovative evaluations as one of their strong suits.
In terms of teaching and assessment , Wolverhampton pioneered the use of interactive web-based forums.
These activities are very popular with students.
Comments from our External Examiners on provision:
For English Language:
"I've read many good essays which show students' real engagement with module primary and secondary materials, which in turn suggest overall degree structures with decent breadth"
"Each module in Wolverhampton is assessed by more than one mode of assessment, allowing students to play to their strengths".
"All of these show good practice, real dedication to teaching on the tutors' behalf, and a great deal of effort going into the designing of modules, the setting of assignments, and the assessment of the submitted assignments".
"I particularly liked seeing innovative assessment methods … adjusted to the different kinds of student population".
For Linguistics:
“As always, I have found the marking consistent within individual modules and across modules.
There is good evidence of a dialogue between first and second markers and my judgement has been sought in relation to one piece of assessed work.
Markers provide extensive feedback which guides students towards addressing their weaknesses.
What is also good practice is the provision of extensive notes within each assignment.
Student work is of good quality with some very impressive independent research being carried out.
The range of exam questions and essay topics is stimulating and reflects the high quality of the teaching".
The member of academic staff who lead this course is Deborah Orpin
On successful completion of the English Language and Linguistics degree you will be able to:
“I truly enjoyed studying English Language and Linguistics as a Joint Honours Degree at the University of Wolverhampton.
I have always been fascinated by languages, and by choosing this course I hoped to gain more understanding about […] how language works.
The subject combination turned out to be a perfect match; it gave me a well-rounded insight into the theoretical aspects of language and at the same time I had ample opportunity to apply my newly acquired knowledge.
During my course, I learned many new things about languages from all over the world and about English in particular.
I would recommend this very well-balanced combination to anyone who is enthusiastic about languages”.
“I started Linguistics ‘blind’ without any previously teaching in the subject and no expectations as to what I would be learning or gaining from the experience.
[…] I have found every module stimulating.
[…] Students can apply their knowledge to their own native or second language.”
“The most important thing to note about the study of Linguistics is how much fun it can be.[…]The quality of teaching within Linguistics is excellent, with staff being extremely knowledgeable and enthusiastic, but also very supportive and approachable.”
"I thoroughly enjoyed learning about different languages and how they are developed, particularly writing in phonemic script.
The whole course has been fantastic, but my highlight has been graduating and being on stage to collect my degree!" - Katrina Dunbar

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-english-language-and-linguistics-with-foundation-year:
The English Language and Linguistics integrated joint offers students the opportunity to explore a wide range of language related topics in a stimulating and multi-cultural environment.
By means of high  quality teaching and a flexible, responsive and vocationally relevant curriculum, students will learn about how meaning is created, not only through choices of words and grammatical structures, but through wider social and cultural contextual factors.
Students will learn about the diverse ways in which languages in general, and the English language in particular, vary and change according to time, geographical location, and to factors such as the status, class or gender of the speakers.
Students will develop a range of subject specific and transferable skills, including higher order conceptual and communication skills, enterprise, digital literacy and IT awareness, all of which are of immense value in graduate employment.
The Foundation year prepares students for university level study.
Successful completion of our Foundation course permits access to any of our Humanities or Media BA (Hons) degree courses, which include English, English Language, Creative Writing, Linguistics, Media, Philosophy and Religious Studies — many of which can be taken singly as specialist degrees or together as ‘joint’ degree routes.
The Foundation year begins with modules aimed at providing transferable study skills and then, in the second semester, gives students the opportunity to study more specialist modules, with a focus on various aspects of Humanities and Media.
The English Language modules that form part of this degree focus on textual analysis and on variation in language.
At level one, students analyse the way meaning is constructed in texts and they also study the history of English.
At levels two and three, emphasis is placed on language use in its social and cultural context.
Students analyze diverse accents, dialects and world varieties of English, as well as looking at factors such as culture, class and gender.
Students also examine the ways in which relations of power influence the production of texts in society.
The Linguistics modules address the fundamental concepts of language.
Year one explores word and sentence structure, the sounds of language, second language acquisition, and important issues in applied linguistics.
At level two, students look in greater detail at phonology/phonetics, morphology and syntax, as well as the constraints on language imposed by social context and stylistic choices.
They also have the chance to study language meaning (i.e.
semantic and pragmatic theory), and to take a language-based research methods module.
Year three explores those aspects of structural and applied linguistics not previously covered, and includes a specialist module on language and the mind.
You will have the opportunity to study and understand contemporary social issues from different disciplinary perspectives.
You will engage with current academic debates about a range of social issues and debate and discuss ideas about the social world that will challenge and extend your thinking.
The module will provide an exciting basis for your future study of the Social Sciences.
This module introduces you to Wolverhampton and the people who live there using concepts and insights from a variety of academic subjects, for example Social Policy, Sociology, History, Criminology and Criminal Justice, Law, and Politics, amongst others.
You will explore a range of cultural and social issues.
Graduates in Linguistics, English Language and TESOL have specialisms across the Arts and Sciences.
Our graduates have gone on to military communication training, further education teaching, forensic linguistics (working with legal experts presenting linguistic evidence to the courts).
They have taken jobs in speech and language therapy, computational linguistics and in teaching across mainstream and specialist situations, in both multilingual and monolingual contexts and all over the world.
Recent graduate destinations have included Birmingham City University, Shropshire Council, Birmingham Adult Education Services, CoachBright social mobility charity, as well as schools, further education colleges and universities across the UK, Europe, Japan, China and South Korea.
The team prides itself on giving individual attention to students.
We believe in interactive learning and encourage full participation from all our students: external examiners have consistently highlighted our innovative assessments as a major strength.
Wolverhampton has pioneered the use of interactive web-based forums for teaching and assessment.
These activities have proved very popular with students.
The range of exam questions and essay topics is stimulating and reflects the high quality of the teaching."
On successful completion of this course you will be able to:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-english-language-and-linguistics-with-sandwich-placement:
If you have a keen interest in the English language or in language in general and you want to develop your employability skills, this is the course for you.
On this four-year degree course, you will spend the penultimate year on a work placement of your choosing.
In the first two and final years, you follow the curriculum of the main BA (Hons) English Language and Linguistics degree.
You will study a wide variety of language-related issues in great depth: topics such as language and gender identity; accents and dialects; code-switching in bilingual families; style in literary and non-literary texts; conversational interaction; digital communication; and language and the mind.
Studying in a stimulating and multi-cultural environment and by means of high-quality teaching and a flexible, responsive and vocationally relevant curriculum, you will be introduced to key theories and frameworks in the discipline of linguistics.
You will develop a range of subject specific and transferable skills, higher order conceptual and communication skills, linguistic analytical skills, enterprise, digital literacy and IT awareness, all of which are of immense value in graduate employment.
In your first year, you will acquire the basic knowledge and skills which will give you a solid foundation for study at higher levels.
You will learn about the history of English and will explore the ways we make meaning in language, using the cutting-edge technique of computer-aided analysis.
You will also explore sentence structure, the sounds of language, second language acquisition, and important issues in applied linguistics.
Employability is embedded into our curriculum and you will learn to reflect on the skills you are acquiring and their applicability to the world of employment.
You can also choose practical modules in foreign languages, writing skills, teaching English to speakers of other languages (TESOL) and volunteering in the community.
In the second year, you will build upon the work you have done in year one, looking in greater detail at phonology/phonetics, morphology and syntax.
You will study modules in sociolinguistics, stylistics, semantics and pragmatics, examining in depth the ways in which language use varies according to social context and how individuals use language to make meaning and to be creative.
You may, if you wish, develop your research and analysis skills in our Research Methods module, working on a topic of your choice.
Foreign language and volunteering modules are also available in the second year.
The third year is your Sandwich Year, in which you study on the Supervised Work Experience module (40 credits).
This module enables you to apply the skills and knowledge you have gained to a project negotiated together with an external organisation.
At the end of the placement, you will submit a reflective report.
In your final year, you return to your normal taught modules.
You will study aspects of structural and applied linguistics not already covered.
This includes modules on gender and sexuality, language variation and change, psycholinguistics, conversation analysis, and cooperation, conflict and humour in face-to-face and digital interaction.
You may, however, choose the Community Link option instead, in which you carry out action research in a work- or volunteering- based placement and produce a report which showcases your research skills and is of use to the organisation in which you conducted the research.
This module provides an opportunity to apply academic skills and knowledge to a year long project negotiated with an external organisation.
In the 2015 National Student Survey this course achieved 95% student satisfaction rate!
The member of academic staff who leads this course is Deborah Orpin

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-english-language-and-literatures:
Aiming to inspire a passionate and expert knowledge of literary and cultural texts from the medieval era to the present day, within this course you will study a variety of writers from the West Midlands to the wider world beyond.
Aiming to inspire a passionate and expert knowledge of literary and cultural texts from the medieval era to the present day, you will study a variety of writers from the West Midlands to the wider world beyond.
As part of our BA (Hons) English Language and Literatures course, you will also gain an understanding of how the English language is used in different contexts and of its political and ideological significance.
You will analyse literature and culture in a wide range of social and historical contexts, especially in relation to gender, sexuality, ethnicity, religion, class and disability.
One other important goal is for you to develop your awareness of the significance of ethical evaluations of reading, writing, and linguistic interpretation, supporting an understanding of equality, diversity, and inclusion in literature, language, and culture.
Reflections on literary and linguistic production and reception, value, and cultural capital will be encouraged.
The content of the course was created to help you familiarise yourself with types and genres, forms, aesthetics, and functions associated with literary and cultural media bodies of diverse genres and improve your communication skills in order to develop and sustain a career.
Combining Language and Literatures will enhance your abilitie s in critical and creative thinking, analysis, research, and problem-solving, for academic success and employment beyond your degree.
Our ultimate goal is to help you develop confidence in making your voice heard at university, at work , and in culture and society.
Graduates of English Language and Literature programmes are known for their abilities in critical thinking, gathering of evidence , argument and opinion construction , and problem-solving, which provide them unique advantages when seekin g employment.
Take a look at our BA Hons English Language and Literature course with sandwich placement .
Many graduates have proceeded to postgraduate study , gaining Master’s degrees, teaching and other postgraduate professional qualifications, and PhDs.
Our graduates go into diverse careers and occupations, including education at all levels, management and leadership, local government, librarianship and information services, social work, the civil service, retail and the service sector, fundraising and charity work, journalism and professional writing, proofreading, copy-editing and publishing.
You will be taught synthesising literature and linguistic approaches, including literature of the Midlands across time.
You are encouraged to blog our experiences on the departmental blog space and to write for the Faculty e-zine.
You will have opportunities to work in the Arena Theatre, conduct research with employers through our Humanities work placement module and to connect with employers throughout the degree programme.
Research undertaken at Level 6 will allow you to apply skills to produce a piece of original research concerning linguistics in the world.
Recent examples include studies on the loss of complex kinship terms in the Panjabi English diaspora as bilingualism leads to language shift, and discursive approaches to regaining public trust in online discussion of chemtrails.
The innovative assessment will allow the acquisition of various literacies and competences from producing a poetry chapbook to conducting and writing up an original linguistic fieldwork study.
Our BA (Hons) English Language and Literatures course provides an occasion to explore numerous literary works , all the way from the canonical to the popular and exciting from lots of different authors.
You will learn the ways in which English is used not only to shape society, but also our own perceptions.
There will also be a focus on the politics, ethics, and ideologies of cultural representation, and issues of equality and diversity in literatures, language culture.
You will be treated with warmth and respect by a friendly, professional staff, as they seek to help you reach your potential.
As you take part in seminars presented by famous literary critics, award-winning authors, and poets.
You will also have the opportunity to participate in our Literatures@Wolves Culture Programme, including visits to sites of regional, national and international interest, with regular events on campus, theatre performances, visits to museums, galleries and events.
We also aim to embed opportunities for assessment and work experience that plays to your strengths, and that will support your skills for employment on graduation.
You will be able to complete a Student Record of Achievement, a record of skills and experiences to present to prospective employers.
Following graduation and the required classification, you will be able to go onto our Master’s degree in English or Popular Culture, and also consider entering our PhD programme.
This course introduces a number of key texts in medieval and Old English literature through the lens of the medieval animal.
You will encounter a range of fantastic beasts in English and European textual and visual cultures from the tenth to sixteenth centuries, and learn the critical skills to analyse them.
In doing so, you will examine the importance of animals in forming human and civic identities – including in our own city’s Anglo-Saxon name.
This module aims to provide both a thorough introduction to the main areas of contemporary literary criticism and theory, with a particular emphasis on textual/cultural constructions of identity.
Students will be equipped with a set of theoretical terms and concepts that will enable them to understand what is at stake in current debates in critical and cultural theory, and the way in which such debates inform the politics of literary and cultural representation.
Topics covered include Structuralism/Post-Structuralism; Psychoanalysis; Marxism; Feminisms; Postcolonialism; Disability Studies; Animal Studies.
Students will be provided with copies of theoretical essays via the VLE, with particular emphasis on thinkers from beyond the white, European-American 'canon' of theory.
This module will explore the representation of disability in Victorian literature and culture, using a definition of the 'Victorian era' which expands beyond the colonial centre and considering texts as part of a long nineteenth century as well.
With a particular emphasis on the way in which the 'extraordinary' body and mind are constructed in Victorian popular culture, students will study a selection of nineteenth-century texts via the lens of contemporary disability theory.
The ideologies of empire are explored alongside issues of gender, class and religion (Christianity and Islam).
Students will encounter nineteenth-century novels, drama, poetry, short stories, pamphlets, religious tracts, newspaper articles and advertising.
This module provides opportunities for community-based learning through voluntary community engagement.
This activity will enable you to understand the relevance of your studies within a community context, combining practical experience with academic studies.
In addition, it is an opportunity to develop a critical understanding of the Third Sector, and the notion of citizenship.
Both subject specific and transferable skills will be developed and utilised throughout this module, thus developing graduate employment attributes.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-english-language-and-tesol-teaching-english-to-speakers-of-other-languages:
Study English Language and TESOL to learn about the English Language and develop the skills needed to teach it.
Come and join our interactive TESOL & English Language course at the University of Wolverhampton.
You will benefit from the dedicated teaching staff's expertise and enthusiasm to help you learn about the English Language and develop the skills needed to teach it.
We offer a diverse learning environment where prior experience in English Language or ESOL teaching is not assumed.
We want you to succeed to become a professional, confident, committed, and resourceful graduate with a high level of practical and theoretical knowledge so you can begin your career in English Language education whether locally, nationally, or globally as many others have done before you.
You will complete a work-based placement and will gain an in-depth knowledge of local ESOL sites enabling fruitful connections between you and your prospective place of employment.
You will have the opportunity to develop transferable skills such as critical thinking, analysis, and effective interpersonal communication, and graduates from this course have gone on to work with children and adults in all sectors of education in the UK and abroad.
In your final year you will apply theoretical knowledge to produce a piece of original research concerning TESOL in the world.
Previous assignments have looked at native-speakerism in job advertisements or the use of flipped learning in the language classroom, for example.
You will develop English language awareness to aid with the teaching of grammar, lexis and pronunciation to learners of English.
As you progress through the course, you will be encouraged to explore specific areas of interest within language and language teaching as you learn experientially.
For example, you will experience learning another language and then reflect on that experience).
This course is structured to encourage inclusiveness and communication, an aspect which manifests in much of the methodology employed for teaching.
Interactive workshops and lectures integrate pair and group work frequently, data collection and analysis activities focusing on linguistic systems, perspectives of systematic language studies, teaching approaches and cultural diversity.
The shared progressive attitude formed through this collaborative approach has led to the excellent reputation of English Language and TESOL graduates, regarded as confident, committed professionals with a keen resourcefulness in practical and theoretical matters.
This module aims to develop your understanding of language systems and the language learning process.
You will explore a variety of practical and communicative methods for facilitating the presentation and learning of grammar, lexis and pronunciation in the ESOL classroom.
The module also focuses on the teaching of the four skills - reading, writing, listening and speaking, and how to structure these activities effectively for language learners in a variety of environments.
In this module, you are required to organise and complete a work placement with an ESOL focus of a minimum of 40 hours.
Examples of placements include working with EAL children in a school, volunteering at ESOL classes in an FE college or working with charities that offer language support.
You are also required to consider the different contexts in which English is taught and current issues surrounding English language teaching and learning.
Examples of these include the role of English as a global language, English as a Lingua Franca, the use of technology in language teaching as well as the native/non-native speaker debate.
The University's Volunteer Central is a useful starting point in helping you find a relevant placement opportunity.
If required, you will need to organise a DBS check.
This module will help you to develop your ability to evaluate and produce EFL materials and syllabi.
You will examine their content, sequencing, methodology and applicability, and utilise the principles of good design generated by your evaluation to produce materials of your own.
Lecture sessions will provide information on the key areas of objectives, syllabus, unit planning, methodology, activity design, layout and graphics
In this module, you will continue to investigate the learning and teaching of language systems and the four skills of reading, writing, listening and speaking in greater depth.
You will do this by evaluating the oral and written output of a learner, undertaking an error and needs analysis, and then planning and delivering a one-hour lesson.
You will also develop your own language awareness by reviewing and developing your knowledge and beliefs about the teaching of grammar to non-native speakers of English.
Praise for English Language and TESOL graduates from the University of Wolverhampton is copious and exceedingly positive; in local, national and global positions, our alumni have earned an excellent reputation for their professionalism, confidence, resourcefulness, practical competency and subject knowledge.
Through studying English Language and TESOL you will develop a broad, multifaceted understanding of linguistics and the teaching of languages.
Your knowledge will cover features of linguistic systems, formality, sociological, psychological and applied aspects of study, applicability of current teaching approaches, relevant technologies, appropriate learning objectives and areas of cultural diversity.
Non-native speakers are required to hold IELTS with an overall bandscore of 7.0 with a minimum of 6.5 in each element or an acceptable equivalent.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-english-literatures:
Inspire your passion for and knowledge of the literary and cultural texts from the medieval era to the present.
This English literature degree will focus on a wide range of literatures, from the canonical to the popular, from diverse authors.
This degree seeks to inspire your passion for and knowledge of the literary and cultural texts from the medieval era to the present, by regional writers from West Midlands to the rest of the globe.
It will improve your understanding of the political and ideological significance of literature and culture in a vast number of contexts, especially in relation to gender, sexuality, ethnicity, religion, social class, and disability.
You will develop an awareness of the significance of ethical evaluations of reading and writing, supporting an understanding of equality, diversity, and inclusion in literature, language and culture.
Whilst studying our English Literatures degree, you’ll also enhance your verbal, written and digital communication skills for developing and sustaining a professional career.
Your experience of study will enhance your verbal, written and digital communication skills for developing and sustaining a professional career.
The degree will help you develop your skills in the critical thinking and creative thinking, analysing, research, and problem-solving categories, for academic success and employment beyond your degree.
This programme gives you practice and training in developing your courage and confidence to make your voice heard, at university, in the workplace, and in culture.
English Literatures graduates are appreciated for their critical thinking abilities , evidence-gathering and evaluation, argument or point-of-view construction and advocacy.
These excellent problem-solving skills are transferable and proving highly desirable throughout the employment market.
Numerous graduates have proceeded to postgraduate study, gaining Master’s degrees, teaching and other postgraduate professional qualifications, and PhDs.
Those graduating from our programme move on to varied careers and jobs , including education at all levels, management and leadership, local government, librarianship and information services, social work, the civil service, retail and the service sector, fundraising and charity work, journalism and professional writing, proofreading, copy-editing and publishing.
The literary knowledge you will gain has a strong emphasis on the way the literatures you examine shape social and cultural identities.
You will concentrate on the politics, ethics, and ideologies of literatures and those of equality, diversity, and representation.
The staff at the University of Wolverhampton will make sure you have the support you need to reach your full potential .
You will have the opportunity to participate in sessions with internationally renowned literary critics, award-winning novelists, and poets.
You will have the opportunity to participate in our Literatures@Wolves Culture Programme, including visits to sites of regional, national and international interest, with regular events on campus, theatre performances, visits to museums, galleries and events.
You will have embedded opportunities for assessment and working experience that appeals to your strengths, and that will prove beneficial as your skills and knowledge pertain to employment after graduation.
Additionally, you will be supported to complete a Student Record of Achievement, which is a record of skills and experiences to present to prospective employers.
After completing your degree, you will have the opportunity to go onto a Master’s degree in English or Popular Culture, and consider entering our PhD programme at the University of Wolverhampton.
The module aims to introduce students to key theoretical and methodological issues through an exploration of popular culture.
The module explores the relationship between popular cultural forms and identity, and how culture can be perceived as both an expression of and resistance to dominant norms.
Case studies will include video games and the politics of violence, comedy and the politics of representation, witches and gender, freakshows and the history of disability, cosplay and identity politics, slasher films and the politics of the final girl, popular music and its origins in black culture, Josephine Baker as the first international superstar and will include a visit to The Land of Lost Content and an examination of the hierarchies of remembrance.
The module examines literary and cultural responses to political debates and to key moments in social history.
Particular reference will be made to the impacts of socio-cultural change and political movements on popular literature and culture, and how such productions have been used to advance or resist various ideological interests.
Issues addressed will include the relationships between various types of representation and their claims to truth and authenticity, the impact of social, commercial, political and moral issues on cultural production; the significance of the audience; the role(s) of culture within particular social formations such as ethnic and sexual identities, with particular reference to practices of collaboration, recuperation, and resistance.
Students will draw on theoretical perspectives acquired through 5EN001 and in the course of this module including but not limited to queer theory, decolonisation, Marxism and feminism  Texts may include: Black Panther (2018); James Baldwin's The Fire Next Time; Atwood's The Handmaid's Tale; The Fresh Prince of Bel Air; Doctor Who; Drag Race UK; The Crown, South Park, South Park, Jilly Cooper's Riders; Watchmen; American Psycho; The Book of Mormon (the musical, not the religious text), Lessing's The Good Terrorist.
It requires students to demonstrate the analytical, research, interpretive and study skills acquired over the length of their English degree, including the abilities to construct and sustain an argument, and to support it using credible researched evidence.
This module examines Romanticism as a concept encompassing literature and global culture between 1780 and 1840.
With reference to poetry, fiction, and non-fictional prose, the module explores in particular how the Romantic imagination intersects with, is modified by, and contests developments in material culture, science and technology, politics, religion, and the arts.
Sites of cultural debate to be considered include: representations of revolution; the abolition of slavery; gender rights and sexuality; landscape, travel, and colonialism; and the writer in society.
Here are just a few of the careers you can pursue with a degree in English Literature:
At the end of the English Literatures course you will be able to:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-english-literatures-and-history:
This course is designed to inspire your passion for and knowledge of literary and cultural texts and histories from the medieval to the present day, from the West Midlands to the wider world beyond.
The degree will promote your understanding of the political and ideological significance of literature, history and culture in a wide range of social and historical contexts, especially in relation to gender, sexuality, ethnicity, religion, class, and disability.
Your studies will develop your awareness of the significance of ethical evaluations of literature and history, supporting an understanding of equality, diversity, and inclusion in literature, history and culture.
You will be encouraged to reflect critically on literary production and reception, value and cultural capital in a variety of historical contexts.
You will have the opportunity to advance your understanding of the different forms, aesthetics, genres, and functions of literary and cultural texts in a variety of historical contexts.
You will also be able to enhance your verbal, written and digital communication skills for developing and sustaining a professional career.
This degree fosters your skills in critical and creative thinking, analysis, research, and problem-solving, for academic success and employment beyond your degree.
The course is designed to develop your confidence in making your voice heard, at university, in employment, and in culture and society.
Graduates from this course will be extremely attractive to any employer in the education sector, holding qualifications in two key components of the national curriculum.
And whilst primary and secondary school teaching is the largest single destination for our graduates, Wolverhampton students from this course have gone onto careers in: journalism; publishing; art gallery, museum and archive research administration; advertising and marketing; public relations; human resources and many other posts within the commercial sector which require creativity and excellent skills in written and oral communication.
A notable proportion of our graduates have also undertaken postgraduate education in recent years, studying for Masters and PhD degrees.
Explore a wide range of literatures, from the canonical to the popular, from diverse authors, and histories of and connections between different parts of the world and across different historical periods.
Your course has a strong emphasis on the way in which literatures shape social and cultural identities, historically and in the contemporary moment.
You will focus on the politics, ethics, and ideologies of cultural representation, and issues of equality and diversity in literatures and cultures in a variety of historical contexts.
You will be taught by friendly, welcoming staff, who are dedicated to working with you to enable you to achieve your full potential.
You will have the opportunity to participate in sessions with internationally renowned literary critics, award-winning novels and poets.
There will be embedded opportunities for assessment and work experience that plays to your strengths, and that will support your skills for employment on graduation.
You will be supported to complete a Student Record of Achievement, a record of skills and experiences to present to prospective employers.
You will also have the opportunity to go onto a Masters degree in English, History or Popular Culture, and considering entering our PhD programme.
The twentieth century witnessed momentous shifts.
As empires collapsed and new countries were born, technology, economic change and new societal norms radically altered the way people lived their lives.
In this module, we will explore some of this social, economic, political and cultural change by looking at a diverse selection of historical episodes from around the world.
In doing so, we will ask questions about the ways the changes of the last century shaped the world in which we live today.
The module will explore roughly 250 years, starting from around 1500 and taking you into the eighteenth century, to appreciate the forces of change and continuity during the early modern period.
Its geographical focus will be both local and global, to help you develop a broad overview peppered with more intimately focused insights into the period.
As the bridge between even more remote layers of recorded time, an understanding of the early modern world is fundamental to developing a sound understanding of modern history.
This module shows students how to make sense of the past through archival and oral sources.
It provides an opportunity for students to gain an appreciation of the way historical evidence is drawn from the contested space of the archive and the multiple historical perspectives that exist in memory.
It will explore relationships between past and present, memory and history, popular and scholarly discourses, and individual and group identities.
Students will be introduced to local archives, oral history collections and how to conduct their own oral history interviews.
In doing so, they explore how the use of archival collections and oral history can help to challenge gender, class and racial stereotypes and promote cross-cultural and cross-generational understanding.
Research underpins all academic study.
Most scholarly monographs and journal articles present new research that has been undertaken and understanding that research helps with understanding the reading.
Equally, research is not only something you will read about but something you will undertake for yourself before the end of your course.
To do so, it is important that you are aware of the different options available to you as you embark upon your own research.
To that end, this module will introduce you to a variety of approaches to research in your subject area and to how you might develop ideas for your own research projects.
This module explores the history of feminism by examining some of the ways women have organised to challenge their subordination in national, imperial and international contexts.
Students will study movements to promote different and evolving visions of women’s rights in the realms of politics, work, education, and the family.
The module will also analyse women’s involvement in wider movements for social, economic and political change such as abolitionism, anti-colonialism, workers’ rights, and disarmament.
Through a series of case studies, students will encounter women activists from Britain and their counterparts in Europe, Asia, Africa and the Americas to analyse narratives of internal tension and set-back alongside more positive histories of solidarity and historic achievement.
The module provides a critique of pre-industrial and early-industrial consumerism using a range of primary sources and artefacts to examine the extent to which a 'consumer revolution' in culture and society occurred during the period.
It examines the acquisition of new goods and commodities and the agencies and motivations through which these were obtained and deployed.
The module is concerned with the theoretical underpinnings to the development of consumerist attitudes.
The focus is primarily on the lower and middling sorts of England and Wales, though comparisons with elite culture as well as contemporary non-British modes of consumption will also be considered.
This module draws upon the different sub-disciplines of historical research to explore the Great War from a variety of perspectives.
It makes use of the work of traditional military historians, as well as the research of social, gender and cultural historians, all of whom have provided valuable insights into the war-time experience of civilians and soldiers.
Teaching sessions explore the impact of war on British society and also trace its devastating and transformational effect on the populations of Continental Europe, examining the War’s prosecution, its social consequences, and the manner in which it has been commemorated since 1918.
Along with an emphasis on the different aims and methodologies that inform historical work in this field, the module invites students to explore the period by engaging with the primary source base; the written material, visual sources and artifacts that have survived the conflict, and with which we construct its histories.
This course explores the upheavals of modern history through the eyes of some of those who were most profoundly affected: Itinerants, migrants and refugees.
With a focus on the available primary sources, we will examine the different ways that historians have attempted to reconstruct the perspective and agency of the men, women and children in question, and also consider the manner in which governments have sought to control this movement of people.
The course takes as its two main themes the geographical mobility that came in the wake of nineteenth century industrialisation and the displacement of populations that resulted from war and persecution in the twentieth century.
The final decades of British rule in India were tumultuous times.
From the iconic civil disobedience campaigns of Mahatma Gandhi to violent revolutionary activity, the imperial state was rocked by protest.
At the same time the international legitimacy of colonial rule was dissolving in the wake of the Bolshevik revolution, the rise of the United States of America and the turmoil of the two World Wars.
This module examines the ‘local’ and ‘global’ dimensions of decolonisation in South Asia, exploring the history of anti-colonial activism alongside the experiences of ordinary people who lived through the end of empire.
In doing so, students will learn about the importance of gender, caste, class and religion in anti-colonial politics.
Drawing upon an extensive English-language scholarship, and through analysis of translated contemporary sources, students are invited to explore German history in what was a period of profound social and political change, but one also marked by important continuities.
The topics to be addressed include:   The economic growth that transformed the new state from 1871 and the high levels of geographical mobility this generated, including the mass emigration of Germans overseas.
The manner in which ethnicity, gender and social class shaped the life course of German subjects throughout the period 1871-1945.
The emergence of the labour movement, and the mass political participation characteristic of the peace-time Wilhelmine era (1890-1914) and of the Weimar Republic (1919-1933).
Society in WW1 and the revolution that accompanied defeat in 1918.
The political, social and economic developments in Weimar Germany which led to the rise of the NSDAP.
The combination of coercion and consent which helped the Nazis secure and retain control and the possibilities that existed for opposing the regime.
The continuities between colonialism and Nazi practices of warfare and occupation in WW2.
The Nazi persecution of social outsiders and racial enemies, including the development of policy towards German and European Jews, the ideology which drove this, and the process of cumulative radicalization that led to their mass murder.
The module provides you with the opportunity to explore a historical topic or a topic related to the use of the past independently and in depth.
It is normally taken during the final semester of study, thereby allowing you to draw on the skills developed and honed throughout your earlier studies.
The choice of research topic should be guided by your interest as well as the feasibility of undertaking the project given the availability of relevant primary and secondary sources and the expertise of potential supervisors.
The findings of your Independent Study are usually presented in the form of a written dissertation.
However, in the spirit of inclusivity and creativity, alternatives are possible with the approval of the supervisor and the module leader.
In seeking approval, you will need to demonstrate that it would still be possible to meet the module’s Learning Outcomes.
Approval for any alternative should be secured before work on the Independent Study begins.
The discussion of feasible topics, possible supervisors and modes of presentation will normally have started at Level 5 in the ‘Research in Action’ module.
Most people do not learn about the past in university lecture halls and seminar rooms.
This module offers an introduction to the field of public history, broadly defined to cover encounters with the past outside of the academic discipline.
Students will learn to be critical consumers of representations of the past in museums and at heritage sites, in fiction, on screen and online, as well as community history projects.
After surveying different public history approaches to the past, students will undertake and reflect on their own small-scale original project in curating historical materials or presenting historical insights for non-academic audiences, depicting the past in creative work or on a short-term placement.
In doing so, students will be encouraged to think critically about the limits and the potential of non-academic encounters with the past.
The module examines the key themes of family, gender and sexuality in Britain in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, using a variety of online and documentary sources to examine both ‘normative’ and ‘transgressive’ behaviour within British society.
The module draws upon successive generations of English-language scholarship and a wealth of contemporary sources in translation to explore the genesis, development and murderous outcome of policy towards the Jews and others targeted by the Nazi regime.
It first examines the Nazi persecution of German Jews and other racial and social enemies in Germany in the inter-war years, then charts the transition to systematic mass murder across occupied Europe during World War Two.
Throughout the module students will study the motives and actions of the perpetrators of these crimes, and attempt through extensive engagement with the source record to piece together the experience of the many who suffered at their hands.
This module examines the history of youth culture and popular music in twentieth century Britain.
The focus will be both chronological and thematic.
Sessions will explore the emergence of youth as a social problem, examine the relationship between youth culture and popular music, analyse the relationship between history, sound and place.
It also explores the ways in which youth cultures and popular music have reflected, challenged, and informed shifting notions of class, race, gender, sexuality, and regional/national identities.
Throughout the module students will engage with a range of written sources along with recorded music, performance, and cinematic representations of youth culture.
Teaching/Lecturing
Journalism
Museum and archiving
Curatorship
Advertising

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-english-literatures-and-history-with-foundation-year:
Literatures spanning across times and places the world over are taught at the University of Wolverhampton with enthusiasm and expertise, encouraging examination of popular  works with a critical eye to match the passion of students.
Literatures spanning across times and places the world over are taught at the University of Wolverhampton with enthusiasm and expertise, encouraging examination of popular and canonical works with a critical eye to match the passion of students.
Under the tutelage of the School of Humanities’ regarded staff, you will study literature with a mindfulness of contexts, particularly as they pertain to issues of ethics and representation.
Opportunities for sessions with internationally renowned literary critics, award-winning novelists and poets will further compound your analytical aptitude, as will participation in the visits and events offered during the Literatures@Wolves Culture Program and further embedded opportunities for applied learning in the curriculum.
Upon graduation, your qualification and the skills earned throughout your degree will prepare you to enter a wide range of employment fields, including education, journalism, publishing, marketing and archiving.
Your existing literary interest and ability will be fuelled through materials and ideas covered on this course, analysing works from a breadth of contextual backgrounds and strengthening your ability to recognise the relevance of those backgrounds upon the texts.
Of key interest will be the political and ideological significance of literature, history and culture, the curriculum structured with a progressive outlook that encourages critical reflection on literary production and reception.
Your analytical, research and problem-solving skills will be dramatically strengthened, equipping you with a wealth of cultural capital in modules discussing pop culture, political movements and the particular culture of Wolverhampton.
Throughout the programme you will also have a multitude of opportunities to practice your own creative abilities, applying your developed critical proficiency.
Confidence-building opportunities including placements and work/volunteering experience, on top of opportunities offered via the Literatures@Wolves Culture Programme – visits to sites of regional, national and international interest, theatre performances, museum, gallery and event visits as well as regular events on campus – will allow you to make your voice heard in addition to demonstrating skills valued by employers.
Teaching/Learning
Museum and Archiving
School of Humanities staff include members specialised in Literature, each deeply passionate about the arts and with published writing on topics of interest.
The eclectic blend of features and fascinations they bring to teaching will be imparted through your curriculum, forming a broad base of subject knowledge for you to explore.
In addition, embedded meetings with decorated critical, professional and creative writers will enrich your topic understanding, carrying insights on employability and credibility.
At the University of Wolverhampton, opportunities for work-environment experience and further activities are emphasises.
The Literatures@Wolves Culture Programme is one of many unique areas where this approach manifests, allowing you to participate in events and visits of cultural, curricular and career interest on- and off-campus.
By the end of your course, you will be able to construct a prolific Student Record of Achievement for presentation to potential employers, aided by our teaching staff and embellished by the actions taken during your studies.
This course will enhance your subject knowledge and understanding, involving study of worldwide historical and theoretical contexts, literary and non-literary texts throughout history and the application of critical theories to these works.
Through this rigorous topic research you will attain various transferrable skills, observing and making use of the oral, written and digital resources at your disposal in content creation.
You will also reflect on your own practice, comprehending the value of ethical reading practices and your civic responsibility in collaboration with and representation of historical, literary, cultural and global contexts.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-english-literatures-with-foundation-year:
On this degree you will explore a wide range of literatures, from the canonical to the popular, from diverse authors.
This degree aims to inspire your passion for and knowledge of literary and cultural texts from the medieval era to the present day, by writers from the West Midlands to the wider world beyond.
It will promote your understanding of the political and ideological significance of literature and culture in a wide range of social and historical contexts, especially in relation to gender, sexuality, ethnicity, religion, class, and disability.
The course will encourage you to reflect critically on literary production and reception, value and cultural capital.
The modules you study will advance your understanding of the different forms, aesthetics, genres, and functions of literary and cultural texts.
The degree fosters your skills in critical and creative thinking, analysis, research, and problem-solving, for academic success and employment beyond your degree.
This programme will enable you to develop your confidence in making your voice heard, at university, in employment, and in culture and society.
This degree equips students for employment in any area where critical thinking, analytical skills, and where exemplary written and verbal communication skills are important.
English Literatures graduates are valued for their capabilities in critical thinking, evidence gathering and evaluation, argument or point-of-view construction and advocacy, and problem solving, with these transferable skills proving highly desirable throughout the employment market.
Many graduates have proceeded to postgraduate study, gaining Masters degrees, teaching and other postgraduate professional qualifications, and PhDs.
Our graduates go into diverse careers and occupations, including education at all levels, management and leadership, local government, librarianship and information services, social work, the civil service, retail and the service sector, fundraising and charity work, journalism and professional writing, proof-reading, copyediting and publishing.
The modules you study have a strong emphasis on the way in which literatures shape social and cultural identities.
You will focus on the politics, ethics, and ideologies of cultural representation, and issues of equality and diversity in literatures and culture.
You will have embedded opportunities for assessment and work experience that plays to your strengths, and that will support your skills for employment on graduation.
After completing your degree, you will have the opportunity to go onto a Masters degree in English or Popular Culture, and considering entering our PhD programme at University of Wolverhampton.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-english-literatures-with-sandwich-placement:
English Literatures graduates are valued for their capabilities in critical thinking, evidence gathering and evaluation, argument or point-of-view construction and advocacy, and problem solving with these transferable skills proving highly desirable throughout the employment market.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-criminology-and-criminal-justice-and-law:
A degree in criminology and criminal justice with law enables you to explore the reality behind the newspaper headlines on crime and examine a topic which is relevant, topical and has real, practical application in contemporary society.
Crime and its impact, are at the forefront of current political and social debate.
A degree in criminology and criminal justice with law enables you to explore the reality behind the newspaper headlines on crime and examine a topic which is relevant, topical and has real, practical application in contemporary society.
You will also cover a number of key law subject areas which link to the criminology side of your course.
Throughout this course you will learn about a range of topics from the criminal justice system and how it functions, the causes and consequences of crime, victimology, rehabilitation, the history of crime and punishment.
By combining with law you will also gain experience in key areas of criminal law, housing law and refugee law.
With pathways related to specific topics (for example, probation) you can tailor what you study to your own interests and desired career.
With teaching developed and delivered by research-led staff you can be sure you are learning about the latest research and debates in policy and practice.
Teaching and assessment are facilitated through various approaches to provide something for everyone.
At every level of your degree, you will have the opportunity to undertake volunteering with a relevant organisations to further your experience within the field and develop your transferable skills.
Even if you choose not to do this, there is still an emphasis on employability at every level throughout the course.
Through the study of this module, students will develop key independent study skills as well as areas of their legal knowledge, using practical legal research skills to further their knowledge base within the context of guided learning activities.
They will be supported in this process by a series of lectures focusing on research techniques and workshops / seminars in which these skills will be applied.
The module will enhance their skills  in research, reasoning, interpretation, writing, presentation and organisation.
In addition to legal skills and knowledge, employability issues will be also be addressed in this module, enabling students to research career paths and develop CVs and applications for specific organisations both within and outside of the legal profession .
The Wolverhampton Enterprise and Employability Award (WEEA) (Bronze & Silver Awards) will be completed as part of the module.
The Wolverhampton Enterprise and Employability Award (WEEA) is an award which gives students and graduates recognition for work experience and career management activities.
It can be completed through career related modules or as an extra-curricular activity.
The WEEA will benefit students by supporting them to gain a better understanding of the workplace that they will enter upon graduating, to build plans to tackle the transition between studying and work and to build the work experience and skills required to prove to employers that they are employable.
The module aims to provide students with foundation knowledge of the principal features of the English Legal System as well as developing many of the practical lawyering, study and employability skills required by students throughout their legal education and into employment.
The approach is very practical and designed to enable students to develop the required skills at their own speed.
Personal development planning and self-reflection are important features of this module.
This module will cover the basic character of tortious liability;    The origins of the tort of negligence.
The historical development of the duty of care.
The standard of care and breach of the duty of care.
Causation in fact and law.
Nervous shock law.
Pure economic loss and liability for omissions.
Occupiers' liability and trespass to the person.
You will also examine the availability of tortious defences in these areas.
This module will introduce students to the key elements of the Criminal Justice System (CJS) in England and Wales.
It highlights how the police, CPS, courts, jury and sentencing operate independently but also within a wider framework, thereby giving students vital introductory information that is required to explore the deeper workings of the system later within their degree.
There is also opportunity to consider potential future careers within the CJS (through listening to guest speakers who work in the field, asking questions and reflecting upon their own possible aspirations within seminars) and work towards the Wolverhampton Enterprise and Employability Award Silver Level (WEEA).
The assessment for this module also builds upon the employability theme of this module, as students take on the roles of different parts of the CJS and develop team work, debating and presentation skills.
This module will review the importance of advocacy in challenging disadvantage and in raising awareness of issues that impact on the health, wellbeing and efficacy of citizens locally, nationally and/ or globally.
It will also focus on skills for the workplace, including working in a team and research skills.
It will examine the importance of knowledge to a functioning society, including active citizen engagement, and how to access reliable information to support the campaign.
It will examine the skills needed to work productively in a team and how to put them into practice.
The module will review successful awareness raising campaigns, leading to the development and implementation of a campaign or event.
The module examines the notion of rights, with particular reference to the rights enshrined in the Human Rights Act 1998.
The legal issues arising from claims that human rights have been infringed are examined in the context of case law.
This in turn illustrates the relevant legal principles that are applied and remedies available for infringement.
The module aims to provide students with a comprehensive introduction to victimology, an important and increasingly relevant subject within the discipline of Criminology.
The module will provide students with an overview of the development of victimology and its history, theoretical perspectives in victimology, the measurement of victimisation, victims in the media, the nature and impact of the victim experience including that of the criminal justice process, and the development of support services and victim policy.
The module will consider key issues and debates within victimology and in relation to victims of particular types of crimes.
This module offers the study of the main crimes against the person.
It will cover the components of a crime including mens rea and actus reus, along with issues of causation and omissions liability.
The module will cover the crimes of murder, manslaughter and non- fatal offences such as assault, battery, actual bodily harm and grievous bodily harm.
It will then investigate how crimes may be proven by establishing all elements of the offence in the absence of a valid defence.
Defences covered include the murder specific defences of loss of control and diminished responsibility, consent, insanity, automatism and intoxication.
This module will look at the procedure and processes involved in criminal investigation and litigation with regards to the core principles of criminal liability, building upon the substantive criminal offences covered in the level 4 module Substantive Crime.
This is an application based module, where students will learn about the criminal litigation process based on real life scenarios, interactive learning, role play, lectures and seminars.
Students will be expected to draw on and apply knowledge f the following areas of law and practice:  •	Core legal principles of criminal liability relating to a number of offences; •	The procedure and processes at the police station, including advising the client prior to interview; •	The procedure and processed involved in prosecuting and defending a case before the Magistrates, Crown and Youth Courts.
Framing the Criminological World offers a critical exploration of explanations and understandings of crime through a criminological lens.
The module provides students with an understanding of criminology as a theoretical and applied discipline.
Therefore, the module analyses criminological theories of crime and deviance and explores the application of theories in real-life cases.
The module focuses on a variety of forms of theory, from Labelling and Reintegrative Shaming Theory to Conflict Theory.
The spatial and temporal dynamics of the criminological theory are examined with reference to debates on the carnival of crime and political agendas.
Collectively the sessions enable students to develop a comprehensive knowledge and theoretical understanding of criminology as an applied discipline.
Finally, it will explore criminological theory as a distinct criminological topic, whilst examining its relationship with social science broadly.
This module will introduce students to both qualitative and quantitative research methods in the social sciences.
The distinction can be over-stated given as many research projects now use mixed methods, but a difference does exist and it is necessary to unpack it for heuristic purposes.
The module will proceed through first outlining the background and key aspects of the qualitative and quantitative traditions, before providing case examples of field work using particular research techniques (surveys, semi structured interviews) within the two broad approaches.
Environmental Crime offers a critical exploration of environmental dangers through a criminological lens.
It assesses the cultural and legal parameters of causing harm to the planet (Green Criminology) by considering what constitutes an environmental crime in contrasting contexts.
The module focuses on a variety of forms of environmental crime, from fast fashions to the illegal trade and poaching of wildlife.
The spatial and progressive dynamics of environmental factors are examined with reference to debates on black markets and cultural rituals.
Collectively the lectures enable students to develop comprehensive knowledge and theoretical understanding of Green Criminology.
The module explores environmental crime as a distinct criminological topic, whilst examining its relationship with criminology and criminal justice more broadly.
To introduce students to the history of the modern police force.
To examine the relationship between police and society.
The module will provide an overview of general employment law matters in the context of the employer employee relationship from recruitment to dismissal.
It will introduce the key themes which need to be aware of in order to comply with their obligations and act within the law.
It will explore  current issues from time to  time for  example dealing with underperformance,  absenteeism and  related contractual  matters within the legal  framework.
Major topics for example  dismissal  and  discrimination and  rights within the workplace will also  be covered.
For this module, students will undertake an independent project, supported by a member of the teaching team, about a topic of their choice.
Students have three options for their project: a secondary research dissertation; a primary research dissertation; or, an applied research project with a not-for-profit organisation.
Further details are provided in the module content.
Internet law is a module concerned with the legal issues arising from online activities.
The law is responding to developments and new challenges such as cybercrime, data protection, privacy, social media abuses, internet regulation, and cyber-squatting claims to name a few.
This module will consider the diverse legal responses to the broad challenges posed by online interaction.
The module will focus on three different topics: nationality law with particular attention to British nationality, the concept of statelessness and EU citizenship.
International migration with particular attention to migration from countries not belonging to the EU to the EU and the UK, irregular migration and the connected crimes of human trafficking and people smuggling.
International Refugee law where we will explore the International Convention of Refugee Law, asylum law in the UK and in the EU and the interaction between these two legal systems.
This module aims to examine how crime in modern society is prevented and controlled.
To critically examine informal and formal methods of controlling crime.
To address ways in which the broader behaviour and lifestyles of particular individuals and social groups are controlled through crime control.
This module focuses on theoretical perspectives, practices, and the foundations of offender rehabilitation, desistance, and the process of change.
It explores the precepts of rehabilitation of offenders, what works in offender management, and how the relevant theories and interventions inform these practices and the practitioners.
Desistance is introduced as an associated to rehabilitation concept to particularly inform the understanding of the processes that aspire to ceasing offending behaviour (Weaver and McNeil, 2007).
Central part of the above exploration is the supervision of offenders which invites exploration of key aspects and methods, such as Relationship building, Motivational Interviewing, Cognitive Behavioural techniques, and the Risk-Need-Responsivity and Good Lives models.
The module appreciates that multi-agency working remains vital to the above processes and as such the enablers, barriers, and challenges around multi-agency work in rehabilitation are examined.
It further incorporates consideration of the elements of diversity, inclusion, and discrimination in the rehabilitation context and how these affect the prospects of community reintegration (Thompson, 2012).
The module also aims to integrate examination of the place and role of probation in the process of change due to its direct association with rehabilitation and desistance.
The focus of this module enriches the scope of the CCJ curriculum and develop the knowledge from other modules, such as Criminal Justice, Punishment and Society, Prisons and Prisoners, and Theories of Crime.
It further integrates the students' critical understanding of Probation and Offender Management and their role within the criminal justice journey.
Quite crucially, this module may also assist graduates interested in joining the Probation Service and the relevant training programme (PQiP).
The current HMPPS guidance provides that the period of the training programme is reduced from 21 to 15 months if the applicant's degree covered three out of the four listed topics, namely The Criminal Justice System, Understanding Crime and Criminal Behaviour, Penal Policy and the Punishment of Offenders, and Rehabilitation of Offenders, and they clarify that eligible applicants need to have studied modules on at least three of the four topics as part of a degree.
As the fourth one in the above list is directly linked and covered in the present module, 6CJ015 provides a great benefit to the students concerned.
Additionally, as a standalone module focussing on desistance and rehabilitation, 6CJ015 is very useful to those interested in mentoring or prison work too.
It is also worth noting the timeliness of this module which is also telling of its necessity in CCJ curriculums.
The part-privatised infrastructure of Probation Service in England and Wales is set to undergo a process of re-nationalisation in June 2021 which will renew and enhance the attention and interest in the service and offender management.
The module's focus on rehabilitation, desistance, and supervision as well as direct links to employability makes it now an essential part of a CCJ programme more than ever.
This module examines concepts and theories of serious and organised crime and evaluates its development, impact and initiatives taken to tackle it.
Case study material will include drug smuggling, human trafficking, environmental crime and maritime piracy.
Recent graduates in Criminology and Criminal Justice and Law are working in a variety of roles including Criminal Justice Agencies, the Police and the National Probation Service, others are employed in related fields such as trading standards, HM Revenues and Customs, the UK Border Agency and social work.
This integrated degree develops skills which are appropriate to a range of careers from the Civil Service to various management roles.
All our courses provide the academic background and scholarship necessary for postgraduate study at both Master's and Doctoral level.
You could also continue your study of law and undertake the LLM Common Professional Examination at Wolverhampton; to enable you to proceed to the Legal Practice Course or to the Bar Professional Training Course.
Provided that you have taken the relevant foundation subjects as part of this course you may be eligible for exemption from part of the Common Professional Examination.
For further details on exemption see www.sra.org
Practical Experience: An opportunity at each level of the course to undertake a placement module which will provide invaluable practical experience.
Pastoral support: We pride ourselves in our supportive culture, with a large team of academic and student support staff to provide excellent pastoral care and support together with a welcoming academic environment in which to undertake your degree.
Research-led: Our research-led teaching ensures that you will be learning about the very latest debates in policy and practice.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bmid-hons-midwifery:
The programme is designed in line with NMC requirements for 50% theory and 50% practice.
Therefore half of your time is spent in university, whilst the other half is in a variety of clinical practice placement areas.
Ranked 24th in the UK for Midwifery.
Our aspirational students are at the forefront of shaping modern midwifery practice.
We will provide educational opportunities which are student-focused, and driven by the needs of the mother, her baby, wider family and community.
The Bachelor of Midwifery course has been designed to build upon your individual strengths, supporting you to become a professional and motivated midwife.
Our programmes include a strong focus on current public health priorities, the care of vulnerable groups, and the increasingly complex health needs of childbearing people.
This three-year programme prepares you to practise safely and effectively as a midwife.
It is approved by both the University of Wolverhampton and the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) so that when you graduate you are eligible to apply to join the NMC professional register as a midwife.
The programme will enable you to deliver and lead evidence-based care for families and babies, working in partnership with multi-disciplinary teams and reflects the requirements of the ‘Standards of Proficiency for Midwives’ (NMC, 2019).
This includes:
The programme reflects a student-centred approach to education with an emphasis on active learning, developing your leadership competencies, research awareness, professional reflection and critical thinking in preparation for you to assume autonomous practice within the maternity services.
The programme also prepares you for employment, providing you with strategies to promote professional flexibility and personal wellbeing, with a focus on life long learning.
INTAKE : September WHERE : Walsall Campus
With a curriculum that priorities the needs of mothers, infants, and the wider community, we recognise the pivotal role midwives play in enhancing family health.
Whilst in placement you will be included in the full shift pattern, and will be expected to participate in the full range of day and night shifts, including weekends and bank holiday working.
You will study a range of inspiring and contemporary academic modules based on theory and practice experiences.
Through a range of innovative learning and teaching approaches, you will be empowered to think critically about evidence-based practice and incorporate this in your care.
Combined with simulated skills practice and a strong foundation of evidence-based theoretical knowledge, this allows you to become a well-trained, safe and effective practitioner.
Practical skills
Practising in our skills laboratories, which replicate clinical and home environments, you will be able to test out your practical skills in a safe learning  environment.
We believe that the curriculum reflects midwifery's ‘art’ and ‘science’.
Fundamental to safe and effective midwifery practice is the awareness, understanding and application of key knowledge and skills, as well as the development of the professional values required of a registered midwife.
The course adopts a spiral curriculum, which means that you will see the same topics revisited during each year, but in your second and third years, they will increase in complexity, promoting more advanced applications of areas previously covered, thereby increasing your proficiency and expertise.
Your new learning will build upon previous learning to reinforce what you already know and to support you in developing competence and confidence.
The programme will train you to manage emergency situations such as newborn basic life support and obstetric emergencies, in line with national best practice
The UNICEF UK Baby Friendly Initiative principles are also woven into the fabric of the course.
The course has a long-established history of integrating both theory and practice elements of the Newborn Infant Physical Examination (NIPE), and students who complete this course are qualified in this skill.
Assessments
Our assessment strategy aims to mirror professional practice and real-world contexts, preparing you for the challenges of independent and team work, and developing skills that will help you to succeed in the workplace.
You will experience creative, engaging and meaningful assessments which contribute to your ongoing development as a critical thinker and as a life-long learner.
Assessments will build on each other and grow in complexity, enabling you to see the connections across modules and years.
Placements
Placements are undertaken with one of six NHS trusts: The Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust , Walsall Healthcare NHS Trust , The Dudley Group NHS Foundation Trust , Sandwell and West Birmingham NHS Trust , Shrewsbury and Telford NHS Trust , and University Hospitals of Derby and Burton NHS Foundation Trust.
You will spend the majority of your clinical time with one Trust partner, giving you an opportunity to become a valued member of their clinical team .
However, in line with current NMC guidance, it is expected that at some point during your course, you will spend a short period of time working at an alternative NHS Trust
Each Trust partner offers a range of placement areas to ensure that you are exposed to the full continuum of childbearing and early neonatal care.
Whilst every effort is made to accommodate personal preferences on choice of placement, this cannot be guaranteed, and flexibility in this regard is required.
A learning support fund is available, subject to availability.
Student accommodation is available at our Wolverhampton and Walsall campuses.
This module will provide you with an introduction to the role of the midwife in the antenatal, intrapartum and postnatal periods.
In order to underpin your knowledge during your early exposure to maternity care, you will explore the relevant anatomy and physiology of the mother and infant during the normal childbearing and neonatal periods.
This module will develop your understanding of the role of the midwife applied to care provided in the antenatal, intrapartum and postnatal care of the mother and baby.
This module will concentrate on the vital contribution of midwifery in ensuring mothers’ physical, psychological emotional and spiritual wellbeing is supported throughout the childbearing process.
It will explore the role of health promotion in the minimisation of complications, and the midwife’s response to minor disorders of pregnancy.
You will be able to build your knowledge to support the delivery of safe, individualised  care when responding to the needs of women, their infants and the development of positive parenting relationships.
This is a predominantly practice based module which will provide you with a range of opportunities to observe midwifery care and begin to undertake midwifery practice under the direct supervision of midwifery staff.
As well as practice based learning in the clinical area, you will begin to develop key clinical skills such as drug administration, effective, person centred communication and neonatal resuscitation.
You will also learn with from a number of other professionals in an inter-professional learning environment (such as paramedics and/or nurses) and have an opportunity to consider the role of interdisciplinary and multiagency team in order to provide safe and effective midwifery care.
This module will provide you with an introduction to core midwifery skills required, in order to provide universal, respectful midwifery care.
You will have the opportunity to gain knowledge and skills, which are fundamental when caring for mothers, babies and their families within any midwifery setting.
You will learn to support women through the childbearing continuum using contemporary communication, practical and psychosocial skills, resulting in the individualisation of safe, compassionate and effective care.
This module introduces you to the role of the midwife and your legal and professional responsibilities when providing care.
This module will also provide you with an introduction to ethics and research to include evidence- informed practice, offering you the opportunity to begin to develop as an accountable, autonomous and reflective practitioner.
This module will further develop your knowledge of the antenatal, intrapartum, postnatal and early neonatal periods.
It will also allow you to consider the role of the midwife when caring for women and babies with prevalent complications or further care needs for example women who have their pregnancies complicated by pre-existing illness, or who are suffering a complicated labour or birth.
The care of the unwell infant will also be studied and you will cover the theoretical concepts underpinning the care of these vulnerable infants.
This predominantly practice based module will provide you with further opportunities to gain knowledge and skills from the clinical area, whilst continuing to work alongside qualified members of staff.
A key element within this module is the Newborn and Infant Physical Examination (NIPE) and  the module will also enable you to develop your knowledge of clinical practice when caring for women and infants with both universal and further care needs.
You will also be expected to consider your own role in providing individualised care and your ability to work as part of a multi-disciplinary and/or multi-professional team.
As with all of our practice modules, there will be opportunities for you to learn with, from and about other clinical areas.
This module will enable you to enhance your midwifery skills, meeting both universal and additional care needs of women and neonates.
You will have the opportunity to practice communication in more challenging situations and you will be supported to develop a range of skills to support the care of women and neonates with prevalent, pre-existing complications and/or further care needs.
You will increase your contribution to the support and care of women during antenatal, intrapartum and postnatal periods.
This module will enhance your understanding of your professional, legal and ethical responsibilities as a midwife when providing care (including topics such as consent, safeguarding, record keeping, data sharing and the duties of care and candour).
It will also explore the role of the midwife as a clinical leader within contemporary contexts, with a specific focus on improving care within and across interdisciplinary and multiagency teams.
Throughout the module you will be supported to further develop your skills in accessing and critiquing research as a basis for the delivery of high quality, evidence-based care.
This module will continue to build upon your knowledge of the antenatal, intrapartum, postnatal and neonatal period.
It will provide you with the knowledge and skills necessary to effectively recognise and care for women and neonates who are experiencing complex needs or critical conditions in pregnancy, birth, postnatal or neonatal periods
This predominantly practice based module will allow you to consolidate your learning and prepare you for the transition into an autonomous practitioner.
It will enable you to develop further your competence to assume the lead professional role in providing sensitive care for women experiencing low risk pregnancy and childbirth and their babies and to consider the care of women and babies who are high risk (where other members of the multi-disciplinary team are involved).
You will develop confidence and flexibility in applying knowledge within the care situation, in readiness for autonomous practice.
This module will provide you with knowledge and skills to consider an evidence-based enquiry within and across diverse settings.
You will be encouraged to think innovatively, to explore the development of midwifery practice with the application of an extended literature review.
This module will prepare you for the transition into your role as a qualified midwife.
This includes developing your potential to lead, to supervise students and to educate women and their families.
This module will also provide you with the skills to be a lifelong learner who is a self-aware, critically reflective practitioner.
You will be prepared for the developing role of the midwife and be equipped with the tools to be integrated into a sustainable, reflective workforce.
On successfully completing the course you will exit with both an academic award, Bachelor of Midwifery (Hons), and the professional NMC registration as a midwife.
Once qualified, this will open up the prospect of many jobs in clinical practice, hospital or community settings, specialist clinical roles, research, education or managerial roles.
Registered midwives (RM) can continue to study after they have qualified, often in a specialist area, as they develop their career path and can work abroad in many countries with their UK qualification.
At Walsall Campus, you will be taught in our state-of-the-art skills facility in the Sister Dora Building.
The Skills Laboratories have an immersive simulation suite, meaning we can change the environment without moving the students.
Through these simulations, you will get a sense of the environment in clinical practice and apply appropriate responses.
The new state-of-the-art Skills and Simulation suite at Walsall Campus allows you to gain a sense of the clinical practice environment and apply appropriate responses.
The new Skills Suite now includes simulated in-hospital, home and community environments and the use of world-leading technologies such as a virtual dissection anatomy table, allowing for 3D images of human anatomy and diseases to come alive to support learning and enquiry.
You will gain hands-on experience in a variety of hospital and community settings, working alongside a range of healthcare and other professionals.
You will experience opportunities for inter-disciplinary learning across all nursing pathways and with midwifery, social work and social care.
The University prides itself on its excellent partnership working arrangements with local NHS trusts and private, voluntary and independent sector organisations for placement opportunities.
This partnership works to provide excellent support for you whilst you are on placement ensuring that you are supported and exposed to relevant learning opportunities.
Our tutors work closely with practice staff to promote a dynamic, interactive learning environment in which you are encouraged to be an active participant in learning rather than a passive recipient.
When you apply to the University of Wolverhampton, we provide you with a list of all of our placement providers.
You then get to select a first and second choice as to where you would like to spend your time in practice.
Students always evaluate this well as it means you get to know your local Trust – the Trust gets to grow their own workforce, and you as the student have a greater chance of earning a job at the end of your course.
Who will teach you on this course?
All of the lecturing staff in the midwifery team are Registered Midwives.
You will benefit from the team’s expertise, which draws on a wealth of different experiences including a range of clinical, managerial, commissioning and research.
Visiting and honorary lecturers/speakers from a wide range of healthcare and related fields will also participate in the programme who will share contemporary and real-world examples of practice.
We work very closely with service users and carers, people who have had experiences themselves of maternity services and want to make a difference to what you, our student midwives, experience.
They inform the course content and are involved in its delivery.
Want to find out more?
Why not attend one of our Open Days, where you will have the opportunity to talk to staff and students who are currently studying and find out more about the course and our facilities?
Twitter
As a Registered Midwife you will:
You must have a minimum of three GCSEs at grade C/4+ or equivalent (e.g.
Key Skills Level 2/ Learn Direct Level 2/ Functional Skills Level 2) in an English-based subject, Maths and Science    (Science subject could be Biology; Physics; Chemistry; Psychology; Sociology; Health and Social care)
Please note we do NOT accept GCSE Short Courses or GCSE Equivalence Tests from other institutions or organisation
We will accept a mix of A levels and  BTEC etc.
but these must be at the appropriate standard as stipulated on the webpage.
Applicants who hold an unrelated HNC, HND, Foundation Degree or Degree (BA, BSc, etc.) are also required to hold a relevant Level 3 Science or Social Science qualification.
Evidence of digital literacy and technological literacy capability will be determined by successful completion of your application.
Unfortunately we are not able to accept advanced entry onto this course.
Applicants will also be required to provide satisfactory personal statement and reference (academic or employer).
Those meeting the entry requirements may be shortlisted for interview.
Read further information regarding interview preparation
Previous Study
Please note we will not accept applicants onto our professional courses who have been unsuccessful on professional courses at other institutions of higher education
Additional Information
Good health and good character are fundamental to being a midwife, and consequently all midwifery students must have a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) Check.
Professional courses are exempt from the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974, and all previous convictions, cautions etc.
must be declared.
You will also require satisfactory health clearance.
As students will undertake exposure-prone procedures as part of their training they will be required to have additional screening for HIV, Hepatitis B and Hepatitis C.
During the Midwifery course you will be required to attend placements.
When you are asked for your choice of placement area we will endeavour to meet your request however we must emphasise that this cannot be guaranteed and therefore you must ensure you are able to travel to the final placement area you are allocated.
New regulatory standards for midwives were approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council in October 2019.
The "Future Midwife" standards of proficiency and education set out the knowledge, understanding and competencies that midwives must have in order to safely and effectively practice in the UK.
The University will be making changes to its midwifery programmes in light of the new standards and will be seeking approval from the NMC during 2020.
We anticipate that the new programmes will run from September 2020/21, subject to NMC approval.
Don't have GCSE English and/or Maths?
Take our Equivalency Assessments
We understand that not everyone is able to achieve GCSE Maths and English for a variety of reasons.
Our equivalency assessments provide an opportunity for you to further your English and/or Maths skills ready for your studies, as well as being able to meet part of the entry requirements for many of our undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
Our online equivalency assessments are free of charge and accepted as the equivalent to a GCSE for the majority of our courses, however applicants of Initial Teacher Training courses will need to sit an on-campus equivalency test which costs £35.
Find out more about our equivalency tests .
Student Visa Requirements:
Applicants who require a student visa to enter the UK are not eligible to be considered for this course.
Skilled Worker Visa Requirements:
Applicants who are in the UK on a Skilled Worker Visa or are a dependent of a Skilled worker are not eligible to be considered for this course.
“ It is obvious that the lecturers put a lot of time and effort into teaching sessions in order to maximise our learning.
“ T he genuine support and feeling of wanting us to prosper from all the lecturers.
“I think the resources shared on canvas have really helped to aid with learning.
The PowerPoints and additional/suggested reading has helped to guide learning.Online earning has helped a lot as it’s helped me have some semblance of a work/home life balance.”
Recognised by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) for the purpose of registration as a qualified midwife.
By studying an undergraduate or postgraduate pre-registration programme you are eligible for a Tuition Fee loan.
of up to £9,535.
The loan will support your studies and enable you to start a rewarding career in healthcare.
EU citizens living in the UK with 'settled' status, and Irish nationals living in the UK or Ireland, will still be classified as Home students, providing they meet the usual residency requirements, for more information about EU Settlement Scheme (EUSS) .
NHS Learning Support Fund
All eligible nursing , midwifery and most allied health professionals' students on pre-registration courses will also receive a Training Grant of at least £5,000 per year that is not means-tested and will not have to be repaid.
An additional payment of up to £3,000 per academic year will be available to eligible students;
•         £2,000 for students with children towards childcare costs •         £1,000 Special Subject Payment on certain shortage specialism courses Among others, the shortage specialisms have been confirmed to include: •         Mental health nursing •         Learning disability nursing •         Podiatry Please note that this additional NHS funding is not available for students on the Foundation Year of a 4-year degree Additional funding: The Learning Support Fund also offers students additional support while studying for their degree.
This includes: •         Additional travel and accommodation costs to clinical placements over their normal daily travel costs •         An exceptional hardship fund of up to £3,000 per student per academic year You can find more information on the NHS Business Services pages.
•         £1,000 Special Subject Payment on certain shortage specialism courses
Among others, the shortage specialisms have been confirmed to include:
•         Mental health nursing
•         Learning disability nursing
•         Podiatry
Please note that this additional NHS funding is not available for students on the Foundation Year of a 4-year degree Additional funding: The Learning Support Fund also offers students additional support while studying for their degree.
Additional funding: The Learning Support Fund also offers students additional support while studying for their degree.
Additional funding:
The Learning Support Fund also offers students additional support while studying for their degree.
•         Additional travel and accommodation costs to clinical placements over their normal daily travel costs
•         An exceptional hardship fund of up to £3,000 per student per academic year
You can find more information on the NHS Business Services pages.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bmid-hons-midwifery-2-year:
Therefore, half of your time is spent in university, whilst the other half is in a variety of clinical practice placement areas.
This two-year programme for existing registered adult nurses, prepares you to transfer your existing nursing skills, and enables you to practise safely and effectively as a midwife.
It is approved by both the University of Wolverhampton and the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) so that when you graduate you are eligible to apply for dual registration as a nurse and midwife on the NMC professional register.
This two-year programme prepares you to practise safely and effectively as a midwife.
The programme will enable you to deliver and lead evidence-based care for families and babies, working in partnership with multi-disciplinary teams and reflecting the requirements of the ‘Standards of Proficiency for Midwives’ (NMC, 2019).
The programme develops existing strategies to further  promote professional flexibility and personal wellbeing, with a focus on life-long learn
INTAKE : September WHERE : Walsall Campus  ing.
Whilst in placement, you will be included in the full shift pattern, and will be expected to participate in the full range of day and night shifts, including weekends and bank holiday working.
Practising in our skills laboratories which replicate clinical and home environments, you will be able to test out your practical skills in a safe learning  environment.
The course adopts a spiral curriculum, which means that you will see the same topics revisited during each year, but in your second and third years, they will increase in complexit,y promoting more advanced applications of areas previously covered, thereby increasing your proficiency and expertise.
The course has a long-established history of integrating both theory and practice elements of the Newborn Infant Physical Examination (NIPE) and students complete this course qualified in this skill.
Placements are undertaken with one of three NHS trusts: The Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust , Walsall Healthcare NHS Trust , and The Dudley Group NHS Foundation Trust , and you will already be expected to be an employed member of staff in one of these Trusts.
You will spend the majority of your clinical time in your home Trust partner, giving you an opportunity to become a valued member of their midwifery clinical team.
However, in line with current NMC guidance, it is expected that at some point during your cours,e you will spend a short period of time working at an alternative NHS Trust
This module supports you to make the transition from nursing to midwifery practice by giving you the relevant skills and underpinning theory.
You will develop your knowledge around the normal and altered physiology of the woman and neonate during the childbearing continuum and you will explore the roles and responsibilities of the midwife when caring for women and neonates during normal situations and those which require additional care.
You will develop your skills when working within a interdisciplinary or multiagency team to ensure the provision and safe and effective care to women and neonates.
Dual qualification in nursing and midwifery, is particularly attractive to many employers.
You will benefit from the team’s expertise, which draws on a wealth of different experiences, including a range of clinical, managerial, commissioning and research.
Visiting and honorary lecturers/speakers from a wide range of healthcare and related fields will also participate in the programme, who will share contemporary and real-world examples of practice.
Why not attend one of our Open Days , where you will have the opportunity to talk to staff and students who are currently studying and find out more about the course and our facilities?
Applicants need to already be employed by one of our partner NHS organisations, and have support from their NHS Trust to apply for this course.
If you meet the academic entry requirements you may be shortlisted for a values-based interview.
You will need to demonstrate that, on entry to the programme, you have capability for digital and technological literacy to meet course outcomes.
Evidence of your digital literacy and technological literacy capability is linked to the online application process.
You will also be required to provide a satisfactory personal statement and reference (academic or employer).
Additional Information Free Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) and Occupational Health Check : Due to the professional nature of some of our courses you may also be required to complete a Declaration of Health and Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) Check.
We will coordinate both of these non-academic conditions with you should your course require this and you receive an offer from us There will be no cost for the DBS this is free to applicants who have secured an offer and have chosen to study at the University of Wolverhampton.
During the course you will be required to attend clinical placements and you will be invited to discuss a preferred placement area/s from a selection of pre-determined locations; however your preferred choice is not guaranteed so it is essential that you are able and willing to travel to placement.
You will also need to complete an occupational health assessment questionnaire and meet occupational health requirements.
If you are accepted onto the course, all of your vaccinations will need to be up to date before you attend placement and the University provides a vaccination programme to ensure that you are appropriately covered.
PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE If you have previously studied a professional course at another University or College, we will require an academic reference from your previous higher education institution.
Student Visa Requirements: Applicants who require a student visa to enter the UK are not eligible to be considered for this course.
Skilled Worker Visa Requirements: Applicants who are in the UK on a Skilled Worker Visa or are a dependent of a Skilled worker are not eligible to be considered for this course.
PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE
If you have previously studied a professional course at another University or College, we will require an academic reference from your previous higher education institution.
“ The genuine support and feeling of wanting us to prosper from all the lecturers.
“ I think the resources shared on canvas have really helped to aid with learning.
The PowerPoints and additional/suggested reading has helped to guide learning.
Online earning has helped a lot as it’s helped me have some semblance of a work/home life balance.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bmid-hons-midwifery-with-foundation-year:
Our Bachelor of Midwifery (Honours) course is designed with you at the centre, fostering your growth into a professional and motivated midwife.
We focus on delivering student-centred education that aligns with the needs of mothers, infants, and their communities.
This four-year program, approved by both the University of Wolverhampton and the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC), equips you to safely and effectively practice as a midwife upon graduation.
We will provide educational opportunities which are student focused, and most importantly, driven by the needs of the mother, her infant, wider family and community.
The Bachelor of Midwifery (Honours) programme has been specifically designed to build upon your individual strengths, supporting you become a professional and motivated midwife.
The role of the midwife as a catalyst for improving the health of families is well-recognised.
Reflecting the NHS Long Term Plan (2019) our programmes include a strong focus on current public health priorities, the care of vulnerable groups, and the increasingly complex health needs of childbearing women.
It is approved by both the University of Wolverhampton and the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC), so that when you graduate, you are eligible to apply to enter the NMC professional register as a midwife.
This includes optimising normal physiological processes, providing a first-line response to, and management of complications, as well as supporting women and newborn babies with additional care needs.
Throughout the course there is a strong focus on perinatal mental health, public health and continuity of care.
The programme reflects a student-centred approach to education with emphasis on active learning, developing your leadership competencies, research-awareness, professional reflection and critical thinking in preparation for you to assume autonomous practice within the maternity services.
In addition, the programme prepares you for employment, providing you with strategies to promote your resilience and focusing on your personal and professional development.
INTAKE: September
WHERE: Walsall Campus
Ranked 24th in the UK for Midwifery (The Guardian University Guide rankings, 2025).
50% of your programme will take place in the University and 50% in a variety of clinical practice placement areas.
You will study a range of academic modules based on theory and practice experiences.
Through a range of innovative learning and teaching approaches you will be empowered to think critically about evidence-based practice and develop as a self-directed and life-long learner.
Combined with simulated skills practice and a strong foundation of evidence-based theoretical knowledge, this allows you to become a knowledgeable, safe and effective practitioner.
Practising in our skills laboratories allows you to test out your practical skills in a safe environment.
Midwifery practice is informed by contemporary evidence-based research and expert knowledge.
We believe that the curriculum reflects the ‘art’ and ‘science’ of midwifery.
Fundamental to safe and effective midwifery practice is the awareness, understanding and application of key knowledge and skills; as well as the development of the professional values required of a registered midwife.
The future midwife is a reflective and critical thinker able to acknowledge the importance of lifelong learning, in order to help develop themselves and the profession further.
We will ensure you are provided with opportunities to understand the role of the midwife as a colleague, scholar and leader.
The course adopts a spiral curriculum which means that you will see the same topics revisited during each year, but in your second and third years they will increase in complexity promoting more advanced applications of areas previously covered, thereby increasing your proficiency and expertise.
Your new learning will build upon previous learning to reinforce what you already know and to support you to develop competence and confidence.
The programme offers you added value opportunities such as Newborn Life Support (NLS) training which is approved by the Resuscitation Council UK, Practical Obstetric Multi-Professional Training (PROMPT) as well as providing you with full training to become competent in the Newborn Infant Physical Examination (NIPE) prior to registration.
Students evaluate the quality of teaching positively and have the opportunity to develop their clinical skills in newly refurbished and well equipped clinical skills laboratories.
Our assessment strategy aims to mirror professional practices and real-world contexts, preparing you for the challenges of independent and team work, and developing skills that will help you to succeed in the workplace.
You will experience creative, engaging and meaningful assessment tasks which contribute to your ongoing development as a critical thinker and as a life-long learner.
Placements are undertaken with one of five NHS trusts; The Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust , Walsall Healthcare NHS Trust , The Dudley Group NHS Foundation Trust , Sandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals NHS Trust and University Hospitals of Derby and Burton NHS Foundation Trust .
This module explores equality, diversity, inclusion, and ethics.
During the first part of the module, you will explore your self-identify, values and beliefs, where they came from and how they have developed.
The second part of the module will look at the professional values you already have and start to look at the expected values of a professional in your field of study using the professional standards.
Many factors affect the health of individuals, communities and populations.
During this module you will identify and discuss some of the reasons and explore how levels of health vary between different groups in society.
You will  work with peers  on case studies centred on the concept of the family.
You will learn how different professions work together through group tasks.
On this module you will learn and have the opportunity to develop key academic skills such as referencing, academic writing and sourcing credible information.
You will work both independently and within groups to develop not just these skills, but your confidence and your belief in your ability to succeed within education.
This module will consider the ways in which systems of the body interact in order to maintain homeostasis.
You will be introduced to the anatomy and physiology of the human body and the organisation of body structures and systems.
The module will also consider communication systems within the body and the protective and survival mechanisms that work together to maintain a 'healthy' state.
Aim: To introduce you to the anatomy and physiology of the human body, its body structures and systems.
This module is designed to support you in your transition to studying as a Healthcare Professional at Wolverhampton University.
Through a range of facilitated group and individual activities, discussions, personal reflection and wider reading and research, you will have the opportunity to explore the knowledge and skills required to understand the expectations and demands of Professional Practice.
You will also receive guidance on professional related study skills such as reflection and self development, which will enhance previously acquired skills.
Once qualified, this will open up the prospect of many jobs in clinical practice, hospital or community settings, research, teaching or managerial roles.
Registered midwives (RM) continue to study after they have qualified, often in a specialist area, as they develop their career path and can work abroad in places such as Australia, New Zealand or EU countries as well as many other countries across the world.
Twitter: @wlv_health #wlvmidwiferyteam
Facebook: facebook.com/wlvhealth
Prepare for foundation pathway:
Applicants who wish to access this course will be required to attend and pass a compulsory one day Prepare for foundation programme.
This programme is where you will be able to showcase your keen interest or recent experience in the subject.
As well as come to visit the university and meet the staff involved in the programme.
This compulsory programme is designed to introduce you to studying a health professional course, answer your questions, meet staff and fellow students.
You will take part in a variety of exciting subject related activities that will prepare you to kick start your academic experience with us, should you secure an offer.
Before attending the Prepare for foundation programme, we wish to make you aware that you will be asked to complete an assessment task which will be used as part of the event.
Further information on the requirements of this task will be provided to applicants who have been shortlisted for this course.
Interview:
If you are successful in passing this programme, you will be required to attend a virtual interview with faculty staff.
GCSE requirements:
You are required to hold GCSE English language and maths grades 9-4/A*-C or equivalent.
Equivalent qualifications include the following at Level 2: Functional Skills, Key Skills, Learn direct.
Equivalency Test:
If you have not achieved your Level 2 qualifications, you are eligible to take our University equivalency tests .
The tests for this course are free of charge and can be taken completely online.
Our Admissions team will confirm in your offer if you are required to take one of these assessments.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-occupational-therapy:
Welcome to the University of Wolverhampton’s Occupational Therapy Program.
Here, you will begin your journey to becoming a skilled and compassionate Occupational Therapist.
As program providers, we take a unique approach to developing students' knowledge and skills.
This is achieved by skilled and experienced Occupational Therapists developing and delivering a blend of bringing and using lived experiences in practice, engaging with our Success members who are those who have lived experiences of being engaged with health care professionals, practical experiences and theoretical teaching.
Not only do we use service users, we have strong clinical relationships with charities, both National and private health providers, to provide you with robust practice placements.
By this approach, we ensure that all learning styles are supported to develop knowledge, skills and confidence for individuals to achieve their dreams.
This links with our motto of being “The University of Opportunity”.
Upon completion of the course, you will be equipped with the skills to apply for registration with the HCPC and apply for a vast range of jobs within and linked to Occupational Therapy.
The program is a blend of practical education through the use of our skills labs and practice placement, and comprehensive theoretical teaching.
This blend of learning will equip you with the knowledge, confidence and skill to excel throughout your career as an Occupational Therapist.
Join us to begin your journey to be a part of a dynamic, rewarding, practical community based on assisting individuals to be the best version of themselves.
You will study a range of subjects that provide the foundations of effective occupational therapy practice.
The course prepares you to work with people of all ages who, through illness, disability, trauma, or personal circumstances, have complex personal health and social challenges to overcome.
You will learn the importance of occupation to the health and well-being of individuals, families and communities and understand how occupational performance is influenced by environmental factors.
There will be an opportunity to think creatively, solve problems, analyse complex situations effectively, to develop tailored and innovative interventions in order to facilitate therapeutic change and transformation.
The course incorporates practice-based learning placements throughout the three years of study, which will be in a variety of settings to include physical and mental health.
These placements will enable you to apply your developing occupational therapy skills and knowledge in the real-world setting.
During your placement, you will be supported by occupational therapists who have completed training in practice education who will assess your progress.
All placements need to be passed in order for you to become an occupational therapist.
You will also develop essential research skills to enable you to promote high-quality services upon qualification.
Please be advised that the course is currently going through revalidation for September 2026.
The modules for the new program are not yet confirmed .
This module will provide you with the underpinning knowledge and skills in relation to occupational therapy practice.
You will gain an understanding of occupation, occupational performance and the occupational nature of human beings and the interaction between occupation, performance and the environment will also be explored.
This module will provide you with the underpinning knowledge and skills in relation to the key aspects of human development from childhood to older adulthood.
You will utilise the biopsychosocial model in order to appreciate the physical, psychological and social changes through key life stages, studying biological, psychological, social and environmental theories.
This module will foster your ability to effectively communicate within the health and social care environment.
Through the analysis of your own interpersonal proficiency and the exploration of different models of communication you will understand the importance of your influence and impact on others to develop effective therapeutic and professional relationships with patients/service users and within the teams in which you work.
This practical module will equip you with the necessary core skills and techniques you need before you start your practice-based learning placement.
You will learn how occupational therapists help people to maintain and improve their independence and satisfaction in life in a variety of ways.
The module also outlines the expectations you need to achieve during your placement experience.
This module explores the context of different health and social care services and how patients / service users might access and progress through these services.
You will look at the legal and ethical frameworks that health professionals are bound by and you will be aware of your professional responsibilities both as a student and as a registrant in your chosen profession.
You will consider the safety of others in the workplace and your responsibilities in maintaining others’ safety.
This module will equip you with the theoretical frameworks and core skills necessary for you to work as an Occupational Therapist.
You will learn about the frames of reference and models that you will draw upon and utilise to ensure you have the patient/service user at the centre of your treatment regimes.
You will apply your decision-making skills to select the appropriate approach, assessment and intervention to optimise the individual’s occupations.
The module also outlines your wider responsibilities as an occupational therapist and looks at service provision in the context of local and national communities, as well as considering professional, regulatory and political influence.
Clinical governance is a framework through which organisations are accountable for continuously improving the quality of their services.
This module explores the underpinning principles of clinical governance, focusing on different types of evidence and the contexts in which they are applied in the practice area, such as clinical audit, research and patient surveys.
You will also learn why evidence-based practice (EBP) is important in supporting high quality care and how you will utilise EBP as a healthcare professional.
Occupational therapists help people to reach their optimal potential and recognise that performance is based upon the relationship between the person, the occupation and the environment.
This module will look at these relationships in more depth, exploring how environmental, social and cultural factors influence occupational performance and how these will change through the lifespan depending on personal life circumstances.
The module will also explore how both physical and mental health conditions may modify occupational performance.
This module will focus on the key physical and psychological disorders you need to be aware of in order to practice as an occupational therapist.
It also outlines the expectations you need to achieve during your placement experience.
This module enables you to reflect upon the skills and knowledge you have gained from your study in Occupational Therapy to identify future professional development needs and areas of potential employment that are open to you upon completion of your course.
You will consider your ongoing professional and regulatory continuing professional development requirements as an Occupational Therapist and identify how these requirements might be achieved as you progress in your career.
Collaborative working and effective leadership are essential to maintain and promote patient/service user safety and to improve service provision.
Within this module you will explore a range of models and perspectives on leadership, decision making and teamwork and you will apply these to your experiences, enabling you to effectively lead and collaborate with others to ensure patient/service user safety is paramount in your practice.
You will also consider your responsibilities in relation to the delegation and support of others, such as students and unregulated staff when you are a regulated practitioner.
This module will promote your skills and knowledge in occupational therapy practice preparing you for your role as a registered professional.
You will focus on the application of the theory you have learned through the assessment and implementation of occupational therapy interventions, liaising with other professionals, and non-professionals as appropriate to promote service user independence and quality of life.
This module also outlines the expectations you need to achieve your competencies during this placement experience.
This module will provide the opportunity for you to consolidate your learning in all aspects of occupational therapy, preparing you for your role as a newly qualified occupational therapist.
You will lead and make decisions on the occupational therapy assessment, treatment and interventions undertaken with service users, including the utilisation of outcome measures and evaluation of the service provision.
This extended piece of work will give you the opportunity to research an area that is of interest to you in some depth.
The topic area must be of relevance to your profession although the exact nature of the project will be negotiated at the outset of the project with your module lead and / or your project supervisor.
This module will consider how you would approach this research if you were to undertake a formal research project in the subject area.
Upon registration with the HCPC you will be able to work with people of all ages in a variety of in-patient and community settings including mental health, physical health, and local authority as well as within public, independent, private and charitable settings, such as prisons and schools.
You will also be able to work in research, leadership and management roles, as well as education settings as you progress in your career.
As occupational therapy education in the UK is well respected worldwide, there are employment opportunities for you to work overseas, although some countries may have additional registration requirements.
We're number 1 in the West Midlands for Student Satisfaction: The Complete University Guide, 2025 Subject League Tables.
We're top 10 in the UK for Student Satisfaction: The Complete University Guide, 2025 Subject League Tables.
This honours degree course will enable you to:
You must have
Please note we do NOT accept GCSE Short Courses or GCSE Equivalence Tests from other institutions or organisations.
English language requirements for International applicants require a minimum overall IELTS of 7.0 with a minimum of 6.5 in any element.>.
If English is not your first language, evidence of proficiency must be dated within the last two years, evidencing achievement of IELTS with an overall band score of 7.0 with a minimum of 6.5 in each element.
In addition, You will need to demonstrate that, on entry to the programme, you have capability for digital and technological literacy to meet course outcomes.
Those meeting the above entry criteria and successfully shortlisted on their personal statement will be invited to a selection day.
The selection day will consist of a number of tasks to identify teamwork, communication and adaptiveness.
The University will make reasonable adjustments for any candidate who has a disability recognised under the Equality Act, 2010 but we ask that you contact the University in advance to enable us to make adjustments.
You must bring with you photographic evidence of your identity e.g.
passport or new style driving licence.
If these are not available, alternative documents, such as a current College or Work ID are acceptable.
You can bring other forms of ID to the interview but you will require a full set of ID for the Disclosure & Barring Service (DBS) checks.
Please check the DBS website to ensure you have the correct identification.
Disclosure & Barring Service (DBS) Checks
Due to the professional nature of this course and the potential that this will include work with vulnerable adults and children you are also required to complete an enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service (DBS) check to provide evidence of good character.
Students will not be able to commence placement until satisfactory occupational health and DBS checks have been completed,   which must be completed prior to commencement of the programme.
You will be expected to meet the costs associated with the DBS clearance process.
Health Screening (Declaration of Health)
All  students  accepted  on  to  the  course  are  required  to  pass  an advanced occupational health screening.
This will include the requirement to undergo any necessary blood tests and immunisations as part of a conditional offer.
The cost of the health screening is covered by the University, except for any evidence from health or general practice services which is required (i.e.
a letter from your GP).
The charge for this will be a DBS fee of £40.00 and a £6.00 ID check service fee.
You will also need to complete an occupational health assessment questionnaire prior to starting the course.
References & Personal Statement
Satisfactory references are a condition of the programme.
This will normally be from your educational institution,   work or voluntary experience.
The University reserves the right to request an additional reference.
Applicants will also be required to provide a satisfactory personal statement.
The University offers help and advice for personal statements and it can be found on our web site .
Voluntary or work experience
You must demonstrate that you have had some personal, voluntary or work experience in a customer care/health related field or situation.
We would regard this as anything that involved attending or working with people or patients in need of caring services.
It does not have to be full time but should demonstrate that you have had some exposure to this type of experience where you are able to demonstrate and/or develop your caring and compassionate aptitude towards those in need of care.
Please note than an offer of a place at the University does not guarantee eligibility for student funding.
To confirm that you meet the residency criteria go to www.gov.uk/student-finance/who-qualifies or telephone SFE on 0300 100 0607.
Applicants who are classed as ‘overseas’ for fee purposes ukcisa will still be considered as long as their country of domicile is the United Kingdom and do not require Tier 4 sponsorship or are in the UK on a Tier 2 visa.
Accredited by the Royal College of Occupational Therapists (RCOT) for the purpose of ensuring graduates are fit for the profession.
Approved by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) for the purpose of providing eligibility to apply for registration with the HCPC as an occupational therapist.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-occupational-therapy-with-foundation-year:
Occupational therapists recognise the interaction between the person, their environment and the activities that they complete in everyday life.
They promote independence by taking a ‘whole-person approach’ to both mental and physical health, thus enabling individuals to achieve their full potential.
This BSc (Hons) Occupational Therapy course enables you to develop the knowledge and skills to become a safe, competent and effective occupational therapy practitioner.
Upon successful completion of the course you can apply for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council to practice as an occupational therapist.
You will to study a range of subjects that provide the foundations of effective occupational therapy practice.
There will be opportunity to think creatively, solve problems, analyse complex situations effectively to develop tailored and innovative interventions in order to facilitate therapeutic change and transformation.
The course incorporates practice-based learning placements throughout the three years of study which will be in a variety of settings to include physical and mental health.
These placements will enable you to apply your developing occupational therapy skills and knowledge in the real world setting.
During your placement you will be supported by who will assess your progress, and these placements need to be passed in order for you to become an occupational therapist.
You will also be able to work in research, and leadership and management roles, as well as education settings as you progress in your career.
As occupational therapy education in the UK is well respected around the world there are employment opportunities for you to work overseas, although some countries may have additional registration requirements.
If you are successful in passing this programme, you will be required to attend an interview with faculty staff.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-paramedic-science:
This course is designed to equip students with the essential knowledge, practical skills and professional behaviours for a rewarding and lifelong career as a Paramedic.
This 3-year full-time course is designed to equip students with the essential knowledge, practical skills and professional behaviours for a rewarding and lifelong career as a Paramedic.
The University of Wolverhampton has been providing undergraduate Paramedic Science programmes since 2014 and you will be taught not only by Paramedics, but also by other subject matter experts (E.g.
Midwives).
We are a passionate and highly experienced teaching team who are ready to prepare you for a career as a Paramedic.
The course is fully accredited by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and is run in partnership with West Midlands Ambulance Service.
You will be allocated an experienced mentor, and you will undertake supernumerary shifts responding to 999 calls across the region.
This will give you the opportunity to assess and treat patients whilst being supported by a qualified clinician.
You may also have the opportunity to undertake a specialist placement in a setting such as the emergency department, operating theatre, coronary care unit, maternity unit, minor injury unit or a healthcare facility within a prison.
Throughout your journey, you will undertake theory modules to provide you with the foundational knowledge and academic skills required to function as a contemporary Allied Health Professional, but you will also spend lots of time in our state-of-the-art clinical skills labs learning the practical skills necessary to work as a Paramedic.
We utilise our SUCCESS (Service User and Carer Involvement) team to aid clinical skills teaching and they have real life experience of accessing emergency care and enable you to understand the patient’s perspective.
More details can be found on this Success page .
We are incredibly proud of our diverse cohorts who come to the university from a variety of backgrounds and bring with them a wealth of experience.
We particularly welcome applications from mature applicants, those who may have been out of education for a while, and individuals from under-represented groups.
Our course operates a guaranteed interview scheme, and we will guarantee an interview to all applicants who meet our minimum entry requirements and UCAS tariff.
Once qualified, our Graduate Paramedics are highly sought after by employers, and whilst many choose to join an NHS ambulance service when they graduate, other options may be available to you.
This is an academically challenging and rigorous full-time course of study leading to professional registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
In each year, students will study 6 modules which cover the key areas of Paramedic Science.
Each module is assessed, and assessments include traditional examinations, assignments, presentations, Vivas and Objective Structured Clinical Examinations (OSCE’s).
Students are expected to be on campus for up to 5 days a week (09:00-16:00) and teaching will be centred around lectures, group work, clinical simulations and independent study.
Students will also undertake supernumerary shifts with West Midlands Ambulance Service, and you will work alongside your mentor to complete a Practice Assessment Document (PAD) which includes a variety of core competencies.
You may be expected to travel up to 1 hour away from your term time address to access these placements and students undertake either a 12-hour day shift (E.g.
06:00-18:00) or a 12-hour night shift (E.g.
18:00-06:00).
Weekend working should also be expected during your clinical practice placements.
A driving license is not a pre-requisite for entry to our programme, but applicants should carefully consider how they plan to travel to placement and how they will manage their time and family commitments during the course.
This is a challenging programme of study but there is lots of support for students throughout your time with us.
Students will be allocated a personal tutor, an academic coach and you will have access to our library and learning facilities.
For those students who require additional support (E.g.
Dyslexia), reasonable adjustments will be made.
The University of Wolverhampton is a fantastic choice for anyone considering a career as a Paramedic!
The aim of this module is to provide you with opportunities to apply learning from your study at the university into the real world environment.
You will work with the university’s partner ambulance service, West Midlands Ambulance Service University NHS Foundation Trust (WMAS), the first University Ambulance Service in the UK.
WMAS was also the first Ambulance Service in the UK to be rated as Outstanding by the Care Quality Commission.
You will work with paramedics and have access to a mentor.
You will be exposed to real patients who have called the ambulance service for help.
You will work towards the HCPC Standards of Proficiency and will be expected to behave in a manner that is conducive with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) Guidance on Conduct and Ethics for Students (HCPC, 2016) whilst on placement.
Students will also be working towards the Standards of Conduct, Performance and Ethics of the registered healthcare professional (HCPC, 2016) and the Standards of Proficiency for Paramedics (2014).
Learning Outcomes  1.
Utilise the key subject knowledge and understanding to inform year one paramedic clinical practice.
Demonstrate professional, legal and ethical practice.
Demonstrate the appropriate use of year one professional and practical skills in the clinical environment.
The aim of this module is to provide the student with knowledge of the essential study skills required for degree level study.
The module will support students to develop their reading, academic referencing, reflective practice, academic writing and presentation skills, and will teach them how to undertake a structured search for evidence using bibliographical/subject databases.
It will also introduce students to evidence informed practice (EIP) and explain its importance in contemporary paramedic practice.
Being one of the first modules students will study on their degree programme, this module offers an opportunity for students to develop an equitable level of knowledge and understanding of academic expectations, irrespective of each student's prior academic background and experience.
The aim of this module is to provide the student with the foundation skills that underpin paramedic practice.
The focus will be upon the development of core skills and the rationale behind the application of those skills.
This module will link closely with other first year modules running concurrently.
Health & Care Professions Council (HCPC) Standards of Proficiency - Paramedics (2014) Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) Standards of Conduct, Performance and Ethics (2016) Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) Guidance on Conduct and Ethics for Students (2016) Health and Care Professions Council HCPC) Standards of Education and Training (2017) College of Paramedic’s (CoP) Curriculum Guidance and Competency Framework (5th Ed) (2019) QAA Benchmark Statement - Paramedic Science (2019) University of Wolverhampton Equality & Diversity Plan (2021) University of Wolverhampton Learning & Teaching Strategy (2016-2021)
The aim of this module is to introduce the key concepts of physical, life and clinical sciences as applied to paramedic practice.
Students will study the normal structure and function of the human body, learn about disease and disease processes and how these are managed with pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatments.
The module will be taught thematically and will encompass the following themes: 1) Systems Biology, 2) Clinical Applications, 3) Trauma & Patient Centred Care and 4) Unifying Concepts.
These themes will be applied to patients from a diverse cross section of society, and we will look at the application to patients from across the age continuum and pregnant women.
The module will adopt a person-centred perspective and diseases and disease processes will be explored in an inclusive manner so that students are made aware of how culture, ethnicity, sexuality, gender, gender identity and socio-economic status impacts upon human health and disease.
This module will introduce the key professional, ethical and legal principles that relate to your chosen profession.
You will explore the role of the Health Care Professions Council including their standards and regulations.
The concept of what it means to be professional will be introduced along with bioethical principles and how this influences clinical practice.
During the module, you will begin to practice and develop the skill of building of a therapeutic relationship and will begin to explore how effective and ineffective communication can impact on patient care and outcomes.
Health psychology is the study of how health and illness can be affected by a variety of factors, including biological, environmental, psychological, social, cultural and race.
This module will introduce the concept of health psychology including mental health and wellbeing, exploring how these factors contribute to health inequalities.
Health inequality will be introduced from a person-centred perspective and will consider specific characteristics, the role of intersectionality and external factors such as socio-economic status, geography and education.
It will cover health status, access to care and the quality and experiences of care, as well as defining person-centred care.
The module will also address current public health issues and how to reduce health inequalities in vulnerable groups.
You will continue to work with the university’s partner ambulance service, West Midlands Ambulance Service University NHS Foundation Trust (WMAS), the first University Ambulance Service in the UK.
You may also be offered the opportunity of additional placements in areas such as Operating Departments, Obstetric Units, Children’s Wards, Emergency Departments and Mental Health Units.
These placements will help to remove the unpredictable nature of ambulance work and ensure that you receive exposure to certain patient groups and have an opportunity to practice some skills that are less frequently encountered in the ambulance service placement.
A key aspect of allied health professional practice includes evidence-based practice; ‘the integration of best research evidence with clinical expertise and patient values’.
The aim of this module is to build on learning outcomes of the level 4 module.
It will continue in developing the student’s ability to recognise the value of research and utilise the principles and methods required to appraise a given research article.
Building on the foundations laid in year one, this module will allow the student to develop a deeper patient assessment and implement additional clinical interventions that can be important in the care of patients presenting with emergency conditions.
The module will also focus on the rationale behind the application of skills in order that students can make robust, sustainable decisions about the clinical interventions they use.
It will encourage students to develop critical thinking in relation to prophylactic vs pre-emptive treatment/skills.
Students will begin to demonstrate a situational awareness of how presentations/assessments can involve a multitude of body systems and how this changes across the age/demographic groups.
Teaching will be based around the HCPC Standards of Proficiency and the College of Paramedics Curriculum Guidance.
Students will be expected to behave in a manner that is conducive with the HCPC Guidance on Conduct and Ethics for Students (HCPC, 2016) and should be working towards the Standards of Conduct, Performance and Ethics of the registered healthcare professional (HCPC, 2016).
The module will link closely with other modules that are running concurrently
The aim of this module is to develop knowledge and understanding of the key concepts of physical, life and clinical sciences as applied to paramedic practice.
Students will study specific clinical manifestations (E.g., ‘Hypoxia’) and concepts (E.g., ‘Permissive Hypotension’) and discover how these relate to multiple systems often simultaneously.
This module will support and develop your knowledge and understanding of the professional, ethical and legal principles that relate to your chosen profession and underpin your own professional development and practice.
The skill of communicating will be developed further to include communicating in difficult circumstances and the effective removal of communication barriers in order to enhance the safety and quality of care being delivered.
The concept of mentorship will be introduced and you will be given the opportunity to apply this to your practice within a safe environment.
You will be introduced to the role of peer mentorship and explore the application of these theories and models including its impact on delivering effective patient care.
This module will explore health psychology from the perspectives of the pregnant patient, children and adolescents.
It will build upon the foundations of the content taught in the first year, including application of knowledge of legislation, safeguarding and abuse.
The module will explore a person-centred approach and will consider specific characteristics including race, culture, sexuality, gender and gender identity and the role of intersectionality.
The module will also address current public health issues and how to reduce health inequalities in pregnant patients, children and adolescents.
You may also be offered the opportunity of additional placements in areas such as walk-in-centres, minor-injuries units, general practice, community nursing teams, clinics for long-term conditions and end of life care.
These placements will help to remove the unpredictable nature of ambulance work and ensure that you receive exposure to certain patient groups and have an opportunity to practice some skills that are frequently encountered in the ambulance service placement.
Clinical decision making and use of alternative pathways is key to improved outcome and patient satisfaction.
Continuing the aspect that allied healthcare practice includes evidence-based practice; ‘the integration of best research evidence with clinical expertise and patient values’, this module builds on level 4 and 5 modules.
The aim of this module is to enable students to demonstrate and apply their knowledge and understanding of research by producing work that presents an analysis of the principles and methods to investigate an area of interest from professional allied health professional practice.
The student, with the support of a supervisor, produces and presents their final project, with a view to submit for publication and/or conference presentation.
The aim of this module is to build upon the subject knowledge and skills gained at level 4 and 5, to provide you with a set of enhanced physical assessment skills and clinical interventions that can be used to support the care of patients presenting with a range of emergency and urgent conditions.
The module will also focus on the rationale behind the application of assessment skills in order that you can make robust, evidence-based decisions that will inform your assessment, diagnosis, and management of the patient with an emergent or urgent care need.
During the module you will continue to develop your clinical leadership and decision-making skills.
The module will link closely with other modules that are running concurrently.
Students will be expected to behave in a manner that is conducive with the HCPC standards of conduct, performance and ethics (2016) and be working towards the HCPC standards of proficiency (2023).
The aim of this module is to develop and deepen your knowledge and understanding of the key concepts of physical, life and clinical sciences as applied to paramedic practice.
The module will be taught thematically and will encompass the following themes: 1) Systems Biology, 2) Clinical Applications and Clinical Decision Making 3) Long Term Conditions & Patient Centred Care and 4) Unifying Concepts.
This module aims to support and develop a more critical approach to the application of professional, ethical and legal principles whilst underpinning your own professional development and practice in preparation for your entry on to the Health and Care Professions Council register of your chosen profession.
You will explore the concepts of how to support and develop colleagues whilst undertaking a mentor role including what strategies can be implemented during challenging and difficult circumstances.
This module will explore health psychology from the perspectives of the older adult, those with long term conditions and end of life.
It will consolidate previous taught content, including application of knowledge of legislation, safeguarding and abuse in the older adult, those with long term conditions and individuals coming towards the end of their life.
The module will adopt a person-centred approach and will consider specific characteristics including age, race, culture, sexuality, gender and gender identity and the role of intersectionality.
It will cover health status, access to care and the quality and experiences of care, and person-centred care.
The module will also address current public health issues and how to reduce health inequalities in the older adult, those with long term conditions and end of life.
Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to apply for registration as a Paramedic with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
Registration creates opportunities in an increasingly diverse range of areas and many of our recent graduates have successfully applied for the following roles:
With further training and clinical experience, you could also apply for the following leadership, educational or advanced practice roles:
Increasingly, some Paramedics are choosing to continue their studies with a master’s degree and/or PhD and some Paramedics have opted to work abroad.
Recent destinations have included: Australia, New Zealand, Canada, USA, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.
Prison/Custody Paramedic
Hospital/Triage Paramedic
Private/Event Paramedic
HEMS (Helicopter Emergency Medical Service) Paramedic
Critical Care Practitioner (CCP)
Advanced Clinical Practitioner (ACP)
NHS Ambulance Paramedic
This academically challenging and rigorous programme of study will give graduates a solid grounding in all the skills necessary to apply for registration as a Paramedic with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
Students will be taught all the clinical skills necessary to function as a Newly Qualified Paramedic (NQP) and these will be taught alongside academic skills such as academic writing, referencing and critical thinking that are necessary for a modern Allied Health Professional.
Skills that are highly valued by employers across a rage of sectors will be incorporated throughout.
Key Entry Requirements: Use the UCAS Tariff Calculator to check your qualifications and points.
Either
Plus
And
Our Admissions team will use the entry criteria and your application information to shortlist successful candidates.
If you are successful you will be invited to select an interview date through e:Vision .
Your interview will consist of assessment in comprehension, verbal ability, and suitability for Paramedic Science.
Interview panels will include, whenever possible, employer and service-user/carer representatives.
For further interview information click here
Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) and Occupational Health Check :
Due to the professional nature of this course, you are also required to complete a Declaration of Health and Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) Check.
We will coordinate both non-academic condition checks if you accept an offer with us.
The DBS cost is currently £46 in total.
“ This course continuously develops our skills in a pace that is manageable and allows for us to enjoy what we’re doing.
The lectur ers are very approachable and on hand to help us wherever they can.
I absolutely love this course !
” – Esther Gameklu .
Approved by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) for the purpose of providing eligibility to apply for registration with the HCPC as a paramedic.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-paramedic-science-with-foundation-year:
This full-time course is designed to equip students with the essential knowledge, practical skills and professional behaviours for a rewarding and lifelong career as a Paramedic.
This 4-year full-time course is designed to equip students with the essential knowledge, practical skills and professional behaviours for a rewarding and lifelong career as a Paramedic.
However, this 4-year programme also includes a Foundation Year which has a focus upon developing the key academic skills necessary for successful completion of the programme.
These academic skills include academic writing, referencing and presentation skills and this course of study is targeted towards those applicants that might have been out of the education system for some time, or might have just fallen slightly short of the UCAS tariff for our 3-year programme.
This BSc (Hons) Paramedic Science with Foundation Year widens participation into the profession and upon successful completion of this Foundation Year, students will progress seamlessly onto year 1 of our 3-year programme.
Once you have successfully completed the first year of this programme, you will be allocated an experienced mentor, and you will undertake supernumerary shifts responding to 999 calls across the region.
Please not that the BSc (Hons) Paramedic Science with Foundation Year does not include any clinical practice placements in the first year of study.
This year is primarily a foundational year to support students in their transition from school/college or the workplace into a higher education setting.
Throughout your journey, you will undertake theory modules to provide you with the foundational knowledge and academic skills required to function as a contemporary Allied Health Professional.
From year two onwards, you will also spend lots of time in our state-of-the-art clinical skills labs learning the practical skills necessary to work as a Paramedic.
More details can be found by visiting: Explore FEHW .
Students are expected to be on campus up to 5 days a week (09:00-16:00) and teaching will be centred around lectures, group work and independent study and in the final 3 years of the programme, students will be involved in clinical simulations.
From year two onwards, students will also undertake supernumerary shifts with West Midlands Ambulance Service, and you will work alongside your mentor to complete a Practice Assessment Document (PAD) which includes a variety of core competencies.
" This course continuously develops our skills in a pace that is manageable and allows us to enjoy what we're doing.
The lecturers are very approachable and are on hand to help us wherever they can.
I absolutely love this course!
" - Esther Gameklu

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-physiotherapy:
Welcome to the University of Wolverhampton's Physiotherapy Program.
Here, you will embark on a dynamic journey to become a skilled and compassionate physiotherapist.wh
Choose the Physiotherapy course at the University of Wolverhampton for a unique opportunity to learn from experienced professionals in state-of-the-art facilities.
Our curriculum blends theoretical knowledge with practical experience, ensuring you gain the skills necessary to thrive in a fast-paced, rewarding profession.
With strong links to local healthcare providers, you will have access to diverse clinical placements that enhance your learning and career prospects.
We are committed to your success, offering personalised support and a vibrant, inclusive community to help you achieve your goals.
Our program offers a comprehensive, hands-on education that prepares you to make a real difference in healthcare.
With a focus on evidence-based practice, innovative learning, and clinical experience, you will be equipped with the knowledge and confidence to excel in the ever-evolving field of physiotherapy.
Join us and take the first step toward a rewarding career helping others live healthier, more active lives.
Our BSc Physiotherapy course will provide you with the knowledge and skills needed to practice within the current healthcare climate.
These skills will gradually build throughout your three years of full-time study to develop to be able to practice as an autonomous practitioner upon qualification.
Theoretical and practical teaching is delivered from our friendly, self-contained Walsall campus, interspersed with practice placements within the local area to be able to implement your skills and further your learning in real-life contexts.
Across the three years, you will be required to complete a minimum of 1,000 hours of practice placements to fulfil the requirements for registration as a qualified physiotherapist with the CSP and HCPC.
Module content covers the fundamental anatomy, biomechanics and physiology, before applying this to pathology, patient presentation and assessment of all age groups and backgrounds.
Your clinical reasoning skills will progressively develop across the three years towards the holistic management of patients in different settings and increasing complexity.
Collectively, modules will encompass the patient journey and rehabilitation from in-patient, out-patient and community perspectives, towards achieving health, wellbeing and maximal quality of life.
You will also explore multifaceted aspects of public health and the promotion of healthy lifestyle behaviours.
Not only will you acquire the clinical skills required to enter the workplace as a competent healthcare practitioner, but emphasis is also placed on the development of additional professional skills towards being a valued member of the multi-disciplinary team.
For example, reflective and evidence-based practice, leadership and research skills.
This module aims to provide a foundation understanding of the organisation and physiological function of the human body in relation to the cardiorespiratory and immune systems and to explain how these mechanisms are modified from healthy to disease states.
This understanding is applied to the practical application of associated basic physiotherapy assessment and treatment techniques.
This module will explore the holistic management of patients within a range of acute inpatient settings.
Drawing on learning from other year 1 modules, practical simulation activities will assist you to develop a basic understanding of physiotherapy assessment and treatment techniques enabling a sensitive, person-centred assessment to be carried out and documented.
You will also be guided to develop the skills of initial diagnosis, at a basic level, on the basis of an assessment and an analysis of the information collected.
You will also undertake your first 4 week practice-based learning placement within this module
In this module, you will be introduced to the anatomy and physiology of the neurological system (peripheral and central), and applying this to normal human function.
This module will also cover normal development from birth to older adulthood.
You will be introduced to the concepts of neurological assessment to be able to identify and diagnose common pathologies of the neurological system.
This will inform the ability to develop patient-centred treatment plan and goal setting toward improving quality of life and function of individuals.
In this module, you will be introduced to the anatomy of the musculoskeletal system with practical application specifically to the lumbar spine and the lower limb.
By the end of the module, you will be able to describe the anatomical structures of these regions including joints, muscles, nerves and supporting structures; and how these structures contribute to normal function.
You will then be introduced to how to conduct a basic musculoskeletal assessment of the lower limb and lumbar spine, and how to identify possible pathology of joints and bone tissue.
In this module, you will further apply the anatomy of the musculoskeletal system from semester 1, with practical application specific to the cervical/thoracic spine and the upper limb.
By the end of the module, you will be able to describe the anatomical structures of these regions including joints, muscles, nerves and supporting structures, and how these structures contribute to normal function.
You will then apply existing understanding of a basic musculoskeletal assessment of the upper limb and cervical/thoracic spine, and how to identify possible pathology of soft tissue.
Drawing upon learning from all year one modules, this module will introduce the physiological changes and psychological, social, economic, and emotional impacts of neurological conditions for individuals and their families.
It will provide a platform for learners to develop their understanding and practical skills of physiotherapy assessment, treatment and rehabilitation planning of individuals managing neurological conditions across the life course.
Through a problem-based learning approach, transferable skills such as communication, ethical, evidence-based practice, reflective practice and diversity will be further developed
Drawing upon learning from all year one modules, this module will introduce the physiological changes and psychological, social, economic, and emotional impacts of cardiorespiratory conditions for individuals and their families.
It will provide a platform for learners to develop their understanding and practical skills of physiotherapy assessment, treatment and rehabilitation planning of individuals managing cardiorespiratory conditions across the life course.
Through a problem-based learning approach, transferable skills such as communication, ethical, evidence-based practice, reflective practice and diversity will be further developed.
Issues related to the legal, ethical and policy dimensions of physiotherapy practice will be explored, in relation to inpatient care and all others areas of physiotherapy practice.
This module will explore the holistic management of patients within a range of outpatient settings.
It will enable you to expand your knowledge, understanding and practical application of physiotherapy assessment, rehabilitation and management of individuals with complex neuro-musculoskeletal issues.
You will develop the breadth of skills needed to deliver individualised patient centred care within a variety of outpatient and community healthcare systems.
This will include areas such as exercise prescription, successful management of long-term conditions, complex neuromusculoskeletal evaluation and appropriate patient referral.
Innovative approaches to healthcare including digitisation, telehealth, data utilisation and informatics will also be considered in relation to contemporary and future practice
For each practice module you will undertake a practice placement in a physiotherapy specific area, which will enable you to acquire experience in more complex areas of physiotherapy practice in a variety of health and social care settings.
You will be working with increasing levels of autonomy and responsibility.
You will be required to demonstrate a range of clinical and professional skills in relation to complex client groups, as well as the more generic skills and attributes of physiotherapy health care professionals.
There will be an expectation of behaviours demonstrating high levels of physiotherapy practice commensurate with the academic level of learning, seen for instance in increased responsibility for personal work-load management.
This module seeks to equip students with a critical understanding of new and emerging developments within the field of physiotherapy practice.
Opportunities for physiotherapists have been expanded in recent years, with the development of specialist and consultant therapy posts, and extended scope of practice roles.
An ability to analyse new and emerging roles and practices will enable newly qualified graduates to appreciate and navigate the novel workplace situations that they will encounter in the future and through a process of active continuing professional development continue to   deliver compassionate, patient-focussed care, by working in partnership with patients and other service-users.
This module seeks to equip students with a critical understanding of collaboration, teamwork, leadership, management and partnership working, and includes wider professional issues such as implementation strategies for development and change management within a diversity of health and social care services.
Graduate physiotherapists may be called upon to develop and manage their own services and other services within complex multidisciplinary healthcare systems from an early stage in their career.
An ability to analyse interpersonal behaviours will enable newly qualified graduates to appreciate and navigate the complex workplace situations that they will encounter, and to deliver compassionate, patient-focussed care by working in partnership with patients and other service-users.
You will develop the skills and behaviours to respect and promote diversity, help others to develop and to create high quality care environments.
You will select a specific clinical or managerial issue relevant to your professional practice and investigated utilising appropriate research skills.
Practical recommendations for implementation of actions to address the issue are formulated, with the identification of a suitable method for evaluating the feasibility and effectiveness of the action plan proposed.
The total project should represent an improvement to service delivery
There is scope for this to be an elective placement where you are able to arrange a physiotherapy practice experience based on your areas of interest.
NHS
Private Sector
Service Management
Research
Education
1) Strong Industry connections - Our program is built on strong partnerships with local healthcare providers, offering you valuable clinical placement and networking opportunities to enhance your career prospects.
2) Hands-on learning, with access to state-of-the-art learning facilities.
3) Experienced faculty - learn from a team of qualified professionals with extensive experience in both clinical practice as well as academia.
4) Evidence-based approach - We prioritise an evidence-based learning framework that equips you with the latest research, techniques and methodologies, ensuring that you are prepared for the evolving landscape of physiotherapy.
5) Accredited and recognised - Our program is accredited by the HCPC and CSP, ensuring that you graduate with the qualifications needed to pursue registration and work as a physiotherapist in the UK and beyond.
This Honours degree course will enable you to:
Optional  Costs
Applicants need to achieve:
A minimum of three GCSEs at grade C+/4 (or equivalent) which must include an English-based subject, Mathematics and  Health and Social Care or Science subject.
Equivalent qualifications include Key Skills level 2; Learn Direct Level 2 and Functional Skills Level 2.
Sciences at GCSE could include Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Health and Social Care or Physical Education
Plus Either
Not met the entry for this course?
Did you know you could become a Physiotherapist within 4 years?
Why not discover more information about our new Foundation Year courses and what you need to get onto them.
Please visit Foundation Year Courses to find out more.
The first year of this four year course is taught at Wolverhampton Campus.
Have you also considered other careers in Health?
Did you know we also offer a Podiatry qualification?
Please visit the Institute of Health for more information and what other opportunities we have here at the University.
All offers to be subject to and satisfactory health and Criminal convictions (DBS) checks.
In addition to the above entry requirements all shortlisted applicants will be required to undertake a numeracy and literacy test; a group based task and a face to face interview.
There is an expectation that applicants will be able to demonstrate a good understanding of the physiotherapy role and it is recommended that you gain insight into the breadth of Physiotherapy practice through relevant work experience prior to the interview.
Values consistent with the NHS constitution will be sought from applicants during the selection process.
You will also need to complete an occupational health assessment questionnaire and General Practitioner Form prior to starting the course; vaccinations will also need to be up-to-date.
Applicants who are classed as ‘overseas’ for fee purposes ( https://www.ukcisa.org.uk/Information--Advice/Fees-and-Money/Home-or-Overseas-fees-the-basics ) will still be considered as long as their country of domicile is the United Kingdom and who do not require Tier 4 sponsorship or are in the UK on a Tier 2 visa.
"My experience throughout my physiotherapy degree has been outstanding.
The physiotherapy lecturers are always on hand for advice and to help you understand things in a way that meets your needs.
Facilities such as the physio lab are fantastic and provide an invaluable space to practice and refine your clinical skills.
I can't speak highly enough of the physio team at Walsall campus.
Thank you all for your hard work and support."
- Jay Moore, 3rd Year student 2025 -
Accredited by the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy (CSP).
Approved by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) for the purpose of providing eligibility to apply for registration with the HCPC as a physiotherapist.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-podiatry:
This BSc (Hons) Podiatry course will give you the practical skills and knowledge to become a specialist health professional, who cares for people with foot and lower limb conditions.
As a podiatrist, you will work with people of all ages, helping them maintain their health and wellbeing through a range of podiatric treatments, orthotics, minor surgery, exercise and health education.
This course has been designed to reflect the varied opportunities available for qualified podiatrists.
Many of our students have secured employment before the end of their course, allowing them to transition into employment soon after qualifying.
One of the advantages of a degree in podiatry is the career choice available when you graduate.
You could work in the NHS progressing from an entry-level podiatrist to a specialist podiatrist and then a team leader.
Alternatively, you might prefer to work in private practice as an associate or running your own business.
Some of our graduates have pursued a career in lecturing, helping the next generation of students achieve their desire to become a podiatrist.
The scope of practice for a podiatrist is broad including diabetes, specialist wound care, biomechanics and gait analysis, sports injuries, and nail surgery to more specialist posts such as a forensic podiatrist, podiatric surgeon or advanced podiatrist.
Whatever you decide to do as a podiatrist you will be in a great position to find employment.
Students studying this course may be eligible to receive a non-repayable grant of at least £5,000 each year.
Further information is available on the NHS Learning Support Fund website .
Service users and carers are involved in a range of skills sessions and assessments to support an appreciation of how conditions and treatments have affected their lives#
Transferable skills within the healthcare setting, including within clinical practice, industry, research and education e) Learning and teaching supported through dedicated on-campus facilities including a purpose-built orthotics lab
Ultimately, the aim of the course is to prepare you for a career as a qualified healthcare professional making your own clinical decisions, and improving the mobility and quality of life of your patients.
During your training, you will attend a minimum of 1,000 hours in clinical practice, in a variety of placement settings.
These include our purpose-built skills rooms where you can practise in a simulated safe environment and real-life settings in the NHS, community, private practice and industry.
You will work under close supervision and receive personalised feedback to support your development.
You will learn to diagnose and treat foot and lower limb conditions and be taught about medication and local anaesthesia.
Understanding how research supports clinical decision-making is an important part of your training and in your final year, you will undertake a research project supported by supervisors.
Alternatively, to a research project, you might want to write a business plan in preparation for starting your own business.
The course will help you to prepare to work as part of a multidisciplinary team, with interprofessional learning together with physiotherapy, paramedic science and occupational therapy students.
Service users and carers will provide you with the opportunity to learn from their experiences and perspectives.
You will have the opportunity to qualify with a certificate in local anaesthesia and prescription only medicines (POMs) annotation.
The course has a patient-centered approach and during your training, you will explore cultural, economic and social context of health and social care provision.
You will consider the implications for those working in the sector and how this can ultimately improve patient care.
On successful completion of the course you can apply to register as a podiatrist with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
The module will introduce you to routine clinical practice and allow the application of required knowledge and skills in the assessment, diagnosis and management of routine foot pathologies within simulated clinical environments, as well as within a practice-based learning placement in a clinical setting.
This forms part of the mandatory 1,000 clinical hours that you are required to complete
This module will introduce you to the principles of podiatry practice.
You will explore the concepts of health and disease and how this can affect a range of individuals.
Person-centered care will be introduced and you will consider how, as a health care professional, you can support patient choice and self-management.
This module aims to explain how common microorganisms including fungi, bacteria and viruses can result in a range of skin and nail disorders, frequently encountered in routine podiatry clinics.
You will also be introduced to a range of conditions that are commonly encountered in clinical practice.
These sessions will provide the basis for further development at levels 5 & 6.
By the end of the module, you will understand the normal wound healing process and the importance of effective wound management and infection control within a clinical setting.
This module will introduce you to the musculoskeletal system, focusing on the foot and lower limb, including how normal gait and movement is enabled.
You will develop an understanding about different anatomical structures and how they function during walking, including bones, joints, muscles, nerves and tendons.
The practical sessions will support your understanding of how the lower limb and foot functions during walking and develop your understanding of the gait cycle and routine gait analysis.
This module will develop your understanding of human anatomy and physiology.
You will consider systems of the body including cardiovascular, respiratory, neurological, endocrine and integumentary.
You will explore how these systems work together to maintain homeostasis and support normal body functions.
This module provides the basis for understanding how diseases can affect the human body.
This module builds on the knowledge and skills gained at Level 4 and introduces a range of acute and chronic conditions and musculoskeletal conditions commonly managed in podiatry practice.
This module will mirror the topics delivered in the theoretical modules and will allow you to apply your knowledge in a practical setting.
You will continue to develop your skills in the assessment, diagnosis and management of a range of conditions and focus on patient centred care.
These sessions will be delivered within simulated clinical environments, as well as within practice-based learning placements in a clinical setting.
Service users will be involved with a range of these topics, to provide a depth of understanding from the individual’s perspective.
This forms part of the mandatory 1,000 clinical hours that you are required to complete.
This module builds on the knowledge gained at level 4 and will explore a range of common musculoskeletal and orthopaedic disorders of the lower limb.
Gait analysis will be examined in more depth and appraised in relation to common musculoskeletal and orthopaedic conditions.
The role of footwear in maintaining foot health will be considered and how orthotic therapy can be employed within the podiatric management of a range of common lower limb pathologies.
This module aims to provide you with the knowledge and skills necessary to safely and competently access, supply and administer a range of prescription only medicines available to HCPC registered podiatrists.
The module will introduce pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and pharmacy law.
Various groups of drugs will be considered, in relation to the implications for podiatric clinical practice.
You will learn the fundamentals of local anaesthesia, including the contemporary theoretical concepts that underpin the safe and effective administration in podiatric clinical practice.
You will practice administering local anaesthesia in the simulated environment in preparation for Level 6 when you will be administering local anaesthesia during your practice-based learning environment.
This module builds on the knowledge gained at level 4 and will explore the causes, pathogenesis and treatments of a range of common acute and chronic diseases encountered by the podiatrist.
You will explore the theoretical knowledge, which underpins clinical practice expanding your appreciation of acute and chronic diseases.
Using an evidence informed approach, you will consider how to appraise the role of risk factors in the manifestation of chronic disease.
This module builds on the clinical knowledge and skills gained at Levels 4 & 5 and will provide you with the opportunity to engage with advancing practice and proficiencies in the management of complex patients and prepare you for working as a qualified podiatrist.
You will continue to develop your skills in the assessment, diagnosis and management of a range of complex conditions and focus on patient centred care.
This practical skills module will bring together pathology and musculoskeletal conditions and encourage the development and application of critical thinking skills, which support the management of complex patients.
You will practice administering local anaesthesia and perform nail surgery.
You will also apply your knowledge of clinical leadership, as well as mentoring students at levels 4 & 5, as you prepare for entering the profession.
This module builds on the knowledge gained at levels 4 & 5 and will provide you with the opportunity to engage with advancing practice and proficiencies in the management of complex patients.
Using a systematic approach to patient assessment and management, you will consider a range of complex conditions and scenarios.
You will have the opportunity to apply your critical thinking and problem-solving skills to enhance your ability to reflect on clinical practice.
You will critically analyse contemporary theories related to the development of a range of musculoskeletal disorders and systemic diseases.
Where possible, service users will be involved with a range of these topics, to provide a depth of understanding from the individual’s perspective.
This module will allow you to explore contemporary and emerging assessment, diagnostic and management within podiatry practice.
You will explore and critically analyse the current evidence available for emerging practice.
You will reflect and contribute to changes in clinical practice, at a service level with service user involvement.
You will identify opportunities available to you as a registered podiatrist to support and enhance the delivery of high-quality and cost-effective care.
The module will equip you with knowledge of the application process to secure employment as a podiatrist within the NHS and private practice.
You will explore the importance of Continuing Professional Development upon qualification as a podiatrist and how to maintain a professional portfolio as an HCPC registrant.
Registered Podiatrist (NHS or Private Practice)
Wound Care Specialist / MDT Podiatrist
Specialist wound care
Sports, Biomechanics and gait analysis
Forensic Gait Analyst
Orthotics
Independent Prescriber Podiatrist
Nail surgery
Forensic podiatrist
Consultant Podiatric surgeon
Lecturer in podiatry
Studying at our Walsall Campus, you will benefit from our new, expanded clinical skills laboratories, which provide a safe and stimulating environment for teaching and skills practice.
The skills and simulation facilities include several mock hospital ward rooms, mock bedsit and terraced house to practise hospital ward/home/domiciliary treatments.
The facilities include an anatomage table offering advanced 3D anatomy visualisation and virtual dissection, and are Panopto-enabled, allowing sessions to be filmed and played back, giving a patient’s eye-view.
The human performance laboratory and gait analysis facilities will support your understanding of lower limb movement.
You will learn how this links to clinical management of lower limb conditions, which affect patients’ mobility and quality of life.
Service users and carers are involved in a range of skills sessions to support an appreciation of how conditions and treatments have affected their lives.
You will be involved in practical skills sessions six weeks after starting your course with weekly sessions building your skills and confidence in treating patients.
We have a strong relationship with local NHS trusts who provide placements throughout the three years.
These placements are an excellent way to gain experience in clinical situations, developing your clinical skills and knowledge.
You will attend a variety of trusts providing an opportunity to experience different types of practice and support your clinical development.
You will work closely with the experienced teaching team, who will guide you through the academic and practical sessions.
You will be encouraged to solve problems, reflect on the different treatment options open to you and to take responsibility for your own learning.
All our staff will offer you tailored support, benefitting from an excellent staff-to-student ratio.
The module assessments are designed to be inclusive and demonstrate the learning outcomes for each module and the course as a whole.
There are a variety of assessment strategies including practical Objective Structured Clinical Examinations (OSCEs), vivas, course work and presentations.
As this is a professional clinical course the emphasis is on face-to-face assessments.
We also offer this degree with a foundation year pathway , where, if successful, you will gain the essential skills that will enable you to excel in higher education and pursue your chosen career.
“My experience of podiatry and being at Wolverhampton is that Walsall Campus size is relatively small and not overwhelming.
The facilities are fantastic, it is set in a perfect area for job opportunities and most importantly the lecturers are passionate about what they teach.
There is a world of opportunity awaiting newly qualified podiatrists, you could make a real difference!” Final year student
Podiatry is a hidden healthcare gem; it allows for one-on-one patient interactions, hands-on treatment, work/life flexibility, excellent employability, and includes a variety of autonomous, procedurally-based specialities like biomechanics, wound care, nail surgery, diabetic care, etc.
Walsall Campus offers a modern and brand-new clinical set-up reflecting real-world practice (i.e.
facilities mimicking patient homes, NHS wards, musculoskeletal physical examination rooms, and a 3D dissection table for interactive pathological learning).
Our lecturers are proactive, engaging, and all hold a wealth of knowledge that individually supports your journey.
You need not worry if you are years out of education, you will find podiatry students are a close group of like-minded people regardless of age or experience.
“Personally, for someone who came from a completely different career and put a lot of things on hold to pursue this qualification, I believe no other degree could have been more rewarding or worth recognition.” Second year student
Approved by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) for the purpose of providing eligibility to apply for registration with the HCPC as a chiropodist/podiatrist.
"Graduates of accredited programmes in Podiatry or Podiatric Medicine are deemed to be fit for the profession of podiatry.
They may join the Society of Chiropodists and Podiatrists and, upon acceptance, will have the right to use the post-nominal letters: MChS."

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-podiatry-with-foundation-year:
This BSc (Hons) Podiatry with Foundation Year course is a 4-year course that will give you the practical skills and knowledge to become a specialist health professional, caring for people with foot and lower limb conditions.
The BSc (Hons) Podiatry course enables you to develop the knowledge and skills to become a safe, competent and effective podiatry practitioner.
Upon successful completion of the course you can apply for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council to practice as a podiatrist.
The course is designed to help you develop the skills and attributes to meet the varied aspects of the role of the podiatrist.
Theoretical underpinning is supported by experiential learning opportunities through clinical simulation and placements in the NHS, private practice and industry.
The foundation year will support your preparation to study at undergraduate level and is taught at Wolverhampton City Campus.
On successful completion of the foundation year you will then be taught for the remaining three years at Walsall Campus.
At our Walsall Campus we have new, expanded clinical skills laboratories, providing a safe, non-threatening environment for teaching and practice.
The skills and simulation facilities include several mock hospital ward rooms, mock bedsit and terraced house to practice in, as well as using the latest technology with access to an anatomage table.
The facilities are Panopto-enabled, which allows sessions to be filmed and played back, giving a patient’s eye-view.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-credit-return-to-midwifery-practice:
We offer opportunities to return to midwifery practice through the completion of a single academic module together with a clinical placement.
This has been developed in line with Return to Practice Standards (NMC, 2019) and in consultation with practice partners from our local NHS Trusts.
The module is normally delivered over a maximum period of 8 months, with typical learning activities including face-to-face contact, skills sessions, on-line learning and practice-based learning to meet a set of proficiencies.
The Return to Practice (Midwifery) programme will also help you plan your future learning to further develop your career.
This course aims to enable students to demonstrate delivery of safe and competent midwifery care in accordance with the Return to Practice Standards stipulated by the NMC.
Students will become an accountable, self-reflective and autonomous practitioner, working with a range of other professionals and within inter-professional and multiagency teams responding to the demands of midwifery practice.
Students will also demonstrate a political awareness of local and national policies impacting on organisational change and the integration of health and social care services.
The aim of this module is to enable midwives, whose Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) registration has lapsed (practised fewer than 750 hours in the previous five years, or 450 hours in the three years before application for readmission to the register), to meet the NMC regulatory requirements for renewal of registration and re-entry to the register.
This module also aims to enable you to practise safely and effectively as a midwife without the need for direct supervision in accordance with the The Code (NMC, 2018), the ‘Standards of Proficiency for Midwives’ (NMC, 2019) and the ‘Return to Practice Standards’ (NMC, 2019).
You will be able to effectively apply the evidence base for your practice in the current health and social care settings.
Through critical reflection on your own role and development, you will synthesise and evaluate ways in which you can improve the quality of individualised, holistic midwifery care.
Applicants must have a Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) Personal Identification Number (even though your registration has lapsed).
Applicants must be resident within the United Kingdom.
Applicants originally from countries where English is not the first language must provide evidence of the International English Language Test (IELTS) in accordance with current NMC thresholds.
Applicants will require GCSE grade C/4+ in Maths and English (or equivalent qualifications).
Please note that we do not accept GCSE short courses.
Applicants meeting the entry requirements may be shortlisted for a values-based interview and will be subsequently required to meet a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) Check and Occupational Health requirements.
Please note, having a criminal record does not necessarily prevent you from returning to midwifery.
Applicants who have accepted a conditional offer made by the University of Wolverhampton you will receive correspondence asking you to complete an enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check.
The charge for this will be a DBS fee of £44.00 and a £6.00 ID check service fee.
Applicants will also need to complete an occupational health assessment questionnaire and General Practitioner form prior to starting the course; vaccinations will also need to be up-to-date.
Applicants will need to demonstrate that on entry to the programme they have capability for digital and technological literacy to meet course outcomes.
Evidence of digital literacy and technological literacy capability will therefore be aligned to the online application process and are an integral part of the courses.
Applicants will also be required to provide a satisfactory personal statement and reference (academic or employer).
Within the personal statement applicants should identify the date they qualified as a midwife, the date they last worked as a midwife and the date that their registration lapsed.
If you don’t want to take out a loan to pay your fees or if you aren’t eligible to receive a loan, you might want to take advantage of the University’s scheme to pay by instalments: see How to pay.
We must receive notification of sponsorship in writing as soon as possible, and before enrolment, confirming that the sponsor will pay your tuition fees.
In addition the University also offers a range of Bursaries and Scholarships packages You can find more information on the University’s Funding, cost, fee and support pages.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bnurs-hons-adult-nursing:
Our BNurs (Hons) Adult Nursing degree at the University of Wolverhampton cultivates a person-centred approach, designed to help you acquire the essential knowledge, skills, and attitudes needed to deliver safe and effective adult nursing care
You will benefit from the team’s expertise, which draws on a wealth of different experiences including: A&E, critical care, community care, specialist cancer care, and experience as Advanced Nurse Practitioners and Ward Managers.
Want to find out more...why not attend one of our Open Days , where you will have the opportunity to talk to staff and students who are currently studying and find out more about the course and our facilities.
Studying BNurs (Hons) Adult Nursing opens up a world of rewarding opportunities.
Becoming a nurse allows you to impact lives, driven by the desire to make a positive change in people's lives.
Our adult nursing degree is designed to provide you with the knowledge and skills to deliver comprehensive care to patients across various healthcare settings.
You will have the privilege of being there for people in their time of need, and helping them live happier, more comfortable lives.
During this degree, you will study a range of academic core (all fields of nursing) and field (adult-focused) modules based on theory and practice experiences.
As you move through the course, the degree content becomes less generic and more specific to adult nursing.
The core modules include but are not limited to the following:
A significant portion of the adult nursing degree experience revolves around our state-of-the-art Skills Labs.
These labs serve as a safe and controlled environment where you can actively apply and refine your nursing skills.
At the University of Wolverhampton, we place great emphasis on collaboration with service users – individuals who have care needs and personal experiences with care services.
Our curriculum is shaped by the real-world needs of patients.
Their valuable insights shape the course content and actively participate in its delivery.
As an example, during your Skills Lab sessions, you may have the opportunity to practice essential tasks, such as taking the blood pressure of a service user.
This hands-on experience enhances your practical competence while fostering empathy and understanding for the people you will care for in your nursing career.
BNurs (Hons) Adults Nursing placements
Placements include providing nursing care to some of society’s most vulnerable people including the elderly and those who are physically ill or have a physical or learning disability.
In order to ensure all the people you care for are protected and kept safe, you will be expected to abide by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) guidance for student nurses.
As a student nurse, you are required to work shifts, including weekends and bank holidays.
Shifts can be in the day or at night to ensure you gain experience of the different types of care patients receive at different times of day.
Strengthening Communities Through Partnership
At the University of Wolverhampton, we're proud to maintain strong collaborative relationships with our practice partners across Shropshire.
These partnerships ensure our nursing students receive exceptional clinical experience and professional development opportunities while contributing to the healthcare needs of local communities.
How is the course assessed?
There is a range of different assessments for this adult nursing degree.
In the first year of the course, you will complete an online examination, a written piece based on a case study, a critique of a research article, and a group assessment that will test your teamwork and collaboration skills.
During your placements, you will gain an appreciation for the entire patient journey within a hospital.
For example, a placement on a medical ward could involve some time working with the district nurse, at a diabetes clinic, or in imaging and ultrasound.
As only a small percentage of people who visit hospitals end up in a bed on a ward, it is important for you to gain an appreciation for the other areas of the patient journey so you can contextualise care.
Placements will be undertaken with one of six NHS Trusts:
Find out more information on nursing placements and locations .
Student accommodation is available at Wolverhampton's City Campus and Walsall Campus.
For further information about alternative accommodation options visit the Where Can I Live?
page .
For students joining this course in 2025, the first year of study will take place at Telford Campus.
The remaining years of the course will be completed at our City campus.
Your placement location will remain the same throughout your course.
Please ensure you can easily commute to and from your placement location.
This module is intended to provide you with the necessary knowledge and skills to support you within your first care setting.
During the module you will consider the legal, ethical and professional aspects of care interventions across a range of sectors including the public, private and charitable sectors.
You will explore commonly encountered health conditions and a range of nursing interventions utilised across all fields of nursing practice and you will examine how effective communication strategies can assist the process of working in partnership with others
This module sets out to introduce you to a variety of approaches to communication that you might employ in managing interactions and interventions with others in practice.
Through the acquisition of evidence based knowledge you will be enabled to develop and maintain effective communication and relationship management skills in accordance with the requirements of The Code (NMC, 2018).
The Code expects all nurses to use a range of communication skills and technologies to support person-centred care.
You will have the opportunity to explore ways in which you can ensure people receive the information they need in a language and manner that allows them to make informed choices and share decision making.
This module enables you to explore the human life journey from conception to death.
In doing so you will develop an understanding of public health, health protection and health promotion and there significance to your developing nursing practice.
During this module you will learn how genomics; lifestyle choice; mental ill-health; wider determinants of health; and communicable disease impact on the human life journey, its diversity and population health.
Throughout the module you will develop knowledge and skills to support evidence based practice and inform healthcare interventions.
This module enables you to explore the importance of being self-aware as a health care professional.
You will consider reflective practice and its significance to the legal, ethical and professional requirements of your role.
You will do this by being encouraged to identify and explore approaches to reflective practice in order to prepare for your lifelong journey of self-reflection as part of your continual professional growth and development.
This module has aligned placement hours at a nominal value of 264 hours
This module enables you to advance your skills of mental, physical, cognitive and behavioural health needs assessment and interventions through the exploration of models and approaches to assessing and planning care.
You will focus on specific conditions and safe evidence based responses and associated pharmacology and pharmacodynamics in relation to the administration of safe medication.
You will also further explore methods of evaluating the impact of care.
This module enables you to explore the opportunities and challenges associated with promoting health and wellbeing within a diverse society.
During the module you will explore the indices of health and how inequalities in health can influence health outcomes across the lifespan.
You will have the opportunity to focus on specific health issues in relation to genomics, health surveillance, screening and health protection as well as being able to explore health promotion within an inter agency context.
This module enables you to explore how evidence underpins the care of individuals with specific conditions and co-morbidities and the demands of meeting individual complex nursing and social care needs.
During the module you will explore and develop your knowledge and skills associated with safe and effective adult nursing practice.
This module enables you to explore the impact of human factors upon the safety and quality of care and their connections wing this module you will explore the impact of human factors upon the safety and quality of care and their connections with local and national policies, protocols and guidelines.
local and national policies, protocols and guidelines.
In the course of these explorations you will have opportunities to consider the scope and limitations of your developing practice and that of others.
You will engage in exploring causation of error in healthcare, analysis of influencing factors and strategies to reduce risk.
This module enables you to pursue an area of personal professional enquiry.
You will manage your own learning and communicate this effectively through the completion of an independent solution- based project.
The project should enable you to critically evaluate the evidence pertaining to your are of interest in order to appraise its development in enhancing the quality of care.
The project is aligned to the University academic regulations and associated criteria for the award of an Honours Degree (University of Wolverhampton 2018).
This module enables you to safely and effectively apply person-centred approaches to interventions for people of all ages in a range of changing health states across diverse settings.
During the module you will be introduced to adverse situations in practice and will be enabled to develop your knowledge of pharmacology and pharmacodynamics and how these impact upon interventions used in changing health states.
This module enables you to further develop your evidence-based knowledge of collaborative working in relation to the assessment, planning, implementation and evaluation of individualised care in a diverse range of settings.
As such the module will enable you to further develop your knowledge of how to assess the complex health needs of individuals and their families or carers.
During the module you will explore the principles of effective leadership and their relationship to the coordination and management of care.
Your learning in this module will be supported by successful completion of the practice assessment document (PAD).
This module has aligned placement hours at a nominal value of 501 hours.
This module enables you to further develop your skills of independent thinking, critical thinking and decision making.
During the module you will further explore the concept of collaborative working and the opportunities and challenges posed in leading care for people, their families and carers.
The module will revisit the political influences on health and healthcare and the impact of these influences on the your emerging leadership skills.
Through continual reflection you will continue to explore your personal professional journey to becoming a registered practitioner.
This module has aligned placement hours at a nominal value of 533 hours
Gaining your BNurs (Hons) Adult Nursing will open up the prospect of many jobs in clinical practice, hospital or community settings, research, teaching or managerial roles.
Registered nurses (RN) continue to study after they have qualified, often in a specialist area, as they develop their career path.
Adult nurses often comment that this qualification has ‘opened doors’ to exciting career opportunities in healthcare.
With experience, as an RN you can take additional qualifications enabling you to work in the community or district nursing, health visiting or school nursing.
Adult trained RNs often work in GP practices and hospice settings.
In hospitals, adult RNs may work in wards, outpatient clinics or specialist areas such as Accident and Emergency or Intensive Care Units.
Want to find out more...why not attend one of our Open Days, where you will have the opportunity to talk to staff and students who are currently studying and find out more about the course and our facilities.
Open Day - University of Wolverhampton (wlv.ac.uk)
As a registered nurse you will:
GCSEs at grade C+/ 4 in an English-based subject and Maths or equivalent qualifications (e.g.
Key Skills Level 2/ Learn Direct Level 2/ Functional Skills Level 2).
Please note we do NOT accept GCSE Short Courses
Not met the entry criteria for this course?
Did you know you could study Nursing within 4 years?
Please visit Foundation Year Courses to find out more about what opportunities we have for you
Did you know we also offer:
Please visit the Institute of Health for more information
Those meeting the entry requirements may be shortlisted for a values-based selection process and will be subsequently required to meet a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) Check and Occupational Health requirements.
For students joining this course in September 2025, the first year of study will take place at Telford Campus.
The remaining years of the course will be completed at our City Campus.
During the Nursing course you will be required to attend placements.
Please note if you are on a Student Visa and do not pass a module, you may be required to pause your studies and retake the module in a future semester, this is known as stepping off.
If you are stepping off you may be required to take a leave of absence and return to your home country while you are not actively studying.
The Student Visa Compliance and Advice team will then support you through the process of applying for a new visa when you are ready to resume your studies.
Contextual Offers
The university recognises that many students have additional barriers in progression to university, whether this be through disability, as a care leaver, from an area of deprivation or another factor.
The university wishes to provide additional support for these students through the contextual offer scheme.
If you are eligible, the University will apply a contextual Admissions decision, in the form of a reduced offer letter by up to two grades or 16 UCAS tariff points.
Recognised by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) for the purpose of registration as a qualified nurse (adult).

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bnurs-hons-adult-nursing-with-foundation-year:
Our adult nursing foundation degree adopts a person-centred approach to help you to develop the knowledge, skills and attitudes required to provide safe and effective nursing care.
A foundation year prepares you for our adult nursing course, where you’ll continue to build expertise to succeed as a nurse.
Our School of Nursing combines state-of-the-art facilities with expert tutors.
Apply today to secure your place.
Our adult nursing foundation year course adopts a person-centred approach to help you to develop the knowledge, skills and attitudes required to provide safe and effective nursing care.
* Telford Foundation Year students will be based at our City Campus for the full duration of their course and will not study at Telford.
Placements will still be within the Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital Trust area.
If successful, you’ll be able to apply to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) to practise as a registered adult nurse in a range of diverse health and social care settings.
As a student on this course, the experience you gain will allow you to pursue a range of pathways, both academically and professionally.
You’ll also work with patients from other areas, including mental health and learning disability, as well as children’s nursing.
The opportunities you have coming into nursing are vast, such as:
Nursing is a demanding vocation which requires hard work, commitment, the ability to problem solve, work independently and contribute to care as part of a team.
We have strong partnerships with our clinical practice partners , giving our students the ideal environment to develop their knowledge and skills.
Our foundation year eases the transition into a full-time degree, making it a great option for those looking to build knowledge and experience beforehand.
INTAKES: September and April
WHERE: Wolverhampton and Walsall
50% of your course will be situated in the University and 50% in a variety of practice areas.
Throughout your nursing foundation degree, you’ll study a range of academic core (all fields of nursing) and field (adult-focused) modules based on theory and practice experiences.
As you move through the course, the course content becomes less generic and more specific to adult nursing .
A lot of what you’ll do on the course is based in the skills labs, which gives you the opportunity to test out your skills in a safe environment.
We work very closely with service users, people who have had experiences themselves and want to make a difference to what you, our student nurses, experience.
They inform the course content and are involved in its delivery – for example, you may take the blood pressure of a service user in the skills lab setting.
There is a range of different assessments on this degree.
In the first year of the course, you will complete an online examination, a written piece based on a case study, a critique on a research article, and a group assessment, testing your teamwork and collaboration skills.
For example, a placement on a medical ward could involve some time working with the District Nurse, you may spend time at a diabetes clinic, or in Imaging and Ultrasound.
You may also undertake a placement in private health organisations.
For more information on placements and locations, view our nursing placements page.
These partnerships ensure our nursing students receive exceptional clinical experience and professional development opportunities, while contributing to the healthcare needs of local communities.
Student accommodation is available at the Wolverhampton and Walsall campuses.
For further information about alternative accommodation options visit the Living off campus page.
Once you have gained your BNurs (Hons) Adult Nursing then this will open up the prospect of many jobs in clinical practice, hospital or community settings, research, teaching or managerial roles.
Registered Nurses (RN) continue to study after they have qualified, often in a specialist area, as they develop their career path.
Adult Nurses often comment that this qualification has ‘opened doors’ to exciting career opportunities in healthcare.
See similar course: Undergraduate Credit Delivering Palliative and End of Life Care
All of the staff that teach you on this course are Registered Nurses.
If you have not achieved your Level 2 qualifications, you are eligible to take our University equivalency course .
The course for this programme are free of charge and can be taken completely online.
Further Information
For students joining this course in April/September 2025, the first year of study will take place at Telford Campus.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bnurs-hons-childrens-nursing:
The BNurs (Hons) Children's Nursing degree at the University of Wolverhampton equips you with the knowledge, skills, and experience to become a competent and compassionate children's nurse.
With a strong emphasis on evidence-based practice, you will gain a deep understanding of child development, healthcare needs, and the delivery of specialised nursing care.
Upon completion, you’ll be prepared for a career in caring for children, infants, and family members.
The BNurs (Hons) Children's Nursing degree offers a comprehensive and specialised programme, designed to prepare you for a fulfilling career in paediatric healthcare.
This course provides a solid foundation of theoretical knowledge, practical skills, and clinical experience necessary to excel in the field of children's nursing.
During the course, you will delve into various aspects of children's healthcare, focusing on the unique physical, emotional, and developmental needs of young patients.
Through a combination of classroom learning, hands-on training, and clinical placements, you will develop the expertise required to deliver high-quality, family-centred care.
Children's nursing is a rewarding career involving caring for new-born babies in intensive care to looking after young people, whilst offering support to family members.
The care children's nurses provide can span a wide range of needs: from the sick newborn baby to the young person who has a chronic disease, and in settings wherever children require care, including their home, school, a residential setting or in hospital.
The field of children and young people's nursing enables you to develop the knowledge and skills to provide safe and effective nursing care to children and young people.
This enables you to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a registered child nurse in a variety of health care settings.
The course will educate you to a high clinical, professional and academic standard ready to practise in the 21st century.
This is a professional vocational award that carefully integrates theory and practice, with 50% of the programme delivered in practice and 50% within the university.
To meet the requirements to register as a nurse, you’ll need to fulfil a set number of compulsory study hours.
These have been agreed as 4,600 hours in three years.
Our children’s nursing degree is especially designed to ensure you fulfil these hours, developing key skills and knowledge throughout .
Students will study all core modules together.
Field-specific modules relate entirely to children and young people’s nursing.
In practice, students attend a wide range of placements, enabling them to care for children and young people with different conditions.
At the end of the third year, you may opt to undertake a placement overseas.
Some academic modules will be core modules which will mean all students will study together, and some are field specific which relate entirely to children and young people's nursing.
The modules will help you develop a range of key skills which are essential for successful lifelong learning in healthcare.
Our children’s nursing degree comprises a variety of teaching and learning approaches.
You’ll develop the skills required to work within , and respond to, the healthcare needs of children and young people in a variety of settings.
The children's nursing course is provided by a range of specialist lecturers committed to upholding the rights of children and young people, achieving high levels of quality healthcare through the education and development of student nurses.
Ultimately, we are committed to developing nurses who can work with children and young people across a range of different health and social care environments as well as contributing to care and interventions from other providers such as social care, education, and youth justice.
Nursing is a demanding vocation which requires hard work, commitment, problem-solving skills, and the ability to work independently and as part of a team.
Therefore, placements are a crucial part of the curriculum.
They may also take place in private healthcare organisations.
For more information on placements and locations, visit our Nursing Placements page .
Travel expenses to University placements will not be funded.
A learning support fund is available, to check whether you are eligible please visit NHS Student Services .
Student accommodation is available at Wolverhampton, Walsall and Telford .
A BNurs (Hons) Children's Nursing degree offers a highly rewarding career path where you can make a significant difference to the lives of young patients.
By studying children's nursing, you will acquire the skills and knowledge to provide specialised care and support to children, contributing to their wellbeing and development.
The field provides diverse and exciting opportunities, allowing you to work in hospitals, clinics, schools, and specialised paediatric units.
With continuous learning and growth, you can stay up-to-date with advancements in paediatric healthcare.
This module enables you to advance your skills of mental, physical, cognitive and behavioural health needs assessment and interventions in caring for children and young people.
You will explore developing health assessment skills for the child and young person.
You will also synthesise strategies and interventions for dealing with complex issues in changing health states for the child and young person into your ongoing developing practice.
This module enables you to explore contemporary children’s nursing and the evidence that underpins contemporary children's nursing practice.
You will explore relevant anatomy, physiology and pharmacology related to the management of a range of conditions and evidence based nursing interventions pertaining to children and young people across a range of diverse settings.
You will further develop your knowledge of approaches used for recognising and responding to the changing status of children's and young peoples' health needs.
Professional frameworks and underpinning policy will also be explored.
This module enables you to explore the impact of human factors upon the safety and quality of care and their connections with local and national policies, protocols and guidelines.
Children's Nursing - Hospital Based
Clinical Practice In a Variety of Settings
Children's Nursing - Community Based
Research Posts
Education within NHS Trusts or Higher Education after some years of experience
Clinical Nurse Specialist - after some years experience
Health Visiting, School Nursing, Child and Adolescent Mental Health Nursing with further study
Health Visiting - after further training
Clinical Nurse Specialist Role
School Health Advisor - after further training
Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services - after further training
Education - after some experience and masters level education
This course is approved by the internationally recognised Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) .
The course has been judged by the NMC to provide good learning experiences and outstanding placement learning opportunities.
You will benefit from the team’s expertise, which draws on a wealth of different experiences.
Want to find out more...why not attend one of our Open Days, where you will have the opportunity to talk to staff and students who are currently studying and find out more about the course and our facilities.
We have Open days taking place at our Wolverhampton Campus and Walsall Campuses .
As a Registered Child Nurse you will:
strong
Please note that although you will apply for your preferred start date due to placement capacity you are not guaranteed the date you select.
We would place successful applicants on the earliest start date we have available at that time.
Applicants have the opportunity to be placed on a waiting list to be pulled forward as places become available.
Susan  is now a newly qualified Band 5 Children's Nurse.
"Originally I wanted to be an art student but when I worked as a health care worker for vulnerable adults and children I realised I simply wanted to help people.
I was in care from the age of 9 and always knew I wanted to be more than a number.
When I provided care for people that needed it the most, it made me feel like I could make a difference.
When I started the nursing course at Wolverhampton University it was everything that I thought it would be.
It made me develop not only as a professional but as a person.
The course made me develop skills and gain a variety of knowledge that I feel has a set a foundation for my future development.
I am currently a Staff Nurse on level 3 neonatal unit looking after babies with a wide variety of needs.
I have also started a foundation course to further my knowledge in caring for neonates.
I loved every moment at university , even the stress at times.
Wolverhampton has taught me everything I need to establish myself in nursing ."
Jessica Whitehouse, a full-time BNurs (Hons) Children’s Nursing student was recommended the University of Wolverhampton by family.
Living in Devon, but originally from the area, Jessica was impressed with how friendly Wolverhampton is, and pleased with the size of the campus.
Before starting her course, Jessica found the guidance of one of the student advisors invaluable .
“I feel they are a great asset to the University – we’re so lucky to have access to them.
She made me feel at ease and took the time to talk through what uni life and the course is like.
I was worried about moving away from home and if I would cope and she told me she has an open door policy and I could go and chat to her at any time.
They buddy people up who are in the same situation to help each other through tough times, plus she’s always there to answer any panic phone calls/e-mails.
I really felt valued and respected as a person as she understood how scary this was for me.
I can’t thank her enough because I honestly don’t think I would have started the course without her help.”
Recognised by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) for the purpose of registration as a qualified nurse (child).

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bnurs-hons-childrens-nursing-with-foundation-year:
The Guardian University Guide rankings, 2025
Children's nursing, also called paediatric nursing, is a rewarding career involving caring for young people, whilst offering support to family members.
The care a children's nurse (also called a paediatric nurse) provides can span a wide range of needs from the sick newborn baby to the young person who has a chronic disease.
Wherever children require care, including their home, school, a residential setting or in hospital, a professional paediatric nurse can provide expert assistance while they heal and recover.
Study children's nursing and develop the knowledge and skills to provide safe and effective nursing care to children and young people.
This qualification enables you to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a registered paediatric nurse, who can work in a variety of healthcare settings.
It will educate you to a high clinical, professional, and academic standard ready to practice in the 21st century.
This is a professional vocational award that carefully integrates theory and practice, with 50% of the programme delivered in practice, and 50% within the University of Wolverhampton.
Nursing is a demanding vocation which requires hard work, commitment, the ability to problem-solve, work independently and as part of a team.
Placements will be undertaken with one of six NHS Trusts; The Royal Wolverhampton Trust , Walsall Healthcare NHS Trust , The Dudley Group NHS Foundation Trust , Sandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals NHS Trust , University Hospital of Derby and Burton, Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital Trust , or in private health organisations.
For more information on placements and locations, visit Nursing Placements .
In order to meet all of the requirements to register as a paediatric nurse, you will need to fulfil a set number of compulsory hours of study.
This course has been specially designed to provide you with the opportunity to fulfil the requisite 4,600 hours in three years.
Some academic modules will be core modules which will mean all students will study together, and some are field-specific, and relate entirely to children and young people's nursing.
In practice, students attend a wide range of placements which enable them to care for children and young people with different conditions.
At the end of the third year you may opt to undertake a placement overseas.
The modules will contain a range of key skills which are essential for successful lifelong learning in healthcare, including communication, information computing technology, application of number, working with others, problem solving and how to improve your learning.
With a variety of teaching and learning approaches available, this course will help you to develop the skills required to work within, and respond to the healthcare needs of children & young people in a variety of settings.
The BNurs (Hons) Children's Nursing with Foundation Year course is provided by a range of specialist lecturers who are committed to upholding the rights of children and young people, to achieve high levels of quality healthcare through the education and development of student nurses.
Ultimately we are committed to developing nurses who can work with children and young people across a range of different health and social care environments, as well as contributing to care and interventions from other providers such as social care, education and youth justice.
Placements will be undertaken with one of five NHS Trusts; The Royal Wolverhampton Trust , Walsall Healthcare NHS Trust , The Dudley Group NHS Foundation Trust , Sandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals NHS Trust , Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital Trust , University Hospital of Derby and Burton , or in private health organisations .
A learning support fund is available, to check whether you are eligible please visit NHS Student Services.
Successful completion of the BNurs (Hons) Children's Nursing will lead to the right to apply for registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) .
This course will build and develop upon your knowledge and skills as a nursing practitioner in a variety of settings.
The management and organisation of service provision is constantly changing and developing in line with health and social care policy, and you are working with and being involved with such changes.
Hence you need to develop the knowledge and skills to enhance your employability and to accept the greater responsibilities that these changes will bring and to be prepared for such changes.
Registered nurses continue to study after they have qualified, often in a specialist area, as they develop their career path within the UK or working abroad.
Why not attend one of our Open Days, where you will have the opportunity to talk to staff and students who are currently studying and find out more about the course and our facilities.
We have Open days taking place at our Walsall Campus .
strong Further Information strong Please note that although you will apply for your preferred start date due to placement capacity you are not guaranteed the date you select.
Free Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) and Occupational Health Check : Due to the professional nature of some of our courses you may also be required to complete a Declaration of Health and Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) Check.
Further Information strong Please note that although you will apply for your preferred start date due to placement capacity you are not guaranteed the date you select.
strong Please note that although you will apply for your preferred start date due to placement capacity you are not guaranteed the date you select.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bnurs-hons-learning-disability-nursing:
Our course is designed to equip you with the skills, knowledge, and compassion needed to support individuals with learning disabilities in achieving their full potential.
Working as a qualified Learning Disability Nurse is a rewarding and fulfilling career option.
If your aim is to work with people who require various levels of empowerment and support, then our course will provide you with a good mixture of practice-centred opportunities to achieve your goal.
Employment opportunities after you complete your course are excellent, with a wide variety of job prospects available to you.
Our graduates have recently secured employment as community nurses, working in forensic settings and within nursing homes, to name a few.
Services for people who have learning disabilities are changing , and it’s exciting to be part of this change.
We aim to provide you with the opportunities to enable you to build your career pathway as a Learning Disability Nurse.
Your work with people with learning disabilities will have a direct impact on their quality of life and life chances.
You’ll offer care and support to enable people with a learning disability to achieve their aspirations to engage in citizenship in their local communities.
f life and life chances, and to enable the person with a learning disability to achieve their aspirations to engage in citizenship in their local communities.
Placements will be undertaken with one of six NHS Trusts;
The course helps you to make a difference and to enable the person with a learning disability to achieve their aspirations to engage in citizenship in their local communities.
Our BNurs (Hons) Learning Disability Nursing course helps you develop the skills and knowledge to thrive in an enriching career as a learning disability nurse.
The interdisciplinary approach combines expert teaching with practice, ensuring you're well-equipped to deliver exceptional care and support to people with learning disabilities.
If you’re compassionate about making a difference, apply today and secure your place.
This course provides you with the necessary exposure to learning disability nursing placements placements within the NHS, private and voluntary sector.
It is our aim to provide you with the necessary tools to enable you to learn to work effectively within an interprofessional team and with service users plus their carer’s.
Over your 3 years with us, you’ll spend 50% of your time in the university and 50% of your course time out in practice settings.
Our integrated course design helps you develop the skills and knowledge required to become the best learning disability nurse you can be.
Our modules involve people who have a learning disability within the teaching team via our university SUCCESS group.
On successful completion of the course, you will enter the Nursing and Midwifery Council register as a Learning Disability Nurse with an honours degree.
This module enables you to explore how evidence underpins care for individuals with specific conditions and co-morbidities.
You will critically explore and analyse the evidence in relation to commonly encountered conditions and their impact upon the health and well-being of people with learning disabilities.
You will explore professional frameworks that underpin your developing practice as a learning disabilities nurse.
The module enables you to focus on specific conditions and safe evidence based responses when caring for the patient with learning disabilities.
You will synthesise pharmacology and pharmacodynamics into your ongoing knowledge and skills in relation to safe medication administration.
Methods of evaluating the impact of care will be explored .
Studying this learning disability nursing degree enables you to experience:
As a Registered Learning Disability Nurse you will:
" Please choose a career in learning disability nursing.
Because it offers a chance to make a difference and a career with excellent employment prospects.
- 3 rd year RNLD student -
"LD is a unique nursing program because you make a real difference in the lives of individuals and their families during crucial times.
It you are looking for a role that combines compassion and impact.
LD nursing should be a perfect fit for you."
3 rd year RNLD student
Recognised by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) for the purpose of registration as a qualified nurse (learning disabilities).

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bnurs-hons-learning-disability-nursing-with-foundation-year:
Our Learning Disability Nursing course is designed to equip you with the skills, knowledge, and compassion needed to support individuals with learning disabilities in achieving their full potential.
Employment opportunities after you complete your course are excellent with a wide variety of job prospects available.
Working as a qualified learning disability nurse is a rewarding and fulfilling career option, and improves the lives of both people who have learning differences and difficulties, and their families.
If you want to work with people who require various levels of empowerment and support then our Learning Disabilities Nursing degree will provide you with a good mixture of practice-centred opportunities with a person-centered approach, helping you to achieve your goal.
Our graduates have recently secured employment as community nurses, working in forensic settings, within nursing homes, and more.
Services for people who have a learning disability are changing, and it's exciting to be part of this change.
It is our aim to provide you with the opportunities to enable you to build your own career pathway as a learning disability nurse.
You will help vulnerable people with learning disabilities to live the best lives they can, achieving their aspirations to engage in citizenship in their local communities.
Placements will be undertaken with one of six NHS Trusts; The Royal Wolverhampton Trust , Walsall Healthcare NHS Trust , The Dudley Group NHS Foundation Trust , Sandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals NHS Trust , Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital Trust , or in private health organisations.
Our learning disability nursing course provides you with the necessary exposure to placements within the NHS, private and voluntary sector.
Over your 3 years with us you will spend 50% of your time with us in the university and 50% of your course time out in practice settings.
Our integrated course design supports to develop you to be the best learning disability nurse you can be.
On successful completion of the course you be able to apply to enter the Nursing and Midwifery Council register as a learning disability nurse with an Hons degree.
Study a learning disability nursing course that will give you the best chance to find your nursing career, at a world-renowned university with NHS links and other beneficial contacts.
Successful completion of the BNurs (Hons) Learning Disability Nursing will lead to the right to apply for registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) .
This course will build and develop upon your knowledge and skills as a learning disability nursing practitioner working with people with learning disabilities in a variety of settings.
Studying the BNurs (Hons) Learning Disability Nursing course gives you:
When you qualify as a registered learning disability nurse you will have the ability to:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bnurs-hons-mental-health-nursing:
Our course ranked 5th in the UK (The Guardian University Guide, 2025).
Join us to transform lives across all ages, mastering the skills to support those facing mental health challenges.
The Guardian University Guide, 2025
Mental Health Nurses work with people experiencing mental health difficulties across the lifespan.
Mental health nurses work with people experiencing mental health difficulties across the lifespan.
The BNurs (Hons) Mental Health Nursing degree at the University of Wolverhampton provides students with an in-depth understanding of mental health challenges and conditions, as well as how to support and care for patients.
Students will learn key skills in contemporary mental health nursing practice and will be able to apply this knowledge to real-world settings.
A career in mental health nursing can be both challenging and rewarding.
It is an opportunity to make a real difference in the lives of people who are experiencing mental health-related issues.
If you are passionate about improving the lives of others, then a career in mental health nursing could be for you.
Upon successful completion, this course will enable you to apply to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) to practise as a registered mental health nurse in a range of diverse health and social care settings.
Led by subject experts with extensive clinical backgrounds, our programme ensures high standards in clinical, professional, and academic achievement.
Our strong partnerships with recognised organisations have been commended by the NMC.
At the core of mental health nursing is the ability to establish trusting therapeutic relationships with service users and with their families and carers.
As a mental health nurse, you would care for people affected by a range of mental health difficulties, such as anxiety, depression, eating disorders, psychological trauma, psychosis, and dementia.
Mental health nurses specialise in supporting individuals experiencing mental health difficulties throughout their lives .
The BNurs (Hons) Mental Health Nursing degree at the University of Wolverhampton teaches students:
Nursing is a demanding vocation which requires compassion , commitment , creativity and resilience , along with an ability to work independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team .
Mental health nursing requires a warm and empathic approach to help build trusting therapeutic relationships with people who are sometimes reluctant to engage.
This degree will develop your knowledge, skills, and confidence as a practitioner working in partnership with service users and carers in a variety of settings.
Our mental health nursing course promotes personal resilience and critical thinking, while supporting you to advocate on behalf of service users and carers as well as to provide effective evidence-based interventions and continuous service improvement.
Intakes: September and April
Where: Wolverhampton City Campus
Our BNurs (Hons) Mental Health Nursing degree is designed to improve both your theoretical knowledge and practical experience in this rewarding area of nursing .
The course adopts a person-centred approach with placement opportunities across NHS Trusts , helping you apply what you’ve learnt and develop experience in providing safe and effective nursing care.
The mental health nursing degree provides a useful split of theory and practice.
50% of your course will be situated in the university and 50% in a variety of practice areas.
You will study a range of academic core (all fields of nursing) and field (mental health focused) modules based on theory and practice experiences.
Your practice experiences will assist you in developing practical skills and professional awareness.
Your modules will also contain a range of key skills which are essential for lifelong learning, including numeracy (essential for medicines management), information technology, communication and working with others, problem-solving and how to improve your learning.
The course aims to help you prepare yourself to adapt to new roles and the environments you will be working in.
You will continuously learn in order to develop your nursing knowledge and skills as the start of career progression.
Theoretical material will reflect the requirements of the National Health Service and Social Care Services and the changing needs of today's population.
We have a dedicated practice team whose role it is to support the quality and variety of learning experiences you will be exposed to within your course that will enable you to meet the competencies required to be a Registered Mental Health Nurse.
Placements will be within local NHS providers and in the Independent sector.
Travel expenses to University placements will not be funded, however a learning support fund is available.
Check whether you are eligible by visiting the NHSBSA Student Services page.
Placements will be undertaken within Black Country Healthcare Foundation NHS Trust , Midlands Partnership Foundation NHS Trust , and in private health organisations.
For more information on placements and locations, v isit our nursing placement page.
Generally Mental Health students are placed across the Black Country.
However we do not guarantee that your placements will all be within a particular Trust or region, and you will be expected to travel.
Placements make up a large part of your course and shifts can be early mornings, evenings, overnights, weekends and Bank Holidays so it is essential that you have considered how you will travel to your placements before applying.
Information on placements and locations
By successfully achieving all components of the BNurs (Hons) Mental Health Nursing you will be entitled to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a Nurse.
This module enable your to advance your health assessment skills to meet the needs of contemporary mental health nursing practice.
During the module you will have the opportunity to advance your skills of mental, physical, cognitive and behavioural health needs assessment and interventions through the exploration of models and approaches to assessing, planning and evaluating care.
The module enables you to focus on specific conditions and safe evidence based responses when caring for people with changes to their mental health status.
Knowledge of pharmacology and pharmacodynamics will be synthesised into your developing practice in relation to safe medication administration.
This module enables you to explore how evidence underpins care for individuals with specific mental health conditions and co-morbidities.
The module will enable you to advance your skills of mental, physical, cognitive and behavioural health needs assessment and interventions in caring for individual and their families experiencing mental distress.
You will explore legal, ethical and professional considerations relating to mental health practice.
Through continual reflection you will continue to explore your personal professional journey to becoming a registered practitioner This module has aligned placement hours at a nominal value of 533 hours
Successful completion of the BNurs (Hons) Mental Health Nursing degree will lead to registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and will then open up the prospect of many jobs in clinical practice, hospital or community settings, research, teaching, or managerial roles.
Mental health nurses work in a variety of diverse settings caring for children, adolescents, adults of working age and older people who are experiencing mental health problems.
Mental health nurses work alongside many other professionals including social workers, psychiatrists, psychologists, occupational therapists, and GPs to plan and deliver person- centred care.
As a Registered Mental Health Nurse you will:
“I have always felt proud to have trained at the University of Wolverhampton, I always felt fortunate that the teaching staff were from backgrounds of such diverse clinical areas that enabled me to appreciate different aspects of mental health nursing.
The training I had was excellent, like everyone else I was always encouraged to push my own academic limits and was empowered to question and analyse classroom taught theory  in practical application to the clinical area and the point of view of a patient receiving care.
I am thankful to the university for the support I received as a student nurse and can identify that it has contributed to a fairly quick progression in four years from a staff nurse to my current post as a dementia nurse specialist.
I recently won an award for a nursing innovation in a local NHS trust, this was based on my practical application of a theoretical psychological model I was fortunate enough to learn of as a student nurse, although the skill I learnt was how to make it relevant for the people I cared for...what I am really thankful to the University for, and what has remained with me after qualification is the confidence to think for myself and shape taught skills around actual people that are receiving care.” Aaron Bate, Graduate and Community Dementia Nurse
“The support network that is provided is tremendous and there is always someone to help out, no matter how late in the day it is”.
Student Nurse
“Employment opportunities are available in a variety of NHS, voluntary and private mental health services that include: acute inpatient services, crisis resolution services, child and adolescent services, older age services, assertive outreach, forensic mental health care and services focusing on the implementation of a recovery model when working with those with enduring mental health needs.” Practice Placement Manager
Recognised by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) for the purpose of registration as a qualified nurse (mental health).

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bnurs-hons-mental-health-nursing-with-foundation-year:
At the core of a mental health nurse's role is the ability to establish trusting therapeutic relationships with service users and with their families and carers.
As a mental health nurse you would care for people affected by a range of mental health difficulties, for example: anxiety; depression; eating disorders; psychological trauma; psychosis; and dementia.
Mental health nurses support individuals and their families in a wide variety of settings, including in their own homes; GP practices; primary care facilities; specialist nursing homes; hospitals (both general and mental health); prisons; community mental health nursing; and forensic mental health units.
Whatever your client group, you will use professional expertise, skills and knowledge to promote recovery and positive mental health.
Placements will still be within Midland Partnership Foundation Trust and the Private, Voluntary and Independent Sector across Shropshire and Staffordshire*
WHY CHOOSE THIS COURSE?
Our mental health nursing course adopts a person-centred approach to enable you to develop the knowledge, skills and attitudes required to provide safe and effective care.
With this mental health nursing qualification you will, upon successful completion, be able to apply to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) to practise as a registered mental health nurse in a range of diverse health and social care settings.
Studying mental health nursing at the University of Wolverhampton is delivered by subject experts with extensive clinical experience and you will be supported to achieve a high clinical, professional and academic standard, we are also proud of our relationships with our partner organisations which were recently commended by the NMC.
Nursing is a demanding vocation which requires compassion, commitment, creativity and resilience, along with an ability to work independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team.
Mental health nursing, especially, requires a warm and empathic approach to help build trusting therapeutic relationships with people who are sometimes reluctant to engage.
This course will develop your knowledge, skills and confidence as a practitioner working in partnership with service users and carers in a variety of settings.
The course promotes personal resilience and critical thinking, and supports you to advocate on behalf of service users and carers and to provide effective evidence-based interventions and continuous service improvement.
WHERE: City Campus
THEORY
Your modules will also contain a range of key skills which are essential for lifelong learning, including numeracy (essential for medicines management), information technology, communication and working with others, problem solving and how to improve your learning.
PRACTICE
Travel expenses to University placements will not be funded, however a learning support fund is available, to check whether you are eligible please visit here: https://www.nhsbsa.nhs.uk/student-services
Generally Mental Health students based at City campus are placed across the Black Country.
For more information on placements and locations, visit: https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-education-health-and-wellbeing/nursing/nursing-placement/
Successful completion of the BNurs (Hons) Mental Health Nursing will lead to the right to apply for registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and will then open up the prospect of many jobs in clinical practice, hospital or community settings, research, teaching or managerial roles.
Mental health nurses work alongside many other professionals including social workers, psychiatrists, psychologists, occupational therapists, and GPs to plan and deliver person–centred care.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-specialist-community-public-health-nursing-health-visiting-top-up:
This course aims to develop you as a Specialist Community Public Health Nursing practitioner fit for practice in a designated field of primary care.
This award will no longer be offered from September 2024 subject to validation
You will be equipped with the skills to evaluate, enhance and develop your public health practice and create and develop leadership skills within the context of Public Health Nursing Practice.
You are normally seconded by your employer to study for this pathway.
You will focus on educational issues that are related to primary healthcare – study takes place in a community setting.
The programme steers strongly towards public health and health promotion, and is designed to encourage the empowerment of patients/clients.
The course will involve both theory and practical elements.
Your theoretical assessments involve measuring academic knowledge which will underpin your professional practice.
Practice assessments are aimed at measuring knowledge, skills, expertise and attitudes to ensure that an appropriate theory/practice balance is achieved.
This module will enable you to seek out and critically appraise the quality of evidence, through information retrieval and the application of research methodology, in order to help inform your practice and identify need for potential change within your own specialist field of practice.
You will have an opportunity to explore different types of research methodologies used within health care including: randomised controlled trials, case-control studies, cohort studies, action research, qualitative approaches and mixed methods.
The ethics of research and research governance will also be covered.
There will be a combination of interactive sessions with formal teaching, interspersed with seminar discussion, group work and tutorials.
There will be practical sessions on how to use electronic resources to seek out evidence and research to inform best practice.
You will also be given an opportunity share your interpretation of your findings and how these can impact on practice with both peers and other colleagues.
This module will provide a framework for specialist practitioners wishing to develop their knowledge of public health in contemporary society.
Understanding the context of policy and research is fundamental for effective multidisciplinary public health working.
This will allow an opportunity to critically debate social, political and cultural factors which influence health and health choices over the lifespan.
Providing a contextual perspective encourages closer scrutiny of current policy, public health theories and practice.
Seeing themselves as part of the wider workforce will present challenges as they identify how skill and knowledge can be applied to new situations to improve population health.
Moving beyond individual care to address health inequalities and poor health outcomes necessitates a proactive approach to more sustainable working and effective use of resources from a local, national and global context.
Using evidence-based policy, epidemiological data and evaluative skills enables practitioners to develop a contextual repertoire of public health approaches.
This promotes the utilization of community and population data in order to make informed decisions and contribute to the wider health debate whilst still acknowledging their individual specialist skill in practice.
This module aims to support the student to critically examine leadership and management within specialist practice and healthcare, enabling the student to synthesise the leadership skills and operational requirements required for change.
Students will examine leadership theory, team and change management and collaborative working and its application to clinical practice.
This module will support the student to examine their leadership and management skills within their specialist field of practice and enable the student to construct a sound proposal for an innovative change.
This module aims to help you to explore the role of the health professional when interacting with children and families whilst analysing current evidence based practice in relation to the 0-19 years agenda.
Child development theories will be examined within a cultural and social perspective and factors impinging on development will be critically debated.
The role and responsibilities of the health professional in relation to child law and local policy will be explored
The module is designed to enhance your knowledge in relation to the protection of children and young people, whilst critically  exploring the notion of risk management and its relationship to safeguarding.
Studying the module will enable you to work closer with families and professionals around child protection and understand the complexities involved with child protection/safeguarding.
This module will provide a framework for specialist practitioners wishing to develop their knowledge of specialist community public health nursing practice in contemporary society.
This will incorporate an understanding of the challenges of practice and an appreciation of how policy and research fundamental to professional development influence professional development.
Integral to this progression is an opportunity to forge theory practice links, critically debate social, political and cultural factors as knowledge and skill in practice deepens.
The use and application of a broad range of evidence-based practices combined with experiential learning opportunities will enable practitioners to contextualise learning to maximise their potential.
This will increase their specialist repertoire, skill and knowledge, practice proficiency and overall competence.
The aim is to promote an independent, knowledgeable and confident lead professional who is able to make informed decisions and use the evidence to deliver and evaluate specialist practice interventions effectively.
Applying a critical approach to practice endeavours promotes an  informed practitioner who is able to contribute to the wider healthcare debate specific to their specialism.
The aim is to promote a more independent, knowledgeable and confident lead professional who is able to make informed decisions and use the evidence to deliver and evaluate specialist practice interventions effectively.
Applying a more critical approach to practice endeavours promotes a more informed practitioner who is able to contribute to the wider healthcare debate specific to their specialism.
This module will incorporate the V100, NMC Standards for Prescribing Programmes (NMC, 2018) and the Royal Pharmaceutical Society Competency Framework for all Prescribers (RPS, 2016).
This will allow the student to integrate the underpinning theory and practice elements of the course (NMC, 2004; NMC, 2018) to practice and prescribe safely.
You will by the end of the course be able to apply to the third part of the NMC register to practice as a Specialist Community Public Health Nurse / Health Visitor.
Further career opportunities are available in specialist clinical roles; Education and Management.
On completion of this course, you will:
If you require the specialist practice qualification, you must be registered on the appropriate part of the NMC Register and ideally have a minimum of 2 years post-registration experience.
This degree meets NHS requirements for the role of a Healthcare Science Practitioner.
Academic study is integrated with 50 weeks of work based training underpinned by professional practice.
Delivered by academic and clinical staff with active patient involvement the degree constantly evolves to embed new science and technology e.g.
genomics.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-specialist-community-public-health-nursing-school-nursing-top-up:
This module aims to support the student to critically explore their role in working with children and adolescents in specialist practice .It will enable the student to develop and enhance their skills to assess and meet the health needs of the school aged population.
Students will examine a range of issues that impact upon children and young people and critically analyse their professional role and responsibilities in the provision of healthcare services.
You will by the end of the course be able to apply to the third part of the NMC register to practice as a Specialist Community Public Health Nurse / School Nurse.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-professional-practice-in-healthcare-top-up:
The BSc Professional Practice in Healthcare degree is a top-up degree with an emphasis on the evaluation and development of evidence-based practice and professional development.
The course provides a blend of contemporary teaching and learning content c ommensurate with current health and social care practice delivery.
You will be encouraged to reflect critically on workplace experiences and learning to further develop knowledge and skills in healthcare.
The BSc Professional Practice in Healthcare degree comprises a fixed diet of three core modules delivered across three semesters in the academic year.
The course is delivered by a blended learning approach combining traditional face-to-face teaching with online learning activities and resources, offering a more flexible and personalised learning experience.
Face-to-face teaching will be delivered on the Walsall campus.
Throughout the course, you will have access to a range of learning opportunities to promote your transformation into a graduate health professional.
You will be able to examine your current practice through a critical lens and transform learning into professional practice.
For more information, please contact: CPDNavigator@wlv.ac.uk.
This module explores the relationship between evidence-based practice and research by exploring how research is used to inform patient care.
You will review the evidence-based practice process and research methodology applying this to your role as a healthcare professional.
Contemporary systems and models of healthcare delivery will be explored and applied to enhance the overall experience of patients and carers.
Students will be expected to develop skills of academic inquiry and apply critical thinking through a case study approach within their own practice.
This module aims to enable and encourage students to collaborate with others in the health and social care setting to improve the delivery of healthcare services for the benefit of patients and clients.
You will be encouraged to critically consider areas of practice for quality improvement within the healthcare setting and undertake a project focused on improving the quality of service and patient/staff experience.
Throughout the module, you will be supported to establish a model, method, tools and processes to underpin the service improvement project.
As part of the implementation of the project, you will need to manage the change process and lead a team of people contributing to your project.
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the service improvement process will be presented in a poster.
Graduate attributes are highly sought after by employers in the healthcare arena, and this course is designed to improve your effectiveness and influence in practice.
The course provides a clear framework which supports both individual continuing professional development and workforce development.
The structure of the BSc Professional Practice in Healthcare programme allows you to personalise your learning and apply theory to practice.
Successful completion of the three-module programme allows students to achieve a graduate qualification, which is recognised by UK healthcare employers.
The University of Wolverhampton is a central location at the hub of the UK transport network, within easy reach of Birmingham, Manchester and London.
As part of your studies, you will encounter a range of activities designed to promote and enhance your learning experience.
Our use of blended learning activities encourages you to identify and address learning needs related to your practice.
The virtual learning environment platform actively supports the module delivery and achievement of the learning outcomes to enhance the learning experience.
You will be encouraged to access other learning resources, including online discussion forums, to communicate and share ideas related to the module objectives.
The ability to use digital resources and equipment is a key attribute of a graduate nurse and reflects the need for healthcare staff to use advanced technologies in areas such as record keeping, delivery and management of care.
Workplace learning: We hope that as you develop graduate skills during your programme of study, you will be able to apply these skills in the practice setting.
You will be able to reflect on personal and professional learning, the development of knowledge and skills, and identify strategies to influence healthcare in the future.
“ The opportunities and support provided are endless.
If you believe in yourself and work hard, you can go the distance!

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-credit-return-to-practice-nursing:
We offer opportunities to return to nursing practice in the fields of Adult, Mental Health, Learning Disability and Child Nursing, through the completion of a single academic module together with a clinical placement.
The module is normally delivered over a maximum period of eight months, with typical learning activities including face-to-face contact, skills sessions, on-line learning and practice-based learning to meet a set of proficiencies.
The Return to Practice (Nursing) programme will also help you plan your future learning to further develop your career.
This course aims to enable students to demonstrate delivery of safe and competent nursing care in accordance with the Return to Practice Standards stipulated by the NMC.
Students will become an accountable, self-reflective and autonomous practitioner, working with a range of other professionals and within inter-professional and multiagency teams responding to the demands of nursing practice.
The module is suitable for nurses who have previously been on the NMC Register or are about to lapse off the register - RN1, RNA, RN3, RNMH, RN5, RNLD, RN8, RNC (Adult; Mental Health; Learning Disabilities; Children; and GPN).
Successful completion of all assessment components will result in the award of 20 academic credits at Level 6 (Degree).
The aim of this module is to enable nurses (Adult, Child, Learning Disability , Mental health and General Practice), whose Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) registration has lapsed (practised fewer than 750 hours in the previous five years, or 450 hours in the three years before application for readmission to the register), to meet the NMC regulatory requirements for renewal of registration and re-entry to the register.
This module also aims to enable you to practise safely and effectively as a nurse without the need for direct supervision in accordance with the NMC Code (2018), the Future Nurse: Standards of Proficiency for Registered Nurses (NMC, 2018) and the Return to Practice Standards (NMC, 2019).
Through critical reflection on your own role and development, you will synthesise and evaluate ways in which you can improve the quality of individualised, holistic nursing care.
The vast majority of the students who complete the course successfully find employment as a Registered Nurse having regained confidence, ensuring their practice is up to date and their knowledge is evidence based.
Following the Return to Practice course some students choose to continue with part-time studies at University in order to enhance their careers even further.
Please note, having a criminal record does not necessarily prevent you from returning to nursing.
Within the personal statement applicants should identify the date they qualified as a nurse, the date they last worked as a midwife and the date that their registration lapsed.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-pharmaceutical-science:
This course equips you with the knowledge and technical skills for a career in pharmaceuticals, covering drug discovery, analysis, development, and distribution.
Explore the knowledge and learn the technical skills of the word of drug discovery, analyses, development, and distribution in order to pursue a career in the pharmaceutical industry.
Year 1: Covers key topics such as infection and immunity, physicochemical science and pharmaceutical chemistry.
It considers human health, physiology, and disease prevention and treatment.
It looks at the molecular basis of disease and introduces you to a diversity of microorganisms, including bacteria, algae, protozoa, fungi and the viruses.
In addition, you will begin the process of developing your transferable skills.
Year 2: Explores basic principles of drug development and considers practical applications of biochemistry and pharmacology.
It looks at the role of pathogens and metabolic processes in the development of disease and identifies targets for drugs in the search for therapeutic agents.
It also examines the relationship between protein structure and function and investigates spectroscopic methods of analysis as tools in drug design and development.
Year 3: Students are encouraged to undertake an industrial placement in the third year.
Students can also progress directly to the final year which covers the principles of drug design and development that can achieve a therapeutic effect with minimal adverse reaction.
It explores the diversity and complexity of membrane structure and function, looks at laboratory management and gives you the chance to undertake a research project of your choice.
This module aims to examine the structure of the human body, via examining human anatomy, and to look at the way in which the systems of the body function via studying human physiology.
It also aims to apply this knowledge to help explain how dysfunction of body systems can lead to disease.
This module aims to introduce students to basic theoretical and practical concepts in medical and environmental microbiology.
This includes the structure and function of organisms from each kingdom, their uses in the environment, laboratory or industry and gives them a broad introduction to the field microbiology in general.
The module also focusses on terrestrial microbes in the environment, biotechnology and marine microbiology.
Additionally, it aims to highlight the impact of microorganisms on the human host that can lead to disease and show how these aetiological agents can be controlled or treated via pharmaceutical agents and public health measures.
The module through practical sessions aims to develop analytical and basic microbiological lab skills.
The module studies cell biology, biochemistry and genetics through investigation of cell structure and organelles, enzyme action and metabolism and gene structure, function and expression.
The changes to module learning outcomes have been made as a requirement for accreditation by the Royal Society of Biology.
New module outcomes include:  LO3 Acquire basic demonstrable knowledge of statistical analysis of biochemical data.
LO4 Perform within teams to design and present experimental strategies for investigation of molecular biology and biochemical phenomena.
The teaching activity for LO4 will be a group presentation focussed on designing an experiment based on lipids, sugars, proteins, enzyme kinetics, carbohydrate metabolism, genetic inheritance, DNA mutation, the cell cycle, mitosis or meiosis.
Students will be provided with a problem based on each area and they will design experiments in a research proposal format to solve the problem.
They will deliver their research proposal as a team presentation.
Other changes made as required by the Royal Society of Biology include modifications to learning content, i.e.
inclusion of biodiversity and natural selection learning content.
The biodiversity and natural selection part of the 4PY013 module will be delivered as an online lecture (2 h) and a face-to-face problems workshop (1h).
Laboratory skills competency will be assessed in a 0% weighted assessment.
This module will provide you with a fundamental knowledge of drug action.
This knowledge is required to underpin further study in pharmacological aspects of pharmacy, pharmaceutical science, and pharmacology.
This module provides an introduction to the academic skills (e.g.
numeracy, literacy, scientific writing, practical and critical thinking skills) required at undergraduate level.
The lectures and activities associated with this module will allow students to gain an insight to identifying suitable tools/resources and apply the knowledge as part of developing their independent learning skills.
The module introduces selected aspects of organic, bio-organic, inorganic and physical chemistry that are necessary for the study of biologically active molecules and pharmaceuticals.
It provides sound principles through which a deeper understanding of pharmaceutical action and discovery can be developed.
There is an emphasis on interactive learning and electronic tutorial support.
The summative module assessment will comprise an end test and practical reports.
This module will build upon the pharmaceutical chemistry concepts gained from year 1.
The content will focus on the fields of organic chemistry, medicinal chemistry and drug discovery from hit identification to candidate selection.
Building from historical examples of sucessful drug identification this module will focus on modern methodology employed in the pharmaceutical industry, including synthesis, computational methods and extensively used predictions, assays and metrics.
An intermediate level study of the molecular aspects of living organisms, with particular reference to: The biochemistry of the major metabolic pathways; The biosynthesis of macromolecules; The nature of genetic material, DNA structure and replication, and how this contributes to disease; RNA transcription and translation; Molecular biology techniques; Bioenergetics, glycolysis, the TCA cycle, oxidative phosphorylation and electron transfer, lipid metabolism and nucleic acid metabolism will be major biochemical themes.
This module aims to provide an appreciation of the importance of microbiological contamination in relation to the production and preservation of pharmaceutical products.
Your lecture notes and handouts should be supplemented by further reading from the recommended module textbook, from references given in lectures, and from further reading.
Practical sessions will reinforce scientific theory and instruct you in professional Standard Operating Procedures for production of sterile pharmaceuticals.
This is a 20 credit, year long, practical module covering selected techniques and practical experiences required to underpin theoretical studies in pharmaceutical science (including biochemistry, pharmacology techniques).
You will carry out practical exercises in units of Biochemical Assay Techniques, Biochemical Separatory Techniques, Pharmacology and Pharmaceutical Techniques.
This module is only available for BSc Pharmaceutical science students.
The module aims to provide students with an introduction to technological aspects within pharmaceutical science relating to preformulation, drug development and determination of quality attributes of pharmaceutical products.
At the end of the module students should have a basic understanding of the development of a medicine from lead compound to a finished pharmaceutical product.
Students should also be able to rationalise the reason for formulating different dosage forms,  gain knowledge on how to formulate different dosage forms and assess key quality attributes.
This module aims to provide you with knowledge and understanding of the principles of pharmacology and various modes of intervention in current therapeutic practice.
In addition, you will be provided with an introduction to the pharmacological basis of therapeutics, how common side effects can occur and the basis of how drugs are used as a means of therapeutic intervention.
This module covers various aspects of pharmaceutical formulation relating to considerations for dosage form design, manufacturing and process control.
In addition, the formulation and delivery of potential bio-pharmaceutical compounds will also be considered.
The related knowledge will be applied in the practicals for compounding different types of pharmaceutical formulations.
The module provides an opportunity for you to further evaluate the molecular details of drug action introduced at Level 5.
Molecular pharmacology is one of the most rapidly developing scientific disciplines that underpin much of modern drug discovery regimens.
Hence, this module will be particularly attractive to those wishing to pursue research degrees and/or careers within the pharmaceutical industries.
This module provides you with an opportunity to develop a professional vision in a relevant area of interest in the discipline of your individual supervisor(s).
The investigation will normally be research based and involve the generation of novel data.
Assessment will comprise a written report and a presentation.
This module provides an introduction to pharmaceutical biotechnology and aspects of molecular biology.
There are two integrated themes that run concurrently.
Part 1 - Pharmaceutical Biotechnology and part 2 - Molecular Biology for Pharmacy.
At the end of the module you will have an understanding of the importance of the main groups of microorganisms in pharmaceutical science and how microorganisms can be genetically manipulated to produce useful medicinally active compounds.
This module covers the principles of quality assurance in laboratory analysis and pharmaceutical manufacture, and selected analytical techniques relevant to biochemistry and pharmaceutical analysis.
Formulation scientist
Medical chemist
Medicinal chemist
Patent attorney
Medical science liaison
Development scientist
Medical writer
Regulatory affairs specialist
Quality assurance analyst
Sales manager/representative
Toxicologist
Technician
Science teacher
Pharmaceutical science is well established at Wolverhampton and benefits from a long tradition of teaching and research in the chemical and biological sciences.
This course gives students an excellent opportunity to study core science as well as the modern developments that are occurring at the boundaries between biology, chemistry and clinical practice.
The course has its own distinct identity, but also draws on expertise from other successful areas within the University, especially Pharmacy and Pharmacology.
An increasing amount of course material is delivered electronically at a time that best suits the individual student, but more traditional teaching methods, in particular laboratory-based work, play a key part.
Students are encouraged to consider an industrial placement in their third year.
"Accredited by the Royal Society of Biology for the purpose of meeting, in part, the academic and experience requirement of membership and Chartered Biologist (CBiol)."

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-pharmaceutical-science-with-foundation-year:
Level 3 (Foundation Year) will develop your study and analytical skills in preparation for your future study in science and technology and develop an understanding of the knowledge which underpins the pharmaceutical arena.
Level 4 (First Year of BSc Pharmaceutical Science) covers key topics such as infection and immunity, physicochemical science and pharmaceutical chemistry.
It looks at the molecular basis of disease and introduces you to a diversity of microorganisms, including bacteria, algae, protozoa, fungi and viruses.
Level 5 (Second Year of BSc Pharmaceutical Science) explores basic principles of drug development and considers practical applications of biochemistry and pharmacology.
It looks at the role of pathogens and metabolic processes in the development of disease and identifies targets for drugs in the search for therapeutic agents.
Level 6 (Third Year of BSc Pharmaceutical Science) Students are encouraged to undertake an industrial placement in the third year (after completion of Level 5 before undertaking Level 6) or can also progress directly to Level 6 which covers the principles of drug design and development that can achieve a therapeutic effect with a minimal adverse reaction.
This module provides an overview of the fundamental chemical concepts required in further studies in science.
It covers concepts from general chemistry (moles, solutions and reactions), organic chemistry (functional groups and naming chemicals) and some analytical techniques (UV-visible spectroscopy, infra-red spectroscopy and mass spectroscopy).
Module aims, at the end of this module you will: 1.
Understand the aspects of organic chemistry pertinent to understanding how medicines work in the body and how active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) can be made 2.
Gain an insight into how and why medicines work in the body 3.
Understand the major routes of administration for medicines 4.
Understand basic dosage form design 5.
Be able to carry out simple chemistry and pharmaceutical calculations 6.
Be able to carry out simple chemical and pharmacological experiments in the laboratory and write reports on the results obtained 7.
Appreciate the differences between undergraduate courses offered by the School of Pharmacy 8.
Appreciate the potential careers open to graduates from the School of Pharmacy
This module will provide the student with an introduction to biology that is relevant to your chosen Foundation degree programme.
The topics covered will include an overview of the molecules of life, cell biology and an introduction to the features and diversity of the major groups of animal, plant and microbial life forms.
This module will introduce you to some of the available scientific career opportunities within the Healthcare Science field, the role of the practitioner and relevant underpinning principles associated with the professions including patient-centred care and work place professionalism.
The fundamental concepts of cellular control mechanisms, anatomy and systems physiology, disease processes and relevant diagnostic techniques.
The course has its own distinct identity but also draws on expertise from other successful areas within the University, especially Pharmacy and Pharmacology.
Prepare for Foundation Pathway: - We will consider mature applicants (age 21 or over) who have not achieved 48 UCAS points (equivalence) from prior level 3 qualifications, if you have a keen interest in this subject area or hold relevant experience.
You will be required to attend a compulsory Prepare for foundation assessment day where you will take part in a variety of activities which will assess your suitability for the course.
If you would like more advice and guidance about this admissions pathway, please contact Gateway to discuss and support you making an application to us.
Academic Pathway: - 48+ UCAS tariff points
Other Requirements: Applicants must be 18 years old or above at the start of the course.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-pharmacology:
Pharmacology is the branch of science that deals with the study of drugs and their effects on the body.
This course aims to prepare high-quality pharmacology graduates with the skills for pharmaceutical careers and related lab fields.
The Course aims to:
To produce high quality pharmacology graduates with the generic, subject-specific and transferable knowledge and skills suited to a career in the pharmaceutical industry or other related laboratory based scientific discipline.
To provide a deep-rooted understanding of the fundamentals principles of chemistry and biology as applicable to pharmacology.
To provide an understanding of normal and abnormal bodily function, the biology of disease (aetiology and epidemiology) and the absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion of medicines (collectively known as pharmacokinetics) and their therapeutic actions.
These actions include drug mechanisms of action, interactions, adverse reactions, cautions, contraindications (collectively known as pharmacodynamics), misuse and to gain an insight into the theory of how medications are used.
To support students in the development of intellectual and key interpersonal skills as well as subject knowledge that will equip them for life-long learning.
To provide skill sets specific to the pharmacologist, and promote curiosity and enthusiasm for the subject.
To encourage the development of practical and problem-solving skills, research methods and the techniques and processes necessary for the evaluation, critical appraisal and systematic review of pharmacology.
Year 1 offers a thorough introduction to the molecular basis of life as well as the biology, microbiology and human anatomy that are necessary for a more complete understanding of drug action.
In addition to this, two complete modules in this year focus on pharmacology.
There is also a strong emphasis on the development of useful skills and independent critical thinking, which are necessary for your development as a scientist.
Year 2 takes a more detailed look at the process of drug discovery and development, both from an historical and a predictive standpoint.
You will learn laboratory based skills that are essential to drug discovery and testing as well as the therapeutic uses of pharmacological agents.
This year will also include a detailed look at  the pharmacodynamic principles of medicines, cell function and genetics as well as the sites and modes of drug action.
Year 3 is where you will undertake your research project in an aspect of pharmacology.
This is intended to take up a third of your time and in the remaining two thirds, you will expand your knowledge and understanding by studying advanced modules covering pharmaceutical biotechnology, molecular biology, gene manipulation, bioinformatics and biochemical pharmacology as well as spending time in research laboratories to gain skills in current techniques.
This module introduces you to a range of experimental protocols and subsequent data analysis.
Material to be covered in lectures includes toxicology, the autonomic nervous system, obesity, the pituitary and the adrenal cortex.
The module aims to provide an introduction to the drug design and development process, from sources of ideas for new drugs, the preclinical development process to clinical trials and post marketing surveillance
This module will provide you with practical experience of using in vitro organ baths, data analysis, data interpretation and presentation of results.
Organ baths are a common technique used by the pharmaceutical sector, which are easily adaptable for testing a wide variety of tissues.
In these practicals, you will be generating data from isolated living tissue.
Your time spent in the laboratory will be supported by classroom based activities.
Lectures, workshops and class discussions will provide information about experimental pharmacological principles and good experimental design.
This module aims to provide you with further knowledge and understanding of drug mechanisms of action in current therapeutic practice.
Here, first line treatments will be studied and assessed along with some second and third line treatments.
By further developing your knowledge base of how drugs work, this will increase your ability at being able to estimate and predict likely common side effects, cautions and contraindications.
This module aims to embed the key knowledge about gene and genome structure.
It will describe the use of fundamental techniques such as PCR and sequencing.
It will then explain how the latest bioinformatic techniques can be used to study genetic elements.
Computer based tools used to aid gene manipulation will be analysed.
Key bioinformatic topics will be database searching, sequence retrieval, BLAST, translation, protein analysis, phylogenetics, restriction maps and PCR primer design.
Applications to pharmacogenomics will be discussed.
This module allows you to gain experience in a range of experimental protocols and subsequent data analysis.
Each session will be hosted by a research active group leader.
Sessions will bring together lectures with practical skills used frequently in the laboratory.
Clinical Research Associate
Pharmacologist
Drug Safety Officer
Medical Science Liaison
Conducting research in pharmaceutical companies, universities, or research institutions to develop new drugs and understand their effects
Coordinating and monitoring clinical trials for new drugs or treatments
Studying how drugs interact with biological systems, often in pharmaceutical companies or academic settings
Assessing the safety of drugs, chemicals, and other substances
Monitoring and reporting on the safety of drugs during development and after market release
Acting as a scientific resource for healthcare providers and communicating complex medical information
This established course equips you with the knowledge of traditional and state-of-the-art drug design and development.
We offer an integrated approach to teaching, mixing theoretical knowledge with laboratory-based practical sessions and research projects.
The University of Wolverhampton offers the chance to be part of a discrete programme of study where small cohort size provides a high level of individual attention.
Learning alongside pharmacy students, there is a strong emphasis on clinical aspects of pharmacology, consolidating learning through an evidence-based approach.
Throughout your pharmacology degree, you will have access to the state-of-the-art facilities within the recently opened Rosalind Franklin Building.
During your first year of study, you will become proficient in a range of practical techniques used in pharmacology.
During your second year of study, you will embark upon more advanced biochemical and microbiological techniques whilst also mastering the skills of more traditional approaches such as isolated tissue preparations.
Many members of the Pharmacology staff are also members of the Research Institute in Healthcare Science, thus students will have the opportunity to work alongside members of internationally-renowned research groups whilst studying for their final year Honour’s Project.
The Research Institute benefits from a plethora of state-of-the-art equipment, including cell culture laboratories, live confocal cell imaging and high throughput microwave peptide synthesis facilities.
Accepted equivalent qualifications: Functional Skills Level 2 and OCN Access to HE Core (12 credits at Level 2 or 3 in English or Maths)

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-pharmacology-with-foundation-year:
The course aims to produce high quality pharmacology graduates with the generic, subject-specific and transferable knowledge and skills suited to a career in the pharmaceutical industry or other related laboratory based scientific discipline.
Your foundation year is designed to introduce you to studying in a pharmaceutical environment.
This will inspire and motive your enthusiasm for the subject, which will prepare you for the rest of the course.
To encourage the development of practical and problem solving skills, research methods and the techniques and processes necessary for the evaluation, critical appraisal and systematic review of pharmacology.
As a student taking pharmacology at the University of Wolverhampton, you will find that academic staff will take a close interest in supporting your studies.
You will be taught in a supportive, learning environment and you will always be encouraged to ask questions, which will actively help to further your own academic development and also your understanding of the topics covered by your pharmacology degree.
Your pharmacology degree will isn’t just about obtaining theoretical knowledge.
You will also be gaining hands on lab experience to allow the development of key relevant skills.
Practical skills related to inter-disciplinary subject areas will allow you to develop a better understanding of the wider perspectives within pharmacology.
You will also have the opportunity to get involved with cutting edge research projects as part of your final year.
This will promote your understanding of the development of innovative research within the areas of pharmacology and the pharmaceutical sector.
Level 3 (Foundation Year) will develop your study and analytical skills in preparation for your future study in science and technology, and develop an understanding of the knowledge that underpins the pharmacological and pharmaceutical arenas.
Level 4 offers a thorough introduction to the molecular basis of life as well as the biology, microbiology and human anatomy that are necessary for a more complete understanding of drug action.
There is also a strong emphasis on the development of useful skills and independent critical thinking which are necessary for your development as a scientist.
Level 5 takes a more detailed look at the process of drug discovery and development, both from an historical and a predictive standpoint.
This year will also include a detailed look at the pharmacodynamic principles of medicines, cell function and genetics as well as the sites and modes of drug action.
Level 6 is where you will undertake your research project in an aspect of pharmacology.
This is intended to take up a third of your time and in the remaining two thirds, you will expand your knowledge and understanding by studying advanced modules covering pharmaceutical biotechnology, molecular biology, gene manipulation, bioinformatics and biochemical pharmacology as well as spending time in research laboratories to gain skills in current techniques
Many members of the Pharmacology staff are also members of the Research Institute in Healthcare Science, thus students will have the opportunity to work alongside members of internationally-renowned research groups, whilst studying for their final year Honour’s Project.
Apply a range of graduate skills to investigation in pharmacological science
Show competency in scientific method: its values, application and extension as applied to the various disciplines which comprise          Pharmacology
Demonstrate the ability to use a range of laboratory-based techniques
Relate the pharmacological actions of drugs to their efficacy in achieving therapeutic effects

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-pharmacology-with-sandwich-placement:
This course aims to prepare high-quality pharmacology graduates with the skills for pharmaceutical careers and related lab fields .
The overarching course related aim:
To provide an understanding of normal and abnormal bodily function, the biology of disease (aetiology and epidemiology) and the absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion of medicines and their actions (interactions, abreactions and misuse) and therapeutic uses.
This module will permit you to broaden your experience and enhance your employability.
Many studies have shown that graduates with work experience are often deemed to be more desirable to recruit by employers because they already understand the workplace and the career they are applying for, and they develop good skills in self-organisation and independent working.
By undertaking a 48 week placement, you will gain evidence of commercial awareness, work experience and ability to work as part of a team.
This will provide you with additional evidence that many employers pay more attention to, than they do to academic grades and extracurricular achievements.
If you spend time working as a placement trainee, you will often make lasting friendships with company employees and even more importantly, company recruiters.
Placement students may be given the advantage when making full graduate scheme applications to organisations they have already worked at during placements.
Some companies may even choose to sponsor high quality placement students in their final year at University, with the promise of a job at the end of the course.
Research has also demonstrated that graduates with significant work experience, and good independent study skills, tend to attain higher level degree classifications than those graduates without such experience and skills.
To undertake a sandwich placement you must normally have successfully completed level 5 of an approved science degree course.
The pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors are currently growth areas in the UK and successful study in pharmacology will open up a range of careers in biochemical, medical, pharmaceutical, chemical and related areas.
Specifically, graduates are likely to find employment in research and development in the pharmaceutical and medical sectors.
Other career outlets are possible and include work in hospital laboratories, forensic science, drug analysis, pharmaceutical marketing and sales and medical writing.
Graduates will demonstrate the generic, subject-specific and transferable knowledge and skills that form a sound basis for further postgraduate study and/or research and their continuing development.
Show competency in scientific method: its values, application and extension as applied to the various disciplines which comprise Pharmacology
GCSE English and Maths at grade C/4+ or an accepted equivalent.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/mpharm-hons-pharmacy:
The MPharm course at Wolverhampton aims to produce pharmacy graduates who are highly equipped to meet the needs of the profession, future employers and, most importantly, patients.
The friendly and supportive environment in which you will study focuses on developing the right knowledge, skills and attributes to equip you on your learning journey.
As you progress, you will become an independent learner who is adaptable, self-aware and inherently capable of developing the profession and going on to enjoy a successful and rewarding career in your chosen area of pharmacy.
The programme itself is highly clinical and patient-focused, benefiting from our extensive use of lecturers and practitioners who have experience working in the various sectors of the profession.
Benefit from our recent £3 million investment in professional teaching spaces.
The School of Pharmacy, based in the University’s Wulfruna Building, has been revamped to offer larger, multipurpose teaching spaces for use by students.
Improvements to facilities include an extension of the existing practice suite offering a flexible working space for students.
In 2022 we opened new exciting new facilities for Pharmacy students, including a new flexible professional learning space has been created incorporating a dispensary, counselling rooms and simulation space for the development of clinical and consultation skills.
There are also two new meeting rooms and a new reception area as well as a new multi-purpose flexible teaching space which will be able to accommodate up to 120 students.
These new facilities will enable our students to collaborate and learn using the latest industry-standard technology and resources.
At Wolverhampton, the traditional disciplines of science and practice which underpin pharmacy are taught as an integrated whole using a thematic approach.
This is achieved by organising your study around, patient, medicine and professionally orientated themes which transcend the traditional pharmacy subject areas.
Content is then revisited each year at increasing levels of complexity as you become more equipped to apply and integrate the knowledge and skills which you develop on your journey.
We particularly emphasise:
A major feature of the new Wolverhampton MPharm programme involves the introduction of innovative, contemporary learning approaches, including Team-based Learning and Case-based Learning.
These are designed to maximise your engagement and satisfaction with the course and to support you in realising your full potential.
Our learning methods will help you to apply acquired knowledge and skills to realistic pharmacy scenarios, enhance your critical thinking skills and enable you to work effectively in team environments.
You will experience class time as “quality time” that is much more focused on interaction and feedback.
What’s more, the important knowledge you will need at each stage will be committed to long-term memory making you better equipped to deal with exams and other assessments both here and when you leave us to enter the pre-registration stage of your training.
Each year of the spiralled curriculum corresponds to a carefully constructed stage of your development:
At Stage 1 scientific and professional knowledge and skills are developed using four strands which integrate related disciplines or tasks.
Molecules, Cells and Systems introduce the biochemical building blocks of life, the structure and function of eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells and human anatomy and physiology.
Processes associated with these cells and systems are compared and contrasted in both health and disease.
Introduction to Drugs and Medicines covers the basic principles of drug discovery and development and provides you with an understanding of organic and physical chemistry, and the pharmacological principles pertinent to medicinally important molecules.
Pharmacists, Patients and Medicines explores how pharmacists use their expert knowledge of medicines, health and disease for the benefit of patients and the population through exploration of pharmacists’ roles and how medicines are distributed and handled in patient-facing settings.
Concurrently the Informed Pharmacy Learner strand aims to introduce and develop university-level skills, techniques and attributes including, laboratory, communication, learning and study skills.
In Stage 2 three strands are incorporated.
Medicines in Development and Use explores how drugs are developed into medicines and how they act and interact within specific body systems.
The strand provides a comprehensive overview of the current usage of drugs and the prediction of drug actions and effects.
The principles of medicines design, delivery, packaging, handling, analysis and characterisation are covered in the context of the body systems in which they are used.
Clinical and Professional Skills for Pharmacists introduces the skills required to apply to knowledge of medicines and to optimise their use in patients.
The strand focuses on safe systems of working, professional responsibility and accountability, and ethical practice.
It also develops your skills in consultation techniques, case analysis and prescription analysis, and introduces the strategies used to rationalise and optimise medicine use and patient care.
The Applied Pharmacy Learner strand further develops your skills in reflective learning, information retrieval, academic writing, and team working.
Stage 3 incorporates two strands.
Therapeutic Management of Patients revisits the range of conditions in the major body systems covered in stage 2 but with a focus on their diagnosis and therapeutic management.
You will consider rational drug choice based upon clinical evidence and patent factors and characteristics; and also health promotion.
Concurrently you will apply knowledge of advanced drug development processes from discovery through to the patient.
This includes complex drug delivery technologies; the development and use of biological treatments; and pharmacogenetics, pharmacogenomics and personalised medicine.
In the Established Pharmacy Learner strand study skills are further enhanced by considering more advanced communication and consultation techniques, research methodologies pertinent to pharmacy; and by undertaking effective team-working in an interprofessional setting.
Stage 4 incorporates three strands.
Frontiers in Pharmacy focuses on pharmaceutical research and development.
It considers public and population health, health policy and the roles of medicines and pharmacists in meeting these agendas.
Research and critical analysis skills are applied to a research project in an area of personal interest and also to an extended piece of work focussing on developing initiatives in pharmacy.
Effective Patient Management introduces you to increasingly complex scenarios, cases and prescriptions that require higher level pharmaceutical input.
These will involve patients with altered drug handling states, patients with multiple co-existing disease states, and patients with additional counselling or drug administration requirements.
The Accomplished Pharmacy Learner considers more challenging consultation scenarios and calculations and will develop coaching, teaching, management and leadership skills.
At the conclusion of the programme, you will demonstrate that you are an accomplished reflective practitioner with the necessary skills, knowledge and attributes to meet the GPhC’s standards for pharmacy graduates and that you are ready to enter their pre-registration year.
Year aims.
Students will: •	understand the fundamental scientific principles of health and disease as applied to drugs and medicines •	understand the physico-chemical basis of pharmacotherapy •	understand the role of a pharmacist and the professional responsibilities that entails •	develop fundamental skills and attributes in academic study, communication, analysis and problem-solving  By the end of Pharmacy Stage 1 the student will develop the fundamental knowledge and skills required to commence the level 5 stage of the spiral curriculum: cellular and biochemical systems, anatomy, physiology, patients, pharmacists, medicines, prescriptions and effective and professional undergraduate study.
These concepts and topics are accommodated across three thematically derived strands:  1.
Person-centred Care 1: Science for Pharmacy This strand introduces the biochemical building blocks of life, the structure and function of eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells and human anatomy and physiology.
Processes associated with these cells and systems are compared and contrasted in health and disease.
The strand also introduces the basic principles of drug discovery and development and will provide students with an understanding of the organic and physical chemistry, and the pharmacological principles, pertinent to medicinally important molecules.
Professionalism, Attributes and Skills and for Pharmacy Stage 1: The strand explores how pharmacists use their expert knowledge of medicines, health and diseases for the benefit of patients and the population through exploration of pharmacists’ roles and how medicines are prescribed, distributed and handled in patient-facing settings.
The New Pharmacy Learner and Scholar: The strand aims to develop fundamental skills, techniques and attributes that are pertinent to the study and practice of pharmacy.
Students will: •	understand the principles of drug development, formulation and pharmaceutical technologies  •	apply the principles of pharmacotherapy to the management of disease •	apply an awareness of systems that promote safe and effective practice and patient assessment •	further develop a sense of professional identity and an understanding of the skills and attributes pertinent to pharmacy, including academic writing, decision-making, leadership, consultation and team-working By the end of Pharmacy Stage 2 the student will develop the knowledge, skills and attributes required to commence the level 6 stage of the spiral curriculum: Further development of drug discovery and medicines development; pathophysiology, actions and handling of drugs and medicines applying to common minor and major conditions across the range of body systems; principles of formulation and packaging applying to the key dosage form types; development of clinical skills and attributes required for effective person-centred care  These concepts and topics accommodated across three thematically derived strands:  1.
Person-centred care 2: Disease, Medicines and Patients: This strand aims to develop a sense of the interconnected nature of drug therapy and disease states.
It builds on the fundamental principles of drug action and handling, molecular biology, microbiology, physiology, pharmaceutical chemistry and physicochemical science covered at stage 1.
The strand explores how drugs are developed into medicines and how they act and interact within specific body systems.
It will provide a comprehensive overview of the current usage of drugs and where the next generation of therapies are likely to come from.
It will be delivered in an integrated manner and will introduce and explore relevant body systems and disease states in conjunction with the drugs indicated.
The prediction of drug actions and effects in body systems and their uses will typically be exemplified using example multiple treatment item/single condition prescriptions and case studies.
Principles of drug mechanisms of action, drug design, delivery, packaging, handling and dosage forms as well as analytical techniques pertinent to the characterisation and development of drugs and formulations will be covered.
Professionalism, Attributes and Skills for Pharmacy Stage 2: Students will develop the clinical and professional skills required to apply to their developing knowledge of medicines and optimise their use in the context of person-centred care.
The strand will focus on safe systems of working and governance, professional responsibility and accountability, ethical practice and the development of skills in consultation, case history analysis, higher order prescription analysis and dispensing and the strategies used to rationalise and optimise medicines use and improve patient outcomes.
Important and commonly encountered disease topics will be used to exemplify these skills in preparation for Pharmacy Stage 3.
The Developing Pharmacy Learner and Scholar: This strand will continue to develop students as reflective learners and as student healthcare professionals who are aware of evidencing competencies in the meeting of standards.
Study skills covered will incorporate more complicated calculations, further development of the retrieval and interpretation of academic papers, scientific writing, presenting skills, effective team working and interprofessional working with students of other health professions.
Students will be introduced to research methodologies and paradigms pertinent to pharmacy.
Students will:  •	showcase competence in team-working, consultation skills, reflective practice, problem-solving and decision-making •	be able to apply a knowledge of contemporary pharmaceutical technologies and processes to the development and use of medicines •	demonstrate an evidence-based approach to the critical evaluation of healthcare data pertaining to the assessment of patients, the prescribing of medicines, and the management of health and disease  By the end of Pharmacy Stage 3 the student will have developed the knowledge, skills and attributes necessary to commence the level 7 stage of the spiral curriculum.
Stage 3 combines the development of a depth and breadth of clinical knowledge with the study of more advanced scientific concepts which inform the current and future management of disease and of medicines formulation; coupled with an increasing appreciation of the assessment of patients and the diagnosis of disease.
Learners will continue to develop as reflective practitioners and competent student healthcare professionals.
They will also prepare for final year entry project by evaluating evidence-based and research approaches across a range of paradigms.
Person-centred care 3: Therapeutics and Health Outcomes: This strand will revisit the range of conditions in the major body systems covered at level 5 with a focus on their diagnosis and prescribing/therapeutic management.
Students will consider rational drug choice based upon clinical evidence and patent factors and characteristics; and also health promotion.
Concurrently students will apply knowledge of advanced drug development processes from discovery through to patient.
These will include complex drug delivery technologies; development and uses of biological treatments; and pharmacogenetics, pharmacogenomics and personalised medicine.
Professionalism, Attributes and Skills for Pharmacy Stage 3: Students will be introduced to the development of non-medical prescribing roles from supplementary prescribing and clinical management plans, through to independent prescribing and the changes in legislation that facilitated it.
Skills in prescription writing will also be developed.
The strand examines more complex medicines prescribing, supply and medicines safety concepts.
More advanced communication scenarios and challenges are presented, and record keeping relevant to prescribing roles is also introduced.
The Established Pharmacy Learner and Scholar: Study skills will be further enhanced by considering more advanced communication techniques, research methodologies pertinent to pharmacy; and by undertaking effective team-working in an interprofessional setting.
At the conclusion of this stage students will have developed a full appreciation of reflective practice through their portfolio building and the presentation of evidence of learning to meet standards.
Students will: •	evidence leadership, professionalism and competence in team-working, consultation skills, reflective practice, problem-solving and decision-making •	be able to critically evaluate healthcare enquiry, undertake research, and develop service improvement •	be able to make justified and informed clinical decisions to promote the management of health and disease, and demonstrate the knowledge, skills and attributes that will be required to independently prescribe.
By the end of Pharmacy Stage 4 the student will be fully prepared to enter the foundation pharmacist year.
This stage builds on the clinical and scientific knowledge and research skills developed during stage 3 and develops a critical awareness of how medicines and pharmacy services are used, developed and evaluated in the wider population.
Students will undertake an extended project in an area of their interest and will also develop a capability to deal with more complex patients, cases and disease management scenarios.
There will be an emphasis on verifying clinical, interpersonal, legal, ethical and mathematical competence to contribute to the final meeting of GPhC’s Part 1 learning outcomes at the year 4 level.
Person-centred care 4: Complex Disease and Population Health.
Building on level 6, students will be introduced to increasingly complex scenarios, cases and prescriptions that require higher level pharmacist input: patients with altered drug handling states, patients with multiple disease states, patients with additional counselling or drug administration requirements and prescribing-related decisions.
The strand also considers Public and population health, health policy, addressing health inequalities and the role of medicines and the pharmacist in meeting these agendas and there will also be an extended piece of work focusing on initiatives in pharmacy.
Professionalism, Attributes and Skills for Pharmacy Stage 4.
Students will be expected to utilise higher level interpersonal and written communication skills to deal with scenarios involving patients, health professionals and drug use.
Students will develop clinical assessment and diagnostic skills, (including remote), and interpersonal competence required to enter the foundation pharmacist year is achieved.
They will also examine in detail the limitations and scope of independent prescribing,	 3.
The Proficient Pharmacy Learner and Scholar: Students will demonstrate that they are accomplished reflective practitioners with the necessary skills, knowledge and attributes to meet the GPhC’s standards for pharmacy graduates and who are fit to enter their pre-registration year.
Students will develop their skills in coaching, mentoring and leadership and evidence high level competency in pharmaceutical numeracy.
Research skills will be built upon and applied to an extended project.
Community Pharmacist
Hospital Pharmacist
Primary Care Pharmacist
Industrial Pharmacist
Academia
Military Pharmacist
Regulatory Affairs
The Wolverhampton MPharm is a contemporary, patient-focused and clinical course which aims to develop the knowledge and skills that you will need to build a successful career in your chosen area of pharmacy.
A team of expert academic pharmacists and scientists have developed the programme and, along the way, we have consulted with employers, practising pharmacists, patients, carers and students in order to make sure that the product you are investing in is of the highest possible standard and relevance.
At Wolverhampton, our smaller cohort sizes and extensive use of practitioners and educators from the different pharmacy sectors provide you with a more interactive learning experience that puts your learning fully into context.
Our placements and simulations are aligned carefully with the material you cover in class and they are staged in a way which helps you gradually build up confidence as each year progresses.
Our theme-based approaches to teaching cross over the traditional pharmacy disciplines such as pharmacology, pharmaceutical chemistry, pharmaceutics and pharmacy practice.
This helps you to integrate your studies and make the links between the different aspects of theoretical content and its application to the world of work.
The course seeks to produce pharmacy graduates who are fit for purpose to enter pre-registration training/professional practice.
You will be equipped with the knowledge and skills required to meet the needs of patients and the profession.
Wolverhampton MPharm graduates will be independent thinkers and effective team workers who are adaptable and self-aware.
At the conclusion of the course you will:
Key Entry Requirements:
Use the UCAS Tariff Calculator to check your qualifications and points.
In addition to meeting our academic entry requirements, MPharm applicants may also be shortlisted to attend an interview.
The interview has two components; a group activity which is centred around Situational Judgment Test (SJT) scenarios and the completion of a short numeracy assessment.
For further interview information click here .
Advanced Entry:
We are not able to offer advanced entry to any applicant, recognition of prior learning is not accepted for this course.
EU and International Applicants:
We have specific entry requirement information for EU and International applicants.
Please also check the UK requirements above as these will also showcase if there are any additional subject requirements needed for entry.
Academic Requirement:
Our country specific entry criteria are related to the curriculum you have studied.
Please click here to find the correct information for the country you have studied in.
English Requirement:
All International Applicants are required to have a sufficient level of English to satisfy student visa requirements.
A minimum overall IELTS of 7.0 with a minimum of 6.5 in each element is required or an accepted equivalent, here is a list of acceptable English qualifications .
A high school English qualification is not accepted as an equivalence for this course.
Personal Statement Requirement:
All international applicants are required to showcase their reasons for applying to study in the UK please use our personal statement template to support your application.
Study Gap Information:
International applicants also provide education information and work experience information.
It’s important that when you complete your application you cover all this information on your application to ensure we can satisfy this admissions assessment.
Wolverhampton pharmacy graduates are highly regarded by employers in the various branches of the profession and enjoy high employment rates.
As the number of pharmacy graduates competing for pre-registration places nationally continues to rise, the Wolverhampton School of Pharmacy relishes the challenge of maintaining the high employment rates and employer reputation that has been built.
Currently, the major area of employment for pharmacists nationwide (60-70%) is in the community sector, with most of the remainder entering the National Health Service (NHS) as hospital or ‘primary care’ pharmacists.
A small proportion of pharmacy graduates and pharmacists enter careers in the pharmaceutical industry or in academic pharmacy.
Community pharmacists provide an expanding range of healthcare services ranging from the supply of medicines through to running minor ailments schemes, supporting the management of long-term conditions, undertaking medicines reviews and performing public health screening services.
In a hospital, pharmacists are involved across the whole spectrum of patient healthcare from diagnosis to medicines and disease management.
Many pharmacists also hold management and consultant positions within the NHS.
Industrial pharmacists are involved in the development of new drugs and their transformation into medicines, as well as the marketing and evaluation of new products.
Academic pharmacists are occupied by healthcare-related research and development and in the education and development of future cohorts of pharmacy students and of pharmacists.
Several areas of further study are open to pharmacy graduates.
In particular, many pharmacists undertake further postgraduate training in specialist areas of pharmacy in order to underpin their provision of clinical and scientific services.
This training is usually at the master's level, but can also lead to doctoral studies in appropriate cases.
Pharmacists are increasingly taking on additional roles as prescribers, gaining recognised prescribing qualifications in order to achieve this.
As healthcare professionals, pharmacists are expected to maintain their competence and ‘fitness to practise’ throughout their working lives.
As such, they are actively involved in Continuing Professional Development (CPD) and are expected to design and implement their own learning strategies.
Watch our video about placement opportunities.
Accredited by the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) in order to progress to foundation pharmacist training and then to register as a pharmacist.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-public-health:
Our Public Health course focuses on creating a healthy and happy society by tackling the underlying causes of ill health, to prevent health problems and promote health and wellbeing.
Public health focuses on creating a healthy and happy society by tackling the underlying causes of ill health, to prevent health problems and promote health and wellbeing.
Increasing government attention is focused on improving population health, and many agencies now have public health responsibilities.
This is opening up new opportunities for innovative approaches and also brings with it the need for a well-prepared public health workforce, able to work flexibly across many disciplines and demonstrate a wide range of abilities.
Our BSc Public Health course is specifically designed to fulfil this need through the educational aim of developing the specific knowledge and skills you will need for effective public health practice.
The BSc (Hons) Public Health programme at the University of Wolverhampton will enable you to gain an understanding of the multi-disciplinary approaches to public health.
You will develop the knowledge and skills necessary to effectively prepare for and establish a career in a wide range of public health-related areas.
Public health has always been popular, but awareness of the work of public health professionals and the range of roles available in this field has increased since the Covid-19 pandemic.
In light of the impact of the pandemic on public health practice both now and in the future, we have reviewed and strengthened our public health programme so you can be prepared to address these challenges.
Success against key public health issues and diseases has no geographical boundaries, and our students may come from a variety of countries, so we also draw on wider international public health policy and priorities.
As such, this three-year course adopts a strong focus on addressing health inequalities, empowering individuals and communities, and building the skills needed for a pro-active public health workforce.
By focusing on socio-ecological models of health rather than just medical and epidemiological ones, our public health programme is able to offer a new, modern and global understanding of public health that reflects the changes and developments witnessed in current and future health services both in the UK and overseas.
Full-time students take three modules per semester, which in most cases are delivered over two days a week at the city campus in Wolverhampton.
The format of delivery has been designed to fit in with people who work or have other commitments.
You will study 6 modules per year, over 3 years.
You will learn and be assessed through a variety of activities including discussion, debate, presentations, posters, videos, quizzes and more.
These activities will take place in-class, with some online activities.
You will study a range of modules.
Some are studied alongside other health and social care students, which will provide you with opportunities for inter-disciplinary learning and broaden your understanding of the multi-disciplinary nature of public health.
Students from diverse backgrounds are supported through an inclusive curriculum where every module, session, teaching material or activity is assessed for its suitability.
Your prior experience and background will be respected, and you will be encouraged to contribute your unique perspectives, primarily through open discussion in seminars as well as interactive exercises that encourage you to share your diverse experiences.
The academic teaching team also provide a range of extra-curricular activities to support you in your studies and wider interest in public health issues.
These include a regular public health open-seminar series where professionals in health and research share details of their work and engage in lively debate.
This module focuses on the enhancement of competencies and employability skills where you will focus on your personal and professional development while focussing on the competencies in the public health and wider health care sector.
Through an examination and exploration of the key skills required of a public health practitioner, and those skills most valued by employers, you will develop a better understanding of the public health sector, the community sector, and voluntary organisations where you will develop your career.
You will be introduced to the University of Wolverhampton’s graduate employability, graduate attributes and  appreciate and understand the skills which employers' value, develop personal communication and presentation skills, identify and articulate relevant employability skills in public health, and identify useful contacts that will help you in your current and future development.
In public health, communication skills and understanding the techniques that you can use to communicate effectively are essential to disseminate simple as well as complex health issues and advice to both individuals and large populations.
This module will provide you with a clear background to communication theories, models of communication, and education theory, as well as an examination of key theoretical themes and perspectives on health communication.
As well as providing you with an insight into the theoretical frameworks for effective communication by integrating ideas from educational theory and the study of communication techniques into the specific context of health promotion, it will also include discussions around new and emerging social media, mass media and digital technology as well as social marketing techniques.
Integrating ideas from the fields of communication studies, education, sociology and psychology, you will learn how to plan, develop and deliver targeted public health information clearly and appropriately to a variety of audiences.
In doing so you will understand how factors such as experience, culture and health literacy influence effectiveness.
You will also have the opportunity to develop practical skills in communicating with individuals, groups and other health professionals; all essential skills that employers are looking for in public health graduates.
This module introduces you to the key concepts, theories and models in the discipline of Health Psychology.
Health Psychology is concerned with the study of psychological processes in health, illness and healthcare.
Health Psychologists study the behavioural factors that are associated with staying healthy, as well as exploring how people who are ill can be helped to adapt to, or recover from, their illness.
You will be introduced to four main areas of Health Psychology: the prevention and management of illness, the identification of psychological factors contributing to physical illness, the promotion and maintenance of health, and the use of Health Psychology research to inform interventions.
On successful completion of the module, you will be able to explain and evaluate how Health Psychology theory and research has aided our understanding of the influences on health-related behaviour, and how psychological and physiological processes are associated with ill health.
You will be encouraged to apply Health Psychology to real-world examples.
The assignment seeks to develop your capacity to use Health Psychology to both analyse a significant current public health topic and to provide an evidence-based intervention to address this topic; this will assist you in your present or a future public health role.
This module introduces you to major concepts and principles for modern Public Health practice.
You will learn about the key aspects underpinning Public Health at local, national and international levels.
At the local and national level, the Public Health Knowledge and Skills Framework will be examined to help you to develop an understanding of the required knowledge, core skills and competencies to effectively practice in Public Health in the UK, or overseas, as well as developing an an understanding of the range of public health roles and career opportunities.
At the international level, you will be exposed to global health policies and practice through examples of initiatives and policy interventions.
Throughout the module, the ethical issues underlying public health policy and interventions both today and in the future will be discussed.
In addition, you will gain basic team working skills as part of a collaborative approach to working in groups, which is a key skill that employers are looking for in a competent public health graduate.
Surveillance and assessment of population health are two of the core competencies outlined in the Public Health Skills and Knowledge Framework, and key principles of public health practice.
This module introduces you to the basic concepts and principles of public health surveillance, epidemiology, and statistics in population assessment, so that you can go on to develop these throughout your studies and then effectively employ these skills in public health practice.
The module provides you with a key understanding of concepts but also enables you to develop your practical skills in this area.
You will apply data to a decision journey approach, and in doing so will develop an understanding and appreciation of what are data, and how raw data informs decision-making in public health.
Using an observational study, you will have the opportunity to learn to discuss and analyse basic data, interpret and develop contextualised knowledge and intelligence in a public health environment.
By the end of the module you will understand and be comfortable using key terms, concepts and principles in this area.
This module explores how disease is socially produced and distributed.
You will be introduced to the major themes and principles within the discipline of Sociology and develop your awareness of how social determinants play a major role in shaping individuals' and groups' life chances, health status and life expectancy.
You will explore the major sociological perspectives, their strengths and weaknesses and their application to the study of Public Health issues.
In your exploration of a range of sociological theories you will explore and understand the ways in which these provide a basis for a deeper understanding of current health issues, public health policy & practice; and through an appreciation of issues such as class, gender, and ethnicity you will begin to appreciate how the sociology of knowledge challenges medical power.
The module will ultimately enable you to cultivate a 'sociological imagination' in understanding public health issues - a frame of mind that provides a critique of the biomedical model of health and illness.
Community development takes various forms but is considered to be a process where people come together to act on what is important to them.
Many writing, researching and working in this fascinating field of public health believe that everyone should have access to health, wellbeing, wealth, justice and opportunity; with these principles as a foundation to this area of practice, this module will enable you to understand what is involved when we consider how we work with communities and develop community capacity.
The module will focus on empowerment in communities and introduce you to how different community development approaches and principles can be used when working with communities.
You will also explore the interactive methods that can be employed to engage communities in public health messages and behaviour and how challenges in communities can be identified, designed, implemented, and then evaluated.
Health promotion is a powerful and core strategy in the prevention and promotion of key public health issues.
Drawing on the disciplines of social policy, psychology, sociology, marketing and communication theory this module will enable you to examine key health promotion practices and appreciate how the theory can be applied to key public health issues as well as other health issues of interest to you and your chosen field of practice.
This will include investigating policy, the importance of an appreciation of the social determinants of health and how health promotion approaches are used as part of a comprehensive health strategy.
The module explores the theoretical framework, policy implications and practical application of health promotion and will offer you a foundation for practice if you are interested in working on promoting individual health and wellbeing, the health of a community or the health of populations at local and national levels.
This module will provide you with a critical introduction to infodemiology and the role of technology in health and wellbeing.
It is a relatively new area which has significant application in the field of Public Health.
The module examines online health information and digital health from a public health perspective in order to equip you with the critical knowledge and skills to appraise the potentials, risks and implications of using technology and its impact on wellbeing at the individual, community, organisational and public levels.
The module will help you to examine the abundance of health information in the cyberspace, which might be harmful or not evidence based.
Such information can be misleading, it worsens inequalities and influences the public perceptions of health and wellbeing.
The module will help to build working knowledge on how to mitigate misinformation, manage infodemics and evaluate innovative approaches with technology to promote equality and wellbeing at several levels.
In particular, this module will expand and broaden your understanding of public health in the information age and the role of cyberspace to undermine or promote wellbeing.
The content of this module will be largely informed by the research and consultancy activities of the lecturing team providing you with a contemporary and research-informed experience.
The skills you will gain on this module will be of value to employers who recognise and value the use of new technology in addressing key public health concerns.
This module explores the role of power in health inequalities across a range of disadvantaged and marginalized groups; these may include women, older people, black and minority ethnic people, immigrants and Lesbian, Gay and Bisexual people.
Through an examination of contemporary issues and research you will explore and be able to explain how these disparities are created and reproduced within the broader socio-political framework.
Covering critical theoretical interventions, cultural contexts, evidence-based models and new social movements, you will gain an  understanding of how social identity (intersectionality) is a key factor in shaping an individual’s life and health chances, and how recognition of this reality can provide the basis for action at the individual, community and societal level, to achieve greater health equity.
The module aims to develop your understanding and interest in the examination of power and how it can maintain health inequalities as well as overcome them.
Research is important for all health professionals as it enables them to investigate and understand how their practice can be improved to benefit the populations they serve.
You will examine research throughout your programme of study but this module will strengthen your knowledge by providing you with an understanding of the research process and means of gathering, analysing and drawing meaningful conclusions from academic literature in a coherent manner.
In this module you will examine the most common qualitative, quantitative, and desk-based research designs and methods in health so you can demonstrate an understanding of the process and the respective data collection methods.
You will understand what can be achieved through the use of different methods and how they can work alongside each other as well as a step-by-step understanding of how researched is planned and carried out.
Health systems are political entities that are complex, change and evolve over time.
This module will provide you with a broad understanding of the political and economic context of health, health care and health policy, and help you to navigate the past, present and future changes.
Crucial to this understanding is an illumination of the landscape of health inequality and the systemic role of power and ideology in shaping health policy.
The influence of the state and ‘top-down' organised vested interests (e.g.
the mega-rich, the media, the medical profession, Big Pharma, multinational food corporations) - as well as bottom-up pressure groups, will be analyzed using a series of case studies.
In addition to the critical evaluation of current policy, another theme is a comparative awareness of the nature of health care systems in other countries, as well as more theoretical ‘alternative’ visions of health organization.
You will also explore recent developments and contemporary debates in health and health policy both in the UK and overseas which are viewed through this comparative/critical lens.
Climate change is becoming a major health threat of the 21st century.
This module outlines the implications for health from an array of perspectives which are embedded within the concept of Environmental Management.
This module will help you to develop an understanding of sustainability and the environmental impacts in relation to health.
You will explore how climate change threatens human health both directly and through the reduction in biodiversity, how healthcare organisations can better deal with these issues and how we and the public can be encouraged to engage with this important agenda and move from being part of the problem to becoming part of the solution.
You will be introduced to, and critically examine, the basic principles in environmental management, current global policies linked to climate change and the term sustainable development.
Health authorities and governments rely upon accurate and timely data to inform policy and practice so epidemiology is an essential skill for anyone in public health or related roles which require you to understand and apply the principles of disease causation and prevention.
The module will explore the essentials of this science that is fundamental to health improvement and health care.
You will explore and establish the pattern, frequency, trends, and causes of a disease, and understand the ways in which epidemiological data are presented, as well as the distinction between association and causation, relative and absolute risks, and apply other core epidemiological concepts and principles.
By exploring the nature, scope and methodology of epidemiology you will understand how the discipline supports public health activity.
This module emphasises the critical examination of the causes and dimensions of health inequalities at the global level through the lens of globalisation.
It will equip you with the working knowledge to critically analyse health issues within a contemporary global context and enable you to understand how global level determinants influence population health outcomes, with comparisons both between and within countries.
The module includes a critical introduction to the process of globalisation, the changing patterns of global health, including the spatial, economic, political, and cultural dimensions.
In addition to examining the subsequent global health inequalities.
It also covers specific global issues, their link to globalisation, and the impact on health in different settings or on specific populations.
You will also examine the theories and evidence underpinning global inequalities in health, as well as international health cooperations and guidelines to tackle global health inequalities.
This includes examining global health actors such as the World Health Organization (WHO) and actions taken to improve health globally with more emphasis on low-income countries.
This covers the role of international aid, health systems, and contextual factors.
This module will help you to apply evidence to evaluate the effectiveness of public health intervention and develop your role in promoting health within local, national, and international communities.
Public health is primarily concerned with the health of populations rather than health of individuals.
Public health features include, among others, health improvement approaches and the prevention and control of disease and other health conditions.
In this module you will focus on improving and protecting health at a population level.
You will develop skills and knowledge needed for competent public health practice around preventing and controlling diseases and other health conditions and tackling health inequalities.
You will develop skills of assessing health information and health needs of population, in the light of wider determinants of health.
You will enhance your problem-solving skills by planning strategies for health protection and improvement, based on sound evidence, theories, and principles.
Effective leadership is important in achieving public health outcomes, but are leaders born or are they made, what are the qualities of a good leader, and what strategies can leaders employ to help improve public health services and practice?
These are just some of the many questions you will explore in this exciting and contemporary module which focuses on effective leadership and management strategies necessary for future public health practice.
Through a focus on self-knowledge and individual growth, contemporary examples of leadership, healthy working relationships and collaborative leadership in the workplace, you will develop your public health knowledge, skills and competencies required to improve population health and well-being.
The module has several key learning outcomes that will provide you with an opportunity to examine and reflect on the personal qualities you currently have those you need to develop, how you can lead others in a team to gain successful outcomes, models and theories that can assist you in the planning and management of services and the importance of collaborative working and decision making for effective leadership, change and sustainability.
The module will ultimately enable you to demonstrate the critical role you can play within public health and related fields through effective leadership strategies.
This module provides you with the opportunity to develop theoretical and practical knowledge of a range of research methods of relevance to your degree discipline.
This knowledge will then be drawn on in order to compile a research proposal (incorporating an appropriate data collection instrument) for a ‘real world’ project.
This course will prepare you to move into the field of public health employment, as a public health practitioner, with the possibility of moving on to become a public health specialist.
Several agencies offer opportunities, with the public, private or voluntary sector, and within the health and social care arena.
The variety of occupational roles include:
You can access more information at these links:
Health Careers NHS
Faculty of Public Health
For those who wish to continue in further study or research, the Faculty of Education, Health and Wellbeing currently offers a Master’s degree in Public Health (and an with Post Graduate Certificate and Post Graduate Diploma options, as well as PhD opportunities.
These degree programmes and the interim awards may be studied full- or part-time, along with more flexible study options for those who wish to take stand-alone modules as part of their Continuing Professional Development (CPD).
With over 20 years of delivering public health programmes at undergraduate and postgraduate levels, the School of Public Health Studies has a range of established partnerships with public health practitioners and organisations, both in the UK and overseas.
Our team of academics actively maintains links with local stakeholders that comprise a range of NHS, private, independent, and voluntary organisations, and are able to improve practice through research and help inform curriculum developments to ensure that this course meets the needs of potential employers.
We also actively maintain links with our alumni, many of whom have gone on to develop successful careers in public health and will become part of your extensive network.
This award is mapped against the UK Public Health Register (UKPHR) criteria for practitioner standards.
The UKPHR provides public protection by ensuring that only competent public health professionals are registered and that high standards of practice are maintained.
The UKPHR registers public health practitioners to work in public health and provides practitioner-level registration which is suitable for undergraduates after relevant practice experience.
This mapping has been approved by the UKPHR Education and Training Committee and is available to view on their website ; as such this course can be accepted as Approved Prior Learning (APL) if you go on to seek registration.
The UKPHR criteria for practitioner standards have also been mapped against the Public Health Skills and Knowledge Framework , which is a UK-wide tool to develop public health professional skills needed in the future.
The University of Wolverhampton is also one of only two universities to be formally partnered with The Royal Society of Public Health (RSPH), and you will be offered reduced-cost student membership of RSPH as part of our “My Course and More” events.
We are also members of the Association of Schools of Public Health in the European Region (ASPHER) – an organisation that is dedicated to strengthening the role of public health by improving education and training of public health professionals for both practice and research.
The BSc (Hons) Public Health is one of many courses run by the Faculty of Education, Health and Wellbeing, which has an established reputation for excellence in terms of the quality of its courses, particularly through the provision of innovative approaches to teaching and learning, and for the student centred-friendliness of its academic and administrative staff.
You will have the benefit of being taught by very experienced staff with first-hand knowledge of working in the public health field in a variety of professional roles, and so can help you integrate and apply the knowledge you will gain.
The course follows the core competency areas defined by the Public Health Skills and Knowledge Framework:
These relate to the three domains of public health practice:
This, along with close associations with the Royal Society of Public Health and Association of Schools of Public Health in the European Region, and our mapping of the course to the UKPHR practitioner competencies, and the Public Health Skills and Knowledge framework gives the University of Wolverhampton BSc Public Health course a sound foundation for employability.
This course will enable you to gain an understanding of the inter-disciplinary and multi-disciplinary approaches to public health.
As a BSc Public Health student you will develop the skills necessary for the assimilation and understanding of the complex and diverse nature of the subject, as well as more general skills which will be widely transferable, enabling you to effectively prepare for and to establish a career in a wide range of health- and public health-related areas.
A range of the modules will be studied, some alongside other health and wellbeing students, which will broaden your understanding of public health and provide you with opportunities for inter-disciplinary learning.
In your first year of study, you will explore the foundations and disciplines that public health practice draws upon – e.g.
sociology, psychology, and communication.
The second year of study builds on this knowledge and develops your theory and understanding of practice in public health.
In your final year of study, you will engage with research at a deeper level and gain a deeper understanding of the issues you have explored at other levels.
At this level, you will also further explore leadership and global health issues that will prepare you for your future career in public health or further study.
Each year of the course provides you with a platform for you to become a graduate professional who is digitally literate, knowledgeable, enterprising, and aware of your role within the public health arena as a global citizen.
Other key themes that feature in modules across the programme include teaching that is informed by research; study and research skills and employability; and equality, diversity and inclusivity.
Whilst the course does not include a work-based placement, we have good relationships with local public health organisations and other employers and will support you if you would like to explore work experience opportunities.
A selection of student comments:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-public-health-with-foundation-year:
During your Foundation Year you will develop skills appropriate to University study such as finding and using information, working collaboratively with others, challenging and debating ideas and expressing yourself with greater confidence.
The BSc (Hons) Public Health with Foundation Year is designed to help you to develop the skills, knowledge and confidence to succeed in your studies with the University of Wolverhampton at degree level and beyond.
Public health saves lives.
The discipline has always had a major role in preventing health problems, and protecting the health of the nation, and is more relevant now than ever.
Increasing government attention is focussed on improving population health, as demonstrated in current policy.
Much emphasis is placed on tackling the underlying causes of ill-health, promoting health and well-being, and addressing health inequalities.
Many agencies now having public health responsibilities; this is opening up new opportunities for innovative approaches.
It also brings the need for a well-prepared public health workforce, able to work flexibly across many disciplines and demonstrate a wide range of abilities.
This course is specifically designed to fulfil this need.
This course will enable you to gain an understanding of the multi-disciplinary approaches to Public Health.
As a Public Health student you will develop the knowledge and skills necessary for the assimilation and understanding of the complex and diverse nature of the subject, as well as more general skills which will be widely transferable, enabling you to effectively prepare for and to establish a career in a wide range of public health related areas.
A range of modules will be studied, some alongside other health and social care students, which will broaden your understanding of Public Health, and provide you with opportunities for inter-disciplinary learning.
This module considers the inter-relationship between psychological functioning, health and health behaviour.
You will explore a range of psychological concepts which will be applied to understanding behaviours that promote or are harmful to health and, in particular look at a number  of different approaches to improving health.
Aim: To enable you to identify different approaches for maintaining and improving health and quality of life
Many factors combine together to affect the health of individuals and communities.
Whether people are healthy or not is determined to a large extent by their circumstances and environment.
This module discusses some of the reasons for this and looks at how levels of health differ between different groups in society.
Aim: 	To enable you to develop awareness of the determinants of health
The module is a combination of academic study skills and problem based learning designed to develop your skills and prepare you for undergraduate study.
You will learn skills such as critical reading, academic writing and the importance of referencing.
You will learn about working with others to solve problems.
Learning Outcomes  1) Carry out defined investigative strategies and communicate results effectively in a given format 2) Use a range of digital tools to complete tasks effectively 3) Collect information to inform a choice of solutions to problems 4) Reflect on own and others' behaviours and capabilities against given criteria
The module will introduce you to ethical issues within your field of study.
You will explore issues of respect for others, cultural awareness, and equality and diversity in your subject.
You will be faced with ethical dilemmas and will need to formulate responses that demonstrate your understanding of what it means to be an ethical practitioner.
This course will prepare you to move into the field of public health employment.
Several agencies offer opportunities, within the public, private or voluntary sector.
A variety of occupational roles are possible, such as:
For those who wish to continue in further study or research, the  Faculty of Education, Health and Wellbeing currently offers a Post Graduate Certificate, Post Graduate Diploma and Masters Degree in Public Health.
These may be studied full or part-time, or by Distance Learning, along with more flexible study options for those who wish to take stand alone modules as part of their Continuing Professional Development (CPD).
There is also the possibility of pursuing Graduate Nurse  / Physicians Associate training.
The BSc (Hons) Public Health with Foundation Year is one of many courses run by the Faculty of Education, Health and Wellbeing, which has an established reputation for excellence in terms of the quality of its courses, particularly through the provision of innovative approaches to teaching and learning, and for the student centred-friendliness of its academic and administrative staff.
You will have the benefit of being taught by very experienced staff with first-hand knowledge of working in the Public Health field in a variety of professional roles, and so can help you integrate and apply the knowledge you will gain.
The Faculty of Education Health and Wellbeing series of seminars and lectures spans education, sport, care, psychology health and wellbeing, bringing you a variety of engaging speakers and experts from the University of Wolverhampton and many other UK universities, visit www.wlv.ac.uk/fehw/lectures
The educational aim of the course is to develop the specific knowledge and skills needed for effective public heath practice.
The course follows the nine competency areas defined by the Faculty of Public Health (Surveillance and assessment of health, assessing the evidence for health, Policy and strategy, Leadership and collaborative working, Health improvement and protection, Public health intelligence, Academic public health, and Health and social care quality), which relate to the three domains of public health practice (health protection, health improvement and service quality) .
This gives the course a sound foundation for employability.
The course is also able to provide the platform for individuals to become graduate professionals who are digitally literate, knowledgeable, enterprising and aware of their role within the public health arena as global citizens.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-politics-and-social-policy:
This wide-ranging and work-focused course provides an interdisciplinary study of Politics and Social Policy.
Students will engage in debates around what we mean by a socially fair and just society, and the policies a government should pursue to achieve one.
The degree will also help to explain important global phenomenon including recent events like the war on terror and the impact of the international economic crisis
The degree will allow students to develop an understanding of contemporary social problems, such as poverty, inequalities in health, and underachievement in schools and the policies in place to address these issues.
Alongside this students will investigate the institutions, processes and procedures through which interests are expressed, the theories we use in understanding political activity, and the factors motivating and legitimising it.
Teaching and learning is designed to support digital literacy.
Students will acquire the skills necessary to gather evidence and apply theories to a range of social and political issues.
Students are encouraged to share knowledge and be enterprising with their ideas.
Global comparative perspectives are incorporated in the degree providing students with the opportunity to learn about society and politics in other countries.
The aims of the Politics and Social Policy degree are to examine and to investigate how citizens respond to the world they inhabit through advocacy, campaigning and protesting to try to effect social change and how they articulate these attempts.
This course will examine the relationship between government, society and citizens, with a particular focus on the most vulnerable in society.
The course will explore how all aspects of policy are informed by political ideas, concepts and language.
Competing conceptions and articulation of rights, citizenship, democracy and justice, fundamental to the study of Politics, implicitly or explicitly, inform attempts to reproduce or change how social policy is designed and delivered in areas such as housing, health and the environment.
Therefore, the programme will examine how some voices within society come to dominate the policy environment, and the impact this privilege has on the design and implementation of policy.
Within th course you will analyse how the welfare state has fared after experiencing over a decade of austerity measures and will explore possible futures of welfare provision, tracing the increasing role of voluntary and private providers.
The course will look at critical challenges to society, such as migration, affordable housing, climate change and persistent poverty, and explore how – and whether – policymakers have the ability and political will to address these challenges.
Whilst the events, experiences and case-studies that will be drawn on through the course will often reflect the UK context, this world view will be critiqued through the lens of historical and contemporary international influences, for example the legacy of colonialism and imperialism on British social policy or the limitations and challenges of globalisation and climate change.
Therefore the course will highlight the connections between local, regional, national and international/global, and the impact these connections have on decision-making in UK society.
Britain was a global nation before it was an imperial power and it exists within a wider international context even after leaving the European Union.
This module offers a survey of that long history of Britain’s relationship with the wider world between the early modern period and the early twenty-first century.
By looking at the movement of people, practices, materials and ideas to, from and through Britain, we will explore the ways in which Britain has influenced and been influenced by the rest of the world, and the extent to which British history can be understood as world history.
Through the use of case-studies, this module will examine the debates surrounding issues in contemporary British politics.
The module will consider both the themes of the need for constitutional or electoral change to reform the British political system and the debates informing the wider arena of cultural politics and social protest.
This will emphasize to students that politics has both constitutional and institutional dimensions and `wider' social and cultural dimensions.
This module will introduce students to the concepts and definitions of poverty from Absolute to Relative and all debates within.
Crucially, this module will focus on ‘living in poverty’ and consequently will consider both the geography of poverty with a case study on the West Midlands and the groups and people in society most likely to be suffering negative impacts from a life in poverty.
The module will develop an understanding of why there are poorer outcomes for people with disabilities, ethnic minorities, asylum seekers and refugees as well as people identifying as part of the LGBTQ+ community.
Furthermore, we will consider how important it is to understand the impact of policy on poverty.
This module will introduce students to the role of Government in addressing social problems.
It will draw on student’s own experiences of ‘living social policy’ and encourage them to shape the weekly programme.
Each week will look at a social problem or area of policy, identify the context of the issue/s in this area and look at the current Government approach to dealing with the issue.
Students will be encouraged to take a critical approach to Government solutions and use theory, research and ‘lived experience’ to develop their understanding and ideas.
This module will explore the relationship between the state and its citizens and how this relationship varies from social group to social group.
It will explore the concept of citizenship and examine what characteristics an individual needs to possess in order to be recognised as a citizen of UK and be able to access welfare provision.
It will explore the relationship between the state and disadvantaged groups in UK society – such as refugees and asylum seekers, LGBTQ, migrants, people with disabilities and people living in poverty – and investigate how this uneven relationship relates to social inequality.
It will explore why the rights of individuals living in the UK are experienced differently by different social groups and how these entitlements have changed over time.
Throughout this module, we will examine how various actors, ranging from institutions and organizations to communities and individuals, work together at different levels – international, regional, national, and local – to address and resolve global issues.
By examining practical case studies, we will dissect the strategies employed by these diverse actors to navigate complex problems such as climate change, human rights, security dynamics, economic inequalities, and more.
Our discussions will focus on the dynamics of cooperation and alliance-building, power play, and innovative problem-solving strategies that emerge when different actors collaborate or contend within the global arena.
Whether your aspirations lie in diplomacy, international organizations, or you simply seek a deeper comprehension of global affairs, this module will provide you with analytical tools to unravel the nuances of international relations.
The case studies are tailored to reflect current global concerns.
If there's a specific topic within the field of international relations that you're eager to explore further in our class, please don't hesitate to share it.
The aim of this module is to introduce you to the main issues in international relations (IR) at the current time and to provide an intellectual framework to enable you to better understand our contemporary world and analyse and interpret international developments.
The first part of the module deals with the scope and main concepts and theories of IR, the second part with the main actors in international relations and the third part looks at some of the main issues on the contemporary global agenda.
This module is designed for ‘beginners’ and no prior study of IR is needed.
This module will explore the role of community engagement in the delivery of public and third sector services.
It will look at how policy initiatives such as ‘co-production’ and ‘partnership working’ have impacted on both the commissioning and delivery of welfare services in the UK, and how some of these initiatives have been driven by policy failures.
It will also investigate the role of social movements, such as Black Lives Matter and Reclaim the Streets, on our society.
It will critically examine how enhancing the voice of service users, parent carers and community activists in decision-making can not only enhance the services being delivered and but can bring about social change.
This module considers the nature of political ideology and the difficulties of defining the concept.
It examines the most important ideologies of the contemporary period both individually and comparatively.
The module seeks to explore the purpose of political ideology, the relationship between political ideas and political practice, as well as the social context that underpins the origin and development of the ideologies, drawing on examples from both European and extra-European contexts.
In this module we will develop an understanding of some key policy-making ideas from public administration, new public management, governance and devolved policy-making.
The module will uncover the layers of governance in the UK policy-making field in the 2020’s, helping us to understand the complexities and messy nature of policy-making but also to evaluate the importance of where we think policy should be made.
The Brexit referendum transferred power away from the EU and into the hands of politicians at Westminster, argued as a positive for some.
But is this where we want our decisions to be made, are there arguments for more devolution and more decision making on our doorsteps – and if there are who do we want to make those decisions?
We will reflect on the importance of policy-making that reflects diversity in our communities and that is introduced in an inclusive way.
The course will offer students an opportunity to engage with a range of debates surrounding political violence in a variety of manifestations.
The course themes include conventional and civil warfare, colonial violence and the violence of decolonisation, counterinsurgencies, torture and domestic repression, demonstrations and riots, and terrorism.
Although the existence of distinct races has been scientifically discredited, its essentialist meaning continues to have real material consequences, for groups who are racially Othered.
This module explores the social construction of race and the function of racism in modern society, against the backdrop of Empire and European modernity.
Students will examine historical relationships of power to understand how racism is reproduced and legitimated in social interactions, economic relationships and political discourse, in the here and now.
They will also explore how racist ideologies are interwoven in society’s institutions and structures, and how racism is contested and fought over.
The aim of this module is to enable students to understand the function of racism in the making of the modern world, and how it continues to be a major source of inequality in late modernity.
In this module we will consider the future opportunities and challenges in the work and labour market in the UK.
During this module we will address the key variables at play in evaluating the future of work.
The topics covered in this module will range from the role of automation, the impact of Brexit and the desire to reach a net-zero economy in the coming decades.
We will critically engage with each variable to decide on the extent to which it will be a changing labour market and how our communities can adjust and flourish in response.
This module is intended to develop and refine your understanding of selected aspects of international politics.
It begins by looking at key schools of thought and evolving debates in international relations theory in order to explore in depth some of the key concepts regarding which factors shape how international politics and relations are conducted.
The module also considers some of the key structural factors at play in international relations.
To this end the role of the international and transnational organisations is examined, and debates regarding their purpose and effectiveness are considered.
The module also looks at the concepts of regionalism and globalisation, and explores how states respond to these ideas in terms of policy formation.
This module explores the evolution of foundational concepts in political theory.
It devotes two weeks to analyse each concept from two perspectives.
First, we will trace the concept's origins and how its meaning has changed over time.
Second, we will analyse how marginalized groups have challenged and reshaped dominant notions of key concepts and how these ideas have evolved through political activism and contestation.
By studying seminal concepts through both lenses - their historical development as well as debate and reinterpretation over time - this module provides insight into the fluidity of political thought.
Students gain a nuanced understanding of key ideas driving politics and governance while recognizing these concepts are continuously reworked and redefined in new socio-political contexts.
The module will explore how social science perspectives are imperative if society is going to respond to the urgent environmental challenges we face today and bring about the social change needed to address them.
It will explore the concept of consumerism and how reframing citizens as consumers has helped drive unsustainable economic growth within the developed world.
It will review how sustainability relates to sociological concepts such as social justice and equality, and how this relationship is fundamental to The United Nation’s Goals for Sustainable Development.
You will analyse the relationship between the social and the natural world, through the theory of ‘entanglement’ which will be used to map your own pattern of more sustainable living.
At the end of the module you will have a critical understanding of how knowledge drawn from sociology can contribute to the debate about – and the building of strategies to enhance – sustainability, and bring about change to the environment-society dynamic.
In this module you will undertake an independent project.
The project allows you to focus on a social policy area of your choice and produce an in-depth piece of work.
There is an opportunity to base your project in an organisation and carry out research in partnership with that organisation.
This module explores the nature of modern, post-colonial India through an analysis of its politics, economics, religion, caste-system and culture.
Modern India is the second most populous country in the world and the world’s largest democracy, yet it is a complex and diverse country – linguistically, religiously, and ethnically – which, since achieving independence, has sought both to unify itself internally, and, as a unified nation-state, to assert its place both regionally and globally.
This module examines the achievements, problems and potential of this important country.
This module will focus on how international Non Governmental Organisations – such as World Health Organisation and United Nations – impact on policy making in the UK.
It will investigate whether global problems, such as climate changes, increasing wealth inequality, modern day slavery and global pandemics and disease, give these NGO’s legitimacy in the national policy-making context – including with the general public.
It will explore the range of ways International NGO’s try to influence national policy – and how and why national policymakers resist the policy directives of these organisations.
This module explores the arguments of key thinkers in the history of Western political thought  and considers their relevance to contemporary political debate.
The project is a sustained piece of independent study carried out in the field of Politics under supervision.
Any area that is broadly defined as political -empirical, theoretical, historical -may be considered.
This module will focus on the future of welfare provision in UK.
It will critically examine whether the founding principles of the welfare state - equality of opportunity, equal distribution of wealth, and public responsibility - still hold in the UK.
It will explore how welfare ‘needs’ today differ from the post-war welfare state and critique how different social groups, such as women, people with disabilities and black and minority ethnic groups, are disadvantaged by the provision of welfare.
It will critically examine how the dominance of neoliberal narratives in UK society continues to change the way we talk about welfare provision.
In light of ‘wicked’ problems, such as climate change and growing wealth inequalities it will examine how the most vulnerable in society can and should be supported.
Migration is a fundamental feature of the contemporary world.
Its social and economic effects are self evident; its political ramifications frequent.
This course will provide an overview of key concepts and issues in the study of migration.
The organisation will be split into two interrelated sections.
The first will consider the key motivations why people move from one country to another.
Here the course will look at definitions, push and pull factors in migrant flows and migration in history.
Second, it will look at immigration and British society.
This will section will pay particular attention to immigration to the UK since 1945: Irish and New Commonwealth immigration, Immigration Control and contemporary asylum and Eastern European immigration.
Central Government
Policy writing
Postgraduate Study
Community project manager
Government
Practical Experience: An opportunity at each level of the course to undertake a placement module which will provide invaluable practical experience.
Pastoral support: We pride ourselves in our supportive culture with a large team of academic and student support staff to provide excellent pastoral care and support together with a welcoming academic environment in which to undertake your degree.
At the end of this course, you, will be able to:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-social-work:
Designed to provide a comprehensive understanding of individual and community well-being, this course equips you with the essential skills, knowledge, and values for a thriving career in social work.
The Complete University Guide, UG Subject League Tables 2024
Our undergraduate social work degree is designed to give students an in-depth understanding of individual and community wellbeing and health.
You’ll learn key skills, knowledge and values necessary to excel in this career field.
This course offers students the opportunity to gain practical experience alongside studiis.
You’ll be able to complete a 70 day work placement in the second year of your studies, and a 100 day placement in your third year of studies.
Upon completion, you’ll have the necessary work experience and qualifications to get started in a career in social work.
The West Midlands Social Work Teaching Partnership - we are proud to be a part of The West Midlands Social Work Teaching Partnership , an initiative designed to improve the quality of education and training for social work students and practitioners across the West Midlands.
Approved by Social Work England (SWE) - our BA (Hons) Social Work degree also is approved by Social Work England for the purpose of providing eligibility to apply for registration with SWE as a social worker in England.
The practice relevance of the course is sustained by good communication with social work employers and collaboration with other education providers through our active engagement in the government - funded West Midlands Social Work Teaching Partnership .
There are excellent campus facilities (libraries, well - equipped social learning spaces, catering) that contribute to a productive and enjoyable learning experience.
Gain practical experience through a 70-day work placement in your second year and a 100-day placement in your third year, ensuring you graduate with the qualifications and hands-on experience needed for success.
Backed by Social Work England approval and our partnership with the West Midlands Social Work Teaching Partnership, you will benefit from enhanced education and training while utilising cutting-edge resources at the Marches Centre for Excellence in Health and Social Care.
Our BA (Hons) Social Work degree trains students for a career in social work roles, developing key theories, skills, methods and values in social work.
You’ll learn about a range of key areas in social work, from life course development, to responding to harm, neglect, working with adults, children and families.
The broad offering of this course allows students to experience a variety of roles and approaches within social work, and also gives you the opportunity to hone your skills in a particular area of your choice.
For example, in social work for children and families.
The course includes two placement opportunities completed in years 2 and 3.
We take an employability-driven approach, giving students the ability to gain real experience in a social work practice setting.
This is completed over two separate 70 day and 100 day placements.
The assessments on this course are designed to replicate social work practice skills, including report writing, observational skills and care planning.
You will explore a wide range of community data relating to individual and community well being and health.
This data will include Office for National Statistics data, Public Health Profile data, Nomis records and local government trends data.
You will be required to appraise how the data sets inform a deeper understanding of lived community experiences by applying sociological concepts.
In this module you will be learning about life experiences, human growth and development from birth to death.
The module will focus primarily on how psychology and sociology understand and explain the life course/cycle.
You will learn a range of child development theories alongside concepts of childhood.
You will also learn about significant stages of life such as adolescence, youth transition, parenthood and death and dying.
This module will provide students with the theoretical knowledge to understand and apply theories of the life course/cycle in practice and understand the importance of these to social work practice including assessment, direct work, communication etc.
You will also explore observational skills, genograms and ecomaps.
The summative assessment is intended to support you to begin to apply concepts of the life course/cycle to the real world.
This module enables you to evidence the completion of the 30 mandatory skills days required by Social Work England's Qualifying Education and Training Standards (2021).
Students are required to complete 30 days to pass the module, students are required to provide a reflective account of each day they have attended alongside evidence that they have attended the day.
The module runs for the duration of the BA Social Work programme and students need to evidence completion of the 30 days by the end of Level 6 of the programme.
The module comprises a combination of classroom teaching with input from people with lived experience, partner agencies and practitioners, including qualified social workers and partner professions.
Skills days will include a wide range of activities such as small group work, role play, demonstrations case studies, problem solving etc.
Final skills days of the module will focus on providing an opportunity for students to develop practice based skills and knowledge related to employability and preparation their first social work role.
The module is a practice skills module focusing upon developing students understanding of the basic interpersonal skills underpinning social work practice.
The sessions will incorporate a significant level of involvement from people with lived experience and social workers in practice and other practitioners.
The module will take place over 24 weeks and will involve four hours teaching including a two hour lecture and smaller seminar groups where students will work on simulating practice experiences, roll playing and other practice skills.
The module aims to develop students from the point of entry onto the programme to readiness to practice and into the 70 day practice placement at the beginning of level 5.
The module will provide students with a foundational knowledge about social work, what it is and professional responsibilities, communication and basic assessment skills, understanding service user knowledge and experiences and a grounding in reflective practice.
This module is not a legal module although it does focus on safeguarding from the perspective of recognising safeguarding and understanding what is meant by the term.
The module will provide students with an opportunity to reflect on issues such as risk – what is it and the different ways in which we respond to it.
Students will develop and understanding of different types of abuse and how social work intervenes in cases of abuse, with a focus upon both procedure but also practical responses (i.e.
what do social workers do).
This module will provide a foundational understanding of safeguarding preparing students of their 70 day placement.
In this module you will be introduced to a number of key ideas that you will build on throughout your studies.
The module aims to prepare you for ethical practice through an exploration of personal and professional values.
You will study how ethical principles, values and ideology relate to your professional development as a social worker.
This module will allow you to apply your learning from your academic modules and skills days completed to date.
The module will enable you to demonstrate capability against the Professional Capabilities Framework during your practice with people who use services.
You will utilise the British Association of Social Work Code of Ethics & evidence that you are working towards the Social Work England (Professional Standards); demonstrating professionalism, and adherence to the ethics and values expected of social work students.
Your direct practice with people who use services will be assessed by a Practice Educator and your understanding of your application of social work knowledge in your practice will be assessed by your Practice Tutor.
You must pass both components of the module, your portfolio and Integrated Critical Analysis of Practice.
This module aims to introduce you to the social work law/practice relationship.
You will study key legislation which provides the legal context for social work practice across a variety of service user groups, including Human Rights and Equalities law.
The module focuses upon developing the student understanding of social work theory.
The particular type of theories in this module are theories which inform methods, models and approaches to social work practice.
The module will seek to have a focus upon theories used by partner agencies in the Black Country and West Midlands, which will contribute towards how well students are prepared for entering into a 100 day placement in the final year with agencies delivering statutory services.
The summative assessment involves students writing a care plan in response to a case study and an assignment which provides an analysis of the plan.
This module will introduce you to evidence informed practice in social work.
You will develop research mindedness to understand implication of research in social work practice.
In this module you will learn about research types, process and paradigms of social research to different research methodology appropriate for Social Work research.
You will also gain understanding about contemporary social work research good practices and research constraints for social workers.
This module will enable you to prepare for next level independent research study.
You will explore and critically analyse the role of social policy and its relationship with citizens, social welfare and social work.
You will study the structure, function and organisation of policies at the national, regional and local levels, in the context of social rights and citizens as contributors, participants and users of  services.
You will study how policies have the ability to promote and impede individuals and communities access to services.
This module is designed as a module which can be responsive to current issues in social work including regional issues and challenges, it is hoped this module will help prepare students for the current challenges in practice and issues which are being grappled with by practitioners.
The module will have input from local social work practitioners and agencies who will come into class and present and engage in debates and discussions with students.
It’s a module intended to engage students with many of the complexities and challenges of frontline social work practice.
The module is deliberately broad to enable it to be responsive to practice.
You will demonstrate your ability to identify and critically review an aspect of effective social work practice.
You will construct your critique by analysing research findings and demonstrating your understanding of the theoretical and methodological approaches employed.
You will provide a critical understanding and examination of evidence based practice in social work, and present a compelling case for the future direction of its development.
Adult Care Management
Community Mental Health Teams
Youth Offending
Fostering and Adoption Services
Local Authorities
Teacher or Education
The Social Work Department at the University has Practice Learning Units in two Local Authorities providing increased opportunities for students to access high-quality placement opportunities.
It also directly employs eight qualified practice educators ensuring consistent and high-quality practice education for students.
There are excellent campus facilities (libraries, well-equipped social learning spaces, catering) that contribute to a productive and enjoyable learning experience.
Mandatory Costs:
Key Requirements
Applicants will also be required to provide satisfactory personal statement and one satisfactory academic or employer reference https://www.wlv.ac.uk/apply/how-to-apply/2---check-the-entry-requirements/references/.
A minimum of 3 months work experience in a relevant area such as a social care or health setting, paid or on a voluntary basis is highly desirable.
We also consider life experience for example, if you are or have been a carer or if you have experience of the care system and are able to reflect on these experiences we would consider your application.
Those meeting the entry requirements may be shortlisted for interview and will be invited to an assessment day where you will be assessed in comprehension, verbal ability and suitability for social work.
Interview Information.
DBS Police Check and Occupational Health.
Due to the professional nature of this course you are also required to complete a Declaration of Health and Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) Check.
The regulator for Social Work is Social Work England.
Travel.
Due to the nature of social work and the geographical location of social work practice placements, you will be expected to travel and this may be for up to an hour and a half (90 minutes) from where you live to the placement agency.
You will also be expected to travel as part of the placement day from the placement office to meetings and to undertake visits to people in their homes.
You must ensure you have the time required to travel and can meet the travel costs.
Having a driving license and your own transport is advantageous.
Please note that an offer of a place at the University does not guarantee eligibility for student funding.
The course enables successful students to be eligible to register as a social worker to begin their careers in the profession.
The English qualification is accepted throughout the UK.
Graduates may return to the University of Wolverhampton (or any Higher Education Institute) to undertake courses as part of their continuing professional development (CPD), which is a requirement to maintain social work professional registration.
These currently include Approved Mental Health Professional and Practice Educator courses, but additional courses are in development following policy changes related to the Mental Capacity Act.
There is also the opportunity for candidates to enrol on a programme of doctoral study - either a Professional Doctorate or a more conventional PhD.
Approved by the Social Work England for the purpose of providing eligibility to apply for registration with Social Work England as a social worker in England.
Most students will be able to apply for a loans to pay these fees, subject to eligibility.
NHS Bursaries for Social Work Students
NHS social work bursaries can help with study and living costs, and do not need to be paid back.
The number of bursary recipients are limited (or ‘capped’), and there is no guarantee you will receive a bursary if your application is accepted and you take up an offer of a place on a social work course.
Find out more about NHS Social Work Bursaries.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-sociology:
This degree offers you the chance to analyse and understand the complexities of the global world in which we live.
Taught by experts in their field, you will develop your knowledge and skills through the study of sociological theories and methods, and through application of these important sociological tools to a range of contemporary topics.
During your studies, you will learn about the concepts, theories and methods essential to what we call a ‘sociological imagination’ – that special way of identifying, describing and understanding the nature of social life.
Over the course of your studies, you will develop critical understanding of a range of institutional conditions, cultural processes and social relations, within and across societies.
In the course of learning selected ‘social facts’ of society, you will be able to apply those concepts, theories and methods that are unique to this exciting discipline.
Students are encouraged to share knowledge and be enterprising with their ideas in self-directed and cooperative learning activities.
You will acquire the skills necessary to gather evidence and apply theories to a range of social issues, and to communicate your ideas through interpersonal and digitally literate ways.
At each level of study you are given the opportunity to undertake accredited voluntary work in the local community or a work placement – an experience that broadens your sociological knowledge, deepens your appreciation of civic responsibility and enhances your opportunities for graduate employment.
Our teaching team are experts in their fields, publishing in internationally recognised journals and with internationally recognised publishers, who bring real experience to their teaching
We are committed to creating an inclusive and diverse course, drawing on students’ lived experience and expertise
Our course covers a wide range of contemporary issues including the power of celebrity, environmental movements, nationality and globalization
We will support you, as learners, to engage with community-based learning, whether that is a school, a voluntary sector organisation, or the local council.
These opportunities to gain experience in the ‘real’ world will not only embed your learning, through engaging with the lived experiences of people living with disadvantage and discrimination, but it will also support you to develop skills for the workplace
At each level of study you are given the opportunity to undertake accredited voluntary work in the local community or a work placement.
Graduate employability is embedded throughout the degree programme at The University of Wolverhampton, developing students’ expertise in a range of key employer-identified skills that prepare our students for the workforce of the future.
Our exciting new course offers you the opportunity to study the social world we inhabit and apply that knowledge to understand and address social issues through public sociology:
A sociology degree at The University of Wolverhampton enables us to consider these questions, and more, by examining the role of theory in empowering us to understand contemporary concerns at local, national, and international levels.
Community-Based Learning
The Sociology course will encourage you, as learners, to engage with community-based learning, whether that is a school, a voluntary sector organisation, or the local council.
These opportunities to gain experience in the ‘real’ world will not only embed your learning, through engaging with the lived experiences of people living with disadvantage and discrimination, but it will also support you to develop skills for the workplace.
These community-based experiences are embedded in the course as an accredited part of your learning experience.
This module gives students an introduction to social theory by looking critically at foundational thinkers within sociology.
It considers two sessions a piece on the three influential important thinkers in the history of the subject: Karl Marx, Emile Durkheim and Max Weber.
The emphasis in all cases is on the degree of the ongoing relevance of their thinking.
This is furthered by consideration of subsequent social theorists who were influenced by these nineteenth century founders: respectively, Gramsci, Parsons and Ritzer.
The emphasis in both teaching sessions and assessments is that social theory is not only of historical interest but illuminates the world in the third decade of the twenty first century.
Put simply, we seek to show that historic social theory helps explain the present.
This module examines the relationship between the media, culture and society by questioning the role of media and culture, and its centrality to social life in the 21st century.
Who controls the media?
What messages does the media send about social groups – particularly disadvantaged ones?
What role does the media have in manufacturing deviance?
Is independent media really independent and can it challenge the mainstream media?
Does social media have too much power?
What is ‘Fake News’?
Through these questions, and others, this module will examine the relationship between the media, culture, capitalism, political power and society.
The Sociological Imagination introduces students to the foundational principles and concepts of sociology.
It explores the key distinction between 'common sense' and 'sociological sense' in relation to selected aspects of Contemporary British society.
To introduce students to how we think about crime and criminal justice.
The module explores how popular and official knowledge about crime and victimisation are constructed.
It goes on to locate these constructions within the context of contemporary British society.
Provides  students with sociological perspectives and theories that help to explain gendered differences, gender identities,sexualities and inequalities.
Provides knowledge of the processes of gender divisions and differences.
Examines the contexts in which gender divisions and inequalities continue, e.g.
Education, work and the media.
This module will explore a selection of twentieth and twenty first century theoretical perspectives.& nbsp; In this way, it builds on the work of the classical theorists considered in the compulsory level 4 module, 4SL007.& nbsp; In order to impart some continuity and coherence into the subject matter, attention will be paid to the emphasis of the theorists on structure and agency in society.& nbsp; Rather than treating the subject matter as an abstract body of knowledge, the module will seek to emphasize and the students will be assessed in how social theory can explain contemporary societies.
For this module, students will undertake an independent project, support by a member of the teaching team, about a topic of their choice.
Students have three options for their project.
Option one is a secondary research dissertation,  option two is a primary research dissertation, and option three is an applied research project with a not-for-profit organisation.
The growth in importance of the body in western society is indicated by the rise of interest in a range of ‘body matters’.
This includes body shape, health, and beauty, and how these are subject to various forms of commercial management and social control.
As an index of this, we only have to consider the large number of tools and techniques available to us to ‘improve’ our bodies.
In addition, the race, ethnicity, sex, gender, age, and infirmity of our bodies, shape our position and acceptability in society, and places constraints on our ability to act.
This module will provide an introduction to academic debates around the regulation of bodies and examine the changing status of the body in social theory.
It will first introduce a number of theoretical positions that have explored the body’s status in contemporary society in order to provide the framework for the rest of the module.
Moving on from this the module will focus attention upon a number of key areas involving the social, cultural and historical management and control of bodies.
The free market principles of neoliberal capitalism expose males and females to new uncertainties about social life, and unprecedented dimensions of risk.
In the consumer society of late modernity, economic insecurity, high levels of crime, rampant individualism and deviance, are accepted norms rather than aberrations.
This module explores the impacts that economic changes have on wealth disparities, and maintaining inequalities, amongst different social groups.
Who are the winners and losers of consumer capitalism?
How do social actors negotiate risk?
What are the neoliberal penalties and consequences of being unable to compete in society’s market situations?
Why are the poor demonised under the rhetoric of responsibilisation?
These are some of the questions examined in this module, within the context of power and its application to racialised, gendered and classified social groups.
This module focuses on global issues and trends in the twenty-first century.
We will explore the increased interconnectedness of states, societies and peoples and the economic, political and social impact of this interdependence.
Case-study material will be drawn from many different parts of the world and is likely to include finance, communication and information technology, the role of the nation state, environmental problems and resistance to globalisation.
Social Worker
Drug or Alcohol rehabilitation
Researcher
Public Sector (eg.
housing)
Support worker
The teaching team are all active researchers who are eager to share their ideas and practical experiences of ‘doing Sociology,’ which means that you will benefit from a highly relevant and topical programme.
To equip you with the practical skills needed for the workplace, you can also undertake community-based learning through placements in voluntary agencies and organisations.
Through placements, visits and guest speakers, you will have opportunities to engage with voluntary and public sector organisations, and the wider community, to embed your learning.
Through learning activities such as planning a campaign, analysing policy briefs, analysing data and participating in group activities, you will develop important skills to support your ability to become an inclusive and reflective practitioner in the workplace.
In addition, an array of assignment types, such as poster presentations, writing reports and planning a campaign, will support the development of essential skills for the workplace, such as communication skills, presentation skills, teamworking, IT skills, research skills and critical thinking.
'I consistently challenged myself during my studies on the University of Wolverhampton’s BA (Hons) Sociology and Politics.
I reached personal landmarks and worked hard to overcome difficulties.
My decision to remain at Wolverhampton for postgraduate study for the MA Applied Social Sciences has been marked by the unsurpassed support the department has provided me during my academic journey.
I will be championing this further by continuing my education at PhD level at the University, having been offered a studentship by the Institute for Community Research and Development (ICRD).
Since I started university in 2018, my capabilities have been recognised by the department, who have inspired me to be consistent and confident.
I have managed to secure employment because of my graduate achievements and volunteering opportunities offered by the university.
Eventually, I want to teach, support, and encourage students to achieve their ambitions, and give back the value that the department places on student support and empowerment.' – Christiane Jenkins, BA (Hons) Sociology and Politics
'As someone who was unsure whether university was for me, my time at the University of Wolverhampton confirmed that I had made the right decision.
The staff were all supportive, friendly, welcoming and easily accessible for meetings to help with assignments and other tasks.
All of the staff ensured that lectures were engaging and interesting and provided new knowledge and opportunities to research further.
The wide range of module choices available across the Sociology course meant that the topics were diverse and engaging.
The assignments that were given were also varied and this approach meant that different skills could be learnt and developed.
The course allowed me to develop my knowledge and grow a deeper passion for researching in Sociology' – Sophie Cole BA (Hons) Sociology

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-sociology-and-social-policy:
The BA Sociology and Social Policy takes an innovative and exciting approach to the social world, with a particular focus on how individuals and communities can bring about the social change needed to tackle social problems such as the climate crisis and social inequalities.
The Sociology and Social Policy joint programme has been taught at University of Wolverhampton for a number of years.
Contemporary society faces a number of critical problems, such as climate change, growing social and economic inequalities and the influence of social media on mental health.
Exploring solutions to these problems – along with other concerns such as the future of the welfare state and growing food insecurity – are central to this joint programme.
Sociology and Social Policy will allow you to focus on the role of social policy and public sociology in bringing about social change, exploring how we – as citizens -can participate in generating solutions to tackle social problems.
It will offer you the opportunity to not only understand how social problems come about but to examine the social policy responses to those problems – and ask critical questions about why policies fail.
Events such as COVID 19 and climate change, and social movements such as Extinction Rebellion and Black Lives Matter, have shown us how citizen involvement can be crucial in highlighting social problems.
However, sometimes interactions between the state and its citizens leads to social change – and shifts in policy direction - and sometimes they do not.
Through a diverse range of case studies, shaped by student and teacher expertise and interest, we will reflect on the health, wealth and wellbeing of our society.
Drawing on your own interests and lived experiences, we will explore how social theory can empower us to understand the social world and the actions we need to take to bring about change personally, locally, nationally and globally.
You will also be given the opportunity to apply your understanding through community-based learning opportunities that are embedded into the course, with modules such as Advocacy in Action, Volunteering in Action and Applied Research.
Graduate employability is also embedded throughout the degree programme at The University of Wolverhampton, developing students’ expertise in a range of key employer-identified skills that prepare our students for the workforce of the future.
This includes the ability to read data, communication in digitally literate way, and solve complex problems.
This joint programme is supported by a teaching team who are actively engaged in community-based research.
Meet our teaching team.
The Sociology and Social Policy programme aims to examine the relationship between government, society and citizens, and how those relationships impact on our lives.
We will be asking questions about how the study of social theory and social policy can help us understand why we have increasing levels of social inequality and exclusion in our society, with persistent disparities in the life chances of people from ethnic minorities, lower socio-economic classes and those with disabilities or mental health problems.
Exploring relationships from the global to the personal
The Sociology and Social Policy joint programme will focus on how we are connected locally, regionally, nationally and globally and whether theories such as sustainable development and “levelling up” could lead to better outcomes for all groups and individuals within our communities, whether they are local, national or global.
Thinking personally, locally, nationally, regionally and globally, we will explore the issue of sustainability, examining the uneven impact that globalisation and climate change are having on the poorest in the UK – and across the globe.
It will explore how sustainability is not only an environmental issue but one of social justice.
The Importance of Lived Experience
Our learning environment will draw on our lived experiences of the social world and reflect on how social policies impact on our lives.
We will engage with contemporary case studies, such as racial discrimination, the mental health crisis and violence against women, and ask how we, as citizens and members of the University community, can bring about the change needed to address these critical issues.
The Sociology and Social Policy course will encourage you, as learners, to engage with community-based learning, whether that is a school, a voluntary sector organisation, or the local council.
Drug and Alcohol rehabilitation
Public Sector
Support Worker
Voluntary Sector
Health and social care professional
The combination of sociology and social policy provides students with essential theoretical and methodological tools required to describe and analyse aspects of social life, and to comprehend the nature, importance and impact of social policy on our quality of life.
Students will have the opportunity to put their knowledge into practice through community-based learning programmes.
Community placements deepen your appreciation of these two disciplines and enhance your employment opportunities.
You will be taught by skilled staff who are committed to high quality teaching and who are research-active.
We bring to the class room a wide range of experience in the fields of sociological research and social policy provision.
2023 Entry
A former Social Policy student, Amy Redsull, said:
'Since being at University of Wolverhampton, and completing my undergraduate degree, receiving a 2.1 overall, I have embarked on a Research Masters degree.
My time at Wolverhampton has stuck with me, I have used my experience and knowledge to my advantage.
My current research is a continuation of a project I had completed whilst studying in Social Policy, an overview of how Universal Credit has affected families within a localised region of the UK.
In terms of career prospects, I currently work for a local authority, a youth mental health charity and work in various voluntary roles such as being an equalities and youth officer for a local political party and as a mentor in two different capacities.'
'University of Wolverhampton created a foundation for me to become the person that I am today, for that I will always be grateful and I will always look back in fondness of my time in the University.'

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-health-and-social-care:
This course is designed to equip you with the critical skills, knowledge, and compassionate approach needed in today's evolving healthcare landscape, this degree prepares you to make a meaningful difference in people's lives.
Our course is designed to provide a supportive, engaging, and inclusive learning experience that helps you succeed.
In the classroom, you’ll benefit from excellent teaching support, with dedicated academic coaches and student transition teachers working alongside your lecturers to ensure you get the most from your studies.
Large groups are split into smaller ones, allowing for more personal contact with your lecturer and a more interactive, engaging learning environment.
Our teaching methods include activities, exercises, quizzes, and formative assessments to help you stay on track with learning outcomes and assessment expectations.
We also offer tailored assessment support through module tutorials, workshops, and assignment unpacking sessions, helping you build confidence in your academic work.
Study skills workshops, peer study groups, and a variety of assessment methods ensure that different learning needs are met, allowing you to excel.
Our extensive library resources and study skills support, including the Student Enabling Centre for students with specific learning needs, provide additional help when you need it.
We offer a wide range of student support services to help you succeed throughout your degree.
This includes access to financial support funds, counselling services, mental health support, and one-to-one advice and guidance.
You'll also have a variety of self-care resources at your fingertips to support your well-being and help you make the most of your university experience.
Above all, we take a friendly, warm, and informal approach to learning.
Our teaching team is approachable, responsive, and always happy to help.
You'll have opportunities for discussion, debate, and Q&A in a fun and encouraging environment where your voice is valued.
You'll also have a variety of self-care resources at your fingertips to support your wellbeing and help you make the most of your university experience.
This module has been designed to develop your personal and professional skills, allowing you to reflect on your reflect on your progress so far, as well as your future career aspirations.
The focus is on developing students who are competent, compassionate and effective professionals able to work in partnership with individuals, families, communities and with a range of wider agencies/organisations in order to improve health and social outcomes.
The emphasis on “how” you work in partnership with individuals and groups and build effective relationships is vital in ensuring health outcomes are improved and inequalities reduced.
In this module you will explore how health and social care is delivered in the UK (the structure, organisation, funding and regulation) as well as the legal, professional and ethical frameworks underpinning professional practice.
You will look at the roles of different professionals, reflect on the values, knowledge and skills that are required to work in the sector and consider your own personal and professional development linked to these.
The health agenda worldwide has increasingly been shaped by recognition of the crucial importance of social factors in determining health and illness.
Wide disparities in health - reflecting divisions in social class, wealth, geography, gender, racial or ethnic background - persist between communities, regions and countries, and are growing in many parts of the world.
This module examines the wide range of social and cultural factors that influence individual, community and population health.
You will explore the causes and extent of inequalities in health status within and between different social groups and identify how these challenges are being addressed so that the health and wellbeing of all groups in society can be improved.
When thinking about health and wellbeing at an individual, family or community level, it is important to first consider what is meant by the term ‘health’; to explore how ‘illness’ and ‘disability’ are defined and to think about we mean when we talk about ‘wellbeing’?
It is only through an understanding of these concepts and of the factors that influence them that we can begin to think about how to improve people’s health and how to support those experiencing poor health.
However, the very terms ‘health, ‘illness’, ‘disability’ and ‘wellbeing’ may be defined and understood differently, depending on a range of factors.
For example, is ‘health’ something people experience and an end in itself, or should ‘health’ be thought of in terms of the capacity it gives people to function and participate in society?
Why is it that some people will regard themselves as ‘ill’ whilst others with similar symptoms do not?
Are there differences in how clinicians assess ‘health’ and ‘illness’ compared to how we might think about this as members of the public and if there are differences in all of these, what impact might this have?
This module explores the challenges of defining and measuring these key concepts and will support you to develop an appreciation of the bio-psycho-social model of health and well-being.
Drawing on a range of perspectives the module also provides insight into people’s health and social behaviours, considers the changing health needs of populations (with a focus on the UK) and introduces you to public health and health promotion.
In this module you will be introduced to the idea of research and necessary knowledge and skills required in becoming a researcher.
You will learn about research process and an introduction to the different type of research approaches and methods.
You will have the opportunity to explore contemporary social care issues to test your research skills.
This module will enable you to exercise employable skills by identifying an area of interest that will contribute to setting the foundations to you developing research skills and prepare for future studies.
The aim of this module is for students to gain an understanding of the funding, organisation and delivery of social care services in contemporary Britain.
Students will need to show an understanding of the state, market and family and their respective roles within the mixed economy of welfare, as well as the purchaser/provider split and its implications for the funding and delivery of social care services.
Students will be introduced to key policies and legislation and there will be a focus on core academic skills such as source selection, referencing, paraphrasing and academic writing, with students required to demonstrate their proficiency in each of these areas in order to progress from the module.
In this module we will introduce you to a number of key ideas that you will build on throughout your studies.
You will study how ethical principles, values and ideology relate to, create, maintain and are challenged by disadvantaged groups.
This module will examine the purpose and uses of research while exploring contemporary issues and debates in the way research is conducted.
The module will outline methodological issues and equip students with skills necessary to evaluate existing research and understand how it can be used to inform their understanding and practice.
Mental, physical and social wellbeing are virtually inseparable.
Good mental health is a vital asset for individuals, families and society.
It enhances healthy lifestyles, physical health and functional abilities and promotes recovery from illness.
It also has important social benefits on educational attainment, economic productivity, social and family relationships, social cohesion and overall quality of life across the entire population.
This module provides you with an opportunity to explore the concept of mental health and wellbeing from a range of perspectives.
You will gain an understanding of holistic approaches to promoting mental health along with knowledge of mental health conditions, the factors that impact on mental health and look at mental health practice / service provision.
The module also explores positive proactive steps to promote recovery and draws throughout on the lived experience, legislative drivers and research to further enhance an understanding of mental health and wellbeing.
The module has been designed to allow flexibility of choice for you to focus on a specific area of interest.
Those working in the statutory, voluntary and independent sectors work within a range of inter-professional teams, organisations, networks and systems in order to support individuals and communities.
This requires practitioners to be able to learn and work together in order to overcome the potential constraints arising from different professional and organisational accountabilities, cultures, values and professional codes of conduct.
In addition, there is a heightened recognition now at a national policy level that not only do staff need to work together in the best interests of individuals and communities but local health and care organisations must also collaborate more effectively to make best use of public funding and accelerate the integration of services for patients.
This module will introduce you to theoretical, legislative and policy underpinnings of partnership and collaborative working, consider professional roles and responsibilities and explore the key skills and knowledge required to engage and work effectively with a wide range of stakeholders across health and social care.
There will be an emphasis throughout on understanding how partnership / collaborative working impacts individual service users and wider communities and responding appropriately to diversity.
This module will consider the key stages of interventions in social care, whether in terms of work with individuals, groups or communities.
Practitioners in social care organisations - whether in statutory, private or voluntary sectors - work with different assessment frameworks and methods (including systemic social practice), designed to assess levels of need with a multidisciplinary approach.
However, in some way, most will follow the progress of making an assessment and engaging with a service user through care planning processes and delivering appropriate needs led/person centred intervention.
Students on completion of this module will be able to identify (1) the skills that are necessary to support these practices, and (2) how these practices can be needs led and /or person-centred.
Where we live and our communities are inextricably linked with our health and life expectancies.
This module explores the impact that community environments have on health and wellbeing from a multi-disciplinary perspective, investigating both the theory and the practical applications which aim to improve health and wellbeing; empower communities to realise their potential and which contribute to building healthier, resilient and sustainable communities.
Community development principles which you will explore and apply to the grassroots dimension of this subject area reflect an inclusivity and diversity framework, as social justice, education, sustainability, partnership and equality are fundamental principles embedded within.
The module will support you to work within community settings by looking at local policy and provision and you will be expected to discuss and reflect on your own knowledge and experience to understand and challenge current theories, polices and practice.
You will gain an understanding of how community development approaches seek to challenge the power relations embedded in professional contexts and you will be expected to synthesise and evaluate research, policy and practice evidence regarding community development and health.
This module will discuss a comprehensive and contemporary range of issues that affect children in their personal lives and in the wider community.
The position of youth and the challenges they face within the community will be explored using appropriate theories, methods and models.
This module provides an analysis of health policy primarily focusing on recent policy changes in the UK and identifying the major influences which have shaped these policies.
There have been considerable changes in health service policy and public health policy in the UK over the last two decades involving changes to existing policies and the development of new policy themes.
The latter have included aspects such as the rise and fall of policies aimed at social inequalities and the decline in life expectancy in some areas; the increasing emphasis on 'nudging' lifestyle change and on wellbeing in public health policy and the re-emergence of the importance of environmental health policy.
There has also been a continued focus on the views and/or the voice of the user and the public and increasing emphasis on democratising the health service and co-production.
This module will develop your critical understanding of current health policy, the influences on policy (historical, social, economic/financial, technological, professional and political) and the policy-making process.
It develops the evaluative skills necessary to critically interrogate policies- to determine how effective, efficient, ethical and equitable they are – and to advocate for alternative policies that would enhance the effectiveness and equity of policy responses to public health issues.
This module will give the opportunity for an in-depth study of a social care topic of your own choosing.
This could be based around your personal, volunteer or work experience; it could be something that has particularly interested you during the course.
Law and ethics in health is a fascinating area to study, dealing with some of the most contested and controversial issues of our time.
In a changing moral climate, debates about abortion, about stem cell research, about withholding treatment or about assisted dying are very much alive and attract considerable political, media and public interest.
There are also challenging ethical and legal questions about psychiatry, about capacity issues in relation to treatment decisions, about the allocation of scarce medical resources, about autonomy and public health, and many other issues.
This module will provide you with an understanding of how law and ethics apply when working in health and care settings.
It will give you an appreciation of relevant legal and ethical issues, terminology, sources of law and the ways in which law and ethics work in practice..
You will explore the philosophy and principles of ethics and look at the legal requirements of safe practice, using case studies to help you apply this knowledge.
You will have the opportunity to deliver a coherent and reasoned solution to resolve a specific dilemma in a healthcare setting in the summative assessment.
In the continually changing health and social care environment it is imperative that all staff are able to adapt and review how they understand and undertake leadership and management within their roles.
Leadership in the health and care sectors is considered to be ‘shared’ and ‘distributed’, requiring the efforts of staff at all levels to maintain high quality care and to deliver change and improvement.
However, leadership is challenging.
It requires a complex set of skills - from motivating and engaging others and working collaboratively to dealing with uncertainty and supporting colleagues.
This module will support you to develop an in-depth understanding of leadership and management in contemporary health and social care contexts, whilst considering your own role and future development.
You will explore both the theoretical background to leadership and management and the practical skills which required to be an effective leader.
You will leave with greater insight into your own leadership style and your impact on others, how to engage others to bring about change and improvement and a deeper understanding of how all those involved in delivering care/services can take on leadership roles.
In this module we will introduce you to the issue of innovation in social care and the current and future role of technology.
The module will outline some of the current challenges facing the sector e.g.
a larger and increasingly aging population and people with severe, multiple and complicated needs.
Innovative and technological solutions have a role in tackling these challenges.
The module will develop student’s ability to critically evaluate the challenges and solutions to these issues.
This module will further equip students with employability skills to work in practice with these challenges and implement strategies and solutions that are based on technology and innovation
This module will discuss a comprehensive and contemporary range of issues that affect young people in their personal lives and in the wider community.
Specialist Practitioner
Teaching Pathways
Care Worker
Housing Officer
Youth Justice Worker
Health Advisor
Healthcare Assistant
Drugs Worker
Health Service Manager
Rehabilitation Drug’s Worker
Mental Health Professional
Care Manager
Teaching Assistant
Community Outreach Worker
Social Care Prescribers
Health Promotion Specialist
Family Support Worker.
Welfare Advice and Rights Officer
Health Care Assistant
Healthcare Support Workers
Health Educators
Health Scientist
Welfare and Housing Professionals
Practice Manager
Community Development Worker
Social Work Assistant
The Access to Disability Benefits Project
The Access to Disability Benefits Project is an exciting collaboration between the City of Wolverhampton Council’s Welfare Rights Service and the University of Wolverhampton.
This hands-on experience allows you to work directly with claimants, gathering information on their personal circumstances, health conditions, treatments, and the impact of disability on their daily lives.
Through these interactions, you will gain invaluable insight into the lived experiences of individuals with complex needs while developing key skills in communication, active listening, and sensitivity when handling personal information.
This project also enhances your understanding of the benefits system, equipping you with the interpersonal and professional skills needed to support vulnerable individuals effectively.
With Welfare Rights Officers recognised as a career path within social care (Skills for Care, 2022), this opportunity provides real-world experience in trust-building, motivation, and advocacy.
Based at the Civic Centre—just a short walk from the University—you will work alongside experienced Welfare Rights staff, directly supporting individuals who rely on this vital service.
Emily, University of Wolverhampton Student Health and Social Care
Student testimonials
Helen
“I took part in the Access to Disability Project throughout the first and second year of my degree course.
I was fully supported throughout my time as a volunteer by my mentor.
I learned about the welfare benefits system through the training that was given as well as the real-life experiences of the people who claim these benefits through spending time with and filling out the forms with them.
I gained experience of communication techniques, extracting information and a sense of fulfilment through supporting others and making a positive impact on their lives.
The project was a great way to gain some work experience whilst also helping others and gaining knowledge of the welfare benefits system and the problems facing people in the community in everyday life.”
Sharon
“… I have been volunteering for the Access to Disability project for over a year now.
The project can help you to fine-tune confidence, communication, and empathy skills.
I met people from a wide range of diverse social backgrounds.
The project is very rewarding, especially when the outcome is a positive one.”
Customers of the Project
"I honestly didn’t think I would get any money, so thank you.’
‘I didn’t think that I qualified for additional help.
The extra money has made so much difference to me."
‘’You have made my life circumstance change I don't know how I would be coping without the service you provided, very grateful."
"… Without a doubt, I am now in a far stronger financial position than previously as a result of the work undertaken on my behalf… your project is doing a superb job."
Throughout your Health and Social Care degree, you'll progress through a rich and carefully designed journey of learning and development.
At Level 4, you will build a strong foundation of knowledge and skills, exploring the core values and ethics of the profession, with a focus on anti-discriminatory practice.
You’ll also begin to develop essential academic study skills, preparing you to evaluate and critically debate key issues as you move into Level 5.
At this stage, you’ll gain a broad understanding of the diverse practices, settings, and social, political and economic factors that shape the sector.
You’ll explore specialist areas of practice and develop interventions to support children and adults in a range of contexts, engaging with complex issues such as continuity of care, long-term conditions, rehabilitation, ageing populations, and end-of-life care.
In your final year, you will demonstrate your ability to think critically, analyse and evaluate complex information, and communicate confidently with individuals, groups, and organisations.
You’ll also develop the professional capabilities to maintain accurate records and make sound, ethical decisions.
By the time you graduate, you’ll be work-ready, equipped with a highly valued set of graduate skills including leadership, problem-solving, project management, creativity, teamwork, communication, time management, specialist knowledge, self-motivation, and the ability to stay calm under pressure.
- Stephanie Westbrook, Health and Social Care graduate -
Current Job role: Current study programme: Currently A PGCE student teaching Computer Science.
Dual specialist in Health and Social Care and Computer Science.
"As a single parent and not really knowing fully what to do following the birth of my son, the university and the partnership working of Telford College has significantly supported my learning and development, I have devoted time and energy to my studies to streamline my learning pathway.
Without the care and support of my fellow lecturers and the university, I dare say this would have been possible.
When people think Health and Social Care it is easy to think of it as working just within that field.
The modules and syllabus for learning have branched me further out than I possibly could have imagined and are not just limited to one area of interest.
The module designs have been carefully thought out and have been adapted holistically, this can clearly be seen by the huge range of research and design combinations.
I did not think I would be linking 2 areas of interest together and combining them as specialisms.
However, I have and I am fascinated by the level I have been able to get to so far.
Education should always be seen as a journey and a stepping stone into the wider world.
Without the training and development, I doubt I would be where I am today.
the doors had been widened to allow me to walk through and for that, I will always be grateful.
"The course is continuing to develop me further, I will be commencing my first teaching role in September 2024; however, I will also be continuing my CPD by continuing with a master’s in education.
My Undergraduate program has supported this transition and has been the foundation to go on and develop further.
The degree had its own challenges, but the support of my lecturers had not gone unnoticed with their dedication and endless support throughout.
No journey like this should be easy due to the level being worked at.
But the ongoing support and encouragement is most definitely there.
As a disabled student, my accessibility to learning has honestly been some of the best and I hope to take this forward in my own classrooms."
" When I joined university I had no confidence and did not know if I was good enough.
Completing my foundation year in health and social care has been the best experience for me.
All staff have been very friendly and helpful.
Now I am more confident and motivated and I can't wait for level 4!!
- Gaye Leanne Garland, Health and Social Care with Foundation Year -
" As a mature student and a mom the thought of starting university was daunting., but it is honestly one of the best things I've ever done.
I have loved every second, the support received is second to none and the friendships made will be lifelong.
If you are in any doubt, do it!
What have you got to lose ".
- Becky Parker, Public Health with Foundation Year -
" The support and encouragement this first year has been incredible.
It has helped me to find confidence in m abilities, and I now see so much potential in myself .
This Foundation Year has been invaluable ".
- Kerrie Green, Health and Social Care with Foundation Year -
" Over the course of three years this university and degree has helped my development and understanding of the social care sector, as well as health and wellbeing.
With the support of the faculty, I have very much enjoyed my time, thank you ".
- Zeba (has asked to use first name only), Social Care, Health and Wellbeing
" I am currently doing a social care and health and wellbeing course, which I have enjoyed for the past three years.
It has been a pleasure being taught this course by the social care and health and wellbeing team.
Overall, the past three years have been blissful.
And I have enjoyed every moment!
".
- Rubbena (has asked to use first name only), Social Care, Health and Wellbeing -
" I feel that this course has helped open my eyes to different topics and piqued my interest in topics I did not know I was interested in.
The support that I have also received from the staff made it even more inspiring and encouraging to see it through!
- Paige (has asked to use first name only), Social Care, Health and Wellbeing -

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-physical-education-and-school-sport:
Our innovative program has been approved by the Association for Physical Education, ensuring you receive top-tier professional development and qualifications.
Designed to immerse you in rich learning experiences, this course equips you with essential tools for teaching and coaching.
You’ll enhance your planning, leading, and reflective skills, laying a solid foundation for a fulfilling career in Physical Education and School Sport.
This innovative course has been approved by the Association for Physical Education in recognition of the high quality of course content, assessment and professional development .
The course is designed to provide you with diverse learning experiences to equip you with the tools to work within a range of environments, including educational settings.
You will explore learning from a teacher and pupil perspective.
These experiences will provide you with planning, leading and reflection skills that are key competencies in coaching and teaching.
The module will explore the role of teacher and learner within aesthetic activities.
Learner experiences will represent an opportunity to develop subject-knowledge and develop teaching experiences which support rich and inclusive learning experiences.
Pedagogical strategies intertwined with the delivery of aesthetic activities and the experience as a learner will form the basis of this module.
You will explore sport as subject-matter for Physical Education, identifying different possibilities for learning across psychomotor, cognitive-reflective, affective and socio-motor domains.
Skilfulness will become a core conceptual element of investigation.
You will look to explore the contextual elements of skilfulness through the interaction of people and unfolding environments.
You will work towards designing a learning activity in which they are able to identify the elements of skilfulness which this activity aims to challenge and develop.
You will explore sports as subject-matter for learning in Physical Education and School Sport.
This will help you improve your knowledge and understanding of sports.
You will examine how practices of sport may used to develop performative notions of knowledge through skilfulness and the potential impact of such notions.
The module will encourage you to consider career aspirations and the journey towards such goals.
You will explore what it means to be employable within various educational and sporting settings.
As you research and appreciate what employers value, you will identify employability skills and processes related to your career goals.
This will include supporting the use of transferable skills for Physical Education and the sport and physical activity industry as you develop an action plan that will enable you to achieve your professional development and career goals.
Students will explore the anatomy of teaching styles and the relationship between teacher and learner decision making.
This module will support your understanding of how to design, lead and manage learning activities.
You will explore how learning tasks can determine what pupils are able to demonstrate and develop.
Using this understanding you will analyse subject-matter to develop your own learning activities with the aim of differentiating and progressing identified learning.
You will use your understanding of how to analyse and manage the complexity of unfolding sports environments to construct your learning activities.
The module will require students to consider the planning, delivery and evaluation in the lead up to running an event.
Learning experiences within the module will focus upon developing your capability to analyse subject-matter for learning with a view to identifying components of skilfulness within complex unfolding sports contexts.
You will apply this analysis to identify how to differentiate and develop identified components of this skilfulness.
Using this understanding you will focus on designing problem-based learning activities to differentiate and progress the identified components of skilfulness.
You will consider a range of historical, political and sociological factors that impact on education.
More specifically, you will be asked to show knowledge and critical understanding of how such factors shape conceptions and practices of Physical Education and School Sport.
You will apply this knowledge and understanding to inform pedagogical practice.
You will be introduced to the stages of the research process in order to produce a literature review to underpin your research project which you will complete in your final year.
You will select an area of research and provide a review of the current and relevant literature that pertains to that area of research.
Your choice of topic should be worthwhile, appropriate, and relevant.
This is something that you should discuss in collaboration with the module team and supervisor.
Students will explore the operationalisation of pedagogical approaches in work-based learning that promote greater pupil control and ownership over learning.
A particular focus will be on the progression and differentiation of learning activities to develop the control and ownership.
Students will explore theoretically and practically the meanings of health and knowledge within Physical Education and School Sport.
This module will introduce you to innovative pedagogical approaches towards the delivery of theoretical components of the Physical Education GCSE/A Level curricula.
The aim of this module is to demonstrate your developing professional identity in order to prepare you for graduate level employment in work based environments, upon the completion of your degree.
You will reflect on the pedagogical practices of others within a school or relevant work-based environment and on the knowledge, skills and experiences developed during your degree to demonstrate your readiness to enter graduate-level employment to future employers.
You will explore current employment opportunities and learn how to 'sell yourself' to potential employers.
On successful completion of this module and on completion of the course, you will be awarded a Wolverhampton Enterprise and Employability Award (WEEA) certificate.
Secondary School Physical Education Teacher
Secondary School Teacher
Primary School Teacher
School Sport Coach
Sports Coach
Further Education Lecturer
Learning Support Assistant
Police Officer
Occupational Therapist
Army
You will learn:
Typical entry requirement: 96 UCAS points
Olympic superstar Kristian Thomas has added a First Class degree from the University of Wolverhampton to his long list of accolades (September, 2019).
The captain of Great Britain’s men’s gymnastics team at Rio 2016 said: "It’s a very proud moment after three years of hard work to be in the Grand Theatre with my cohort and my peers and the people who have helped me including the academic staff.
I was out of education for quite a few years so to come back into it was a little bit daunting but they made that process so seamless.
I’m very proud to come to the end of the three years and to come away with a first class honours as well."
Watch Kristian's full video here | Press Release (Express and Star)

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-physical-education-and-school-sport-with-foundation-year:
Proudly approved by the Association for Physical Education, this program is designed to immerse you in rich learning experiences, equipping you with the essential tools to teach and coach effectively.
Through our comprehensive curriculum, you will develop key planning, leading, and reflection skills, that are vital for success in the roles of teacher and coach.
A standout feature of our course is the placement modules, providing you with invaluable hands-on experience and mentorship in real-world settings.
This innovative course has been approved by the Association for Physical Education in recognition of the high quality professional development, including qualifications, provided .
The course is designed to provide you with rich learning experiences to equip you with the tools to teach and coach.
These experiences will provide you with planning, leading and reflection skills that form the basis of fulfilling the role of a teacher and coach.
Placement modules are a leading feature of the course allowing you to gain hands-on experience and mentoring.
You will develop your ability to work within professional settings to facilitate a future career within Physical Education and School Sport.
For more information about sport at the University of Wolverhampton please see our WLV Sport Page .
This module will enable to you develop your understanding of how lifestyle factors affect exercise and health behaviour.
You will explore the role of exercise and sedentary behaviour in the maintenance of health and wellbeing, and the prevention of a large number of diseases, including coronary heart disease, diabetes and obesity.
You will investigate the relationship between physical, social and mental/emotional health, and identify strategies for maintaining and improving health and wellbeing
In this module you will explore and debate a range of current issues related to sport and physical activity.
In this engaging module you will investigate fascinating questions within topics such as influences on human performance and health, coaching and teaching practice, sport media and marketing.
You will undertake and investigation on one current issue that you will select from a range of options.
The University's Department of Sport in the Institute of Human Sciences has been awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze Department Award in recognition of their work to support gender equality.
We're proud to confirm our £300 travel fund helping eligible new UK full-time undergraduate entrants* with the costs of travel continues for students starting in 2019/20 and 2020/21!
For further information please click here.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-physical-education-and-school-sport-with-sandwich-placement:
Develop critical planning, leading, and reflection skills foundational to a successful career as a teacher and coach with our physical education and school sport with a sandwich placement degree.
A highlight of our program is the placement modules, which offer hands-on experience and valuable mentoring, preparing you to thrive in professional settings.
This innovative course has been approved by the Association for Physical Education in recognition of the high quality professional development, including qualifications, provided.
You will experience learning opportunities and assessments within practical contexts informed by contemporary theory and research.
Placement modules will allow you to gain hands-on experience and to receive mentorship within professional environments throughout the course.
Our employability modules enable you to explore career pathways in physical education and school sport and engage in career development planning that prepares you for graduate-level employment in a competitive industry.
Each year you will have opportunities to participate in career development activities and network with employers from the Sports Industry.
You will be taught by teaching staff that have track records with the teaching profession and in the leadership and management of Physical Education Departments and School Sport.
6.
You will complete a sandwich placement year in a physical education and school sport context.
Our sandwich placement involves you taking a full-year work placement, which can be undertaken abroad.
A number of students in our department have been successful in securing places
This module provides an opportunity to apply and develop professional skills and knowledge during a year-long work experience with a sector relevant employer.
The work experience will be negotiated prior to commencing the module, and supported by a workplace mentor and the University of Wolverhampton ‘The Workplace’ and Faculty Partnerships Unit.
During the work experience students are required to identify, negotiate and research an issue which is relevant to both their academic studies and the employer.
Employers frequently aim to employ graduates who have already gained relevant work experience as part of their course, and this module allows students to achieve this while also developing a unique selling point.
Why Study Sport at the University of Wolverhampton
Olympic superstar Kristian Thomas has added a First Class degree from the University of Wolverhampton to his long list of accolades (September, 2019).
The captain of Great Britain’s men’s gymnastics team at Rio 2016 said: "It’s a very proud moment after three years of hard work to be in the Grand Theatre with my cohort and my peers and the people who have helped me including the academic staff.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-football-coaching-and-performance-with-foundation-year:
The BSc (Hons) Football Coaching and Performance degree at the University of Wolverhampton offers a dynamic and hands-on pathway into the world of football.
Are you passionate about football and want to build a career in coaching, player development or performance analysis?
This unique course has been developed alongside industry partners and endorsed by the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA).
The course team consists of FA qualified coach developers who have many years of experience delivering Union of European Football Association (UEFA) accredited coaching courses to developing coaches.
On the course you will gain:
Real-World Experience : Collaborate with professional football clubs, community organisations and grassroots clubs during work placements and live projects.
We have strong links with over 50 clubs in the West Midlands, including opportunities with some of our key partners such as Wolverhampton Wanderers, Walsall FC, West Bromwich Albion and WLV Sport.
Blend of Theory and Practice : Gain deep insight into coaching techniques, performance analysis, sports science and tactical coaching strategies.
All assessments are geared towards developing industry-specific skills utilised in the workplace.
Qualifications: The first two years of the degree will prepare you to complete the Football Association (FA) Introduction to Coaching Football Award, Multiskills Level 2 and UEFA C qualifications (although completion of these qualifications will require additional tasks outside of the degree programme and align with your regular coaching).
You will also complete your Hudl Level 1 certificate in the first year, which is an industry-recognised performance analysis qualification.
First-Class Facilities : Train and study in professional-standard sports labs, fitness centres and performance suites, including access to world-leading performance analysis software, Hudl.
Career-Ready Graduates : Tailored modules focused on employability in the football industry, exploring how to best prepare yourself for life after university as a sports graduate.
Strong Industry Links : Build a network of contacts with our partnerships across semi-professional and professional clubs in the UK and beyond.
Opportunities are also provided for coaching abroad via our partnerships with Challenger Sports and Camp America.
Knowing Our Students: Student support is our priority, with a focus on nurturing strong relationships to provide guidance and assistance to students.
Our cohort sizes ensure we can provide a more personalised approach for our students.
As part of this four-year degree, you will complete a sandwich placement year where you will apply your learning in real-world settings.
This full-year work placement can be undertaken in the UK or abroad.
Several of our students have been successful in securing places each year on these schemes in countries including Spain, France and the US and at clubs such as West Ham United FC.
The University of Wolverhampton has a long and successful history in academia priding itself on being the university of opportunity.
You will engage in regular coaching and performance analysis, where our placement modules will allow you to gain hands on experience and receive mentorship within professional environments.
The Foundation Year will prepare you with university academic skills and an overview of sports modules that will prepare you to move onto the full BSc Football Coaching and Performance degree.
The second and third years of the degree will prepare you to complete the Football Association (FA) Introduction to Coaching Football Award, Multiskills Level 2 Award, Hudl Level 1 certificate and the UEFA C coaching qualification.
completion of these qualifications will require additional tasks outside of the degree programme and align with your regular coaching.
s

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-football-coaching-and-performance-with-sandwich-placement:
The course team consists of FA-qualified coach developers who have many years of experience delivering Union of European Football Association (UEFA) accredited coaching courses to developing coaches.
On the course, you will gain:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-sport-and-exercise-science:
Students rated the quality of teaching on their course as 93% ( Times Good University Guide, 2025 ).
This exciting and applied course has been endorsed through the British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences Undergraduate Endorsement Scheme (BUES), and provides undergraduates with the opportunity to develop the knowledge and skills essential to enter work within in the sport and exercise industry.
Further enhancing your employment opportunities, the course is also endorsed by the Charted Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMPSA), ensuring that you meet the requirements of potential employers.
Course content aligns with the employer-set professional standards of a gym instructor and will equip you with all the skills and competencies you'll need to stand out from the crowd.
The course covers the biomechanical, physiological, and psychological influences on human performance in sport, exercise, and health.
You will examine how individuals respond and adapt to sport and exercise in a variety of settings and learn how to design interventions to maximise performance and promote health for a range of people.
This may include elite athletes or clinical populations such as those with obesity or cardiac rehabilitation patients.
You will also explore local, national, and international public health and sport initiatives that aim to encourage a physically active population.
This course is therefore ideal if you wish to work in applied settings such as professional sport, exercise referral schemes, community physical activity programmes and professional environments that promote active lifestyles and wellbeing.
The University's School of Sport has been awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze Department Award in recognition of their work to support gender equality.
In this module you will explore and debate a range of contemporary issues related to sport and physical activity.
This will develop your understanding of some of the questions surrounding sport and physical activity, in areas such as, sport performance, exercise participation and understanding how age and pathology affect performance at everyday physical tasks.
You will also explore the scientific practice that underpins our knowledge related to such contemporary issues, and apply ways of collecting and analysing data.
The purpose of this module is to provide the necessary foundational knowledge in the three main sport and exercise science disciplines; physiology, psychology and biomechanics as well as introductory topics in functional anatomy.
You will initially study functional anatomy and use anatomical terminology as you describe human movement.
The basic theory of biomechanics will be covered to include the kinematic and kinetic analysis of human movement.
The physiological response to exercise will be considered with a focus on cardiorespiratory function and fuel for exercise.
Additionally you will explore some of the key theory surrounding sport and exercise psychology and apply them to motivational theory and behaviour change.
Students will examine how physiology, biomechanics and psychology are applied within human  performance and health contexts to understand and assist participation and performance in a range of sport and exercise settings.
This will occur within in a controlled laboratory and an applied field setting, enabling students to understand sport and exercise science support and develop the technical skills to help develop appropriate interventions for both Sport and Exercise populations.
This module aims to raise students' awareness of the prevalence of physical activity, physical inactivity, and sedentary behaviour and the strengths and limitations of the measurement tools used to obtain these data.
Students will investigate current recommendations for physical activity and sedentary behaviour and explore the evidence supporting their formulation and efficacy.
Students will examine the role of physical activity in the promotion of health and the prevention and management of chronic diseases and conditions, such as cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes, obesity, sarcopenia, and frailty.
In this module, we will describe and apply various behaviour change models (e.g., self-determination, social cognitive theory, theory of planned behaviour and the health belief model) aimed at improving physical activity adherence and reducing sedentary behaviour.
In addition, students will learn how to apply exercise training principles to develop an exercise prescription for people at risk of or diagnosed with a specific chronic disease.
The module provides you with awareness of professional standards to gain qualifications within the sport and physical activity industry.
As a student on this module you will evaluate your current skills and knowledge to competently plan and deliver appropriate exercise to individuals.
In addition you will evaluate your future personal development goals within the sport and physical activity industry to enhance your employability.
This will be achieved with the use of both formative and summative assessment opportunities.
Moreover, you will also work towards the Wolverhampton Enterprise and Employability Award.
The module aims to prepare you to work within the exercise, physical activity and health environments.
As a student you will investigate the role of exercise in managing health and medical conditions to explore exercise related factors which may inhibit or assist clients.
This will include theoretical and practical aspects of working with a client from initial screening to implementation and subsequent monitoring and evaluation of client needs.
During this module you will also have the opportunity to work towards the Wolverhampton Enterprise and Employability Award.
In this module students will develop knowledge and understanding of the major physiological and biochemical principles relevant to sport and exercise (i.e.
cardiovascular, respiratory, neuromuscular, metabolic, endocrine, and thermoregulatory responses and adaptations to exercise).
Students will explore the physiological and metabolic responses to exercise in environmental extremes, such as in hot and cold conditions, in addition to the challenges of exercising at altitude.
Students will also transfer academic knowledge into practical application within the laboratory.
Students will observe and conduct a range of physiological and metabolic assessments, including ventilatory gas responses during exercise, maximal oxygen uptake, blood lactate concentrations during graded exercise, and cardiovascular responses to different modalities of exercise.
The coupling of theory with practice is a key concept for this module, enabling the student to not only engage with academic literature, but also start to develop key laboratory and personal and interpersonal skills that are essential for a career in exercise physiology and a wide range of sport and exercise related industries.
This module will enable you to develop your understanding of psychological constructs and data from 'clients' to help make sense of sport, exercise and physical activity participation and experiences.
Within the module you will learn to use theory, literature and data from 'clients'' experiences to propose psychological interventions.
Practical opportunities will be provided to reinforce module content, allowing you to critically evaluate and apply psychological concepts, skills and interventions.
A key feature of this module is demonstrating and reflecting on your ability to communicate psychological factors that effect sport and physical activity experience with 'clients' (such as sport performers, exercisers and the general public).
This module aims to develop your understanding of biomechanics when applied to sport and physical activity.
You will focus on the application of quantitative biomechanical analysis to a range of sport skills and physical activities through laboratory practical sessions, lectures and workshops.
Your understanding of sport and physical activity from a biomechanical perspective will be developed through integration of biomechanical theory, and evidence from practice, academic literature and the data you collect in laboratory sessions.
You will study advanced and contemporary aspects of sport and exercise biomechanics from both a theoretical and practical standpoint.
During laboratory sessions and workshops you will experience using advanced measurement and analysis techniques, such as three-dimensional motion analysis, in the study of the biomechanics of human movement.
The module will allow you to develop knowledge and an appreciation of the application of biomechanical analysis in research, and in applied and clinical contexts.
This module aims to provide students with an opportunity to study advanced and contemporary aspects of sport and exercise physiology from both a theoretical and practical standpoint.
Students will be required to solve two research questions over the course of the semester by designing and conducting short laboratory and/or field experiments.
Through these experiments, students will critically analyse the theoretical underpinnings of each hypothesis posed.
Students will choose and demonstrate competence in a range of physiological assessments to assess the outcomes of the experiments.
Students will then perform statistical analysis on the test data obtained, and interpret and communicate their findings.
When interpreting the results of their experiments, students will need to compare and contrast their findings to previous scientific literature, apply an understanding and knowledge of physiological and biochemical principles, and critically evaluate the strengths and limitations inherent in their experiment design.
Students will present their findings both in oral and written formats.
During this module, students will develop skills and knowledge necessary to work in sport and exercise physiology-related employment and/or research.
This module aims to develop your understanding of evidence-based psychological skills and strategies for the promotion of health, wellbeing and sporting potential.
You will be required to work both independently and as part of a group in critically evaluating and applying psychological theory for intervention development or review.
Throughout this module you will be required to utilise reflective practice on your own and in groups to support the completion of module assignments.
The module examines a range of issues in the science of sport and exercise and their implications on the health and performance of individuals and groups.
You have the opportunity to examine selected issues in depth, engage with applied practitioners, develop informed opinions on the topics, and to present information in a variety of formats.
This module will consist of a series of guest lectures from elite level practitioners from related sports science disciplines.
Applied practitioners working within different contexts and sports will provide insights into the many facets of the sport and exercise science industry, sharing experiences with students to help them gain an appreciation for applied practice and help them prepare for their assessment
High Performance Sport Scientist
Gait and Movement Technologist
Strength and Conditioning Coach
Exercise Referral Roles
Physical Activity Development Manager
Clinical Cardiac Physiologist
Sport and Exercise Nutritionist
Coaching and Sports Development Roles
Personal Trainer
For more information about sport at the University of Wolverhampton please see our WLV Sport Page.
The course has strong links to a range of employers.
You will develop your theoretical understanding, practical competency, and reflective practice in the field of sport and exercise science.
On completion of the course you will therefore be equipped with the skills and knowledge to enter a wide variety of rewarding sport, exercise, and health related careers.
A good graduate of this course will be able to:
Measure, evaluate and monitor physiological, biomechanical and psychological influences on human performance and health for a range of people such as elite athletes and those with obesity or cardiac rehabilitation patients
Design interventions to maximise performance and promote health for a range of people such as elite athletes and those with obesity or cardiac rehabilitation patients
Demonstrate technical and practical skills relevant to a range of sport, exercise and health settings
Work with a range of professionals as part of a multidisciplinary team to support sport performance and physical activity
Use research skills in order to collect and evaluate data in applied sport and exercise science settings
Recognised by the British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (BASES) for the purposes of endorsement by the BASES Undergraduate Endorsement Scheme (BUES).

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-sport-and-exercise-science-with-foundation-year:
The course is endorsed by the Charted Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMPSA), ensuring that you meet the requirements of potential employers.
BUES
Which awards endorsement to sport and exercise science degree courses that provide undergraduates with the opportunity to develop the knowledge and skills essential to enter into the profession.
Course content aligns with the employer-set professional standards of a gym instructor, and will equip you with all the skills and competencies you'll need to stand out from the crowd.
The course covers the physiological, biomechanical and psychological influences on human performance and health.
You will examine how individuals respond and adapt to sport and exercise in a variety of settings, and learn how to design interventions to maximise performance and promote health for a range of people.
You will also explore local, national and international public health and sport initiatives that aim to encourage a physically active population.
This course is therefore ideal if you wish to work in applied settings such as professional sport, exercise referral schemes, community physical activity programmes and professional environments that promote active lifestyles and well-being
Exercise Referral
The university's Department of Sport has been awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze Department Award in recognition of their work to support gender equality.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-sport-and-exercise-science-with-sandwich-placement:
This exciting and applied course has been endorsed through the British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences Undergraduate Endorsement Scheme (BUES), which awards endorsement to sport and exercise science degree courses that provide undergraduates with the opportunity to develop the knowledge and skills essential to enter into the profession.
You will have access to our sport and exercise science laboratories that include cutting edge technology such as our 3D motion capture system, and our environment chamber 2.
Throughout the course you will have the opportunity to work with a range professional sport organisations, clubs and university sports teams to develop industry skills relevant to a career in sport and exercise science.
Including opportunities with some of our partners such as Wolverhampton Wanders, Walsall FC and GB Judo.
Our employability modules enable you to explore sport and exercise science related career pathways and engage in career development planning that prepares you for graduate-level employment in a competitive industry 4.
You will complete an optional sandwich placement year.
A number of students in our department have been successful in securing places on these schemes in countries such as Spain, France, Canada and the US 5.
Teaching staff bring their internationally rated research expertise into their teaching.
The department has research links across the world and students can progress to postgraduate study with these collaborators.
99% sports graduate employability*.
Our students get jobs!

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-sport-and-exercise-therapy:
The BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise degree at the University of Wolverhampton is designed to equip you with the theoretical and practical skills to excel as an independent practitioner within a healthcare or sporting based environment.
By pursuing a BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Therapy degree, you have the opportunity to turn your passion for sport and exercise into a rewarding career.
With a comprehensive skill set, diverse career prospects, and the ability to make a positive impact on individuals' lives, this programme prepares you for a fulfilling journey in the dynamic and growing field of sport and exercise therapy.
The course is accredited by the leading professional body for this subject in the UK, The Society of Sports Therapists (SST), with the course being built upon the society’s five pillars of competency:
Throughout the course, you will gain a deep understanding of injury assessment, therapeutic management and rehabilitation for musculoskeletal injuries or conditions.
Our programme places a strong emphasis on creating a supportive learning environment, providing applied practical learning and experiences to help you achieve your career aspirations as a Graduate Sport and Exercise Therapist.
The BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise degree at the University of Wolverhampton is designed to equip you with the theoretical and practical skills to excel as an independent practitioner within a healthcare or sports-based environment.
Throughout the programme, you will develop a comprehensive understanding of human anatomy, injury assessment, therapeutic techniques and exercise prescription.
You will learn a patient-centred approach to evaluate and manage musculoskeletal injuries and conditions within a diverse variety of healthcare and performance settings.
You will develop the knowledge of sport and exercise principles to design and implement individualised exercise plans and empower patients to achieve their optimal potential.
You will enhance your professional development with the evaluation and reflection of contemporary research and clinical practice to ensure you are well-prepared to pursue a successful career in Sport and Exercise Therapy.
This module aims to provide the knowledge and skills necessary to plan, develop and implement a conditioning programme appropriate for the individual needs of a client.
You will learn the key principles and components of exercise training and prescription and how to adapt training variables for specific physiological adaptations and responses within programme design.
You will be introduced to a variety of training methods and exercises and taught the personal characteristics and practical competencies necessary for the safe and effective implementation.
The professional attributes of a Sport an Exercise Therapist within an exercise and rehabilitation setting will be introduced, with opportunity to formulate goals aligned to industry.
This module is designed to introduce you to the physiological and psychological response to sports injuries.
Topics of study include pain, the inflammatory response and tissue repair.
There are also topics that consider injuries that relate to specific tissue types and body regions.
The module also explores the psychological aspects of sports injury including the psychological responses to injury as well barriers to recovery.
This module supports the development of skills in the immediate management of injuries that occur in sport and exercise environments.
You will learn basic life support, pitch side management of injuries including support for suspected spinal injuries.
Consideration will also be given to the process of determining when athletes are fit to return to play and also maintaining accurate records and procedures for accident reporting
The purpose of this module is to develop a detailed understanding of musculoskeletal anatomy that is necessary for successful practice as a Sport and Exercise Therapist.
You will learn the structural and functional components of tissues such as bones, muscles, nerves and ligaments.
This module starts with an introduction to basic massage techniques before advancing to sports massage.
Topics studied include contraindications to massage, postural assessment, pre and post event massage as well as specific techniques such as myofascial release and muscle energy technique.
You will also be introduced to professional standards and ethical issue in sport and exercise therapy.
Completion of this module equips you with the necessary skills to work confidently with athletes in real sports events.
This module will teach you the principles and techniques used to assess joints and tissue structures.
This will include functional assessment as well as special tests with a focus at this stage on assessment of the upper and lower limbs.
You will also learn to recognise the common sport and exercise related injuries affecting the joints you are assessing.
In addition, you will learn physical examination and assessment skills as well as develop your decision making and clinical reasoning skills.
This module provides opportunities to further develop and apply the skills of examination and assessment of peripheral joints.
You will learn and apply the techniques of manual therapy to the treatment of peripheral joints, tissues and structures.
Treatment methods are based on current recognised approaches to manual therapy and consider the biomechanical and physiological rationale for treatment.
Contraindications to manual therapy, as well as recognition of normal and abnormal responses, will be covered with the aim of developing further the clinical reasoning and decision making skills expected of graduate Sport and Exercise Therapists.
By completing this module you will gain a comprehensive understanding of the techniques and strategies used in the rehabilitation of sports injuries.
Rehabilitation techniques will be applied across a wide selection of sports and injury types to help develop your confidence in managing the rehabilitation process from the early phase that immediately follows injury through to complete recovery and return to play.
The purpose of this module is to consolidate your previous learning and help you gain a deeper understanding of the techniques and approaches used in Sport and Exercise Therapy which will develop your expertise as a practitioner.
Taught sessions will consist of case study learning using various sports injury scenarios that will enable you to tackle realistic situations you may encounter as a therapist.
In addition to applying skills already acquired in the course, you will gain further skills in assessing, treating and rehabilitating sport and exercise-related injuries and dysfunction.
You will be expected to obtain and use peer-reviewed literature to support the approaches taken.
Practical elements will build on the examination and assessment of musculoskeletal injuries and dysfunction together with local and global management of the individual using a range of clinical skills and implementing strength and conditioning principles to support rehabilitation and return to sport.
The aim of this module is to continue your development as a Sports and Exercise Therapist practitioner.
You will undertake a clinical placement in a relevant setting, and further develop your identity as a Sport & Exercise Therapist.
You will demonstrate the professional values, competencies, and attributes expected in the field.
You will build on your understanding and self-awareness developed at Level 5 to negotiate a personal learning agreement, including a set of developmental goals that will enhance your development as a Sports and Exercise Therapist practitioner.
Both during and following your clinical placement, you will reflect on your learning and heightened self-awareness of areas for further development.
The purpose of this module is to extend your examination and assessment skills to the treatment of the vertebral column and spinal problems, incorporating.
Maitland’s philosophy of vertebral mobilisations.
The module builds on the skills you have developed during 5SR054 Examination & Assessment of Peripheral Joints and 5SR055 Peripheral Manual Therapy.
The module explores the relevant factors involved in the development of spinal problems and adopts an evidence-based approach to the mobilisation techniques used to treat them.
The theory behind the techniques is covered in depth to ensure you have sufficient understanding of the approaches being considered.
In addition you will develop the practical skills necessary for safe and effective treatment.
This module will enable you to better support exercisers and athletes where there may be additional needs or specific considerations to be made.
Topics of study include age and physical activity exploring some of the issues surrounding adolescent sport (e.g.
developmental issues) and injuries specific to that group, as well as older adults including degenerative conditions and other age-related factors.
Additional topics include the female athlete triad, culture, religion, disability, gender and sexuality, and mental health/well-being.
Overall, the module will enable you to recognise some of the common issues facing athletes and exercisers at various stages of development and to provide effective support as a Sport and Exercise Therapist.
Sport Therapist in Elite Sport
Sport Therapist in the NHS or Private Clinics
Exercise Referral Specialist
Lecturing
For more information about sport at the University of Wolverhampton, please see our WLV Sport Page
Accredited by the Society of Sports Therapists.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-sport-and-exercise-therapy-with-foundation-year:
The BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise with Foundation Year degree at the University of Wolverhampton is designed to equip you with the theoretical and practical skills to excel as an independent practitioner within a healthcare or sports-based environment.
Throughout the course, you will develop the skills required to provide the immediate care of injuries and basic life support in recreational, training and competitive environments.
You will learn how to assess and treat musculoskeletal injuries, and, where appropriate, refer on for specialist advice and intervention.
Working as part of a professional team in a real-world environment, you will gain applied practical skills in sport and remedial massage, and plan and implement appropriate rehabilitation programmes.
You will have opportunities to work with some of our key partners such as British Judo, Wolverhampton Wanderers FC and Walsall FC, to develop industry skills relevant to a career in sport and exercise therapy.
Placement and employability modules allow you to gain hands-on experience in an applied context, including a clinical placement at Level 6.
Employability modules enable you to explore sport and exercise therapy career pathways and engage in career development planning that prepares you for graduate-level employment in a competitive industry.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-sport-and-exercise-therapy-with-sandwich-placement:
This course is endorsed by:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-education-studies:
Ranked 9th in UK (Guardian University Guide 2025) our BA (Hons) Education Studies degree offers flexible pathways, including a guaranteed PGCE interview opportunity.
The BA (Hons) Education Studies provides you with the knowledge and skills to work in a range of educational settings, either as a teacher or in other roles, as the course provides a wealth of career options open to you.
The course is suitable for people new to this area or experienced practitioners searching for career development.
If you are considering becoming a teacher, we offer the guarantee of a Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) in Primary Education interview upon completion of this degree (providing you are on track to achieve a 2:2 or above and meet the course entry requirements).
We also have excellent progression opportunities on to our Master’s in Education.
During your course, as an Education Studies student, you will have opportunities to consider a range of issues and perspectives relevant to working in educational contexts by considering contemporary issues in relation to children and young people’s lives.
These include exploring issues around climate change, Black Lives Matter, mental health and well-being, fake news and social media, the impact of Covid-19 on education, and LBGT experiences.
You will also explore the role of education in relation to social justice, education policy, families, teaching and learning in the classroom, and the types of education provided in the UK and internationally.
You will also draw upon a range of perspectives and disciplines to develop your familiarity with the complex and varied nature of teaching and learning and examine issues relating to diversity and inclusion in education.
We work with our students to explore and challenge a wide range of educational ideas and developments, and we value your perspectives and diverse experiences in education.
We encourage independent thought and curiosity and a belief in the potential of education as a tool for improving people’s lives.
Work experience placements are an integral part of the course and can be negotiated in a variety of settings such as schools, colleges, children’s centres, charities, pupil referral units, prisons, youth centres, and other relevant settings.
We recognise that you will have a unique learning journey and we will maximise your potential through a wide variety of assessment choices such as presentations, written assessments, reflective journals, report writing, peer mentoring and written plans.
Our course does not include any exams, and we have designed our assessments to ensure they are inclusive and relevant to your career goals.
We usually teach in smaller classroom-based student groups, as opposed to larger lecture theatres, to give you a supportive and personalised learning experience,e and your teaching staff are committed to developing the confidence of our students.
This course is taught as a three-year, full-time route, although the degree can be studied PART-TIME in daytime sessions.
However, if you are a practitioner and have a level 3 qualification and would like to study more flexibly, for example, in the evening, we offer the part-time Foundation Degree Supporting Learning in Education at our partner, City of Wolverhampton College.
After completing your part-time Foundation degree, you can then progress on to the final year of a part-time BA degree course to gain your full honours degree.
This degree sits within the exciting range of Education and SENDIS courses we offer at the School of Education.
As you progress through your degree, you will develop the knowledge and skills required to help you achieve successfully at every level of your course through our well-designed spiral curriculum.
At level 4, you will have the opportunity to develop your knowledge of key concepts, perspectives, and theories in education, as your first year provides the underpinning knowledge and skills you will need to progress through your degree.
You will explore topics such as social justice, disability, diversity, inclusion, and safeguarding.
You will also be able to develop your academic and research skills to begin to explore issues affecting education in contemporary Britain.
At level 5, you will build on your previous study and develop your skills of analysis when studying contemporary issues in education and psychological factors affecting educational achievement.
You will also explore aspects of learning and teaching in classrooms, further develop your understanding of research and undertake a work placement in a setting of your choice during this year of study.
There is also an opportunity to choose an option module that includes either school exclusion and social Justice or young lives, parenting, and families
At level 6, you will be able to critically reflect on your own value systems, question concepts and theories you have encountered in your studies and interrogate the assumptions underpinning research and your own practice.
You will explore policy and practice in teaching and learning, international perspectives on education and working in challenging educational contexts.
There is also an opportunity to choose an option module that includes either tackling inequalities for children, young people, and their families or examining critical issues in inclusion.
You will also undertake an independent research dissertation on an education topic of your choosing.
Throughout the course, you will develop your knowledge and understanding of our education system, teaching and learning, and key issues which drive and impact education.
You will be equipped with a critical and in-depth knowledge of education in order to prepare you to enter graduate employment in a variety of roles.
These graduate attributes include, demonstrating the ability to construct and communicate oral and written arguments; work effectively with others as part of a team, taking different roles and improve your own learning and performance through the development of study and research skills, and a capacity to plan, manage and reflect on your own learning.
At the University of Wolverhampton, there are a range of teaching and learning activities to help you achieve successfully on your course.
Your sessions will have formative learning opportunities and formative feedback from your tutors which will help you prepare for your final marked assessment (summative assessment).
You will also be provided with feed forward written and/or oral feedback on your summative assessments that will help you develop your academic skills as you progress through your course.
All your modules will offer opportunities for you to interact, demonstrate the development of your own professional practice, and develop your academic skills such as the application, exploration, critique, dialogue, and analysis of theory.
In each of your modules, you will be provided with a structure of scheduled learning and teaching activities combined with guided and independent learning to enable you to fully engage to achieve specified learning outcomes.
There are also a variety of assessment types used to support and test your learning and progress and to help you develop employability skills that are valued beyond your university studies and into your working life.
Your course will include a variety of assessment activities, which may include:
In the final year of your undergraduate degree, you are likely to be expected to write an extended piece of work or research, such as a dissertation.
In this module you will consider key policies in pre-school, compulsory and post-compulsory education in England.
You will also explore a range of historical and contemporary issues and approaches which affect Education Studies, both nationally and internationally.
As part of your learning you will have the opportunity to consider different educational settings and the role of education in creating a socially just society.
This will include considering if education promotes social justice for all children and pupils in accessing an equal education or does this create inequalities for children and pupils.
In this module you will be introduced to the field of comparative education and develop your knowledge of different  education systems in Europe.
You will also evaluate and interpret comparative education theories and concepts and relate this to European countries.
As part of your learning you will have the opportunity to assess some of the key aspects of different education systems and make some judgements about influencing factors such as policy, culture and curriculum.
You will explore the benefits and challenges of comparing education systems and consider the relationships between international approaches to education.
This module supports you in engaging with educational research and information sources, including the collection, and reporting of data to explore different perspectives or myths on current educational issues that inform practice.
When developing your own knowledge and understanding in the module you will be able to identify and recognise how social media, fake news, government policy and research can inform educational practice and the benefits and challenges this can bring.
As part of this module, you can develop your critical thinking and subsequently reflect on the development of your own personal academic skills as the module will incorporate academic skill development through the lens of considering different issues in education.
Learning outcomes:   LO1: Discuss a range of perspectives in relation to a key educational issue.
LO2: Contrast academic sources in relation to educational issues   LO3: Reflect on the development of your own personal academic practice.
In this module you will develop your knowledge and understanding of key theoretical perspectives which influence the study of Education.
You will begin to question, 'What is Education?' and how educational theory influences contemporary educational systems.
You will be given the opportunity to compare different theoretical perspectives and consider how these theories link to current educational policy.
You will also be able to appreciate some of the challenges in relation to how educational theory and policy can impact upon practice.
These challenges may include the balance of formal education, how individuals learn and the impact of digital technology.
This module provides you with the opportunity to develop your understanding of issues surrounding inclusion, disability and diversity for children, young people and adults in educational settings.
You be introduced to different types of disabilities and how they can be diverse in nature depending on individual need.
By drawing on literature and research you will also be able to consider inclusion, disability and diversity as a social issue that goes beyond education and explore models of disability and inclusion.
You will examine how the inclusion of individuals with disabilities into everyday activities involves practices and policies designed to identify and remove barriers.
These include physical, communication, and attitudes that hinder the ability of children, young people and adults to have full participation in society.
You will also examine the challenges that promoting inclusion, diversity and disability rights can present to current practitioners when working in educational settings and local communities.
As part of your learning on this module you will be introduced to current debates around safeguarding children, young people and vulnerable adults.
You will be encouraged to explore how policy, legislation and research evidence inform safeguarding practice.
You will also consider the roles and responsibilities of all professionals to safeguard children, young people and vulnerable adults, and as part of this you will be encouraged to reflect on how professionals need to work together.
You will explore how risk is managed and how families are supported by multi-agency teams, to ensure the well-being of all children, young people and vulnerable adults.
Research is not just for researchers: as active members of our profession, and indeed society, we all are affected by the research of others.
Learning how to conduct your own research gives insight and understanding into such work, and improves your skills as a scholar and as a practitioner.
This module prepares you for a successful personal research dissertation in level 6.
You will be introduced to a range of techniques and theories on how to gather information, make sense of it, and report it in an effective way.
This module will provide you with an in-depth overview of key theories, issues and debates within wider social, economic, and political contexts that shape practice in schools, colleges, and universities in the 21st century within the UK and globally.
As you develop your knowledge and understanding you will be able to appraise and reflect on how these issues relate to the challenges and opportunities experienced by current educational institutions and staff.
These challenges and opportunities include, active learning, social media and technology, inequality, the structure of the curriculum and teacher retention.
This module gives you the opportunity to undertake a placement in a setting of your choice which is relevant to an aspect of your professional development.
You will develop your knowledge of working with other professionals  relevant to the context of your chosen placement.
You will observe an aspect of your placement learning such as the role of practitioners, the environment, pedagogy and multi-agency working.
As part of this module you will use research and literature to evaluate issues relating to your chosen topic.
You will also explore models of reflective practice which will provide you with the opportunity to apply these alongside your experiential learning to assess your personal and professional learning.
In this module you will gain a critical understanding of contemporary issues relating to teaching and learning within the classroom and the impact these issues can have on children, young people, and adults.
You will also gain knowledge of the underlying concepts, principles and factors identified within literature and research which shape contemporary teaching practice in early years settings, schools, colleges and universities.
This will enable you to reflect on how these relate to the challenges and opportunities experienced by current educational institutions and staff.
Content will include pedagogy, teaching standards, types of learning environments, learning theories, and the curriculum.
You will also analyse factors which impact on children's, young people and adult learning and attainment including testing and assessment, the role of teaching support staff, and the quality of teaching
The module aims to introduce you to some of the social psychological influences which affect educational achievement.
You will be encouraged to reflect on their own learning experiences and how learning may be determined by social psychological factors such as emotional insecurity, motivation, attitude to learning, self-regulation, self-identity, social cognition, group process and prejudice.
You will draw on a range of theories and concepts to help you also examine social psychological perspectives, such as disadvantage, gender, teacher support,  peer values and mental health and well-being to explain differences in academic attainment.
This module will explore exclusion from school and why some children are more likely to be excluded than others.
You will have the opportunity to interpret statistical data, research and literature linking to exclusion from school and social justice and why all people should have equal access to education.
Your learning on this module includes applying  theories and concepts of social exclusion and social justice in educational contexts.
You will also demonstrate the influences of government policy and the curriculum on school exclusion and the issues and challenges of social justice and exclusion from school.
This module will enhance your knowledge and understanding of the role of the practitioner when working with children, young people and families.
You will explore and show critical understanding on the impact of adverse childhood experiences and other social issues that may affect young lives.
As part of your learning you will develop a critical understanding of how policy impacts on a range of diverse and vulnerable families and the challenges that policy may present for you, the practitioner, in your day-to day role.
Key theories and therapeutic interventions will be evaluated as your professional knowledge and skills of family support are enhanced.
This module is the culmination your study and practice building upon your learning at level 4 and level 5 and provides you with the opportunity to develop your expertise and independent research skills in an area of your choice.
This module builds on the proposal you developed for the module Becoming a Researcher that you studied at level 5.
For this module you will develop your proposal into a research dissertation in collaboration with a supervisor you will be given.
The Dissertation will involve you drawing on a wide range of literature and research to develop a critical review of previous theories, concepts and research around your chosen subject area.
You will also have the opportunity to explore research methodology and methods that you can draw upon to develop your own research design.
You will have the choice to undertake primary research or secondary research for your data collection to provide you with the opportunity to analyse key findings and reflect on what you have learnt.
The module aims to introduce you to issues in relation to learning and teaching in challenging educational settings.
You will give particular attention to ‘challenging’ and 'effective' urban schools as well as critically evaluating improvement strategies that enhance academic achievement in a range of contexts.
You will be encouraged to analyse the role of learners, educators, school leaders and other stakeholders such as the local community; as well as the impact of external factors such as the environment,  educational policy, poverty and socio economically disadvantaged communities.
In this module you will be able to learn about the aims of comparative education and appraise the education systems of other countries globally.
You will examine and compare educational theories and practices in countries as diverse as Japan, Germany, Finland and the USA.
When comparing differences you be able to critically understand the relationship between education and society in terms of economic, social, cultural and political factors.
As part of your learning you will have the opportunity to identify aspects that could be used for improvement of education in the UK, such as teaching practices, the role of the adult and the use of learning environments.
You will also be able to evaluate the benefits and challenges of policy borrowing in terms of the development of global educational policy.
This module gives you the opportunity to critically explore  perspectives on the processes of learning and teaching.
You will be encouraged to develop your critical understanding of the nature and impact of factors on the learning and teaching process.
This includes, meeting the individual needs of diverse learners, the classroom environment, social and emotional resilience and global and national educational theory and policy.
It also enables you to connect current research perspectives on learning and teaching with the realities of day-day classroom practices.
In this module you will have the opportunity to consolidate, extend and challenge your understanding of the notion of social inclusion.
You will be able to apply your renewed comprehension of social inclusion to appraise the position of specific groups in 21st century society, with a particular focus on disability.
By drawing on theoretical perspectives, such as feminist ideologies, international outlooks, media representations and research studies, you will cultivate critical insights into social issues which underpin the lives, opportunities and challenges of those in disadvantaged or marginalised positions.
In this module you will explore a range of theories and concepts in relation to how inequalities are constructed in society.
Throughout the module you will be encouraged to critically discuss the ways in which different social groups are represented within society, for example, through the mass media and government policy and how they are often marginalised and oppressed as a result of their portrayal in society.
You will critically examine how inequalities can be challenged when developing provision to meet the needs of children, young people and families from a multi-agency perspective.
You will also appraise the potential challenges that practitioners in multi-agency teams can encounter when working with excluded and marginalised children, young people and their families.
Learning Mentor
Youth Worker
Play Therapist
Our teaching staff have a wealth of experience in the field of education and are passionate about the subject.
We have a real sense of pride in the quality of our teaching and work hard to offer our students a personalised and supported learning experience.
Our lecturers pride themselves on the relationships they are able to develop with our students and the sense of belonging they help to promote.
You will benefit from the team’s expertise as all our staff are actively engaged in research and publishing including topics such as, ‘student voice’, ‘first-generation student experiences in universities’, ‘racially inclusive practice in assessment’, ‘Inclusive and accessible approaches in higher education’, ‘prison and juvenile offender education’, ‘gambling, gaming and challenging stigma in society’ and ‘transformation of mature students transitioning into higher education’.
We also have strong partnerships with a variety of settings and organisations in the education sector, including local schools and wider educational settings within the community.
Your lived experience of this course will extend beyond the classroom.
Walsall is a smaller campus with a real sense of community and offers everything you need to complete your studies in one place.
University Libraries are the key source of academic information for students, providing access to a wide range of books, journals, and digital resources, including loanable laptops.
Each library offers a range of study areas to allow students to study in the environment that suits them best, including group and quiet areas with access to PCs.
In addition, the library enables access to a wide range of online information sources, including eBooks, e-Journals, and subject databases.
The library also provides students with academic skills support via the Skills for Learning programme .
Students on campus can attend workshops or ask for one-to-one help on a range of skills, such as academic writing and referencing.
Students can access a range of online skills material at: www.wlv.ac.uk/lib/skills
The University Student Support website offers advice on a variety of matters to support you during your studies, including careers, counselling, student union advice, and mental health and wellbeing.
Course Specific Support
Entry to this course requires a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) Check.
Free Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) :
The thought of starting University at the age of 49 was daunting, especially since I had been out of education for a long time.
But after the initial nerves about whether I should have returned to academic life, I realised that it was the best decision I had taken.
There are so many things I enjoy about reading the BA (Hons) Education Studies programme, but one of the most interesting and enlightening has been its content, be it the Education and Social Justice module, Disability, Diversity and Inclusion or Policy and Practice of Learning and Teaching.
All modules in the programme have been informative, enlightening, and relevant to issues occurring in current times, not just in the UK but around the globe.
Another reason for the programme being enjoyable has been how the modules have been delivered, the lecturers have been erudite at keeping them discussion-based and interesting.
I also found that the facilities and help available to all students is exceptional and there are workshops available for anything course-related.
Having now started my third year as a 51-year-old mature student, my advice to anyone who may be thinking they ‘have missed the boat for university’, ignore that thought, it is never too late.
Fiaz Haque
The course has given me the skills and confidence I need to be able to believe in myself as an educator.
After completing several modules I found a passion for social justice, which has inspired me to follow a career within higher education.
The lecturers have a passion for their subject which is infectious, making learning enjoyable.
I always feel we are on equal terms even though they are teaching me as they are so approachable.
Enrolling in the course has been the best decision I have made.
As a mature student, I was worried about entering into full-time education again after 20 years, however, the course content, lecturers, and academic skills sessions quickly made the worry turn into a new passion.
I have grown so much academically, but also in confidence within myself, since starting the course.
I now have the ability to fulfil my dream as an educator and plan to continue my studies further.
Victoria Price
My name is Lesley and I am studying education studies at Wolverhampton University.
As a mature student it was a daunting task to step back into education.
From the first year it was clear that I had a highly motivated and passionate set of lectures who would help with any concerns about university life.
The lectures offered amazing support with any challenges faced over the duration of the course including extra assistance during COVID-19.
The lectures have helped me to believe and achieve within the university environment.
I have enjoyed the course as it has offered a diverse range of subjects including history of education, SEND, equality in education and international comparatives.
This degree has enabled me to seek new challenges with confidence and has improved my understanding of different people perspectives.
I could not thank my lectures enough.
Lesley Jones

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ba-hons-education-studies-with-foundation-year:
Ranked 9th in UK (Guardian University Guide 2025), with 100% student satisfaction in teaching (NSS, 2024), our BA (Hons) Education Studies with Foundation Year degree provides you with the knowledge and skills to work in a range of educational settings.
The BA (Hons) Education Studies with Foundation Year provides you with the knowledge and skills to work in a range of educational settings, either as a teacher or in other roles, as the course provides a wealth of career options open to you.
Our foundation year has been designed to prepare you for studying at the undergraduate level and provide you with the required skills and knowledge to support your transition into university.
During your foundation year, you will develop skills you will need to study at university, such as finding and using information, working collaboratively with others, challenging and debating ideas and expressing yourself with greater confidence.
The foundation year helps you to become familiar with university life and to feel at home on campus.
The course is suitable for people new to this area or experienced professionals searching for career development.
If you are considering becoming a teacher, we offer the guarantee of a PGCE interview upon completion of this degree (providing you are on track to achieve a 2:2 or above and meet the course entry requirements).
We also have excellent progression opportunities on to our Masters in Education.
We recognise that you will have a unique learning journey, and we will maximise your potential through a wide variety of assessment choices such as presentations, written assessments, reflective journals, report writing, peer mentoring and written plans.
We usually teach in smaller classroom-based student groups, as opposed to larger lecture theatres, to give you a supportive and personalised learning experience, and your teaching staff are committed to developing the confidence of our students.
At level 3, you will be given opportunities to develop your academic skills and research to support your transition into studying in higher education.
You will also explore your own values when working in educational contexts and learn about the developing child, interprofessional working and inclusive education.
This will provide you with the underpinning knowledge to help you progress to your next level of study.
There is also an opportunity to choose an option module that includes either school exclusion and social Justice or young lives, parenting, and families.
At the University of Wolverhampton, there are a range of teaching and learning activities to help you achieve success on your course.
Your sessions will have formative learning opportunities and formative feedback from your tutors, which will help you prepare for your final marked assessment (summative assessment).
You will also be provided with feed forward written and/or oral feedback on your summative assessments that will help you develop your academic skills as you progress through your degree.
We will start by introducing the concept of inclusive education practice and encouraging you to explore your own beliefs and values.
You will focus on what it means to educate and how inclusiveness is essential to any argument about meaningful 'education' throughout our whole lives.
The focus of this module will always purposefully be the interplay between theory and practice and you will be invited to join a community of thinkers and writers about inclusion and educational practices.
This module will introduce you to the topic of child development.
After studying the different types of development and exploring the underlying nature/nurture debate, the content of this module will focus on the social and emotional development of children.
The issue of how and why children form attachment bonds to their carers (usually family members) will be examined and then the consequences of having these bonds broken, or not forming close attachment bonds at all, will be explored.
How pre-school education affects children’s development will then be covered, looking at the advantages and disadvantages of different types of day-care.
There will also be a consideration of how wider society and government policy impact on children’s lives.
You will learn several established theories in this topic area as well as the research evidence that supports or does not support these theories.
A consideration of children with Special Educational Needs and Disabilities will be included throughout the module.
A range of employability skills is built into this programme in order that you develop and refine attributes that will be beneficial to you in the workplace, such as leadership, using critical thinking, and becoming a reflective practitioner.
You will also develop and consolidate a range of employability and transferable skills, including sharing information, presenting information and digital literacy.
Employers are also interested in the broader skills you acquire, such as:
Many of our students go onto further study.
If you want to become a primary or secondary school teacher, you may choose to undertake a Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE).
If you want to become an Early Years Teacher, you can choose to apply for the Postgraduate Early Years Initial Teacher training.
You could also choose to apply for a Master’s Degree in Social Work or Education or undertake a Post Graduate Teaching Certificate in Adult Education.
University Libraries are the key source of academic information for students, providing access to a wide range of books, journals , and digital resources, including loanable laptops.
The University Student Support website offers advice on a variety of matters to support you during your studies including careers, counselling, student union advice, and mental health and wellbeing.
You will develop an independent, reflective, and self-managed approach to study and utilise skills appropriate for study in Higher Education
You will improve confidence in learning, study, and approaches to finding information and be aware of your existing transferable skills and new skills and how these may be developed
Typical entry requirements
Academic Pathway: - 48+ UCAS tariff points
or
Before I started the foundation year, I was working in a nursing home looking after dementia patients, a job I found rewarding but no real growth could be made past my previous promotion as a senior carer.
I have tons of ambition and passion and often imagined how I could use it to pursue a career in teaching which is my professional goal.
Being a mum of two I thought it would be impossible to find the time and concentration to study, amongst caring for my children and running a home.
My stepmother who studied at Wolverhampton university changed my whole perspective.
She gave me confidence that I would find many people of similar circumstances to me and often talked about how flexible and accommodating the university is.
I did some research and found myself being accepted onto a foundation course in education and it has been an exhilarating experience since starting in September.
Wolverhampton University has done nothing but exceed my expectations.
After a 10 years gap in studies the foundation year has eased me in at a comfortable rate and it runs smoothly alongside motherhood.
It has given me confidence and preparation for the following years to come.
Anybody who may be considering university who may be in a similar predicament to myself, I highly recommend doing a foundation year first which in my opinion gives more experience and confidence to sail through to graduation.
Paige Dacruz

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-credit-inclusive-practices-in-lifelong-learning:
This program helps further and higher education professionals develop inclusive practices through peer-led online learning, building confidence for leadership roles and progression to the BA Post Compulsory Education degree.
Tailored to address the ongoing priorities of the education sector, this program is ideal for candidates employed in professional practice in further and higher education settings.
Informed by the experience and practices of the education professional students who participate in it, this course focuses on peer-sharing, reflection on ‘inclusive practice’ and justification for change in your own practice.
Experienced Post Compulsory lecturers will guide you through this program, building on your existing practical and theoretical base over online seminars, group work, discussion forums and blogs, encouraging your contribution in individual and collaborative tasks.
The confidence and training you stand to gain through this course may also encourage you to explore leadership opportunities in your career and education, particularly the BA top up degree in Post Compulsory Education.
To hold a Certificate in Education Post Compulsory Education OR Foundation degree.
Applicants must be an education professional currently working in Lifelong Education settings including Higher Education.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-credit-introduction-to-literacy-studies-cpd:
This program develops current English teachers' knowledge of language acquisition, literacy development, and teaching methods through peer-centred learning and reflective practice in Post Compulsory Education settings.
We will cover grammatical approaches to analysing texts, We will develop your critical analysis through study of the frameworks of English.
You will apply those frameworks to comment on a specific text that you have used in an English classroom.
You will have the opportunity to discuss theoretical ideas and your application of those in your own teaching situations and those of your peer’s.
The programme is informed by your own teaching practices and experiences and provides both practical and theoretical insights and a networking opportunity that could extend beyond the programme duration.
By participating in the programme, you will develop your knowledge and skills as current English teachers in Post Compulsory Education.
You will consider theories and principles relating to language acquisition and learning.
You will also explore theories and principles relating to literacy learning and development, and how language can be described and analysed.
The programme considers the processes involved in the development of speaking, listening, reading and writing skills for literacy learners.
The programme is student-centred as it is informed by your professional education experiences and practices and those of your peers.
You will develop as reflective practitioners and take part in debates about how English is taught and experienced in the classroom.
To hold an honours degree (normally 2:2 or above) of a United Kingdom higher education institution or equivalent qualification in an English related subject area with vocational / professional experience considered carefully in each individual circumstance.
To have some English teaching experience in post compulsory education.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/cim-certificate-professional-marketing:
The CIM Certificate in Professional Marketing gives you the practical skills and knowledge to devise and execute marketing activities and gain marketing credibility.
It also aims to provide a practical insight into the principles and application of marketing at a tactical level.
The syllabus reflects the changing issues and practices within marketing, and employers' views of marketing in today's business environment.
The qualification is ideal for junior marketers, those working in marketing support roles (such as personal assistants), or if marketing plays some part in your current job description.
the course can also benefit individuals in more senior roles particularly from small and medium sized enterprises where marketing is only part of the role.
This programme is run throughout the academic year and students can join at three different points to start selected modules.
For further information please contact course leader Dr Emma Edwards on E.C.Edwards@wlv.ac.uk .
This qualification consists of three modules of study.
You can expect to study for qualification in one year.
You will gain the ability to:
Start date: September, January and April.
Please contact E.C.Edwards@wlv.ac.uk for forthcoming deadlines.
Applied Marketing is a 17-credit mandatory module which sits within the suite of Level 4 modules, part of the CIM Certificate in Professional Marketing.
In this module, students will learn about the role of marketing in the organisation and the key concepts that underpin the activities of the marketer.
Students will explore the marketing environment, customer behaviour in the digital age, market research and the marketing planning process.
This will include the marketing mix and a tactical planning framework to aid marketing effectiveness.
Assessment is set and marked by the CIM: Multiple-Choice Question Examination (controlled assessment) 50% pass grade.
Customer Insights is a 17-credit elective module which sits within the suite of Level 4 modules part of the CIM Certificate in Professional Marketing.
Customer loyalty, the customer/user experience and customer insight are the core of achieving optimum satisfaction and retention.
This module gives students an understanding of the contemporary customer’s complex needs and wants, their behaviour as consumers and how this sets their expectations.
Students will learn how to gain the insight required to understand those needs and map the journey to ultimately improve their experience.
Assessment is set and marked by the CIM, an organisation based assignment, 50% pass grade.
Planning Campaigns is a 17-credit mandatory module which sits within the suite of Level 4 modules, part of the CIM Certificate in Professional Marketing.
This module gives students the knowledge and skills to plan and implement successful campaigns that deliver real results for an organisation.
Students will learn the campaign planning process including how to analyse an organisation’s current position.
Students will also learn how to set campaign objectives, implement a campaign then measure and evaluate its success to aid continuous improvement in the fast-changing world of marketing.
Assessment is set and marked by the CIM and is an Organisation based assignment.
50% pass grade.
This qualification is aimed at those who are working in supporting marketing roles, usually within the marketing function, but also targets individuals in more senior roles, particularly in SMEs, where marketing is only a part of what they do.
The qualification provides a practical insight into the principles and application of marketing at a tactical level and aims to advance marketing knowledge and accelerate career progression.
Typical profiles of people who might take this qualification could include:
The University of Wolverhampton Business school is a Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) accredited study centre.
The ability to
This qualification is the equivalent to the first year of a foundation degree.
This means you will need to meet at least one of the following criteria:
If you have studied a Marketing, Advertising, PR or equivalent based  undergraduate or Postgraduate degree it may be that you can gain a module exemption for one of more of the modules at this level and therefore only have to complete the remaining module(s) to gain the qualification.
For further information on this you should contact the Chartered Institute of Marketing directly to discuss this.
''The tutors of the course have been fantastic...and helped me along the way.''
Lin Grainger Business & Development at Intuitive Computer Management Ltd

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/cim-diploma-professional-marketing:
This course is ideal for marketers who are concerned with managing the marketing process at an operational level, as well as those looking to build on their knowledge with a future marketing management role in mind.
You can achieve an internationally recognised and acclaimed professional qualification, and become an associate member of the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
You gain the marketing skills you need at an operational level to maximise opportunities for your company.
The course focuses on the practical application of the latest marketing theories and strategies in areas such as marketing planning, market research and marketing management.
Successful completion offers the principal entry route to the Professional Postgraduate Diploma in Marketing including Chartered Status.
The University of Wolverhampton Business School is an accredited tuition and examination centre, and all CIM examinations can be sat at our Wolverhampton City campus.
This programme is run throughout the academic year and students can join at three allocated different points to start selected modules.
For more information please contact course leader Dr Emma Edwards on E.C.Edwards@wlv.ac.uk
Benefits of studying at the University of Wolverhampton include:
Start date: three points during the academic year.
This course is ideal for Marketers with operational, supervisory or managerial responsibilities with a view to moving up to a managerial role.
This course also allows you to progress to the CIM Chartered Marketer status.
The University of Wolverhampton Business School is one of the Chartered Institute of Marketing Accredited Study Centres.
The CIM Professional Diploma in Marketing
Any business or marketing Batchelors or Masters degree (or equivalent) where one third of the credits comes from marketing
Experience in marketing management sufficient to evidence the learning outcomes of the CIM Professional Diploma in Marketing.
If English is not your first language, you will need to have an IELTS score of 6.5 or above, or evidence of English proficiency equivalent to the above.
Studying my CIM Level 6 diploma at the University of Wolverhampton has been great.
Our lecturer Monica has been very supportive and I’ve learned a lot while on her course.
The structure has helped me develop my knowledge on marketing planning and strategy in a variety of areas including innovation and sustainability.
I would highly recommend this course to people that are looking to take their marketing experience to management level.
Andrew Simms, Group Marketing Executive

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/mba-business-administration---extended:
This course enables entry onto the Masters in Business Administration if you did not gain a first or second class honours at degree level (or equivalent).
It will add to your existing skills and knowledge providing you with enhanced understanding and abilities which will prepare you for Masters courses, whilst also providing English support if you need help in this area.
The MBA is an internationally recognised postgraduate general business qualification for managers who wish to expand and develop their skills and knowledge.
This award will develop your knowledge of key business functions and their relationship with the wider strategic and international environment.
You will also expand your knowledge and understanding of the current changes in the business environment through the study of strategic management, stakeholder management and corporate social responsibility.
The programme is designed so that full time students are able to complete the course in one academic year and part time in two years.
By the end of the programme you will have enhanced your knowledge and understanding of Business and Management concepts and principles, theoretical frameworks and applied analysis through a range of learning experiences.
You will also develop key skills in formulating and managing basic research, problem-solving and organising and managing projects.
Armed Forces personnel, Veterans and Reservists
Students will be eligible for a Post Graduate Certificate Master of Business Administration after completing their first year of study.
Students who complete the whole course will be eligible for the full award.
By the end of the programme you will have enhanced your knowledge and understanding of Business and Management concepts.
You will develop key skills in formulating and managing basic research, problem-solving and organising and managing projects.
This course is designed so that full time students are able to complete the course in one academic year and part time in two years.
In today’s highly dynamic global environment, a complexity of factors, including technology, enterprise and innovation, have a significant impact on business systems and functions.
With this in mind, full -time MBA students on the standard mode of delivery (i.e.
classroom study and blended learning out of classroom activities) will join with peers from other postgraduate courses offered by University of Wolverhampton Business School.
Managers in all sectors are required to take account of the financial impact of their decisions, and be able to understand and interpret accounting information.
This module covers finance - the sources, uses and management of finance; and looks at the use of accounting and other information systems for managerial applications.
This module seeks to enable participants to make well informed decisions based upon a sound knowledge of financial reports, systems and developments in the accounting and financial environment.
This module is designed to develop within students the postgraduate study skills which includes research awareness, business vocabulary, and local commercial acculturation.
Organisations face a number of challenges and opportunities which they have to respond to through marketing decisions.
This module will develop your understanding of the market decisions that organisations face.
Through the application of marketing theory, models and tools you will gain an understanding of the importance of the organisational environment and the impact this has for analysis, planning and control in a strategic marketing management context.
This module focuses on best practice Strategic People Management in context and will include a critical overview of the key responsibilities, value added contribution and impact of the key People Profession practices including recruitment and selection, performance management, employment law and relations, talent management, organisational development and learning and development.
This module will include an overview of the concept of, and the contemporary issues within strategic HRM and strategic HRD together with the influence and issues brought about by the internal and external context.
This module focuses on sustainable strategic management and the role of the leader in the crafting of a sustainable strategic plan, regardless of the industry or sector.
It will include a critical review of the responsibilities of the leader in culture formation to support the achievement of the strategic plan.
And it will encompass the bringing together of all of the other business functions, finance, people, operations, and marketing in the strategic planning process.
It will take an international approach.
This module will include an overview of the contemporary issues around strategic planning, together with the influence and issues brought about by internal and external forces and adapting to a continually changing world.
It will also critically consider disruptive strategies and the advent and impact of globalisation and big data in strategic decision making.
Effective leaders, managers, citizens and employees need to be capable of basing their decision-making on information and knowledge derived from research.
The aim of this module is to contribute to the research knowledge and skills appropriate for a taught master's programme and relevant for careers in professional or management roles.
The participant is required to produce a dissertation, at an advanced level, based on independent research.
This should demonstrate an understanding of the philosophy and core principles of research (empirical or non-empirical) and show their competence in the design, execution and reporting of a research-based dissertation.
In this way the participant’s ability is developed to carry out subsequent research, independently and to commission, manage and evaluate the research activities of others.
Therefore, the knowledge and skills acquired in the module and of producing the project, will contribute to the student's effectiveness throughout her/his career.
International Business
Accounting
Human Resources
PhD
The MBA (Extended) course enables students to access the MBA with non-standard entry criteria.
The MBA is a programme that is internationally recognised as being at the forefront of management education.
It has high quality blended learning support and has access to excellent learning facilities.
Students will be able to use prior experience and certificated learning to gain credits against the programme.
By completing the course you will also be entitled to apply for additional award CMI Level 7 Extended Diploma in Strategic Management and Leadership.
UK Entry Requirements
Successfully achieve a degree classification of a 3rd or above.
and
Evidence you have occupied a position of management responsibility for a minimum of two years within an organisation.
A professional qualification of equal depth to a degree.
Professional qualifications will be assessed on an individual basis.
A reference will also be required from an academic member of staff who has supervised your undergraduate studies, this would be requested after you have successfully applied.
Work Experience Pathway:
3 – 5 five years of relevant managerial work experience, demonstrating in-depth knowledge of the sector for the subject matter you are interested in pursuing.
All work experience-based applicants will be required to provide a reference detailing your role(s) and responsibilities from your line manager this would be requested after you have successfully applied.
EU and International Entry Requirements:
All International Applicants are required to have a sufficient level of English to satisfy student visa requirements, here is a list of acceptable English qualifications .
Our country specific entry criteria will also provide clear guidance on whether your high school English qualification is accepted as an equivalence to the above.
It’s important that when you complete your application you cover all of this information on your application to ensure we can satisfy this admissions assessment.
Postgraduate Loan (Home Fee Status):
You may be able to get a postgraduate student loan from Student Finance England of up to £12,858 to help pay for a Master’s degree.
Applications are made through Student Finance England and more information on the regulations and eligibility criteria can be found at Masters Loans gov.uk .
* Any RPL will invalidate your eligibility as you must study a minimum of 180 credits Changes for EU students: The UK government has confirmed that EU students starting courses from 1 August 2021 will normally be classified as Overseas (International) students for fee purposes.
More information about the change is available at UKCISA: EU citizens living in the UK with 'settled' status, and Irish nationals living in the UK or Ireland, will still be classified as Home students, providing they meet the usual residency requirements, for more information about EU Settlement Scheme (EUSS) Postgraduate Loyalty Discount: You can get 20% discount on a taught on-site postgraduate course if you’re a University of Wolverhampton Graduate.
The University offers a generous 20% Loyalty Discount to students progressing from an undergraduate programme to a taught postgraduate programme, where both courses are University of Wolverhampton Awards.
Self-funded: If you are paying for the fees yourself then the fees can be paid in 3 instalments: November, January and April.
Sponsored - Your employer, embassy or organisation can pay for your Tuition fees: Your employer, embassy or organisation agrees to pay all or part of your tuition fees; the University will refer to them as your sponsor and will invoice them for the appropriate amount.
Financial Hardship: Students can apply to the Dennis Turner Opportunity Fund for help with course related costs however this cannot be used for fees or to cover general living costs.
Charitable Funding: You might also want to explore the possibility of funding from charitable trusts.
* Any RPL will invalidate your eligibility as you must study a minimum of 180 credits
You can get 20% discount on a taught on-site postgraduate course if you’re a University of Wolverhampton Graduate.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/msc-business-analytics:
This course equips students with the agile, reflexive and critical thinking skills which are vital for success in modern organisations
Business Analytics, which is shaping today’s businesses in dramatic ways, is the process of gathering, analysing and making business decisions from big data, the vast amount of data now widely available.
Businesses today use analytics to inform strategy, gain competitive advantage, and improve business decision making.
Analysing such data can help improve efficiency, reduce costs, improve asset use, provide real-time logistics management and much more.
This MSc in Business Analytics aims to prepare students to take a leading role in the areas of business analytics and business management.
This practical and practice-based programme equips students with the agile, reflexive and critical thinking skills which are vital for success in modern organisations.
The programme is based around the two core themes of data analytics and business management.
Students will explore how new disciplines centred around business analytics, business intelligence, and big data can be applied throughout the strategic and functional areas of business.
The course gives students an immersive experience which will result in a thorough understanding of the challenges and opportunities faced by organisations in the 21st century.
This MSc Business Analytics has high-quality blended learning support and access to excellent learning facilities.
Entrepreneurship and reflexive thinking skills are at the heart of this general business management programme.
The course is designed to allow students to develop an awareness of modern business practices through practical activities.
These activities equip students with an holistic understanding of the impact of data, business intelligence, and business analytics-related issues on organisational business operations, management, and strategy.
tudents will acquire core business skills through case studies, online activities, and live projects.
The programme develops the theme of business analytics by focusing on business intelligence, big data, data mining, informatics and data visualisation.
The MSc Business Analytics is an internationally recognised postgraduate qualification for professionals who wish to expand and develop their skills and knowledge in the area of business analytics, business intelligence and big data, whilst supporting this knowledge with a firm grounding in business management.
This exciting and innovative Business Analytics programme seeks to bridge the gap between business and data science.
This programme prepares students to fully understand how new disciplines, techniques, and approaches based upon big data, business intelligence, and business analytics can improve a business’s operational efficiencies.
The course is designed to develop each student’s understanding of operational decision making, and how it can inform and direct business strategy.
The programme is designed for students who want to embark on an in-depth study of how business analytics, business intelligence and big data can be applied throughout a business and to develop analysis and evaluation skills that can be applied to real-world situations.
This is then supported by a second theme focusing on business management, developing knowledge of key business functions and their relationship with the wider strategic environment.
You will explore key areas of business analytics and how they can be applied to the functional areas of business, such as management, strategy, marketing and finance.
Independent and transferable personal development skills are vital and students will have the opportunity to develop them through interactive learning activities and self-reflection to enable them to develop the professional skills required in the workplace.
Students will acquire core business skills through case studies, online activities, and live projects.
These skills will also be developed through interactions with entrepreneurs and business speakers and by students reflecting on their own practice.
Data is the new fuel of modern organisations.
In this module you will explore contemporary issues and challenges relating to the management of information systems, including big data management, analytics, and cloud systems.
You will analyse the application of business intelligence and its impact on organisations, and consider the role of information and analytics in supporting the development of strategies.This module will enable you understand the sources of data, data generation to support business intelligence and analytics, the use of data warehousing and the design of effective information flows.
The approaches to managing Business Analytics Projects along with the issues and challenges are considered.
This module looks at different data processing and mining techniques and state of the art data processing and mining tools.
The topics include introduction to data mining and knowledge discovery process, data collection and processing with various data types from variety of sources, social web mining.
The module will look at a variety of techniques and trends in data mining.
Data visualisation is an important visual method for effective communication and analysing large datasets.
With the rapid increase of the data volume and complexity, users find that it is very difficult to understand and make sense of the data.
Through data visualisation, data is presented in a meaningful and interactive way to users, so that users can draw conclusions from data that sometimes are not immediately obvious, and hence manipulate and use the data in for exploring, learning, communicating, solving problem and decision making.
Specialist software (SAS) will be used during each week of the module and you'll use SAS to prepare your final assessment.
The module will provide students with the knowledge of theoretical concepts of interactive data visualisation and presentation, creative design process as well as the applications of interactive visualisation and presentation tools and techniques.
Business Consultant
Marketing Analyst
The course aims to develop future business professionals whose unique understanding of data and analytics will fill a much-needed gap in various business and management sectors, making them hugely desirable employees.
They will understand the importance of big data, business intelligence and analytics, and know how this new discipline relates to an organisation’s key business functions, management, and business strategy.
Potential graduate careers include business analyst, financial analyst, marketing analyst, data analyst, project manager, business consultant.
Demonstrate an in-depth understanding and the ability to use modern technologies, techniques and methods in business analytics to develop both technical and management solutions to a variety of business problems.
Analyse strategic issues using data to inform decisions, measure accomplishments against goals, improve accuracy, business efficiency and other key business objectives.
3.Undertake an analysis of complex business-related data independently of current knowledge in the subject matter and apply this in a range of business contexts.
Critically analyse, synthesise, and solve complex issues, challenges, and problems relating to business and management that impact at functional or operational levels.
Evaluate the role and contribution of integrative strategic approaches and the use of business intelligence and analytics frameworks as key elements in the strategic planning process.
Synthesise relevant critical thinking through academic research completing an independent research project/dissertation at Master’s level.
A Undergraduate Honours Degree (2:2 or above) from a UK university or overseas equivalent, or a professional qualification and/or experience considered to be equivalent to the above.
A reference from a tutor who has supervised the applicant’s undergraduate studies
Students may apply for recognition of prior learning (RPL) subject to the guidelines set out in the RPL Handbook.
RPL includes accreditation of prior certificated learning and /or accreditation of prior experiential learning.
Applications are also welcome from individuals who do not possess the above qualifications but who have significant management experience and are able to demonstrate previous non-certificated learning equivalent to the above.
In such cases, admission to the programme will be based on an evaluation of the applicant’s ability to continue to benefit from and achieve the award.
International Applicants Your qualifications need to be deemed equivalent to the above entry requirements.
English Language requirements are normally IELTS 6.5 with a minimum of 6.0 in each area (unless otherwise stated) or equivalent accepted qualification https://www.wlv.ac.uk/international/international-academy/english-at-the-international-academy/language-entry-requirements/ Please use the following link https://www.wlv.ac.uk/international/international-academy/english-at-the-international-academy/ to see the range of English Language Pre-Sessional courses and related Pre-Masters courses offered by the University of Wolverhampton International Academy.
For further information relating to overseas qualification please use the following link https://www.wlv.ac.uk/international/our-locations/your-country/
International Applicants
Your qualifications need to be deemed equivalent to the above entry requirements.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/msc-innovation-and-entrepreneurship:
The MSc Innovation and Entrepreneurship course is aimed at students seeking to develop and enhance their entrepreneurial, creativity, innovation and enterprise skills and capabilities.
It is suitable for students coming from a range of subject disciplines such as business, tourism, performing arts, creative arts, computer sciences, technology, and engineering.
Whether you hope to become an entrepreneur, turning an opportunity that you have spotted into a sustainable business or social enterprise, or whether you see yourself in post graduate professional employment in a management, freelance or consultancy role, then this course could be for you.
In what is an ever changing and increasingly complex and competitive global environment, graduates need the skills, capabilities, and attributes to enable them to be successful.
More than ever, employers expect graduates to be innovative, problem solvers that are adaptable, resilient, flexible, and willing to develop an enterprising mind set.
Studying this course will equip you with the necessary skills, capabilities, and knowledge to become a highly enterprising graduate, developing your enterprising mindset, enabling you to operate more effectively in any enterprising, entrepreneurial, or innovative setting.
You will study a range of modules exploring the topics of creativity, innovation, new venture creation, entrepreneurship, change leadership, change agency, change projects, entrepreneurial and digital marketing, and strategic operational management.
The course assumes no prior knowledge of entrepreneurship, enterprise, or innovation.
Much of the learning is through real life projects that you will be working on; that could be developing a new business venture or social enterprise for an idea that you have or scaling up an existing idea you have been working on.
The course will help you to become more opportunity-focussed, self-aware, adaptable, and attuned to the changing business environment.
There will be a blend of both academic theory, case materials and in class discussions to help underpin your learning; together with the opportunity of learning by doing through real-life projects outside of the classroom.
Practitioner guest speakers and entrepreneurs will enhance that experience, engaging and learning from them.
The intention through all these different activities and discussions is that you develop and enhance your enterprise and creativity skills, your ability to spot opportunities, your problem-solving skills, your understanding of how to make change happen and your ability to produce workable innovations.
By the end of the course, you will be equipped with the necessary skills, capabilities, and knowledge to become a highly enterprising graduate; whether this is to develop your own innovative business ideas as a future entrepreneur or as a freelance portfolio worker or in professional post graduate employment.
The module provides students with the knowledge and skills to critically analyse, evaluate and practically apply a range of digital technologies, social media technologies and tools, in the creation and execution of an integrated digital marketing strategy in an SME organisation or entrepreneurial start up context.
Contemporary marketing theories and concepts will inform the design and execution of a digital and social media strategy, identifying, targeting, engaging and interacting with potential networks, partners, customers and clients.
The rate of change in organisations is accelerating and increasingly the nature of that change is shifting from incremental to transformational.
This changing landscape requires organisations and individuals to harness enterprise, creativity and innovation - to demonstrate a proactive and entrepreneurial mindset for change.
This module explores the importance of entrepreneurial capability and the skills required for the role of a change agent to initiate and champion change within an organisation.
You will study both the theory and practice of initiating and leading the change process, examining a number of topics linked to the process of delivering a change project, including: Evaluating change readiness, project planning, change frameworks, culture and resistance, change leadership and communication.
You will develop your knowledge and skills to craft an enterprising change plan for an organisation of your choice.
You will also have the opportunity to evaluate and reflect on your own enterprise and entrepreneurial capability and leadership skills to develop as a potential change agent, allowing you to enhance your self-understanding and identify areas for future development and self-improvement.
This module identifies creativity and innovation as key to all enterprise activities in ever more competitive markets.
Innovation is at the heart of ensuring business success and long-term prosperity, throughout each of the sections the perspectives of SME’s and larger corporations are considered.
The module comprises four sections which together define the nature, scope, impact and practice of creativity and innovation in business and how they underpin enterprise.
Firstly, it examines the nature of creativity.
Secondly it establishes the links between creativity, innovation and enterprise.
Finally, the application of innovation is evaluated, as the module explores the tools and techniques that are implemented when transforming an idea into a commercially marketable product or service.
Innovation is vitally important for modern enterprises in the development of products and services.
Advances in technologies, changing customer behaviours  and globalisation are all providing opportunities for new business models.
This module explores ways of managing innovation and entrepreneurship and developing and creating new ventures.
The module is  concerned with the achievement of organisational objectives whilst making efficient use of its resources.
This module will examine a wide range business operations management concepts in the production of goods or services, the module will also look critically at the strategic planning process by assessing both the internal and the external environment of an organisation, followed by selecting a number of strategic options, actions and choices to achieve organisational objectives.
The module will help develop skills in identifying, formulating and solving business problems through creative and entrepreneurial processes.
The ability to recognise the need for and initiate change will be developed through the use of business cases.
Freelance portfolio worker
Social change agent
Business development manager
Change agency roles
The team of professionals and senior academics on the course provide an extensive level of expertise in their respective disciplines, from research to practitioner background, most having run their own small businesses.
This will enrich your learning experience in a dynamic environment where you will be expected to participate at the highest level towards furnishing you with a master’s degree for your future enterprising or entrepreneurial career.
The Master’s degree is taught in our Lord Swraj building at Wolverhampton City campus, the building offers 6 floors of purpose-built student space and is our Business School's multi-million-pound home.
The building includes modern, professional environments like any modern workplace, with comfortable group work and breakout areas, as well as private study spaces to use between sessions.
During your studies you will have the opportunity to engage in activities outside of normal teaching, these may include guest lectures and external trips.
These activities are designed to enhance your knowledge, understanding as well as enjoyment of your course.
You will have the opportunity to practice and refine your skills and capabilities in order to develop
“The course offers the opportunity to develop real life skills.”
“Having the hands-on experience with also a knowledge of theory is very appealing to employers.”
“Great opportunity to build my company whilst learning and making mistakes in a safe environment.”

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/msc-leadership-and-management:
We offer you a fast-paced, multicultural setting with cutting-edge teaching methodologies and a range of Business facilities designed to help you fulfil your potential.
You'll benefit from practical learning with tangible applications, expert knowledge in cross-industry leadership and management, and the opportunity to develop alongside your peers and shape your future.
There are problems for leaders and managers with organisations looking to achieve more while controlling and cutting costs.
Leaders need to take on greater responsibility to drive innovation and creativity within their teams, finding new solutions and new agile ways of working.
If you are already a graduate and have recently taken up a leadership position in an organisation - or are about to do so, you may be thinking about how to develop your toolkit further.
The MSc Leadership and Management is a dynamic and contextually relevant course for those who wish to progress their careers and to develop as professionals.
The course develops your knowledge, understanding and conceptual awareness, and additionally develops your skills.
It is designed for those who are new to management roles, for those who are beginning to lead teams, functions and decision-making in their organisations, but also for those with limited pre-existing leadership or management experience, who wish to become leaders and managers in organisations.
The MSc Leadership and Management is a dynamic and contextually relevant course for those who wish to progress their careers and to develop as professionals
By studying with us, you will learn about and experience the range of issues and opportunities that affect this dynamic and fast-paced sector.
Within a highly supportive, student-focused environment, you will learn about critical topics through an internationally inclusive lens such as financial literacy, leadership theory, strategic leadership and Human Resources.
This course is designed to meet the increasing demand worldwide for graduates, who possess the required competencies and knowledge to operate in multiple sectors, our graduates routinely find successful roles around the world.
Throughout your degree, you will also acquire a range of transferrable skills which graduates from this subject discipline are expected to possess, effectively preparing you for a career in Leadership and Management.
The MSc Leadership and Management course provides opportunities to develop a blend of functional and operational perspectives for a range of managerial levels, roles and responsibilities across sectors, for applicants who may have limited managerial experience or management education.
You will study perspectives on the concept of leadership and also learn about functional topics including marketing management, international human resource management and finance for non-financial managers.
You will also study strategic planning and learn how to lead transformation and change, which is of importance in the dynamic organisations of today and tomorrow.
Your knowledge will be integrated and contextualized through a range of modules, culminating in a dissertation project.
People and Human Resource Management is an international, contemporary and developing subject which draws on a wide range of disciplines.
It will enable you to consider the management of people in an international context and the effects of globalisation on workers, organisations and related employment issues.
The topics are approached from a variety of management and critical perspectives and you will be encouraged to join in debates about national culture, employee and managerial behaviour, the employment cycle of international workers as well as new developments related to work.
We will also consider contemporary international employment issues related to human rights, diversity and corporate social responsibility.
The module is designed to prepare you to work in an international setting as well as considering the employment of international workers in the domestic setting.
Perspectives on Leadership - Theory and Practice: This module introduces you to a range of perspectives regarding what constitutes effective leadership in organisations.
Taking a critical approach to classical and contemporary theories, models and frameworks of leadership, it evaluates the claims, prescriptions and evidence offered in support of a range of approaches and styles.
It also includes a consideration of issues and discourses related to leadership behaviour in organisations, problematising inclusivity and disproportionality, power and authority, authenticity and ethics, sustainability, trust and politics, leadership and learning, and considers the application of theory in practice.
This module focuses on both leadership, and management of change.
It will be specifically examining the internal and external factors that impact on organisations and will cover creating effective teams across business areas, locations and cultures.
This will involve the use of models of influencing and stakeholder management in a range of situations, how to apply different approaches of culture development, and integrate and align people practices, looking at different approaches to management leadership including skills, behaviours and competencies.
Within this the general principles of the psychology of change will be covered.
Finally the assessment of current and future organisation capability and readiness for change across a range of stakeholder groups will be taught .
Senior Management
Consulting
Strategy and Planning
Research and Policy
The Department of Management and Leadership at Wolverhampton hosts a range of industry experts in various fields from leadership to marketing and Human Resources to Hospitality.
The teaching team is made up of experienced practitioners and academics who have worked in industry and have substantial research in the area.
They are able to bring your learning experiences to life, with support from industry partners and a vast network that provides endless opportunity to you whilst you study with us.
The teaching team have a range of publications and a research profile that is recognised internationally.
The tutors on this programme will have had experience as practicing managers, have worked with business in an advisory capacity or will be researching business and management in order that what you learn is current, leading edge thinking which has real relevance to the world of business.
The Business School has developed a blended learning approach where lecture and tutorial activities are supported by online learning to become a seamless learning experience both in and outside of the classroom.
The school has strong professional body links and these are used to inform the curriculum to ensure they reflect the latest professional thinking and standards and to maximise the exemptions and accreditation you will gain alongside studying the programme.
Critically analyse the use of the key functional areas of marketing, finance and strategic planning in support of wider organisational activity.
Critically discuss traditional and emergent perspectives on the qualities of  leadership and the role of management in an organisational context.
Critically evaluate the relationship between the organisation and its human resources in the international environment.
Critically analyse contemporary issues, challenges and problems relating to transformation and change that impact on organisations and the role of business managers.
Critically analyse the importance and nature of organisational planning, developing organisational activities within the context of external influences.
Synthesise relevant critical thinking through academic research completing an independent research project/dissertation at masters level.
Analyse the different approaches and techniques that facilitate detailed study at the postgraduate level in business and management issues.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pgdip-strategic-people-management--human-resources:
This is a distinctive, exciting and innovative programme, aligned to the required elements of the latest CIPD Profession Map and accredited by the CIPD.
Upon successful completion it provides you with the correct level of qualification to be eligible to apply for Chartered Membership of the CIPD.
The course is designed for those professionals looking to enhance and develop their postgraduate level strategic level knowledge and behaviours to provide the necessary skills, competencies and knowledge to support career development in the People Management Profession (including Human Resources, Learning and Development and Organisational Development).
We have a longstanding relationship with local branches of the CIPD and this ensures that you have access to a wide range of practitioners to develop their networking and other professional skills.
CIPD branch members also provide voluntary services such as mentoring which students who are CIPD members can access to help support their personal and professional development.
The course offers four key areas of study: understanding and analysing practical business and people-related issues; strategic people management theory and practice; strategic leadership and change management; investigation of evolving people-related issues.
The programme has a contemporary focus and offers both academic and practical elements to support your ongoing success in the People Profession by developing knowledge and understanding of the disciplines of human resources, learning and development and organisational development alongside development of critical reflective thinking and developing independent continuous personal development skills.
Note: Students must be a member of the CIPD before completion of their qualification to be eligible for any level of professional membership.
The course meets the academic requirement for eligibility to apply for Chartered Membership of the CIPD.
This award will develop your knowledge of a wide range of organisational issues related to the people profession and support you in achieving the next step up in your career in HR, L&D or OD&D.
The course content reflects our close working relationship with local organisations to understand their needs in relation to managing, supporting and developing their people to drive organisational success.
We provide outstanding support for all students, particularly where students' experience of HE is limited or not recent, ensuring students reach their full potential.
As a part time student, you will study one module each semester of the two-year course.
The first-year modules are Business Context for the People Management Profession and Strategic Leadership and Change.
Business Context for the People Management Profession covers a broad range of practical business skills including identifying people-related business issues; developing the skills to investigate and provide solutions to such issues through evidence-based enquiry; understanding the need to provide a business case to support aspects of the wider people strategy and the impact of this on other areas of the business.
The second, Strategic Leadership and Change considers the importance of strategic change and competent, inclusive and appropriate leadership approaches to support the change process.
It identifies internal and external factors, the use of effective teams and consideration of stakeholder management.
It discusses culture, people practices, management leadership and how these link to the psychology of change and organisational readiness for change processes.
The second-year modules are Strategic People Management and Evolving Issues in the People Profession.
Strategic People Management focuses on best practice Strategic People Management in context including key responsibilities, value added contribution and impact of the key People Profession practices.
It considers contemporary issues within strategic HRM and strategic HRD and the influence of internal and external contexts on this.
The importance of a wide range of people practices are critically analysed.
Evolving Issues in the People Profession explores a range of currently evolving issues within the wider people management arena.
This is designed to ensure that people professionals are up to date with their knowledge and practice.
As it is based on current research and issues, the content may therefore be subject to change to reflect this.
Recent research identified key trends such as digital transformation; talent planning; internal change; changing demographics.
Overall, the course adopts an interdisciplinary approach and will help develop understanding of complex and contested notions in the business environment and the wider people management professions.
There will be the opportunity to develop informed perspectives and collective responsibilities as a people professional within local, national and international communities
This module considers a broad range of practical business skills for those working in the people profession.
This will include the ability to identify people-related business issues which need investigating, to understand and define the root causes of these issues.
The ethical gathering of appropriate evidence and its assimilation will lead to identifying how this can be used to develop a business case to support the organisation’s people strategy, including consideration of the involvement and impact on other areas of the business.
This module focuses on Evolving Issues in the People Profession.
This will include issues raised by current CIPD research to ensure that people professionals are up to date with their knowledge and practice.
Recent research from the CIPD includes issues such as digital transformation; the importance of talent planning; internal change; changing demographics.
Employee Relations
International HR
Equality & Diversity
Development & Change
The course aims to develop students at advanced level for a professional career in a range of roles within the People Management Profession such as Human Resource Management, Learning & Development, Organisational Development by developing knowledge and understanding of the disciplines of strategic People Management, encouraging critical reflective thinking and developing independent personal development skills.
The course covers a range of relevant topics and is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD).
Successful completion it provides you with the correct level of qualification to be eligible to apply for Chartered Membership of the CIPD.
Accredited by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD).

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/bsc-hons-building-control-surveying-top-up:
The overall aim of this course is to equip graduates with the skills and knowledge to enable them to pursue a professional career as a Chartered Building Surveyor within the built environment.
Ranked 34th in the UK (Guardian University Guide, 2025)
As a Building Control Surveyor, you will be part of an extensive network of over 3,500 professional public service surveyors responsible for ensuring buildings are safe, healthy, inclusive and efficient, and meet the standards set by the Building Regulations.
You will be part of the planning, development and valuation of built environment projects.
You will develop a wider understanding of the built environment process required to become a built environment professional/practitioner and have the opportunity to progress both professionally and academically.
They are property professionals who provide diverse services and offer impartial, specialist advice on a variety of property development control issues which includes advice on public safety, consumer protection, safety at sports grounds, and dangerous structures.
They routinely work with the emergency services and other functions such as Health and Safety Executive, Trading Standards and Environmental Health to deliver safe buildings.
Through the programme, you will develop the skills, knowledge, behaviours and an appreciation to address a wide range of issues and to lead and work with others in the delivery of successful projects.
You will be supported by local authority your employer and a skills coach on the programme.
Course content includes elements of work-based learning, pre-contract studies, on-site decision making, management and liaison with clients, construction professionals and operatives.
The principal aim of this module is to develop your knowledge and understanding of building and material failure.
The intention is to bring together the practical and theoretical issues relating to the causes of failure, the consequences and remedies.
This module encompasses the key sustainability aspects of building control and building regulations.
The principle aim of this module is to enable you, as a part-time student to carry out a critical review of the knowledge management strategy of their organisation and further evaluate a project, of which you have personal experience in terms of the outcome and alternative options which could have been adopted.
This is the dissertation project module for undergraduates in the Built Environment.
It  aims to develop your ability to research and report on a subject related to your degree course.
The subject area and research question will demonstrate your understanding of formal research practices and provide a research report that starts at the project identification stages and follows the process to its conclusion and recommendations.
The principle aim of this module is to develop your knowledge and understanding of building control matters.
The intention is to bring together the practical, theoretical and processes associated with discharging the building regulations under the Building Act 1984.
Including the interpretation and understanding of legislation, approved documents and regulations.
Building Surveyor
Quantity Surveyor
Project Manager (Construction)
Facilities Manager
Chartered Surveyor
Health and Safety Advisor
Building Control Surveyor
Assess the condition of buildings, advise on maintenance, repair, and restoration, and produce detailed survey reports.
Manage construction costs, prepare tenders, conduct valuations, and ensure value for money on building projects.
Lead construction projects from start to finish, coordinating contractors, budgets, and timelines.
Oversee the efficient operation and maintenance of building infrastructure and services.
With further professional accreditation (e.g., RICS), specialise in areas like valuation, planning, or building control.
Ensure construction sites comply with health and safety regulations, carrying out inspections and training.
Work for local authorities or private firms to ensure that building work complies with regulations and safety standards.
Through the combined use of practical and educational experience and support, the Building Control Surveyor Degree Apprenticeship enables you to:
Entry to the course will be via successful completion of the Local Authority Building Control (level 4-5 ) qualification as part of the LABC/University of Wolverhampton ‘Articulation agreement’ Successful completion with credit profile of a Foundation Degree in a cognate area deemed equivalent to 240 credits of level 4 and 5 study (minimum of 120 level 5) or equivalent qualifications which will be considered on a case by case basis.
Application by Mature students onto the course is encouraged and you may be invited to attend an interview to ascertain your suitability for the course.
Applicants with semi-cognate qualifications will also be considered provided this is supplemented by relevant ‘Industry’ experience.
Advanced entry above level 5 may be considered dependent upon qualifications and experience of the candidate and will be subject to FSE RPL requirements.(Subject to professional interview).
Non-native speakers of English are required to achieve IELTS with an overall band score of 6.5 with a minimum of 6.0 in each element.
Successful completion with credit profile of a Foundation Degree in a cognate area deemed equivalent to 240 credits of level 4 and 5 study (minimum of 120 level 5) or equivalent qualifications which will be considered on a case by case basis.
"Accredited by the Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB), having been judged to meet the CIOB Education Framework.
Prospective members holding these qualifications have full academic exemption and may enter CIOB membership without the requirement for an Individual Assessment."

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/msc-civil-engineering:
The MSc Civil Engineering course is designed to provide additional technical education for graduates who are already in possession of an (Incorporated Engineer) IEng accredited degree, for them to step up to the (Chartered Engineer) CEng standard.
Chartered Engineers are variously engaged in technical and commercial leadership and possess effective interpersonal skills as well as digital literacy.
The course is delivered by a blend of active and respected academics as well as Chartered Engineers in the fields of structures and civil engineering.
The modules are predominantly of a technical nature and provide opportunities for individual research as well as group-based activities, where students will tackle industrially relevant challenges, requiring innovative and creative solutions which recognise the wider implications of engineering activities.
The course provides a well-balanced blend of academic study and professional skill development.
The course is granted Technical accreditation by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM) which comprises ICE, IStructE, IHE, CIHT and PWI.
Course modules include:
Civil Engineering is taught at our Springfield super-campus.
The MSc Dissertation enables you to undertake an in-depth individual research project of a technical nature.
It should involve the use of analytical methods and modelling and will require the definition and investigation of a problem.
Consideration will need to be given to aspects of the wider engineering context such as environmental and sustainability implications; ethical, health, safety, security and risk issues; intellectual property; and legal, contractual, quality and cost issues.
The assessment regime ensures that you are able to demonstrate an ability to plan, manage and evaluate the outcomes of your research and an ability to communicate it to both technical and non-technical audiences.
Delivery within budget is a key requirement of successful projects and programmes.
This module is designed to provide deep understanding of not only the methods of producing financial information throughout the project life-cycle, but also the implications of such information for project and programme outcomes.
On successful completion of the module, students should be able to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the principles of advanced RC foundations such as pile foundations and diaphragm walls considering variable ground conditions.
The principal aim of this module is to extend your knowledge of the relevant theory and practical applications of geotechnical principles in ground engineering, in particular with regard to ground and structure support.
The module will cover traditional approaches and techniques integrated with the use of computer programs and numerical modelling, including lower hemispherical projection analysis for the design of underground spaces.
This module aims to develop the analytical skills developed at UG level with advanced topics such as finite element analysis, structural dynamics, etc.
The intention is to cover the theories and applications' of the topics and approaches directly relevant to modern structural engineering practice.
The overall intention is to provide students with experience of being a member of a team undertaking a realistic design project.
This will enhance their design skills (in particular in Structural Engineering) and will allow them to also appreciate the practicalities and difficulties of integrating a variety of topics to arrive at a working solution for a complicated design problem.
The module will also develop awareness of the Civil Engineer’s contribution and obligations to society.
The aim of this module is to provide you a well-balanced fully aware sustainability management and development practitioners who are able to analyse and assess the essence of sustainability issues and to formulate the required strategy to implement practical sustainable development solutions in business and society.
Sustainable engineering& nbsp;concerns the ability of delivering the product/services in an economically viable, socially responsible and environmentally sustainable way.
This requires engineers to make optimum use of energy and materials, to mitigate any associated environmental, social and economic impacts, and to fully embrace concepts such as life cycle analysis, value for money, socially responsible, design for manufacturing and assembling within the design process.
Industry requires a practical framework to meet the challenge of achieving sustainable development.
This module aims to provide that framework by:   	providing an overview of methodology, technology and management tools that could be used to narrow the & lsquo;sustainable gap& rsquo;.
developing an overall awareness of the real causes of environmental& nbsp;degradation and social responsibility.
developing the awareness of the relevant scientific and engineering principles fundamental to the understanding of the problem and solution to this environmental degradation and social responsibility.
Chartered Civil Engineer
Structural Engineer
Geotechnical Engineer
Environmental Engineer
Academic or Researcher
Lead complex infrastructure projects and gain professional recognition through chartership.
Design and assess the strength and stability of buildings, bridges, and other structures.
Focus on soil, rock, and underground water to design safe foundations and earthworks.
Oversee civil engineering projects from planning through to delivery, managing budgets and teams.
Work on sustainable infrastructure, water management, and reducing environmental impact.
Lead site operations, ensuring projects are delivered safely, on time, and to specification.
Contribute to the advancement of civil engineering knowledge through teaching or research.
The teaching staff are friendly, supportive and a blend of professionally qualified engineers and respected academics.
Our staff have close links to the industry and professional bodies, which ensures the course is relevant and professional.
The course is accredited and designed to meet professional body requirements.
This course is being delivered at the brand-new Springfield Campus.
View our Springfield Campus here.
Evaluate a comprehensive set of knowledge, understanding and ability in science and mathematics that underpin civil engineering.
The ability to synthesise engineering concepts and tools to the solution of complex engineering problems (engineering analysis).
Integrate engineering understanding, knowledge and skills to the design of creative solutions for real and complex problems.
Manage complex civil engineering activities, demonstrating leadership skills whilst appraising the legal, ethical, environmental and economic impacts such activities can have on society.
Undertake the practical application of advanced engineering skills, combining theory and experience, and use of other relevant knowledge and skills.
Formulate plans for lifelong learning, that will include the development of transferable skills and be of value in a wide range of situations.
A minimum of a 2:2 classification from a Civil Engineering degree course.
Preferably one that has IEng accreditation.
International students with a cognate degree and applicants with relevant work experience will be considered on a case by case basis.
Non-native speakers will be required to hold IELTS with an overall band score of 6.5 with a minimum of 6.0 in each element.
Accredited by the Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Accredited by the Institute of Highway Engineers (IHE) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Accredited by the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation (CIHT) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Accredited by the Institution of Structural Engineers (IStructE) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/msc-civil-engineering-management:
This course, designed to meet professional body requirements, broadens your knowledge of civil engineering management practices while developing crucial management skills for the construction industry.
The MSc Civil Engineering Management course is designed to meet the professional body requirements and is delivered by professionals with extensive research and industrial experience in sustainable construction materials, sustainable transport, integrated transport systems, environmental management, structural performance and urban pollution.
This module will develop construction project skills, identify, review and analyse project management best practice guidelines and discuss aspects of planning and controlling projects.
Evaluation of industry techniques and tools, using manual and computer methods for planning and control will be undertaken.
The MSc Dissertation enables you to undertake an in-depth individual research project in an area directly linked to your subject area and interests.
This will ensure that you undertake scholarly work that further develops an aspect of the taught material and thereby contributes to your personal development and training towards professional practice.
This module evidences your transformation from undergraduate to master’s level achievement through the process and production of a recognised research output in your subject area.
This module develops understanding of programme management epistemology and its relationship to project management.
Students develop the expertise necessary for applying programme management methodologies to groups of projects, organisational development initiatives and change management across industry sectors.
Furthermore, few projects and programmes are implemented exactly as originally conceived and designed.
This reality creates requirement on project and programme managers not only to develop understanding of risks, uncertainty and other change factors and how they affect outcomes but also to acquire the competence in tracking change using appropriate metrics and working out and implementing remedial courses of action that recognise the interests of all stakeholders.
This module is designed to develop such attributes and is concerned with: understanding the risks of change; forensic cost and delay analysis, fast-tracking projects, dealing with responsibility for extra cost and delays, etc..
By studying this module you will develop the  personal and professional skills required to design and undertake research in your chosen subject area at post graduate level.
The aim of this module is to demonstrate the main principles, techniques and issues in transport systems engineering.
The module is intended to develop your analysis and design skills and provide a systematic understanding of the impacts caused by the mobility of people and goods.
This will be supported by the use of modelling and simulation software that will be an integral part of the module.
Civil Engineering Consultant
Contracts Manager
Site Operations Manager
Infrastructure Planner
Sustainability or Risk Analyst
Lead civil engineering projects, managing resources, timelines, and stakeholder communications.
Oversee day-to-day operations on construction sites, ensuring efficiency and safety.
Provide expert advice on planning, design, and delivery of infrastructure projects.
Manage contracts, budgets, and negotiations across a range of construction and engineering projects.
Coordinate logistics and site teams to ensure smooth and compliant project execution.
Work with local authorities or private firms to plan large-scale infrastructure developments.
Focus on sustainable construction practices or identify and mitigate project risks.
View our Springfield campus here .
Demonstrate a comprehensive understanding of research or advanced technical or professional activity; design and apply appropriate research methodologies and communicate results of research to peers; and accept accountability in related decision-making including use of supervision.
Ability to deal with complex issues and make sound judgments in the absence of information; able to integrate knowledge of new and emerging technology, mathematical and computer models; and demonstrate understanding across the whole degree programme.
Ability to exercise leadership within an effective team environment while analysing and recognising the contributions of individuals and demonstrate understanding of current engineering practice
Manage, appraise, critique and update a plan of work to reflect a changing operating environment and make evaluate the commercial risks
Demonstrate knowledge, skills and understanding of management and business practices and a wide range of engineering materials and components
Ability to apply innovative design processes in unfamiliar situations and engineering techniques in a range of commercial and industrial constraints.
You should have a good honours degree in an engineering, technology or science-related subject.
However, substantial professional experience can substitute for graduate status.
IELTS entry criteria to be an overall score of 6.5 with no less than 6.5 in any aspect.
If you are currently employed, we request a statement of support from your employer
Accredited by the Institution of Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as an Incorporated Engineer.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/msc-construction-project-management:
Studying this course will enable you to experience the art and science of construction project management from project initiation to operational management through the use modern and innovative approaches.
This course which is fully accredited by the CIOB, RICS, CABE and Quantity Surveying International (QSi) will enable you to experience the art and science of construction project management from project initiation to operational management through the use modern and innovative approaches.
The coursework and assignments on this course are designed around live case studies, which provide an opportunity for real-life learning and application of theory to practice.
While this course will be delivered at our new £100 million Springfield Campus the course is also supported through the ‘ National Brownfield Research Institute’ (NBI) .
Within the School of Architecture and Built Environment , we also have strong links with top industry players which enables our students to secure professional practice placement with top construction organisation in the UK such as William Gough, Dunton Environmental, Network Rail, National Grid, Gleeds, Wates and United Living.
This module will comprise an issue of real-time relevance to the sector of the construction industry.
The topic will be discussed and agreed between the module team and stakeholder representatives.
The module will then be designed and delivered by subject experts engaged in contemporary research on current built environment topics.
One of the key challenges for successful delivery of a construction project is administering it in accordance with the terms of the contract used for it.
This requires expertise on the standard forms of contracts available, ability to synthesise principles from them and related documents for application to problems often encountered on projects.
The principal aim of this module is to develop these attributes in relation to the most commonly used forms of contracts.
Management of the operational construction project including the major processes together with the leadership and management issues that support the completion of successful projects.
The strategic management of the business case for programmes and projects from the concept, design and definition stages through to implementation of the built or finished product.
Strategic advice and management to and for the client including finance and investment.
Real Estate Development Project Manager
Program Manager
Project Controls Specialist / Scheduler
Change Manager / Transformation Lead
PMO Analyst / PMO Manager (Project Management Office)
Leads projects from initiation to delivery, setting goals, managing teams, budgets, and schedules.
Common in construction, IT, healthcare, and infrastructure.
Manages large-scale building or civil engineering projects.
Coordinates architects, engineers, and contractors to keep projects on time and within budget.
Oversees development of property projects; residential, commercial, or mixed-use.
Combines project planning with real estate finance and regulatory oversight.
Manages multiple related projects under a unified program.
Focuses on strategic alignment, resource balancing, and long-term business value.
Focuses on planning, budgeting, and tracking project timelines using tools like Primavera or MS Project.
Common in construction, engineering, and energy sectors.
Drives organizational change initiatives, often in corporate or IT settings—e.g., implementing new systems or restructuring processes.
Supports and standardises project processes across an organization; tracking KPIs, ensuring governance, and mentoring junior project managers.
Students will be exposed to construction project management at a strategic and operational level.
This course will expand the horizon of the construction project into the inception, concept and feasibility projects that need to take place in order to ensure that the building project meets the needs and objectives of the client and the client’s business.
We are currently developing the Springfield Campus which will be Europe’s largest construction centre of excellence.
Join us as the exciting development takes shape and from 2020/21 students in the School of Architecture and the Built Environment will be taught from the new campus.
Find out more about Springfield Campus .
A second-class honours degree in a construction related discipline, or equivalent, is required for direct entry onto the Master’s programme.
Students are selected using application form and references in the first instance.
However, if you have a compatible non-cognate degree and/or have relevant industrial experience you may be interviewed and if successful offered a place on the Masters course or on the postgraduate certificate version of the course with the potential to extend this to a full Master’s degree.
or A Postgraduate Certificate in a construction related discipline, or a related subject with a minimum of grade C in all modules.
Accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) for the purpose of graduate membership.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/msc-construction-project-management-with-professional-practice-placement:
This course aims to meet the growing need within the built environment sector for professionals with a thorough understanding of the management of the construction process from inception to completion.
May to October
This course will enable you to appraise, analyse and evaluate the art and science of construction project management covering the areas of strategy, control, technical, commercial, legal, financial and organisational issues.
You will reflect on and make cases for the integration of the technical (hard) and social (soft) management styles required within the context of strategic and operational construction projects.
This course comprises 6 x 20 credit modules with a 60 credit dissertation and the opportunity to add a further 20 credits through the successful completion of the placement module.
Placement opportunities will be actively investigated but the University reserves the right to default to the MSc Construction Project Management if an appropriate placement cannot be found.
This module will enable students to gain valuable industrial experience by undertaking a work placement.
A portfolio will be used to gather records of the tasks undertaken and experienced gained
Site Manager
Project Controls Manager
Development Manager
Construction Planner
Client Representative / Employers Agent
Sustainability or Environmental Manager
Manage the planning, execution, and delivery of large-scale construction projects.
Oversee on-site operations, ensuring work is completed safely, on time, and within budget.
Monitor project performance metrics including scheduling, budgeting, and risk.
Coordinate planning, design, and delivery of new development projects for public or private clients.
Create detailed project plans, identify resource needs, and sequence construction activities.
Act on behalf of clients to manage construction contracts and delivery.
Ensure compliance with environmental regulations and implement sustainable building practices.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/ma-air-space-and-cyber-power-studies:
The University of Wolverhampton has an internationally recognised reputation for war and conflict studies, politics, and military history, and this course draws on the expertise of established researchers based at the University and beyond.
Students’ employability will be enhanced beyond the development of postgraduate skills by engagement with a range of external bodies (RAF Cosford, defence bodies and personnel, external speakers).
Each module is led by scholars who have published widely on many aspects of contemporary conflicts, war studies, international politics and diplomacy, and peace keeping and conflict resolution, as well as air, space and cyber power.
The University has the longest established undergraduate War Studies programme in the United Kingdom, and has been delivering postgraduate degrees in the history of war, military history, and conflict studies, both online and in conventional environments for many years.
This Masters course allows you to explore many of the key elements of Air, Space and Cyber Power through focusing on theoretical approaches, historical case studies, contemporary conflicts, strategic thought and cultural and societal attitudes to air, space and cyber power.
You will study these themes in depth under the care of renowned tutors who have a keen interest in and expert knowledge of these fields
You will undertake six modules across two years of part-time study conducted entirely through on-line distance learning methods.
Your studies will culminate in a piece of independent research in the form of a 12,000-15,000-word dissertation on a topic based on one or more of the elements covered in the course.
Guidance in this undertaking will come from your appointed dissertation supervisor
The two core modules Air Power Theory and Practice: c.1900 to 1990 and Air, Space and Cyber Power 1990 to the Present will provide the key elements to understanding, analysing and interpreting the historical, contemporary and future implications and challenges in the employment of air, space and cyber power.
Particular emphasis is placed on the central issues of control of the air; intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance; attack capability and air mobility.
The programme of study will also offer eight 12-week option modules from which students choose four.
The option modules will provide a range of options across international relations and politics, military history, and strategic studies.
The scope of the content will cover elements of regional conflicts, international law, the ethics of war and conflict, cultural aspects of war, low-intensity operations, humanitarian intervention, coalition and multi-national warfare, inter-service relations and operations, media and propaganda, intelligence, and the economics of warfare.
The programme is intended and structured both for students with an interest in conflict studies, international politics and military history, as well as defence industry professionals and military personnel from national and international backgrounds.
This Master’s degree will enhance and underpin the skills of those already in defence and air power related professions but will also develop those skills and outcomes generally associated with study at postgraduate level.
The advent of air power has radically altered and shaped the conduct, scope and nature of war in the modern world.
At a strategic level the interaction between state, industry and society during war has been profoundly altered by air power, with air forces providing an increasing threat to the structure of nations, whilst making huge demands on the abilities of states to wage war.
The actual conduct of war has also been reshaped by air power with control of air space long considered a vital prerequisite to the effective conduct of war fighting.
This module will explore these issues by analysing the theoretical and conceptual underpinnings of air power, alongside historical case studies to highlight key issues.
The module will form the starting point for the course.
This module will provide a survey of the operational thought, doctrine, organisation and combat experience of the British armed forces from the Cold War to the present day.
The module will provide a theoretical foundation of the key principles of strategic and operational thought encouraging students to apply these broad concepts to military and organisational themes.
The development of an understanding of operational theory will enable the student to analyse and assess military actions with depth and insight that goes beyond the narrative approach.
Air forces have been confronted by many challenges in the drive to formulate appropriate technologies and personnel.
This module will examine historical and contemporary issues in procurement and recruitment.
It will assess the changing nature of aero-industries, their place in the economy and the development of modern aviation and defence industry practices.
Air forces have also been repeatedly confronted with problems and challenges in the recruitment of appropriate personnel.
In addition to technical and skill based drivers there have been recurring issues of class, gender and race policies and balances within air forces.
Cyber power, including its controversial central aspect of cyber warfare, has very recently added a new aspect to the study and practice of air power.
The present debate is whether cyber warfare is best understood as a military activity, to which a range of military responses including the use of air power are appropriate, or as a non-military activity comparable to economic sanctions or the use of soft power.
Concepts of cyber warfare are starting to move from academic theories into established military doctrines.
This debate is taking place within the wider strategic culture of armed forces, including air forces.
This module will explore these issues by analysing the theoretical and conceptual underpinnings of cyber power, and the way in which theories of cyber warfare are presently evolving, taking examples and evidence from a range of open sources, and the historical antecedents of cyber power.
The module will locate cyber power within the wider context of air power, together with space power.
This module analyses the challenges confronting the employment of air power within multi-service and/or multi-national campaigns and wars.
Using historical and contemporary examples to illustrate the manner in which aviation has had to integrate with different service and national approaches to military operations.
This module considers some of the contemporary debates around the prosecution and outcomes of modern conflicts.
It utilises elements of just war theory to examine the fighting of wars/conflicts and considers what the theory suggests is, and is not, permissible in warfare.
The usefulness and applicability of these theoretical perspectives will be tested by examining them in relation to actual cases of intra-state conflict, including Sri Lanka, Syria, Northern Ireland and the former Yugoslavia.
It will also examine the role that is played by external third parties in such conflicts and considers the academic debates around when it is advisable for such states to intervene, why states intervene (and why they do not) and what is the outcome of such intervention likely to be?
It will build on these theoretical and empirical discussions to consider why, and when, conflicts may end.
Popular perceptions of warfare have, throughout the last hundred years, often defined levels of expectation for the military and civil agencies impacting their place in societies.
It has brought challenges to practice and provided an oversight mechanism as techniques and technology have evolved.
This module will explore the image and reputation of forces, how they have been created and shaped by both external popular media perceptions and their role in the oversight process.
A range of sources such as films, air shows, museums, popular literature (fact and fiction), as well as news and social media will be studied.
A key element will be an analysis of how state military and security have used and continue to use their media profiles to shape their role and place in contemporary society.
This 12-week module explores the roots, conduct and results of strategic bombing in the Second World War, the most destructive conflict in modern history.
From the inter-war theorists of airpower to the atomic bomb strikes on Imperial Japan in 1945 it will discuss various technological, strategic, tactical, operational and even ethical aspects.
A key theme will be an examination of how the aeroplane has transformed war, expanding warfare physically by increasing the range and capacity of actual destruction, and by increasing the depth of the experience and demands of war, by drawing in populations and societies through fear of destruction and through the demands on economies and societies made by the exercising of air power.
We will analyse particular case studies in order to explore the nature of these changes and to ascertain the degree to which air power has transformed conflict in the modern world.
This module seeks to develop and enhance students’ understanding and appreciation of the origins, evolution and significance of terrorist violence.
It will introduce students to case studies of domestic and international terrorism in order to develop a better understanding of the nature of terrorism, the variety of terrorist motivations and the means by which governments have attempted to deal with the problem.
Past counter-terrorism responses, and the policy options available to governments in more recent times, will be considered.This module will also offer students an opportunity to engage with a range of debates surrounding terrroism and political violence in a variety of manifestations.
Course themes will include revolutionary violence, torture and domestic repression and riots.
Air power has had to adapt to a new strategic operating environment with a multiplicity of roles, threat and future possibilities.
Though high intensity conflict remains possible, air power has also had to play a key role in greater asymmetric conflicts, counterinsurgency campaigns and interventionist operations.
Theory and doctrine has also evolved across new spheres of activity – space and cyber environments – with ever increasing technological capabilities bring integration across domains and between armed forces and state intelligence agencies.
All this has been conducted against a backdrop of decreasing budgets and a politically destabilised world.
This module will explore the challenges confronting armed forces in the contemporary era, the diversification of roles and activities, and the present and future of air, space and cyber power operating environments.
This module allows students to produce a major piece of independent study, normally combining original research with a thorough analysis of the established literature in the relevant area.
The ability of the student to complete this successfully is a significant component in demonstrating Masters level study.
As such the dissertation will combine a comprehensive knowledge of a specific issue with effective use of research skills and thorough analytical skills
The majority of the students enrolled on this programme will already be in full-time employment in the defence sector.
In other cases students’ employability will be enhanced beyond the development of postgraduate skills by engagement with a range of external bodies (RAF Cosford, defence bodies and personnel, external speakers).
The University has the longest established undergraduate War Studies programme in the United Kingdom, and has been delivering postgraduate degrees in the history of war, military history, and conflict studies, both on-line and in conventional environments for many years.
For the award of a Masters degree, having achieved 180 credits - taught & independent study - at Level 7, you will be able to:
Demonstrate self-direction and originality in tackling and solving problems, and act autonomously in planning and implementing tasks at a professional or equivalent level.
Demonstrate originality in the application of knowledge, together with a practical understanding of how established techniques of research and enquiry are used to create and interpret knowledge in the discipline.
Deal with complex issues both systematically and creatively, make sound judgements in the absence of complete data, and communicate your conclusions clearly to specialist and non-specialist audiences.
Demonstrate a comprehensive understanding of techniques applicable to your own research or advanced scholarship and ability to continue to advance your knowledge and understanding, and to develop new skills to a high level.
Demonstrate a systematic understanding of knowledge, and a critical awareness of current problems and/or new insights, much of which is at, or informed by, the forefront of your academic discipline, field of study or area of professional practice with a conceptual understanding that enables the student:
To evaluate critically current research and advanced scholarship in the discipline To evaluate methodologies and develop critiques of them and, where appropriate, to propose new hypotheses.
Demonstrate the qualities and transferable skills necessary for employment requiring:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/msc-cyber-security:
Develop cutting-edge skills in cyber exploitation and defense with our MSc Cyber Security.
Designed by leading experts and researchers, this program addresses the increasing demand for cyber security professionals in industry and academia.
The exponential increase in mobile devices, converged applications and Cloud technologies, initiatives such as Bring your Own Device (BYOD) / Choose Your Own Device (CYOD) and the advent of digital information technologies, has increased the proliferation of threats in our vibrant and active cyber-physical-natural environment diluting further its perimeter.
The course offers flexible study options to suit your needs:
What happens on the course?
You will undertake a wide range of learning activities including:
Assessment methods will include:
Students will also have the opportunity to engage in formative assessment throughout the course, especially during exercises in the practise sessions where their tutors will give feedback on progress and performance for each of the tasks allocated.
The assessment strategy for this course is designed around a holistic evaluation on knowledge and skills acquired with a strong emphasis on the requirements for this mode of delivery and diverse skills, background and expectations of the target audience.
All assessments used in the course are in perfect alignment with University requirements, regulations and policies.
Coursework assignments typically incorporate formative feedback so that students can gain an insight into whether their work is meeting the necessary thresholds and focus on meaningful remarks to improve both their performance and understanding in the subject.
The assessment strategy has been designed with strong influence by the requirements and needs of the audience in FT/PT mode of delivery for this course.
Students will also get the opportunity to be engaged in guest lectures from leading experts in the area and be taught by active researchers and trainers in all modules as part of the programme.
The purpose of this unit is to provide an in-depth and specialised knowledge on penetration testing and vulnerability assessment.
Students will be introduced to Ethical Hacking and the concept of offensive security with cutting-edge tools and research-informed delivery.
Students will learn how to look for weaknesses in a target system to test the security posture for exploits in a lawful and legitimate way.
This requires a skill set that includes but not limited to computer networks, operating systems but also aspects of psychology and the human behaviour.
Incident management describes methods to identify, analyse, and correct hazards to prevent a future re-occurrence.
The purpose of this unit is to provide specialised and research-informed knowledge with hands-on practicals on cutting-edge incident response and digital forensics methods.
The full life cycle of an incident responder is covered from building a CERT-team to utilising ‘sound’ forensics tools to collect, safeguard, transport and analyse digital evidence.
This includes secure stakeholder management within organisational context fully considering ethical and professional responsibilities, but also practical exhibition of the digital investigation process with the application of modern commercial and open-source tools, the judicial process and relevant laws within the UK and critical aspects of international laws affecting incident responders.
Students will also be learning about expert testimony and technical topics such as file carving techniques, file systems, network forensics, TCP/IP steganography, memory analysis, in addition to threats associated with emerging technologies such as Internet-of-Things (IoT).
The module seeks to address the discipline of Information Governance and compliance and its associated theories, practices and principles that govern any modern information system in alignment with multi-disciplinary structures, processes and procedures.
Particular focus is given to the frameworks, standards and strategies for managing an organisation’s information assets with all the underpinned legal and regulatory requirements need to be fulfilled within existing and emerging Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) frameworks.
Motivated by the growing importance of Internet-of-Things (IoT), this module will provide specialised knowledge and hands-on practicals covering IoT devices and applications while focusing on security.
IoT is a fusion of interconnected devices of various sized and complexities with examples ranging from simple sensors to autonomous vehicles and smart homes, therefore, it is essential to learn how to identify emerging threats and plan mitigation techniques to minimise vulnerabilities.
Examples of fundamental underpinning technologies enabling IoT include wireless sensor networks, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and embedded systems.
Whether the student progresses to further study or into employment, one of the most important skills expected of a computing professional is the ability to work creatively under the appropriate guidance of a member of staff.
It is therefore essential that the students use and develop comprehensively knowledge and skills gained from other units, and from their wider educational and working background (e.g.
their first degree which may be in a subject area rather than computing), in a major integrative exercise.
The project module is an ideal vehicle for this purpose.
Students will be expected to develop an idea (most likely generated by a member of academic staff) and demonstrate their ability to develop it further, producing a suitable artefact by applying their technical, analytical, practical and managerial skills in an integrated manner.
They are required to emphasise on a topic which sufficiently reflects on the course they are studying and get an ethical approval prior to commencing their work.
No student can proceed to the project without gaining prior ethical approval.
Normally students will retain their own intellectual property unless they are sponsored by a company or funded by an organization and the contractual agreement with the organization dictates them to transfers these IP rights.
Also, students will not normally undertake projects that require security clearance.
Cyber Defence has become one of the biggest business priorities in an attempt to deal with dynamic attack vectors while still relying on static controls and measures.
It is a systematic approach to help organisation to better articulate, manage and change threat thresholds and improve the effectiveness of security controls.
This module seeks to address the core principles, methods, tools and products available used in proactive network defence with the aim of preventing cyber-attacks or decreasing the time taken to discover them.
The module guides the students through the fundamentals of building and evaluating successful and secure network communication platforms with focus on all strategic, tactical and operational aspects.
By studying this module you will develop the personal and professional skills required to design and undertake research in your chosen subject area at post graduate level.
You will also consider professional conduct and the social, legal and ethical implications related to the profession in-line with BCS guidelines.
Information Security Analyst
Penetration Tester
Security Architect
Lead Security Auditor
Intrusion Analyst
Information Systems Manager
As a student in this course, you will have a learning journey underpinned by our innovative research projects and strong links with the government and industry.
You will have access to our team at the Wolverhampton Cyber Research Institute (WCRI) to learn with a first-hand experience how we address the unique complexity and challenges associated with cybersecurity in a constantly evolving threat landscape.
The diverse skill set around management of security as delivered in the course will equip you with a meaningful GRC knowledge and relevant experience to excel your career prospects.
This is quite prominent due to the problem recruiters have to get hold of security managers with these skills.
Interactive sessions in the form of demos will also be delivered by the teaching staff and guest speakers to further leverage understanding and stimulate attention towards relevant and pragmatic issues in the area.
The unit ‘Research Methodologies and Project Management’ in particular requires you to work in a team to apply a current project management methodology that embraces all of these knowledge areas related to Cyber Security.
You will be exposed to all stages of planning, execution and project control; you will work as part of a team, take responsibility and make autonomous decisions that impact on the project team performance.
The course has been designed in close consultation with Information Security industry experts and utilises unique tools and platforms to deliver its core elements, skills and capabilities required in the field.
Our Midlands Quarter – Centre for Cyber Security is a bespoke Cyber & Security ecosystem, which blends industry and innovation with academic excellence and expertise.
The educational aims of the course regarding knowledge and skills gained are:
You will enhance critical understanding and synthesis skills regarding security processes, techniques and methodologies around cyber security in a blended learning environment with strong hands-on explication using cutting-edge software and hardware.
The course will cover cyber defence elements and state-of-the-art in exploitation techniques, threats and security risks in both targeted and multi-stage cyber-attacks in the cyberspace.
You should be able to identify and mitigate security violations across the cyberspace with a strong emphasis on Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) frameworks and standards; and the importance of automation and orchestration of security operations in highly volatile and sensitive environments to develop better and more efficient security controls.
You will be exposed to formalised security principles and protocols and expand your ability and capabilities in strong system administration and modelling of threat landscapes in a variety of different organisational contexts.
Since this programme has been developed concerning the requirements of cyber security professional bodies, it aims to produce postgraduates with subject-specific and transferable knowledge and skills suited to a career in the cyber security industry or other related IT disciplines.
Entry Requirements
Applicants should have or be about to complete:
OR
Work Experience Pathways:
English language
If English isn’t the applicant’s first language, they will need to provide evidence of English language ability.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/msc-cyber-security-with-professional-practice:
Enhance your cyber security expertise and gain valuable industry experience with our MSc Cyber Security with Professional Practice.
This 18-month program combines advanced cyber security education with a 4-month professional placement, giving you a competitive edge in the job market.
MSc Cyber Security with Professional Practice offers a unique opportunity for international and home students to gain relevant work experience within an external business or organisation, giving you a competitive edge in the job market.
Although the placement is not guaranteed, the University maintains links with a wide network of organisations who offer placement opportunities.
This module will enable students to gain valuable industrial experience by undertaking a development task associated with a short work placement.
A portfolio will be used to gather records of the tasks undertaken and experienced gained.
You will enhance critical understanding and synthesise skills regarding security processes, techniques and methodologies around cyber security in a blended learning environment with strong hands-on explication using cutting-edge software and hardware.
Since this programme has been developed concerning the requirements of cyber security professional bodies, it aims to produce postgraduates with subject-specific and transferable knowledge and skills suited to a career in the cyber security industry or other related IT disciplines
Please note this course is currently only open to INTERNATIONAL applicants
A lower second honours degree in Computer Science or equivalent.
A Postgraduate Certificate in Computer Science or a related subject with a minimum grade C or 50% in all modules
Alternatively:
Evidence of industrial certifications in Information security such as CISSP, CEH, BCS will also be considered for suitable candidates with a minimum of 3 years working experience in related industries.
An interview process will also be utilised to verify suitability for the course for candidates with non-standard academic backgrounds but with demonstrable industry experience in the field.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pg-cert-academic-practice-in-higher-education:
Ideal for early career academic and support staff or experienced staff looking to update their practice, this course provides the primary source for continuing professional development at the University of Wolverhampton.
Learning, teaching and assessment are placed into focus, mindful of practical working needs in teaching and supporting roles.
You will develop your classroom practice – including e-learning – within a framework of current andragogical theory, enhancing your employability in Higher Education fields.
Also available to external candidates practicing in either higher or professional education environments, the programme employs a flipped learning approach, offering dynamic face-to-face peer and tutor-led activities in tandem with a rich online learning environment, working to facilitate individual reflection, reading and scholarship.
Completion of the course will result in a valid, recognised qualification in higher education practices, as well as a pathway for recognition at either Associate/Fellow of the Higher Education Academy, a qualification allied to professional status with the national body for higher education practitioners.
The module aims to develop your curiosity regarding the wider context in which you teach and/or support learning and to explore challenges and opportunities that may affect your learners’ experience.
The programme for the module is dynamic as it reflects the changing nature of higher educational debate and considers a range of influencing topics, e.g., teaching excellence, policy, culture, environment, post-digital sustainability, societal and legal issues, etc.
To support, debate and dialogical learning, you will engage with guest speakers (virtual and face-to-face), a range of stakeholders from within the University and beyond and your peers to enable you to explore contemporary challenges and opportunities that are relevant to each particular topic.
This will culminate in your preparing an academic poster and presenting this to your peers in a module learning and teaching conference.
In addition, in peer groups you will identify and explore an appropriate quality enforcement process such as Higher Education the B compliance regulations for NMCS Standards.
This module is aimed at developing your academic practice.
We will be analysing and implementing key concepts, strategies and techniques required for learning, teaching and assessment for adult learners in higher education.
In this module we will showcase and explore different approaches to learning, teaching and assessment that you could apply to your own setting.
For example, this module takes a flipped learning approach, by experiencing this approach as a student you might decide to use it in your own context.
In flipped learning the face-to-face days are dynamic spaces for sharing practice with peers and tutors through the activities such as discussion, debate and collaboration.
The online environment is primarily for individual learning with ebooks, ejournals, videos and discussions that you will be expected to engage with.
The module is suitable for practitioners who have teaching and/or supporting learning commitment in higher or professional education whether new to teaching or experienced practitioners.
To study this module, you must have a minimum of 24 hours of teaching and/or supporting learning in the duration of the module as you will be taking part in peer observations both as the person teaching or supporting learning, also observing and giving feedback to colleagues.
This module can be studied as a stand-alone CPD module with a separate accreditation by Advance HE for Associate Fellowship of the HEA.
Students who pass the module assessment will have met the criteria outlined in the Professional Standards Framework (PSF) for Descriptor 1 (2023)
This module focuses on making your learning, teaching and assessment inclusive by design supported by a systematic understanding of current research and advanced scholarship.
After an initial review of related models and theories of learning, the module focuses on contextualising opportunity and issues in your own practice.
You will be working in peer groups enabling you to critically reflect on your own academic practice to apply inclusive curriculum design to your own setting.
Your critical reflections will be grounded in current equality, diversity and inclusion policy and practices.
This module takes a flipped learning approach.
The face-to-face days are dynamic spaces for sharing practice with peers and tutors.
The online environment is for individual learning with ebooks, ejournals, videos and discussions with your peers that you must engage with.
This module can be studied as a stand-alone CPD.
It would be suitable for those who teaching higher education setting or for those who teach in different educational contexts such as work-based learning or Higher Education partnerships.
To hold a good honours Degree (normally a 2:2 or above).
Active teaching throughout the course in a Higher Education setting (at least 24 hours) and specifically 10 hours teaching over the first two semesters in the year of entry.
International applicants will be required to hold IELTS with an overall band score of 6.5 with a minimum of 6.0 in each element.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/mph-public-health:
This MPH Public Health course offers comprehensive training aligned with UK standards, showcases diverse alumni success in global health organisations and supports students' career development through industry connections.
This Master’s in Public Health course equips students with the essential skills and knowledge needed to work effectively in various health settings.
It is an excellent choice for individuals who are passionate about making a positive impact on the lives of individuals, families, and communities and shaping the current and future public health sector.
This programme has an established reputation for producing accomplished and highly marketable postgraduates in public health.
This MPH course draws on UK government policy directives in public health - Fit for the Future: Public Health People (2016), NHS Long Term Plan (2019) and The Future of Health and Care: Working together to improve health and social care for all (2021).
This award is mapped against the UK Public Health Register (UKPHR) specialist register standards so you can go on to use the award to fulfil part of the requirements for registration as a specialist practitioner in the future.
The UKPHR is one of 3 bodies that register public health practitioners to work at consultant or director level (the other two being the Faculty of Public Health (FPH) and the General Medical Council).
The UKPHR specialist register standards have also been mapped against the Public Health Skills and Knowledge Framework and refer to some of the core competencies outlined by the FPH.
The course follows this framework throughout, at the level needed to equip students for public health practice.
Many of our alumni have achieved excellent jobs within public health and are working in organisations such as government public health agencies, the WHO and the UN, where they are making a difference to the population's health with the skills they have acquired from the programme.
The MPH has extensive experience in nurturing and developing students from diverse backgrounds.
Overseas students are supported through an inclusive curriculum where every module, session, teaching material or activity reflects an appreciation and valuing of diversity and inclusivity.
The MPH also has a track record in recruiting home-based public health practitioners seeking to enhance their academic qualifications in order to develop their professional careers.
The format of delivery has been designed to fit in with people who work or have other commitments:
You will learn and be assessed through a variety of activities including discussion, debate, presentations, quizzes and more.
You will study a range of modules, with some studied alongside other health and social care students.
This will provide you with opportunities for interdisciplinary learning and broaden your understanding of the multidisciplinary nature of public health.
The 20-credit modules you will take over 2 semesters are Public Health Epidemiology and Statistics, Advanced Research Skills, Assessing the Health Needs in Populations, Health Protection and Health Improvement, Social Perspectives on Health and Health Policy, Strategic Management and Leadership in Health.
In addition, in the third semester you will undertake a 60-credit module – the Research Dissertation – which allows you to undertake your own research project (with the guidance and support of a supervisor).
All students will have access to an Academic Coach - Academic Coaches work in partnership with course teams and wider university services to create individual coaching programmes for students during their postgraduate studies.
You and your Academic Coach will work together on a 1-1 basis to maximise your potential as a successful student​
The academic teaching team also provides a range of extra-curricular activities to support you in your studies and wider interest in public health issues.
These extra-curricular activities include a regular public health open-seminar series where professionals in health and research share details of their work and engage in lively debate.
This module will provide you with in-depth knowledge and understanding of research methods and support you in acquiring the skills necessary to design and conduct a research study.
You will develop a critical understanding of each stage of a research proposal, from building a research rationale to sampling, data collection and analysis.
You will plan a research study that can be ethically, rigorously and feasibly carried out independently by you in fulfilment of the requirements of the Master's Dissertation.
You will gain a critical, depth of knowledge of the methodologies and research methods you will need in order to write Chapter 3 which covers the Methodology and Methods section of your Master's Dissertation.
Health needs assessment is a systematic method for reviewing the health issues facing a population leading to agreed priorities and resource allocation that will improve health and reduce inequalities.
It is a recommended public health tool to provide evidence about a population on which to plan services and address health inequalities.
It provides an opportunity to engage with specific populations and enable them to contribute to targeted service planning and resource allocation and it provides an opportunity for cross-cultural partnership working and the development of creative and effective interventions.
This module will enable you to critically assess and evaluate ways in which health and social needs are assessed.
You will consider the theory and practice of health needs assessment and evaluation by critical examination of theoretical, conceptual and practical issues; some of the topics you will explore include Health Equity Audit, Health Economics and Health Informatics.
This module covers the essentials of health protection and health improvement, which are considered two of main domains of public health along with health surveillance, and management and leadership.
Health protection aims to prevent and manage communicable disease outbreaks by enhancing resilience in coping with emergencies and disasters, which also includes environmental diseases and those arising from climate change.
Health improvement initiatives aim to improve the health and wellbeing of individuals or communities through enabling and encouraging healthy choices as well as addressing underlying determinants of health.
In this module you will be encouraged to explore the inter-relationship between the protection of public health and the improvement of public health through health promotion strategies.
The module will critically review techniques and strategies that are implemented nationally and internationally to both protect and improve health, and enable you to reflect on your own experiences and examine your own interests in this field of study.
Epidemiology is defined as the art of defining and investigating the influence of factors on the health of populations.
This module explores the importance of epidemiology in public health by examining contemporary public health and epidemiological priorities which are explored from a global and life course perspective.
You will also explore the role of statistics and its practical use in epidemiology and public health, through an understanding of essential topics such as study design, data analysis and statistical methods used in the execution of health research.
Teaching on epidemiological methodologies and statistical techniques interfaces with and supports the research methods and dissertation modules, preparing you for work in a range of public health arenas.
In this module you will design, conduct and evaluate an original research study within the field of Public Health or Health & Social Care.
You will carry out a research investigation on a topic area within the field of your choosing, and you will demonstrate  an in-depth understanding of relevant theoretical frameworks, research methodologies and applications for your chosen discipline.
This module is the independent study element of your Masters Degree.
The module is designed to be studied after or in conjunction with a research skills module where your research proposal is planned and assessed.
This module will introduce you to the sociological perspectives needed to understand current health issues.
It will also aim to develop your critical understanding of current health policy, and influences on policy and the policy-making process.
Through an examination of key concepts in the social determinants of health, how policy can help to tackle health inequalities and the ethics and policymaking process, this module will develop your evaluative skills necessary to critically understand sociological perspectives and interrogate policies.
In doing so this module will prepare you for public health and health & social care practice where you will be required to improve population health and well-being and reduce health inequalities.
The diverse and rapidly changing political, technological, economic and socio-cultural shifts over the last two decades and the outbreaks of infectious diseases have placed a tremendous impact on healthcare delivery systems and public health.
What is the role of leadership in addressing the gaps and mitigating these changes and challenges across healthcare and public health settings?
What aspects of leadership theory and models might apply to help us effectively lead and manage the healthcare delivery system change and reform?
What lessons can we learn to improve the delivery of healthcare and public health in a complex and diverse setting?
This module introduces you to the principles, recent theories and approaches required to be an effective leader and manager within public health, and health and social care environments.
With a range of learning opportunities and group work, you will deepen your understanding and appreciation of key theories and the research evidence on leadership practice and its application at a personal, organisational and inter-organisational level.
Health Promoter/Adviser
School Health Advisor
Health Educator
Childhood Obesity Programme Co-ordinator
Mental Health Promotion Specialist
Health Protection Practitioner
Housing Services Officer
Sexual Health Advisor
Smoking Cessation Counsellor
Management
Wellbeing Advisor
Health promoters / Advisers raise awareness of societal health concerns to improve public well-being.
Childhood obesity coordinators develop and implement strategies to reduce obesity rates among children through education, policy, and community-based interventions.
Mental Health Promotion Specialists raise awareness of societal health concerns to improve individuals' mental health and wellbeing.
Health Protection Practitioners work to prevent and control infectious diseases and environmental health threats to safeguard community wellbeing.
The educational aims of this course have been informed by the core competency areas defined by the Public Health Skills and Knowledge Framework:
Through these core themes that run throughout the award, the course will enable you to gain an understanding of the inter-disciplinary and multi-disciplinary approaches to Public Health.
As a Public Health student, you will develop the skills necessary for the assimilation and understanding of the complex and diverse nature of the subject, as well as more general skills which will be widely transferable, enabling you to effectively prepare for and to establish a career in a wide range of health and public health related areas.
These include the knowledge and ability to:
A degree classification of 2:2 or above in the area of Biochemistry, Biomedicine, Biomedical or Biological Science, Dentistry, Environmental Health, Food Science, Health Psychology, Health and Social Care, Hospital Administration, Nutrition, Microbiology, Optometry, Parasitology and Entomology, Pharmacy, Pharmacology, Physician Assistantship, Public Health or Public Health Nursing, Nursing, Social Work, Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) qualifications.
Any degree subject area with a classification 2:1 and 12 – 24 months of supervisory work experience in a related public health setting, demonstrating knowledge of the subject matter you are interested in pursuing.
3 – 5 five years of relevant public health work experience, demonstrating in-depth knowledge of the sector for the subject matter you are interested in pursuing.
Ema an Syed, MPH graduate
Emaan Syed had never studied at university before, but when she moved to Walsall and left her full-time job to pursue the Master of Public Health, she chose the University of Wolverhampton, particularly as the course was offered as a 1-year programme.
“ I had never been in a university before, and my first impressions of the University of Wolverhampton were very good.
I was invited to an induction before the course commenced which was very useful.
We also had an opportunity to meet the lecturers and have a look around the University.
I was impressed with the facilities and the modern, but friendly feel to the University.
I also noticed many mature students like myself so I felt I would not be out of place.
“ The course was well structured and we were informed of the course plan and deadlines at the outset.
I enjoyed how the modules were spaced and though the course was very intense there was a lot of support available from the lecturers.
Even though I was very nervous about attending a university I never had a problem making friends or approaching staff.
I was so well settled that the University became my second home during my studies.
Emaan was particularly impressed with the ease of access and quality of the facilities offered.
“ I really enjoyed the Learning Centre.
The décor and the setup were well suited to all ages.
There were places you could just sit and chill out as well as study in strict quiet locations.
The long hour access really helped and even though I would study until midnight on most days I was never afraid to walk back to my car.
Like many students, Emaan encountered unexpected difficulties during her studies, and found that the support services available to her made a real difference in enabling her to continue with, and successfully complete her studies.
“ The most important thing for me whilst at the University was the support I was offered when I became ill during my studies.
It was this support from staff that made me feel I have to persevere and complete the course.
“ I believe there is a good support structure in place for students who want to complete their qualification and staff members are very understanding to individual needs and circumstances.
Even though the course is intense and difficult, it is well designed with support in place for students.
“ Staff offered a lot of support and were very approachable.
After getting my Masters in Public Health, it has made it easier to get a head-start in a healthcare career.
“ The University’s staff are friendly, caring, efficient and skill-minded to their respective disciplines of work.
Students are co-operative, disciplined and courageous to generate knowledge from both lecturers and colleagues through learning, questions and group discussions.
Sani Baraya Wamakko
“ From the very first day I stepped into the university, I was welcomed by a pleasantly lovely and friendly team of non-academic and academic staff.
I was hospitably guided through the registration formalities and induction programmes – some of which were organized by the Students’ Union, and well-tailored to meet the expectations of an international student like me.
“ The MPH programme modules were well designed to meet the yearnings of students like me- who wanted to get the requisite technical and leadership skills and competence to become key players and stakeholders in contemporary global public health practice.
Ogbonna Amanze
“Staff offered a lot of support and were very approachable.
After getting my Masters in Public Health, it has made it easier to get a head-start in a healthcare career.”
“The University’s staff are friendly, caring, efficient and skill-minded to their respective disciplines of work.
Students are co-operative, disciplined and courageous to generate knowledge from both lecturers and colleagues through learning, questions and group discussions.”
“From the very first day I stepped into the university, I was welcomed by a pleasantly lovely and friendly team of non-academic and academic staff.
I was hospitably guided through the registration formalities and induction programmes – some of which were organized by the Students’ Union, and well-tailored to meet the expectations of an international student like me.”
“The MPH programme modules were well designed to meet the yearnings of students like me- who wanted to get the requisite technical and leadership skills and competence to become key players and stakeholders in contemporary global public health practice.”

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/msc-health-and-social-care:
Through studying on this programme, you could seek employment in private industry, local authority, government departments, statutory bodies, NHS Trusts, NHS England, charities, policy organisations, higher and further education.
The module will enable you to critically evaluate and assess research in the health and / or social care fields.
Whether you are currently working in the sector, or hope to pursue a career in these fields, this module will assist you in appraising the quality of research in order that it might be assessed for use in evidence-based, best practice.
This module will provide you with the specialist knowledge of research within health and social care.
You will explore and critique methodological approaches to research, quantitative and qualitative methods of sampling, data collection and data analysis.
You will develop the compulsory skills required to conduct an advanced electronic literature search, synthesise and evaluate the reliability and validity of research within a chosen area of health and/ or social care.
With this knowledge, you will explore ethical issues in research and research design evaluating its effectiveness for a chosen area in health and / or social care.
In this module, you will explore contemporary issues in health and social care and analyse ethical issues, ethical theories and principles and their application to health and social care practice.
You will develop an in-depth understanding of the moral choices, moral conduct, beliefs and values that are held in society and the issues that arise in health and social care practice.
You will develop a profound understanding of the role of the ethical practitioner and the critical application of ethical principles and critical awareness of how the obligations and consequences of moral decision-making affect health and social care provision.
You will evaluate theories and synthesise existing knowledge of contemporary professional issues of legal and professional accountability and advocacy and evaluate the applied ethical theories to practice.
With this understanding, you will explore contemporary health issues and ethical issues within health such as, beginning of life care, fertility issues, resource allocation, end of life care, whistleblowing, mental health, liberty safeguards, disability, children, negligence, and issues with older people, consent, confidentiality, ethics and research, end of life care, euthanasia and suicide.
The module will enable you to critically engage and develop specialist knowledge in contemporary issues in mental health and on the varied perspectives to promoting positive mental health and wellbeing.
You will analyse and evaluate research and legislative directives considering the implications for leading service developments, transformational change and innovation within the health and social care sector.
Central throughout, will be a focus on stigma and inequalities, how mental health is interpreted within society and the impact of this on individuals, along with an exploration of narratives that draw on the lived experience.
There will also be a focus on partnership working within mental health and wellbeing, drawing on examples of good practice.
You will identify the roles of professionals, families and carers in partnership working and the importance of providing person-centred care.
The module will enable you to explore and share your experiences of mental health and wellbeing, of working with diverse communities and populations and an in-depth understanding of the importance of improving quality of care for service users.
The module has been designed to allow flexibility of choice, to explore an area of interest in order to consider innovative service developments in an area of interest/specialist practice.
Leadership and Management Roles
Research and Consultancy
Policy development
Health Promotion
Allied Health Professionals
You should have an honours degree or equivalent, although substantial professional experience will be considered.
We accept graduates with an honours degree in a wide variety of subjects, and graduates from disciplines other than health may well be eligible for entry.
‘ This course has changed me as a person and made me more aware of what health and social care is about.
’ (Emily)
‘ I have gained skills that will help me to work better with people .’ (Charlie)
‘ This course has made me think differently about issues such as mental health.
’ (Victor)
‘ I have enjoyed learning about issues such as drug rooms and different ways of rehabilitating people.
’ (Emmanuel)
‘ The lectures have been really interactive and got me involved in working with others in the group.
’ (Mary)
‘ I’m going to take this learning back home and develop a project.
’ (Mo)

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/msc-health-and-wellbeing-top-up:
This course consists of a research dissertation on your choice of original topic relevant to health and wellbeing.
You will demonstrate your individual strengths and subject knowledge in every step of this project’s creation, engaging in design, delivery and evaluation of your study with a keen understanding of frameworks, methodologies and health science applications needed to carry out your work effectively.
Applicants will be refreshed on health and wellbeing at a postgraduate level, able to move on to subsequent research skills training or to take training while working on this dissertation.
The minimum academic entry requirement is 120 level 7 credits or a completed Post-graduate Diploma at level 7 (Master’s level) in any health, welfare or social care related discipline .
These credits / your Diploma must have been fully completed and agreed by an examination board before starting this course.
You may also need to attend an interview and to give a 10 minute presentation on your academic progress to date and your ideas for a Master’s level independent research project.
You may need to take a research methods module to prepare you for your MSc / MA top up course and before applying for this course:
If English is not your first language you will need to have a TOEFL score of 550 or above, or an IELTS score of 6.5 or above, or evidence of English proficiency equivalent to these scores.
This course is not available to students requiring a Tier 4 student visa

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/llm-international-business-law:
Within this course you will gain a critical understanding of contemporary issues in international business law.
You will gain a critical understanding of contemporary issues in international business law.
The course will enable you to acquire and develop enhanced analytical, critical, communication and presentational skills appropriate to postgraduate level study in the context of their mandatory and optional modules, and to become familiar with the central problems of research in these areas;
You will appreciate the roles of both national and international law in the development and application of International Business Law.
This course equips students with legal knowledge that is required to deal with an increasing number of global issues relating to law and business.
Students will understand the different international organisations that regulate law and business.
On completion of the course, students will be able to understand cross border jurisdiction issues thereby increasing their employability from an international perspective.
The School is based in the University's contemporary Mary Seacole Building (MH) and benefits from a range of specialist facilities to help you study.
Our large lecture theatre and all of our teaching rooms are equipped with high-tech audio visual equipment, giving you a comfortable and stimulating environment in which to learn.
You can also enjoy our dedicated social learning space.
The limited liability company is a core component of the modern business world, acting as a key commercial vehicle.
With United Kingdom company law providing the basis of the legislative framework in many jurisdictions across the globe, the advanced study of the subject is an important step in understanding the global business environment.
The development of company law from the nineteenth century to present day is important in understanding the current laws and regulations governing the operation of business, both in the United Kingdom and beyond.
The module will explore and critically examine the law relating to companies in three broad themes: firstly the nature and implications of limited liability, with consideration as to the concept of the corporate veil and the circumstances in which it can be set aside; secondly the nature and purpose of the core organs of a company and the constitution that governs them; and thirdly the rights and duties of the participants in a company.
The module will consider the statutory, common law and contractual arrangements underpinning each of these themes.
In the modern world of commerce, business people and lawyers recognize that the legal environment of both business and regulation must reflect the increasing internationalization of business.
A substantial amount of all business transactions is done across national borders.
This module aims to provide a framework for understanding both the structure of international business and the legal environment in which it operates.
Particular emphasis is paid to the economic, social and political forces which have and continue to influence the development of the law and the legal institutions which regulate international business transactions.
The module divides international business into three major forms: international trade through import and export; licensing agreements for the transfer of intellectual property rights such as copyright, patents and trademarks including franchising, and finally, foreign direct investment through mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures.
With respect to the latter, particular attention is paid to the control and regulation of multinational companies.
The module examines the key issues involved in all of these forms of international business activity.
The module will highlight the key principles of Commercial Awareness and the inter-relationship between the commercial and legal aspects of enterprise and innovation; to highlight and minimise risk associated with the efficient exploitation of ideas with commercial potential and afford greater protection in a global setting.
This module considers methods by which a registered company's efficiency can be protected and maintained by a system of both statutory and external (government)regulations.
The module is concerned with the governance and regulation of large corporations.
Systems of governance will be examined in the context of the UK and at an international level.
This module will explore the concept of corporate insolvency and rescue in a national and international context.
You will consider the mechanisms available to rescue companies from creditor pressure and to salvage businesses in order to assist a& nbsp;return to profitability.
You will also consider corporate insolvency where cross-border issues arise, to determine the identification and application of the relevant law and processes.
A& nbsp;number of formal and informal insolvency process will be analysed and evaluated.
This module will cover key aspects relating to employment law in practice.
This will include understanding the nature of an employee, becoming familiar with the formation and terms, both express and implied, of an employment contract and its variation.
The module will also include consideration of the protection offered to employees in respect of dismissal, discrimination and rights when the ownership of the employer's business changes.
On successful completion of this module, students will –  •	Be able to critically appraise existing knowledge, research, new evidence and innovations in practice –  •	Have further developed their analytical skills to make reasoned creative and original judgements regarding the practical application of law in practice –  •	Be able to deal with complex and specialised legal norms, independently explore the current limits of legal knowledge and critically evaluate current research/advanced scholarship in the relevant practice or academic area –  •	Have further developed their intellectual autonomy to become independent learners –  •	Have developed their ability to critically reflect on their own professional or academic practice and manage their process of lifelong learning and professional development as a lawyer in practice or as an academic through research and teaching.
This Level 7 module will be applicable to all students enrolled on a L7 Law course which has a dissertation module attached to it.
International Law
Arbitrator / Mediator
International Consultant
In-House Council
Demonstrate a systematic understanding of knowledge, and a critical awareness of current problems in the area of International Business Law as well as a conceptual understanding that enables the student;
to evaluate critically current research and advanced scholarship in global business and law; and,
to evaluate methodologies and develop critiques of them and, where appropriate, to propose new hypotheses.
Demonstrate a critical understanding of contemporary legal issues in international business.
Critically evaluate the impact of the law and principles both at the domestic and international level.
Exercise advanced analytical, critical and communication skills.
Demonstrate an enhanced ability to research and present legal assessments and to present an advanced research dissertation.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/llm-law-and-human-resource-management:
This course is designed to provide you with the opportunity to gain knowledge and skills in the areas of law and human resource management to enable you to enhance your employability within the legal and business sectors.
This qualification will be relevant to both national and international environments given the unique design of our programme.
The course is intellectually stimulating and upon completion you will have the skills, knowledge and understanding to apply to real work situations in human resource management, business, commercial or legal sectors.
The course adopts an interdisciplinary approach that will help you to develop your own understanding of complex and challenging business environments.
The course programme is designed to provide you with legal and management knowledge and skills; including coverage on how organisations respond to changing environments, both nationally and internationally, also skills employed by leaders and managers to manage change.
Skills development includes interpretation and analysis of quantitative data and numerical information for analytical and management purposes.
In relation to the dissertation, you will be expected to undertake this in an area of legal studies or legal aspects of human resources.
This course gives you added value as on successful completion of it you may choose to apply for membership of internationally recognised professional bodies, namely, the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators (CIArb) and /or the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development (CIPD).
The University has ‘recognised course status’ by the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators (CIArb) through the module Alternative Dispute Resolution for Commercial Legal Disputes, so that on successful completion of the module and course, you may apply to the CIArb for Associate Membership.
In addition, the modules on Human Resource Management align to the professional standards of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development (CIPD) so that on successful completion offers you the opportunity to apply for Associate Membership of the CIPD.
Note this course is NOT accredited by the CIPD.
The course adopts an interdisciplinary approach , of legal studies and human resource management, that will help you to develop your own understanding of complex and challenging business environments.
The course aims include giving you a critical understanding of contemporary issues in law and human resource management.
The aims of the course include, giving you a critical understanding of contemporary issues in law and human resource management, including techniques and skills of dispute resolution, in particular negotiation and mediation.
You will learn to understand the needs of others and empathy towards them; sensitivity to diversity in people and in different situations.
This course will aim to enable you to acquire and develop enhanced skills to be able to think critically and be creative; organise thoughts, analyse, synthesise, critically appraise and use quantitative skills to interpret financial and numerical data for analytical and management purposes; giving you an appreciation of how the law impacts on human resource management both nationally and internationally.
Ultimately the course is designed to enhance your transferable skills thereby benefitting your future employment prospects.
Business Sector
Commercial Sector
Legal Sector
A 2:2 or above honours degree in law, human resource management, business or other relevant academic degree or joint law programmes, such as Human Resource Management and Law or Business and Law or other joint law subjects.
Non-standard applicants, without the above qualifications but have significant experience in the appropriate subject areas, may be accepted on the course if it is considered they will be  able to cope with the rigours of the programme.
Students may be required to attend an interview.
International applicants should refer to the following link: Language entry requirements

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/llm-law-and-practice:
The LLM Law and Practice offers you the opportunity to prepare for the Solicitors Qualifying Examination SQE 1, develop competency in the practical legal skills necessary for SQE 2 and acquire some Qualifying Work Experience (QWE).
On successful completion of the course, you will be awarded a Master's qualification.
If you started your Undergraduate degree after 31 December 2021 your route to qualification as a solicitor in England and Wales will be the Solicitors Qualifying Examination (SQE).
This is a centralised assessment set by the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA).
This course will provide you with the opportunity to gain the knowledge and assessment skills necessary for SQE 1 and to evidence the development of practical legal skills which you will need when sitting the SQE2 assessments.
The SQE 1 and SQE 2 are external exams provided by the SRA and the cost of these examinations it is not included in the cost of this course.
The course will be relevant to anyone seeking a career in professional legal practice who is a law graduate or has completed University of Wolverhampton’s LLM Law Conversion or a similar course.
The course combines the expertise and support of staff within Wolverhampton Law School and the intuitive technology and SQE 1 assessment specialist knowledge of our external partner, Barbri.
You will study in a supportive and collaborative environment which combines face to face teaching, group activities, independent study and online learning.
University staff will act as Learning Coaches to assist you with any problems you may encounter on the course and to check that you are maintaining the level of engagement required to provide you with the best possible chance of success in the SQE 1 assessments.
The completion of the two practical legal skills modules will result in an eportfolio showing evidence of your competence in these skills, your improvement during the module and your reflection on the acquisition of the skills.
This eportfolio can be shared with prospective employers as part of the job application process.
External research has identified that employers of law students value practical legal skills very highly [1] .
The practical legal knowledge and practical legal skills acquired on this course will prepare you for your Qualifying Work Experience (QWE).
You will have the opportunity to participate in the Wolverhampton Legal Advice Centre providing you with an chance to interview members of the public, conduct research into the issues raised and provide written advice to the client.
This will be done under the supervision of legal practitioners and law academics who are currently working in practice and/or experts in specific areas of law.
Time spent participating in Wolverhampton Legal Advice Centre can count towards your period of QWE.
[1] Exclusive research: SQE prep not enough say majority of law firms - Legal Cheek
You will study four modules, one provided by our external partner which will prepare you for the SQE 1 assessments, the remainder of the modules will be delivered by university staff.
The two practical legal skills modules include the six areas of practical legal skills assessed at SQE 2 and the assessments on these modules will follow the format of the SQE 2 assessments.
The skills modules are designed to equip you with essential practical legal skills through a combination of theoretical learning, practical exercises, and student collaboration.
You will develop appropriate legal skills essential for success in the legal profession.
The legal skills will be taught as two case studies, consisting of complex authentic client scenarios, allowing each skill to feed into the next skill as would be required in legal practice.
The dissertation module will provide you with the ability to acquire the knowledge and skills necessary through a series of interactive workshops, covering research design, quantitative and qualitative data collection, data analysis and writing up the research.
The taught sessions will be supported by the addition of blended learning opportunities through interactive and explanatory activities on Canvas.
You will be supported in the research and writing process of the module by the inclusion of writing retreats at regular intervals during the academic year.
The writing retreats will give you the opportunity to have dedicated time to write in an environment which is conducive to productivity and where you can share, with peers and supervisors/module leader, at the beginning of the day what you intend to do and at the end of the day report back to explain your progress.
The writing retreats will encourage you to be autonomous learners and encourage self confidence in your ability to work independently while providing support where necessary.
Students will develop legal skills relevant to practice in three separate skill areas through face-to-face teaching, online activities and collaboration with peers.
The module is designed to equip students with essential practical legal skills through a combination of theoretical learning, practical exercises, and assessments.
Students will develop appropriate legal skills essential for success in the legal profession.
Students will create an eportfolio evidencing the development of legal skills which can be shared with prospective employers by sharing the URL.
Research conducted by Legal Cheek  identified that the majority of responding law firms required future trainees to both complete courses with a focus on practical legal skills and for SQE preparation to be undertaken within the context of a master’s programme.
https://www.legalcheek.com/2023/05/exclusive-research-sqe-prep-not-enough-say-majority-of-law-firms/
The module is provided online by an external provider and will cover the topics included in FLK1 and FLK2 Knowledge and understanding requirements, https://sqe.sra.org.uk/about-sqe/what-is-the-sqe/assessment-topics   The core learning on the module comes in three formats – short (approx.
20 mins) recorded lectures, workbook reading, and practice question sets.
In this module, the students develop the problem-solving skills required to effectively answer the best answer multiple choice questions that will form the SQE 1 assessment provided by the SRA.
These skills are developed through spaced repetition and allow students to practice assessing and identifying relevant facts in each question that will help them to effectively spot issues when they are working in the legal sector.
Further, these questions provide 5 answers which are all plausible outcomes or responses to the scenario and question.
Students are required to identify the most effective outcome or correct answer based on the facts provided.
In the legal profession it is key that a solicitor can review information under time pressure, identify the relevant information and choose a course of action effectively.
Expected progress in this module is based on the default schedule which assumes a steady rate of study over the 40-week period.
Students can customise their schedule, for example, to allow for periods of study leave or busy periods at work.
A student who is behind the default schedule may nonetheless be on track with their own customised schedule.
Solicitor
Academic
Civil Service
Financial Sector
Trading Standards
Police
This course has a strong emphasis on employability through the development of practical legal skills evidenced by the eportfolio and the opportunity to participate in Wolverhampton Legal Advice Centre
The course is taught by qualified solicitors, published researchers in Law and Legal Education and by an external partner who is a market leader in SQE preparation
Innovative writing retreats support the research module
Dedicated Learning Coaches to support you throughout the course
Practical legal skills essential for working in the legal profession
Enhanced legal research skills
Professional communication skills, both oral and written
Teamwork through collaborative activities involving both staff and students
Independent and critical thinking skills
Self-reflection as evidenced by a reflective log to be included in an eportfolio
An LLB (Hons) Degree with at least 2:2 classification or a Graduate Diploma in Law (GDL) or Common Professional Examination (CPE) LLM Common Professional Examination (CPE), or LLM Law Conversion or equivalent.
Applicants with a lower Degree classification or with equivalent qualifications may be considered on an individual basis.
Non-native speakers are required to hold IELTS with an overall band score of 6.5 with a minimum of 6.0 in each element or equivalent.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/llm-legal-practice-course:
The LLM Legal Practice Course (LLM LPC) aims to prepare you for practice as a trainee solicitor and to provide you with a solid foundation for subsequent practice as a solicitor.
This course is a key part of the vocational stage of training to become a solicitor for graduates or members or Fellows of the Chartered Institute of Legal Executives who have completed the academic stage of legal training.
Students will receive a Postgraduate Certificate in Legal Practice upon successful completion of Stage One only.
Students that complete both Stage One and Stage Two will be completed with the full award of Postgraduate Diploma in Legal Practice.
The course emphasises and develops the skills which are required for a successful career in practice, and it must be successfully completed prior to the commencement of a training contract.
Additionally, the course will provide you with the opportunity to develop in-depth knowledge of an area of chosen legal interest through completion of a Master's-level dissertation.
Students are supported in their search for employment with a dedicated careers tutor and a number of initiatives throughout the academic year.
We have strong links with both local and national firms and are engaged with the local legal community with visiting lectures from local firms on a regular basis.
“I recall from my own time studying the LPC at the University of Wolverhampton that the University had close links with local solicitors and law firms.
I found these links useful because local solicitors would often attend the University to give guest lectures and career talks.
As an aspiring solicitor at the time I remember that this gave me invaluable insight into life as a solicitor and hearing from practising solicitors helped me to really believe that I too could qualify as a solicitor!
Now that I am a qualified and practising solicitor, as alumni of the University I find it extremely rewarding to have maintained links with the University, which offers me opportunities to speak to current students about life as a solicitor.
I know from first-hand experience how useful such access can be and I hope that any insight I can give about my own story and how the University of Wolverhampton prepared me for life as a solicitor helps and inspires current students.” Darren Cox.
Alumni and Associate Solicitor at Thursfields Solicitors.
LPC students will have the opportunity to participate in mentoring schemes, to attend the University’s Law Careers Fair and to attend practitioner presentations and workshops.
Zainab Katiin studied LLM Legal Practice, and is now a business development manager and solicitor.
The law school has a history of training many solicitors and lawyers including Olapeju Adenuga and Tan Ikram.
At Wolverhampton Law School the LPC is structured to cater for students who wish to enter either general or commercial practice.
During Stage One, which runs from September to February, you will study the core practice areas whilst developing key legal skills you will need in practice.
You will then choose three of a range of elective subjects, either linked to your chosen career path or to keep your options open, during Stage Two from March to June.
LPC students have a specially designated resources room with access to practitioner texts and reference materials.
You will also have access to online practitioner reference materials and resources such as precedents, statutes, and legal databases.
You can apply and develop your legal knowledge and skills by volunteering as a student legal adviser in the University's acclaimed Legal Advice Centre, assisting members of the public with legal queries.
Our LPC has excellent academic staff and course teams who will make every effort to ensure that each student gets the support they need.
Vocational Electives, these include, Commercial Law, Insolvency Law and Practice, Commercial Property Law, Employment, Family Law and Practice, Personal Injury and Litigation and Immigration and Welfare Laware provided at Stage 2 of the course.
The choice of electives offered provides a balance between 'High Street' private client and “Commercial” areas of practice.
Electives will run provided there are sufficient selection to make the module viable pedagogically.
The addition of a Master's-level dissertation will give students the opportunity to obtain a higher level Master's degree qualification, and gain specialised knowledge and insight into an area of law relevant to their intended legal practice.
There will be five skills assessments and the Solicitors’ Accounts Exam during Stage 1.
These, together with a mock assessment opportunity, are usually held on Fridays.
Below list the legal skills, professional conduct and solicitors accounts, core subject modules that make up Stage 1 of the LPC.
In addition, information on the dissertation module that makes up the LLM Award.
In this skills module, students will, through a series of workshops and practical exercises develop their ability to formulate and present a coherent submission based upon facts, general principles and legal authority in a structured, concise and persuasive manner.
Students will also develop an understanding of the basic skills in the presentation of cases before courts and tribunals.
The module will be taught in the context of Criminal Litigation.
In this core practice area students will study the nature and structure of different business media with a view to being able to select an appropriate medium and structure to meet the client's commercial requirements, and to advise on the legal and taxation implications.
Students will develop an understanding of the interests of different parties involved in the business including directors, shareholders and creditors of a business and learn how to progress basic business transactions arising during the life and development of a business, drafting the appropriate documentation to facilitate this.
The module will also cover conduct and regulation issues, such as conflicts of interest and FSMA, as they arise in the context of relevant transactions.
In this skills module, students will, through a series of workshops and practical exercises develop an understanding of the principles of good drafting and editing of legal documents in order to meet clients’ expectations and address all legal, factual and procedural issues.
Students will also develop an ability to explain their own and others’ drafting and the implications of this for the client.
The module will be taught in the context of Property Law and Practice
In this skills module, students will, through a series of workshops and practical exercises develop an understanding of the principles and techniques of the skills of interviewing and advising clients.
Students will develop an understanding of how to conduct an effective interview that elicits the relevant information, allows the client to explain any concerns, anticipates the client’s questions and has clear outcomes.
Students will also develop the ability identify possible courses of action and their consequences, identify additional information required and provide advice to clients.
The module will be taught in the context of Civil Litigation
The research methods component of the module will prepare students for conducting legal research at postgraduate level.
It will inform students on how to select a research topic and be able to engage in appropriate research methodology exploring a variety of sources.
Skills such as critical thinking are examined as well as the ability to plan and design the parameters of one’s research method.
The module will help students on how to write up research using the correct referencing conventions for law.
After completing the first component of the module students are able to undertake a bespoke study on a defined legal topic, issue or problem giving them enhanced critical awareness and informing their current or future practice.
In this core practice area students will develop an understanding of the nature of civil and criminal litigation and an ability to identify the critical steps in the process of such litigation.
Students will gain an understanding of the Civil Procedure Rules and Criminal Procedure Rules through the module.
This will involve developing skills of case analysis in respect of both factual and legal issues.
Students will also consider different courses of action, their consequences, procedural and funding issues and the role of dispute resolution.
This will include drafting of appropriate procedural documentation in both civil and criminal litigation.
Students will also consider issues of professional conduct.
In this skills module, students will, through a series of workshops and practical exercises develop an ability to undertake systematic and comprehensive legal research using appropriate sources with the understanding of the need for thorough investigation of all relevant factual and legal issues involved in a legal transaction or matter.
Students will also learn to present the results of their research in a clear manner with a methodical, accurate and complete record of the research undertaken.
The module will be taught in the context of Business Law and Practice.
In this skills module, students will, through a series of workshops and practical exercises develop an ability to communicate effectively in writing, tailoring the communication to suit its purpose and the needs of different clients or recipient.
Students will understand the importance of accurate, straightforward and modern language, correct spelling, grammar, syntax and punctuation and clear, logical, consistent and appropriate structure and format.
Students will understand the need to address accurately and correctly all the relevant legal and factual issues whilst also addressing clients’ objectives and priorities.
The module will be taught in the context of Wills and Administration of Estates,  with students developing an understanding of the content, format and validity of wills, obtaining grants of representation and administration of an estate and becoming familiar with the purpose and general structure of the relevant documents.
Students will develop the ability to identify and be able to act in accordance with the core duties of professional conduct and professional ethics applicable to solicitors.
Students will consider the key elements of professional conduct and regulation, including the mandatory SRA Principles 2011, the outcomes-based SRA Code of Conduct 2011 and the relevant legislation in respect of Money Laundering and Financial Services and their application to solicitors.
In this core practice area students will develop an understanding of various practical legal issues in the context of domestic and commercial transactions and in relation to freehold and leasehold property.
This will include the identification of the nature of and performing the critical steps in a property transaction, including various tax aspects such as Stamp Duty Land Tax.
Students will also develop an awareness of principles such as conflicts of interest that may arise when acting for more than one party in a property transaction and an understanding of the requirements of lenders and the need to consider money laundering issues.
In this module students will develop an understanding of the core duties of professional conduct and professional ethics and the requirements of the Solicitors’ Accounts Rules 2011 in respect of handling client money.
Through practical exercises, students will be able to recognise, record and interpret receipts into and payments from office and client accounts as well as transfers between office and client accounts and between two client accounts and prepare a simple statement for clients on completion of a matter.
You will normally need to complete it prior to commencement of a training contract.
The course is delivered through a mixture of large group sessions (where the whole student cohort is taught together), small group sessions (typically comprising 15-20 students), online video presentations and exercises, in-class role-playing and directed independent study.
The LPC is designed to give students a strong foundation for general legal practice.
Therefore, equal weight is given to the core practice areas of business law and practice, Property Law, and Practice and Litigation.
The course is studied full-time.
Students are provided with textbooks and practice-based materials for each element of the course.
The Learning Outcomes of the Legal Practice Course are stipulated by the Solicitors’ Regulation Authority (SRA) in the Legal Practice Course Outcomes 2011, available on the SRA website.
At the end of the course, successful students should be able, under appropriate supervision, to:
Students should also be able to transfer skills learnt in one context to another;
demonstrate their knowledge, understanding and skills in the three areas covered by their choice of electives, and
7.
reflect on their learning and identify their learning needs
In addition, by completing the Master's level dissertation, students will:
8a.
demonstrate knowledge and the ability to critically analyse a range of essential legal topics to enhance their understanding of contemporary legal issues and the inter-relationship between law and social co-existence;
8b.
demonstrate critical awareness of current problems and developments in highly relevant areas of national or international legal interest;
8c.
demonstrate self-direction, independent learning, and originality in tackling, solving, and furthering their autonomy in the study of complex legal themes;
8d.
use a range of specialist and transferable skills enabling them to maximise employment opportunities in circumstances requiring sound judgement and personal responsibility; and
8e.
undertake research based on an understanding of research methodologies and advanced scholarship.
Under the Courts and Legal Services Act 1990 (as amended) the Law Society (now Solicitors’ Regulation Authority) and Bar Council are responsible for laying down the qualification regulations in respect of those seeking to qualify as solicitors and barristers.
The Solicitors’ Regulation Authority and Bar Council have agreed to act jointly in respect of the first or academic stage of training where that stage is satisfied by the completion of a qualifying law degree or approved Common Professional Examination course.
The conditions are set out within the amended 1995 Joint Announcement issued by the Law Society and the Council of Legal Education relating to Qualifying Law Degree and Common Professional Examinations and require requisite understanding of the Foundations of Legal Knowledge.
No student will be admitted to the Legal Practice Course unless the University is satisfied that he or she has satisfied the academic stage of training.
Whilst the SRA no longer requires students to register as Student Members of the SRA prior to commencement of the Legal Practice Course, students are advised that the SRA will assess the character and suitability of all individuals before they start a period of recognised training.
The details of this Suitability Test are available on the SRA website.
Students may wish to have an early assessment if there is a risk that they may not later qualify for admission on the grounds of an issue of character and suitability.
This must be sought at least six months before a period of recognised training commences and there is a fee (£100 in March 2015) for doing so.
Read more about alumni graduate Sapna Seth now a CEO and founder.
The qualifying law degree is recognised by the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA) for the purposes of satisfying the academic stage of training.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/llm-llm-law:
This programme seeks to enhance your employability and promotion prospects in law careers, developing skills appropriate to these occupations as well as ones within allied or related areas.
Whether a career in law is ultimately pursued, you will be provided with a set of intellectual and practical skills which will aid your career development.
Holders of this award may also find positions in the fields of education and research, including continuing their study for a PhD.
The University of Wolverhampton’s thriving postgraduate community demonstrates the strength of its approach, each graduate equipped with highly valued academic and research skills, as well as transferrable skills which enhance employability in law, research and academic endeavours.
This programme seeks to enhance your employability and promotion prospects in law careers.
Teaching will be delivered by research-active staff committed to a high standard of education.
This dynamic course emphasises engagement with existing and emerging research into areas of law, encouraging you to build a strong foundation of knowledge with which to challenge current intellectual thinking.
Internationally recognised research underpins a curriculum designed for students to make their own, offering a selection of modules so that you may specialise in your fields of interest, each module crafted to provide advanced knowledge and skills directly relevant to those fields.
You will gain critical awareness of challenging and contemporary themes across a range of legal areas, of which you will be able to specialise in your research through your selection of modules, informing the development of your future career even as your fellow students specialise elsewhere.
This ensures that you will be learning about the latest developments and debates in theory, policy and practice.
This module is designed to provide awareness of the alternative forms of dispute resolution in relation to business and commercial disputes other than simply instituting court proceedings to settle disputes.
The module includes consideration of strategies for conflict avoidance in commercial transactions and an introduction to the various forms of alternative dispute resolution options.
A closer study of mediation and arbitration, including international arbitration, will be undertaken.
This module seeks to develop your understanding of how intellectual property rights protect “ideas” through an examination of how the law seeks to balance the granting of its rights against the need to maintain appropriate incentive for others to engage in similar innovative activities.
Key concepts for determining an intellectual property right are investigated to explore the justification for differences in the nature of the protection afforded to registered and unregistered intellectual property rights.
The module develops your understanding of this distinction through closer examination of patent protection for inventions, copyright protection of expression of ideas in original works and trademark protection of distinctive identifiers of goods or services.
Lawyer
Local Authority
& More!
We have a purpose-built courtroom with state-of-the-art legal equipment and acoustics, allowing students to simulate real-world situations.
The whole course is designed to enable you to develop knowledge on the law, legal research skills, and application of the law.
You will develop skills of legal analysis, critical thinking, and application.
A 2:2 or above honours degree in law, or joint law programmes, such as Business and Law or other joint law subjects.
Non-standard applicants without the above qualifications but have significant experience in the appropriate subject areas may be accepted on the course if it is considered they may be able to cope with the rigours of the programme.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/llm-professional-practice-top-up:
The course will provide you with the opportunity to develop in-depth knowledge of an area of chosen legal interest.
It will encourage you to challenge current intellectual thinking whilst developing an advanced knowledge and ability to analyse your selected specialist area of law directly.
The degree is suitable for qualified solicitors and barristers who are looking to enhance their career prospects.
It is also suitable for students who have completed the Legal Practice Course or Bar Professional Training Course (formerly the Bar Vocational Course) but have not yet secured a training contract or pupillage.
The topic of legal research may be one arising from academic interest or a legal issue pertinent to your current expertise in legal practice.
On this masters course you will be given the opportunity to design a bespoke qualification where you will critically analyse and understand complexities that can arise as well as challenging and informing global and comparative perspectives.
The course is underpinned in many areas by internationally recognised research in addition to emerging research and advanced scholarship.
It will challenge your thinking and stimulate your academic aspirations in the further specialist study of law.
The Masters in Law degree is awarded after the successful completion of the dissertation module incorporating advanced research methods.
You will be supported by a supervisor and personal tutor during your studies on the course.
It may be possible to complete your Master of Laws top-up in 9 months.
This course will allow you to develop an in-depth knowledge of a chosen legal area.
The course design will encourage you to challenge current intellectual thinking whilst developing an advanced knowledge and ability to analyse, in a critical manner, your selected specialist area of law.
Your chosen topic of legal research may be one of academic interest or a legal issue pertinent to legal practice.
You will be instructed on how to critically analyse and understand the complexities that arise in your area of research.
You will join a thriving postgraduate student body within the Law School and upon successful completion of the course you will possess highly valued academic and research skills as well as a range of transferable skills designed to enhance employability in a law- related career as well as in future research and academia.
When you enrol onto this course you will gain access to the University’s specialist virtual learning environment (VLE) and a wealth of electronic resources to support your core studies and beyond.
You will benefit from the academic expertise of the course team, including nationally and internationally recognised researchers, and you will be assigned a tutor to help guide you through your studies.
The University’s on-line study facilities, available via the University web pages, will allow you access to extensive course materials and University-supported learning resources.
This course, which is offered by part-time study over one year, will enhance the employability and promotion prospects of people in the legal profession and allied areas of work who wish to develop specialist knowledge in a specific area of law or legal practice.
Furthermore, by choosing to study by distance learning you will acquire and demonstrate time management skills, independent learning, flexibility and the required discipline that prospective employers are looking for in a competitive employment market.
Alternatively holders of this award may also find positions in the field of education and research including continuing their study for a PhD.
The module enables the student to undertake a detailed study of a clearly defined legal topic, issue or problem.
During the research process the student will increase their knowledge of the area and develop a greater critical awareness.
Completion of the module will enhance the ability to write academically and to present such findings in an appropriate form.
PhD/MPhil
Senior Solicitor
Barrister
Educator
Upon joining the LLM Professional Practice you will join a thriving postgraduate student body.
Upon completion of the course, graduates will possess highly valued academic and research skills as well as a range of transferable skills designed to enhance employability in a law related career; as well as in future research and academia.
In addition, we have experienced academic staff with internationally recognised research and publications in a variety of legal areas.
We have excellent research facilities both for academic and practitioner lawyers that can be accessed on line.
We have a strong framework to support our students throughout the duration of study including providing you with a personal tutor, academic guidance and support and postgraduate study skills to enhance your learning experience.
This programme of study is designed to enhance the employability and promotion prospects of persons in the legal profession wishing to develop specialist knowledge in a bespoke area of law, it will provide you with a set of intellectual and practical skills that will aid your career development.
Applicants must have completed the Legal Practice Course, Bar Professional Training Course or the Postgraduate Certificate in Laws in Hong Kong (PCLL) or equivalent Professional Legal Qualification.
Alternatively, legal professionals who undertook the former Law Society Final Examinations or Bar Vocational Course are also eligible for the course.
IELTS 6.5, or equivalent for non-UK students.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/master-of-adult-nursing:
Our Masters of Adult Nursing is for graduates who, on successful completion, can gain a Master’s degree and become qualified Adult Nurses.
Master of Adult Nursing (MAN) – pre-registration, full-time 2 years
Studied full-time, this accelerated 2-year course aims to prepare you to become evidence-informed, compassionate and competent adult nurses.
If you want to become a qualified nurse, hold a minimum of a 2:2 degree, and have 720 hours of previous caring experience of paid or voluntary hands-on patient care in the last 5 years, then this exciting course could be for you.
Why choose this course?
This course offers graduates an accelerated route to a qualified Adult Nurse, and at the same time rewards students studying at level 7 with an opportunity of a Master's degree.
Taught in a variety of ways, on campus, blended, and online, this course recognises the need for flexible delivery, supporting students to complete a full-time vocational course within the context of busy lives; enabling you to balance your studies with personal commitments.
Become a Registered Adult Nurse
It is an exciting time to join the nursing profession, which is now widely respected as being fully professional, progressive, and evidence-informed.
As an Adult Nursing Master’s student, you will be offered a teaching and learning experience from experienced and passionate nursing staff recognised nationally as giving outstanding student support.
Clinical placements are specially selected to offer a diverse clinical and caring experience, giving opportunities to pursue a range of exciting career pathways in nursing.
The course is designed to ensure you experience diversity in clinical experience.
You will learn to nurse and care in multi-cultural and diverse clinical and community environments.
Learning to provide proficient and informed care in emergency/acute/critical care/general medicine and surgery to community and specialist practice provision.
Hands-on experience
Nursing is a hands-on profession working with patients, families, carers and with interprofessional colleagues.
Therefore, as a Nursing and Midwifery (NMC) approved course, 50% of learning is on practice placement and 50% is theory either on campus, blended or online.
Range of career opportunities
The MAN course has been developed closely with local trust partners to reflect the increasing and rapidly changing requirements in patient care provision.
Opportunities within nursing are vast: working clinically, becoming a manager, working in a research environment, working abroad and in education.
Course Modules
Problem-based learning approaches are used to help you link real-world nursing examples to practice, helping also to develop your academic skills alongside opportunities for skills simulation in our clinical laboratories.
Your learning will be supported by academic experts and researchers in the field of nursing and inter-professional learning with other healthcare disciplines.
Recognising diversity, modules are assessed in different ways, through written assignments, exams and presentations.
Course module content meets the requirements for this NMC-approved course, ensuring standards are met for: being an accountable professional, promoting health and preventing ill health, assessing needs and planning care, providing and evaluating care, leading and managing nursing care and working in teams, improving safety and quality in care and co-ordinating care.
Nursing placements
The NMC require that sufficient clinical hours are completed and assessed on placement; 50% of the course is on clinical placement.
Whilst on clinical placement you will experience working full-time hours, including at times weekends and night shifts.
Experiencing the work pattern of qualified nurses.
Course learning experience – combining theory with practice learning
The course timetable is organised to ensure two key factors for your learning:
Based on these principles, theory is taught mostly in the first half of the year with clinical placements in the second half of the year.
Whilst studying theory, the course is designed to ensure that learning is optimised by choosing the right moment to learn on campus, for example, clinical skills, or in class, for example in group learning, or online, for example preparing for evidence-based projects.
Clinical practice proficiency, in our view, is best developed by having blocks of time in clinical practice.
So you will benefit from spending several weeks on placement in the world of nursing practice
Placements will be undertaken with one of six NHS Trusts; The Royal Wolverhampton Trust , Walsall Healthcare NHS Trust , The Dudley Group NHS Foundation Trust , Sandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals NHS Trust , Burton Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust , and most recently Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital Trust , or in private health organisations.
For more information on placements and locations, visit our nursing placements page .
During the module you will use Safe Medicate platform to develop your drug calculation skills.
This module enables you to explore how evidence underpins the care of individuals with speciﬁc conditions and co-morbidities and the demands of meeting individual complex nursing and social care needs.
During the module you will explore and develop your knowledge and skills associated with safe and eﬀective adult nursing practice.
You will also examine the signiﬁcance of your emerging role in safeguarding the public.
This module enables you to independently, consistently and confidently assess plan lead and evaluate safe and effective nursing interventions for adults in a range of care settings.
You will explore the impact of human factors on healthcare in relation to both systems and individual elements and learn how to assess and respond appropriately to potential hazardous situations.
Care improvement methodologies will be explored as a means to improving and enhancing the safety and quality of adult nursing practice.
You will further develop the knowledge, skills and attitudes required to deliver high quality adult nursing care to service users in a variety of diverse settings.
You will develop your practical and critical thinking skills, knowledge of evidence based practice as part of a multi-disciplinary team.
You will demonstrate professionalism and leadership to and the NMC standards of proficiency required at the point of registration.
This module is to support you in your development of competencies and capacities that will enable you to illustrate understanding of professional issues, ability to use critical awareness,  critical evaluation, critique and/or re-conceptualisation, to provide new insights that are informed by that process.
You will use evidence at the forefront of the professional discipline to make sound judgements, conclude or propose new hypotheses.
Successful completion of this course will lead to registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC), opening up prospect in clinical practice, hospital or community settings, research, teaching or managerial roles.
With experience, as a registered nurse (RN) you can take additional qualifications enabling you to work in the community or district nursing, health visiting or school nursing.
Adult-trained RNs often work in GP practices and hospice settings.
In hospitals, RNs may work in wards, outpatient clinics or specialist areas such as accident and emergency or intensive care units.
You may pursue the opportunity to become an Advanced Nurse Practitioner or nurse consultant, undertake midwifery training or work abroad in Australia, New Zealand or EU countries.
All our campuses have excellent facilities to support the teaching of nursing.
Our university sites in Wolverhampton and Walsall provide access to purpose-built facilities to accommodate our professional programmes.
Our skills centres have comprehensive teaching aids and models to allow you to practise hands-on skills.
Laerdal SimMen mean you can practise without peril to check breathing, measure blood pressure, take pulses and practise catheterisation.
At City Campus the immersive simulation suite allows us to change the environment without moving the students – so we can recreate a road traffic accident, simulate someone who is having an acute mental health crisis, or produce an imitation intensive care unit.
Through these simulations, you will get a sense of the environment you may end up in clinical practice and apply appropriate responses.
You will gain hands-on experiences in a variety of hospital, community and excellent nursing/residential homes, where you work alongside a range of healthcare and other professionals.
Although you may indicate your placement choices, your preferred placement cannot always be guaranteed.
Students always evaluate this well as it means you get to know your local trust – the trust gets to grow their own workforce, and you as the student have a greater chance of earning a job at the end of your course in your local trust.
All of the staff that teach you on this course are registered nurses.
You will benefit from the team’s expertise, which draws on a wealth of different experiences including: acute inpatient care, community care, and experience as advanced nurse practitioners, ward managers and commissioners.
As a registered nurse (RN) you will:
Student Visa Requirements
Skilled Worker Visa Requirements
“The course is just excellent; I can truly say I’m thoroughly enjoying the way it has been designed as I think it does challenge the divide of Mental health /Physical health as well as offering a wealth of knowledge to explore”
“Not only have we received the knowledge and skills to be nursing registrants but we have also been taught how to lead person-centred care.
As a part of the course, I have reflected upon my own values and moral compass which has not just been useful for my professional life but also my personal life.”

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/master-of-mental-health-nursing:
Studied full-time, this accelerated 2-year course aims to prepare you to become evidence-informed, compassionate and competent Mental Health Nurses.
Masters of Mental Health Nursing (MMHN) – pre-registration, full-time 2 years
Our Masters of Mental Health Nursing (MMHN) is for graduates who, on successful completion, can gain a Master’s degree and become qualified Mental Health Nurses.
This course offers graduates an accelerated route to becoming a qualified Mental Health Nurse, and at the same time rewards students studying at level 7 with an opportunity of a Master's degree.
Become a Registered Mental Health Nurse
It is an exciting time to join the nursing profession, now widely respected as being fully professional, progressive and evidence-informed.
As a Mental Health Nursing Master’s student, you will be offered a teaching and learning experience from experienced and passionate nursing staff recognised nationally as giving outstanding student support.
Learning to provide proficient and informed care in a variety of acute inpatient and community settings.
Range of Career Opportunities
This MMHN course has been developed closely with local trust partners to reflect the increasing and rapidly changing requirements in patient care provision.
Your learning will be supported by academic experts and researchers in the field of Mental Health Nursing and inter-professional learning with other healthcare disciplines.
Recognising diversity in learning, modules are assessed in different formats, by written assignments, exams and presentations.
The NMC require that sufficient clinical hours are completed and assessed on clinical placements; 50% of the course is on clinical placement.
So you will benefit from spending several weeks on placement in the world of nursing practice!
During the module you will explore and develop your knowledge and skills associated with safe and eﬀective mental health nursing practice.
This module enables you to independently, consistently and confidently assess plan lead and evaluate safe and effective nursing interventions in a range of mental health care settings.
Care improvement methodologies will be explored as a means to improving and enhancing the safety and quality of mental health nursing practice.
This module enables you to advance your health assessment skills to meet the needs of contemporary mental health nursing practice.
You will further develop the knowledge, skills and attitudes required to deliver high quality mental health nursing care to service users in a variety of diverse settings.
Hospital settings
Community settings
Managerial Roles
Specialist Areas of Mental Health Nursing
Opportunities in the UK and Abroad
We have invested in our state-of-the-art skills facilities at both the City Campus and the Walsall Campus.
The City skills labs have an immersive simulation suite, meaning we can change the environment without moving the students – so we can recreate a road traffic accident, simulate someone who is having an acute mental health crisis, or produce an imitation intensive care unit.
Through these simulations, you will get a sense of the environment you may end up in when you are in clinical practice and apply appropriate responses.
At our Walsall Campus we have new, expanded clinical skills laboratories, which provide a safe, non-threatening environment for teaching and practice.
The skills and simulation facilities include several mock hospital ward rooms, a mock bedsit, and a terraced house to practice in as well as using the latest technology with access to an anatomage table.
The facilities are Panopto-enabled, which allows sessions to be filmed and played back to give a patient’s eye-view.
We also have skills labs at Burton Campus.
You will gain hands-on experiences in a variety of places, including hospitals, the community, and excellent nursing/residential homes, where you will work alongside a range of healthcare and other professionals.
You will experience opportunities for inter-disciplinary learning across all nursing pathways and with midwifery, social work, and social care.
When you apply to the University of Wolverhampton, you will be allocated your placement areas usually within a local trust, depending on availability.
You will benefit from the team’s expertise, which draws on a wealth of different experiences, including acute inpatient care, community care, and experience as advanced nurse practitioners, ward managers, and commissioners.
As a registered mental health nurse you will:
As a part of the course, I have reflected upon my own values and moral compass which has not just been useful for my professional life but also my personal life.” NSS Student Feedback ( National Student Survey )

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/msc-professional-practice-in-healthcare-leadership-and-management:
Specialist healthcare practice courses are delivered at the University of Wolverhampton with academic experts, service users and a network of professional partners for reference.
Your curriculum will address criteria for employability and benchmarks for leadership in clinical contexts, training alongside other healthcare professionals to explore theories for management with a reflective, politically conscious outlook.
Understanding of policy, professionalism and practice will be d emonstrated through tutor-supported work experience and a final dissertation project among other assessment methods, granting access to our c utting-edge lab and research facilities for a real-world aspect in academic study.
We aim to fuel and f acilitate your career and personal development, enhancing your aptitude in managerial roles for healthcare practice.
Please note the modules below are currently being re-validated and are subject to change.
For more information, please contact CPDNavigator@wlv.ac.uk
The module aims to enable students to identify key underpinnings of professional development in the health and social care arenas.
By exploring professionalism, principles of evidence-based practice and personal development through reflection, students will be equipped for the knowledge and skills required for successful postgraduate study and professional development.
Using this approach also to enhance scholarship and inquiry, including advancing academic writing and study skills.
The module offers an empowered approach to becoming an informed practitioner and achieve professional development at the appropriate educational level.
Helping also to contextualise professionalism and how it is achieved for clinical practice.
This module aims to support you the healthcare professional in critically examining healthcare policies in the context of the evolving health and social care agenda.
It gives you the opportunity to consider contemporary healthcare strategy and healthcare systems in the planning of services to patients and carers.
Aspects of equality, equity and diversity related to health and social care will be addressed throughout the module.
This module aims to facilitate creativity, innovation and improvement within the health and care setting to improve working practices and the quality of the service delivered.
As part of the service improvement process you will apply relevant theories and models, methods and tools and manage data using accepted statistical process control methods.
At the end of the module you will prepare a final report summary to disseminate your findings to others.
The module will be taught using a blended learning delivery.
Where face to face contact with students on campus is most effective at the module launch and for tutorial 1:1 support, programme delivery will be on campus.
Some taught sessions with an emphasis on exploring service improvement themes involving group discussion will be taught face to face on campus.
Lectures will be delivered on-line.
Module 7HW126 is the preparatory (pre-requisite) module for 7NH095 Health Research and Evidence-Based Practice: Dissertation.
The module is delivered through blended module of interactive led lectures, workshops, flipped learning, cafe tutorial groups and directed activities.
The delivery will be through face to face, online (synchronous and asynchronous) lectures and workshops.
The online learning management system- CANVAS will be used.
The module will introduce students to the research process, including philosophical fundamentals, epistemological and ideological foundations of qualitative and quantitative traditions and a range of research methodologies.
The module will guide students through the steps of developing a research proposal to enable a rigorous plan of enquiry that will be followed through and executed as a small-scale research dissertation on the dissertation module 7NH095.
This module is designed to meet employability criteria and professional benchmarks relating to leadership and innovation relating to health care delivery.
You will work collaboratively with fellow professionals to explore theories and concepts of leadership and management in the workplace.
You will investigate political and professional perspectives of leadership and managment and investigate influences on your own style and behaviour.
The module will test your conscious and unconscious values and beliefs of what constitutes an effective leader and manager in the challenging culture and environment of the healthcare service.
This module is a flexible, practice focused entity that is suitable for any health and care professional who wishes to gain accreditation for academic study and enhanced practice within their specialist field.
The module structure is blended, with personal tutor support for what is essentially an individualised programme of experiential and work place learning.
You will work with a personal tutor to apply new knowledge and insight to your practice through the production of original and academic evidence of your personal learning.
This is the final module for the MSc Advanced Clinical Practice and MSc Professional Practice in Healthcare pathways.
It is an independent study module, delivered through blended learning, where you will attend face-to-face and on-line sessions to develop your knowledge of research methods, methodology and the different epistemological and ideological foundations of contrasting research designs and dissertation writing, working with your research supervisor to complete your dissertation.
It is designed to build upon your knowledge that reflects sequential learning and development of your research proposal on the preparatory module: 7HW126.
Therefore the design of your research project, the collection and analysis of data, and the reporting of your research findings will be either an integrative review, evidence-based practice project, or primary research.
You will  demonstrate the research skills necessary at a taught master’s level, with a view to enhancing competence for research development, the ability to evaluate the research activities of others and engagement with evidence-based practice in a rapidly changing health and healthcare system.
It is expected that the written research dissertation demonstrates understanding of the philosophy and principles of research (empirical or non- empirical) and shows competence in the design, execution, and reporting of the research project.
Adult/Children's Nurse
Learning Disability Nurse
Urgent Calls Team Leader

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/msc-professional-practice-in-healthcare-speciality-practice:
With its expert team of healthcare lecturers and excellent partnership working arrangements with local practice partners, the University of Wolverhampton ensures that you have access to a range of learning opportunities for developing your clinical speciality practice.
Service users and carers contribute to all aspects of the curriculum, including production of teaching sessions and assessment, preparing you for professional practice with a reflective approach to workplace experiences, prior learning and ongoing work based learning, using where appropriate the University’s state-of-the-art lab facilities on Walsall and Wolverhampton campus.
These activities will all serve to improve your skills, both transferable qualities to all forms of employment and key skills for professional healthcare practitioners.
For more information, please contact CPDNavigator@wlv.ac.uk.
Advancing contemporary mental health practice based on the bio-psychosocial determinants of mental health and illness.
Participants will gain an understanding of mental health promotion and explore effective approaches in responding to individuals experiencing mental distress across the life continuum.
This module is designed to enhance your knowledge and skills in the application of evidence-based consultation models to identify and perform an appropriate physical assessment, considering the patients biological, psychological, and social needs.
You will develop skills to be able to synthesise information utilising critical debate, to consider differential diagnoses and provide a sound care management plan aligned to the patient’s healthcare needs.
This module will enable you to advance your ability to recognise, assess, escalate and commence early interventions appropriately the deteriorating adult patient.
The module is suitable for practitioners (Registered Nurses, Nursing Associates or Allied Health Professionals)  caring for acutely ill patients in general care areas (for example general and specialist wards and departments, assessment units, and Emergency Departments).
The module will focus on evidence-based practice, theoretical knowledge and clinical skills in the provision of care for the deteriorating acutely ill patient.
You will develop  knowledge and clinical acumen to support teams in the clinical setting and will enhance your leadership skills in providing care for deteriorating patients.
You will be required to identify an appropriate registered health care professional in their your practice setting to support you in completion of the clinical practice element of the module.
This module is a flexible, practice focused entity that is suitable for any healthcare professional who wishes to gain accreditation for academic study and advanced practice within their specialist field.
The module structure is blended, with personal tutor support and facilitation for what is essentially an individualised programme of experiential and work place learning.
You will work with a personal tutor to negotiate and agree a formal learning plan designed to advance your knowledge and apply new knowledge to your existing skillsets within your current sphere of practice.
In addition, you will provide original and academic evidence of your experiential learning and present this for assessment by means of an electronic portfolio.
If you are in an employed situation, your employer may be involved in the agreement of the negotiated learning plan; for those in private practice, assurance will be needed that the advanced skillsets are within your range and ability and in accordance with your governing body guidelines and code of practice.
Health Play Specialist
Mental Health Nurse
Genetic Counsellor
Medicinal Chemist
An existing undergraduate degree or postgraduate certificate (or above), or alternatively certificated evidence of recent study at Level 6 or above (within the last 3 years) related to the field of healthcare to ensure ability to study at Masters level.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/msc-professional-practice-in-healthcare-teaching-and-learning:
The Masters of Science Professional Practice in Healthcare (Teaching and Learning) provides access to structured and supported educational development to enable students to progress through their Masters Level study.
Throughout this course our expert team of healthcare lecturers, practice partners and University of Wolverhampton’s ‘Service Users and Carers Contributing to Educating Students for Services (SUCCESS)’ team aim to ensure that you have access to a range of learning opportunities to further develop your clinical speciality practice.
The University prides itself on its excellent partnership working arrangements with local practice partners, providing excellent support for you in the clinical setting, ensuring that you are supported in accessing relevant learning opportunities.
Professional Practice in Healthcare (Teaching and Learning) aims to facilitate personal and professional development in education and strengthen participants’ ability to bring about positive change and solve problems effectively.
The Master's of Science Professional Practice in Healthcare (Teaching and Learning) pathway has a strong emphasis on the evaluation and development of both clinical practice and research and encourages participants to reflect critically on workplace experiences and learning.
The course aims to provide a clear framework, which supports CPD, recognition of prior learning, and work-based learning.
You will access the MSc Professional Practice in Healthcare (Teaching and Learning) using the recognition for prior Learning process .
You will bring in 60-credits through the completion of a Postgraduate Certificate in Education which has been recognised by Advanced HE.
Years 2 and 3 of the MSc Professional Practice in Healthcare (Teaching and Learning) pathway provide you with a route to develop your career in Teaching and Learning, whilst maintaining a focus on all areas of clinical practice.
The course continues to offer you opportunities for inter-professional learning with a mix of registrants undertaking the programme.
The course will allow you to demonstrate a systematic understanding of knowledge, and a critical awareness of current problems and/or new insights at the forefront of your academic discipline or area of professional practice.
For more information, please contact CPDNavigator@wlv.ac.uk .
Further Education Teacher
Paramedic
Adult Nurse
High Intensity Therapist
The course aims to:
Equip you with the knowledge, skills and understanding to evaluate, enhance, synthesise and develop higher levels of decision making within the context of healthcare service improvement.
Provide the opportunity to engage in interdisciplinary and inter-professional learning and working.
Enable critical reflective practice and lifelong learning that fosters a spirit of scientific enquiry and research that promotes personal and professional development.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pg-cert-professional-practice-in-healthcare:
The PG Certificate in Professional Practice in Healthcare has a strong emphasis on the evaluation and development of both professional practice and research, and encourages participants to reflect critically on workplace experiences and learning in order to develop knowledge and skills in healthcare.
The course aims to provide a clear framework, which supports continuing professional development, recognition of prior learning, and work based learning.
PG Certificate in Professional Practice in Healthcare will allow you to demonstrate a systematic understanding of knowledge, and a critical awareness of current problems and/or new insights at the forefront of your academic discipline or area of professional practice.
You will undertake two core 20 credit modules and will select one optional 20-credit module.
Please note that the option module selected will determine the MSc pathway you can progress to on completion.
Successful completion of the PG Certificate Professional Practice in Healthcare will provide an opportunity to progress to the MSc Professional Practice in Healthcare following one of four pathways:
During these postgraduate studies you will demonstrate originality in the application of knowledge, together with a practical understanding of how established techniques of research and enquiry are used to create and interpret knowledge in healthcare practice.
For more information, or academic advice with regards to the choice of option module, please contact CPDNavigator@wlv.ac.uk.
PG Certificate in Professional Practice in Healthcare aims to facilitate your personal and professional development and strengthen your ability to bring about positive change and solve problems effectively.
These attributes are highly sought after by employers in the healthcare arena.
Whether you intend to remain in a largely clinical role or plan a broader, more managerial role in healthcare this course will enable you to showcase your ability to influence people and practice.
At every stage of the course you will be encouraged to personalise your learning and apply theory to practice.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pgdip-adult-nursing:
Are you already a qualified Mental Health nurse on the NMC register ?
If so consider our PG Diploma in Adult Nursing .It is ideal for existing nursing registrants who want to qualify and register with the NMC in a second field of nursing.
This PG Dip allows applicants to gain a second registration in 12 months following their initial pre-registration mental health nursing programme.
Our Postgraduate Diploma in Adult Nursing adopts a person-centred approach to enable you to develop the knowledge, skills and attitudes required to provide safe and effective nursing care for individuals of all ages experiencing mental distress.
It provides an option for mental health nurses to gain an NMC-approved second qualification in adult nursing.
Recognising the increasingly integrated nature of health service delivery, the course meets the demand for highly employable nurses who can work with patients with complex morbidities across different settings.
Ideal for existing nursing registrants who want to qualify and register with the NMC in a second field of nursing, the PG Dip allows applicants to gain a second registration in 12 months following their initial pre-registration mental health nursing programme.
This additional qualification would meet growing workforce needs and contribute towards improved quality of care.
In addition to meeting workforce demands, dual registration could also enhance your career aspirations/trajectory in NHS trusts and private organisations looking for nurses with dual qualifications, providing you with a valuable advantage in the employment market.
Our Postgraduate Diploma in Adult Nursing will enable you, if successful, to apply for a second registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) to practise as a registered Adult Nurse in a range of diverse health and social care settings.
As a student on this course, the experience you gain will allow you to pursue a range of pathways.
Placements include providing nursing care to some of society’s most vulnerable people including the elderly and those who are physically ill or have a physical or mental health problems.
The opportunities you have coming into nursing are vast: working clinically, becoming a manager, working in a research environment, working abroad and in education.
Nursing is a demanding profession which requires hard work, commitment, the ability to problem solve, work independently and contribute to care as part of a team.
This demanding route is designed to meet the needs of highly motivated graduates, looking to rapidly advance their career within the nursing profession.
This course has been closely developed with local trust partners to reflect the increasing and rapidly changing requirements in patient care provision.
The PG Dip Adult Nursing will create autonomous nurses with the clinical and leadership skills to synthesise data that will optimise the best possible patient care for people with physical and mental illness.
The course is split 50% in a clinical practice environment and 50% in the academic setting of the University.
As well as graduating with a Postgraduate Diploma in Adult Nursing, upon successful completion you will be able to apply for registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) Upon completion of the course, you will be able to practise as a Registered Nurse in the field of Adult Nursing.
50% of your course will be based at the University and 50% on placements in a variety of practice areas.
During some of the course delivery Postgraduate Diploma, Masters in Adult Nursing and Masters in Mental Health Nursing students are taught together to utilise opportunities for shared experiential learning.
You will also study a range of academic field (Adult health-focused) modules based on theory and practice experiences.
Semester 1
Advancing Skills for Safe and Effective Adult Nursing Practice (20 credits)
This module enables you to advance your skills of mental, physical, cognitive and behavioural health needs-assessment and interventions through the exploration of models and approaches to assessing and planning care.
You will focus on specific conditions and safe evidence-based responses and associated pharmacology and pharmacodynamics in relation to the administration of safe medication.
Healthcare Improvement and Patient Safety in Adult Nursing (40 credits)
This module enables you to independently, consistently and confidently assess, plan, lead and evaluate safe and effective nursing interventions for adults in a range of care settings.
You will explore the impact of human factors on healthcare in relation to both systems and individual elements and learn how to assess and respond appropriately to potentially hazardous situations.
Semester 2
Advancing Evidence-Based Decision Making in Adult Nursing (20 credits)
Preparing For Your Transition to Adult Nurse (40 credits)
This module enables you to advance your skills of physical, mental, cognitive and behavioural health needs-assessment and interventions through the exploration of models and approaches to assessing and planning care.
The development of complex Adult Nursing practice will be acquired from a variety of community and acute settings reflecting the key drivers within the health sector.
Academic mastery will be cultivated through problem-based learning approaches with opportunities for skills simulation in our laboratories.
Learning will be supported by academic experts and researchers in the field of nursing and inter-professional learning with other healthcare disciplines.
A lot of what you’ll do on the course is based in our on-campus skills labs, which gives you the opportunity to test out your skills in a safe environment.
Placements will be undertaken in private health organisations or with one of six NHS Trusts: The Royal Wolverhampton Trust; Walsall Healthcare NHS Trust; The Dudley Group NHS Foundation Trust; Sandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals NHS Trust; Burton Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust; Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital Trust.
Travel expenses to University placements are not funded/subsidised.
Successful completion of Postgraduate Diploma in Adult Nursing will lead to a  second registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and will then open up the prospect of many jobs in clinical practice, hospital or community settings, research, teaching or managerial roles.
In hospitals, adult RNs may work in wards, outpatient clinics or specialist areas such as accident and emergency or intensive care units.
You may also take the opportunity to become an advanced nurse practitioner or nurse consultant.
If you register as an Adult Nurse, you may wish to undertake midwifery training or work abroad in Australia, New Zealand or EU countries.
State-of-the-art facilities at City Campus Wolverhampton include our skills labs.
In the immersive simulation suite we can change the environment without moving our students – so we can recreate a road traffic accident, simulate someone who is having an acute mental health crisis, or produce an imitation intensive care unit.
Through these simulations, you will get a sense of the environment you may end up in in clinical practice and apply appropriate responses.
Our mock hospital wards and Laerdal patient simulators allow you to practise without peril and gain confidence in a safe and risk-free environment.
You get to indicate your placement choices (although your preferred placement cannot always be guaranteed).
Student feedback on this is positive as it means you get to know your local Trust – the Trust gets to grow their own workforce, and you as the student have a greater chance of earning a job at the end of your course.
You will benefit from the team’s expertise, which draws on a wealth of different experiences including acute inpatient care and community care, as well as years of experience as advanced nurse practitioners, ward managers and commissioners.
As a Registered Nurse you will:
Candidates must be:
You will need a computer and reliable internet access to successfully engage with your course.
However, access to these facilities is also available in the University libraries during opening hours.
Evidence of digital literacy and technological literacy capability will therefore be aligned to the online application process.
Where an applicant has previously studied a professional course at another higher education institution, we will require an academic reference from your previous higher education institution.
“Really love flipped learning as a dyslexic learner it really does level the playing field in giving you opportunity to prepare.”
“The strengths of the module?
It covered a diverse range of subjects but appropriate to practice.
I liked that we had lots of additional sources that we could go back in our own time and revisit.”
As a part of the course, I have reflected upon my own values and moral compass which has not just been useful for my professional life but also my personal life.”

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/pgdip-mental-health-nursing:
This course is ideal for existing nursing registrants who want to qualify and register with the NMC in a second field of nursing.
Are you already a qualified Adult nurse on the NMC register?
If so consider our PG Diploma in Mental Health  Nursing.This PG Dip allows applicants to gain a second registration in 12 months following their initial pre-registration adult  nursing programme.
Our Postgraduate Diploma in Mental Health Nursing recognises the increasingly integrated nature of health service delivery and meets the demand for highly employable nurses who can work with patients with complex morbidities across different settings.
It provides an option for nurses with an adult specialism to gain an NMC-approved second qualification in mental health nursing.
This option is ideal for existing nursing registrants who want to qualify and register with the NMC in a second field of nursing.
It allows applicants to gain a second registration in 12 months following their initial pre-registration adult nursing programme.
Our Postgraduate Diploma in Mental Health Nursing course adopts a person-centred approach to enable you to develop the knowledge, skills and attitudes required to provide safe and effective nursing care for individuals of all ages experiencing mental distress.
It will enable you, if successful, to apply for a second registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) to practise as a registered Mental Health Nurse in a range of diverse health and social care settings.
As a student on this course, the experience you gain will allow you to pursue a range of pathways, in addition you will also have exposure to patients from other areas including adult and learning disability nursing.
Nursing is a demanding profession which requires hard work, commitment, the ability to problem-solve, work independently and contribute to care as part of a team.
The PG Dip Mental Health Nursing will create autonomous nurses with the clinical and leadership skills to synthesise data that will optimise the best possible patient care for people with mental illness.
The course will be split 50% in a clinical practice environment and 50% in academic setting of the University.
As well as graduating with a Post Graduate Diploma in Mental health Nursing, upon successful completion you will be able to apply for registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) Upon completion of the course, you will be able to practise as a Registered Nurse in the field of Mental Health Nursing.
You will also study a range of academic field (Mental health-focused) modules based on theory and practice experiences.
Advancing Skills for Evidence-based Mental Health Nursing Practice ( 20 credits)
Healthcare Improvement and Patient Safety in Mental Health Nursing (40 credits)
This module enables you to independently, consistently and confidently assess plan lead and evaluate safe and effective nursing interventions for in a range of mental health care settings.
Advancing Evidence-Based Decision-Making in Mental Health Nursing (20 credits)
During the module you will explore and develop your knowledge and skills associated with safe and effective mental health nursing practice.
You will also examine the significance of your emerging role in safeguarding the public.
Preparing For Your Transition to Mental Health Nurse (40 credits)
You will further develop the knowledge, skills and attitudes required to deliver high-quality mental health nursing care to service users in a variety of diverse settings.
You will develop your practical and critical thinking skills, knowledge of evidence-based practice as part of a multi-disciplinary team.
The development of complex mental health nursing practice will be acquired from a variety of community and acute settings reflecting the key drivers within the health sector.
Placements for Mental Health Nursing at Wolverhampton City Campus will be across the Black Country and you will be expected to travel.
Successful completion of Postgraduate Diploma in Mental Health Nursing will lead to a  second registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and will then open up the prospect of many jobs in clinical practice, hospital or community settings, research, teaching or managerial roles.
Mental Health nurses work in a variety of diverse settings caring for adults of working age and older people who are experiencing mental health problems.
Mental health nurses work alongside many other professionals including social workers, psychiatrists, psychologists, occupational therapists, and GPs to plan and deliver person-centred care.
Registered Nurses continue to study after they have qualified, often in a specialist area, as they develop their career path within the UK or working abroad.
As a Registered Mental Health Nurse you will:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-credit-advocacy-and-education-for-quality-improvement-in-practice-a-equip:
Transform your healthcare career with this prestigious RCN-accredited course.
This RCN-accredited course follows NHS England guidelines and takes input from Health Education England to prepare students for Professional Advocate careers.
The University of Wolverhampton, noting the importance of training healthcare practitioners to attend vital health and wellbeing issues, offers you a curriculum led by field experts that makes use of cutting-edge skills lab facilities.
You will be immersed in peer group clinical supervision, collaboratively aiding in your formative, normative, restorative and compassionate growth.
While this course is specifically crafted to help you fulfil the role of Professional Advocate as understood in nursing and midwifery, the skills and subject knowledge learned will be equally applicable to other health professions, granting you security in career prospects and opportunities for further progress.
The module supports the fulfilment of the role of the Professional Advocate by preparing individuals to be skilled in implementing the A-Equip framework.
A-Equip is an acronym for ‘Advocating for Education and Quality Improvement’ and is supported by NHS (England) to fulfil four key functions of education and development and personal growth (formative); ethical and safe practice based on autonomous responsible and skilled practitioners (normative); supporting the development of resilience and a climate of support through effective clinical supervision (restorative); and transforming care through organisational and cultural change (compassionate leadership).
Built in to the module is an opportunity to engage in restorative peer group supervision in readiness to facilitate future group work in this area.
Applicants are required to have the support of their employer and to have access to a relevant practice environment and a suitably trained Practice Assessor for the assessment of the Professional Advocate competencies.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/living-in-walsall:
Walsall is a bustling urban centre in the West Midlands offering students a thriving culinary scene, outdoor attractions, retail spaces, cultural hubs, recreational spots, and a lively nightlife.
Easy public transport links Birmingham, the UK’s second-largest city, is accessible in less than 20 minutes, and Dudley in under 45 minutes, ideal for exploring attractions such as Dudley Zoo and the Black Country Living Museum.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/about-us/student-commitment-statement:
You have made a commitment to your future by choosing to come to this University.
Thank you for choosing us.
The pathway towards achieving your degree is one with highs, lows, and everything in between.
However, you are not alone!
Obtaining a degree is a partnership between the University and you.
It's important that you achieve the right balance between your studies, social, home and work life.
In order to succeed and achieve your goals during higher education, you will need to put the hard work in - but the University and Students' Union can support you in many ways to help you achieve your full potential and ensure this opportunity is the positive, life-changing experience you hoped it would be.
This commitment statement sets out what you are expected to give and what you gain by involving yourself fully in all aspects of University life.
We are committed to working with our staff, our students and our Students’ Union, as a partnership to create the best possible learning and support experiences for all.
This document, co-written by staff and students, sets out our commitment to each other, identifying our collective values, expectations, and responsibilities.
We value our students’ unique and distinctive identities, lived experiences, voices and feedback and we will be responsive and proactive in our commitment to our students to ensure that we act with integrity and purpose.
We will work together to create the conditions for social, cultural, and economic impact in our staff and students, their communities, their employers, in our partners and networks.
We aim to create a community with an atmosphere of trust, harmony, and mutual respect where everyone should feel safe.
We are proud of the contributions that we and our alumni make to local, national, and global communities.
This commitment statement has been approved by the Officers of the Vice Chancellor and endorsed by the Students’ Union.
Treat others in a respectful manner at all times and be considerate to the needs of fellow students, staff and visitors to the University.
Be aware of the University's Policies and Procedures and ensure that I fulfil my associated responsibilities such as timely enrolment and attendance.
Engage fully with the university and the opportunities it provides on campus and online.
Work hard and , to the best of my abilities, attend and participate actively in scheduled learning or development activities.
Use digital communication appropriately and in accordance with the university’s netiquette policies.
Acknowledge, respect and learn from the diversity of the university population.
Be responsible for my own learning including independent study.
Make the most of all feedback given to me and seek support to act upon it if needed.
Be aware of the need to maintain academic integrity and seek advice and support if I need it.
Ask questions and talk to my tutors, my academic coach/my personal tutor/supervisor/online support team about how I am experiencing my study and how they can support me.
Take up the support and development opportunities and the range of services offered that will support my progress on my course and prepare me for my future.
I will take care of my physical and mental health and seek appropriate support if I need it.
Respect individual, communal and university property and not use it for unapproved purposes.
Take precautions with my personal security, carry my ID card and comply with requests from security and professional services staff.
Raise concerns in an appropriate manner using the relevant procedures.
Act as an ambassador for the university on placements, while volunteering, or working and socialising where I live.
Treat others in a respectful manner at all times and be considerate to the needs of fellow staff, students and visitors to the university.
Recognise our staff, students, and alumni as our greatest asset.
Strive to be an inclusive community and foster a sense of belonging in all student groups.
Be approachable and seek out students’ experiences.
Support student engagement through pre-entry and induction activity, high quality learning and teaching experiences and access to a range of academic and personal resources and support services.
Plan and teach an inclusive and up-to-date curriculum that provides educational challenge.
Recognise and address barriers to engagement and participation to support your physical and emotional wellbeing which enhances your learning experience.
Provide clear assessment criteria and accessible and useful feedback to support effective learning.
Review and monitor academic regulations and awards to reflect sector standards.
Provide opportunities to develop personal, research and employment-related skills to complement advice on career development from academic and professional staff.
Invest in our continuous professional learning to enhance your student experience.
Connect you to useful professional networks and encourage you to cultivate your own networks to enhance your own employability prospects.
Continually to monitor and review response times for university communication.
Be clear about when we are available and when we are not available to respond to student emails and requests for support, attempting to create healthy work life balances for all in the university community.
We will respond to emails within 3 working days.
Use clear and transparent language to communicate with you regarding matters that relate to your university and student experience.
Take responsibility for the safety of all students and staff and adopt a zero-tolerance approach to discriminatory and offensive behaviour and to sexual misconduct and harassment.
Continue to support you after graduation, with guidance on careers and further study, through our Alumni Association.
Inspire and empower students to get the best out of the University experience.
Be inclusive by celebrating students’ diverse backgrounds, experiences, and identities.
Host a wide range of events and activities for you to take part in and enjoy.
Strive to deliver services which are open and accessible to all.
Provide opportunities that will have a meaningful, positive impact on both your student and your personal life.
Offer you independent advice to guide you through your student journey.
Give you things to do outside of your academic studies, like joining one of our societies or volunteering in the local community.
Provide you opportunities for development through paid and voluntary roles.
Represent you and your student voice to the University.
Listen and act upon the feedback that you give us.
Provide spaces for you to make friends and feel safe.
Please see your commitment statement here

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlv-sport:
Our aim at WLV Sport is to enable our students, staff, and community to engage in sport and physical activity.
We provide programmes across active lifestyles, social sport, and elite performance, to ensure everyone has the opportunity to be active on campus.
If you are keen to play competitive sport while studying at Wolverhampton, we enter teams across 7 sports in the national BUCS (British Universities and Colleges Sport) competition programme.
There are also opportunities to enter individual BUCS championships throughout the year.
WLV Sport is open to all, and we have a range of available activities for the community.
Our multi sports halls allow several sports including badminton, 5-a-side football, futsal, netball, basketball, volleyball and more.
WLV Sport provides a platform for students to excel in elite performance.
Combining world class sports facilities, staff expertise and a dedicated sports scholarship programme, we support student athletes and teams to achieve their full sporting potential.
Our aim at WLV Sport is to enable students to play competitive sport whilst studying at University.
Here at WLV Sport we are TASS Dual Career Accredited and a TASS Delivery site.
For more information click here or visit the TASS website: https://www.tass.gov.uk/site/university-of-wolverhampton/ .
Follow our Instagram for updates.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlv-gym/staff-wellbeing-memberships:
*To purchase a membership you must bring a valid Staff ID card upon your first visit.
Please view our WLV Sport Centre Privacy Notice .
If an error is made by University of Wolverhampton or your Bank or Building Society, you are guaranteed a full and Immediate refund from your branch of the amount paid.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlv-gym/community-gym-memberships:
WLV Anytime Membership
*16 years plus
We now offer a dedicated membership for 14-15 year olds.
We also offer a no-commitment pay-as-you-go option at just £2.50 per session.
Memberships for young users can only be set up at the sports centre reception.
Induction and additional paperwork will need to be completed by parents/guardian before usage.
*Proof if ID is required at sign up.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlv-gym/alumni-membership:
We are happy to announce that we are teaming up with the Alumni Office to bring you a fabulous membership offer.
We offer two ways to pay for your membership.
Direct Debit - £17.00 per month for our Anytime membership
The Alumni Package includes:
12 Month Pre-Pay - £187.00
Please come to your chosen sports centre where our friendly and helpful staff will ask you to fill out some basic paperwork whilst they check your alumni status, once this is done it will take a few minutes to get you enrolled and then you can get on with using the facilities or booking in for a gym induction if requested.
If you have questions about being WLV Alumni please get in touch with your WLV Alumni Association .
You can also join on our WLV app or join by clicking on the following link:
View our Terms and Conditions: T&C's (Word doc 45k)

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlv-gym/exercise-classes:
At the University we are proud to host a diverse range of Group Exercises Classes that suit every level of fitness, so why not come a long and try a few out.
Our friendly staff and experienced instructors will guide you through every step to help you achieve your fitness goals.
Contact gym@wlv.ac.uk for more information
To book please contact:
Walsall 01902 518900
City 01902 322372
Pre-Recorded sessions (also available on the WLV Sport App):
Pilates with Maz - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HdHtvFxR3IA
HIIT and Abs with Jacob - https://youtu.be/BZjik1dbqyg
Flex and Stretch with Jo - https://youtu.be/ok5oRmwjtcI
Abs Blast with Anthony - https://youtu.be/BtzHoPQsyIM
HIIT workout with Junior and Reece Home workout - YouTube
Day
Activity
Time
Instructor
Monday
WLV HIIT
Cardio & Abs
Pilates (L)
Body Conditioning
07:00-07:45
09:30-10:15
17:00-17:55
18:00-18:55
19:15-19:55
FI
Marian
Tuesday
Bootcamp
WLV Strength
Flex & Stretch (L)
Total Body Fitness
12:15-12:55
13:00-13:55
Jo L
Wednesday
Pilates
Legs, Buns & Guns
Gym Floor
Circuits
07:00-07:55
12:15-12:45
18:00-18:45
Thursday
Boxercise
Yoga (L)
9:30-10:30
13:00-14:00
17:15-18:15
19:00-19:45
Verlaine
Friday
Saturday
08:30-09:15
Sunday
Yoga
11:00-11:55
£5.00 (55 minute class)
£4.00 (45 min and under)
*All classes are free with Anytime, Student and Staff Wellbeing Direct Debit Memberships.
Exercise Classes - University of Wolverhampton
Pre-Recorded sessions (also available on the WLV Sport App).
HIIT Abs
12:15-13:00
17:15-18:00
Cardio Abs
To book please visit our "WLV Sport" App or call WLV gym on 01902 322372
Pilates is a body conditioning routine that helps build flexibility, long and lean muscles, strength and endurance in the abdominals, legs, arms, hips and back.
It puts emphasis on spinal and pelvic alignment, breathing to relieve stress and allow adequate oxygen flow within the muscles, developing a strong core or centre.
A Circuits session consists of a series of exercises or stations performed in succession with minimal rest intervals in between.
Circuits have been traditionally used as an effective way to develop both strength and cardiovascular fitness simultaneously.
Circuits are suitable for everyone, with Circuits you get out what you put in!
We will guide you through a full cardio and abdominal workout, which includes high-intensity core muscle exercises designed not only to make you look and feel amazing, but also to help support your body all day, every day
WLV Burn is a high intensity, boot camp style class and has elements of high intensity interval training and strength training to get maximum results in a short amount of time.
HIIT and Abs is a high intensity metabolic workout that keeps on working long after you finish the class.
This body-weight based class aims to increase metabolism alongside targeting the abs and keeps your body burning calories for as long as 24 hours after you’ve finished.
This is a low intensity workout, sometimes using resistance bands to help improve your flexibility, the class will help tone and shape muscles and improve posture.
A structured high energy class that combines strength and stabilisation exercises alongside aerobic movements that no matter your fitness level will help you get fit and stay fit
This class is focused all on your core strength and will surely challenge your mid-section.
Our legs buns and guns class is a toning class that focuses on stubborn areas that can be hard to shape.
Using a combination of simple and straightforward exercises this class will help improve muscular endurance and appearance.
This class focuses on military style exercises and functional movements.
It is designed for maximum calorie burn in the shortest amount of time.
Expect to be pushed to your limits!

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/about-us/contacts-and-maps/all-maps-and-directions/map-and-directions-for-walsall-campus:
Walsall Campus Gorway Road Walsall West Midlands WS1 3EZ
The first letter indicates the campus (M=City, S=Telford, W=Walsall).
The second letter indicates the building reference.
The room numbers follow, with the first indicating the floor level that the room is located on (e.g.
001 would be on the ground floor; 101 on the first floor, etc.).
Walsall Campus is just minutes from Junction 9 of the M6 motorway.
Take the A461 Bescott Road towards Walsall.
Get into the right-hand lane and follow the right fork of the A4148, signposted Birmingham.
Parking is available on campus.
View the interactive campus map for details.
By bus: The Number 51 bus takes you from the Walsall bus station to Jesson Road near the campus.
By train: From Walsall station, you can either take a taxi or walk the short distance to the bus station, from where you can get a number 51 bus as above.
Note that parking is limited at Walsall Campus.
We encourage you to use public transport or, if you are a member of staff or student, our service.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/about-us/contacts-and-maps/all-maps-and-directions/map-and-directions-for-city-campus-wolverhampton:
University of Wolverhampton Wulfruna Street Wolverhampton WV1 1LY
Junction 10 of the M6 is the nearest motorway junction.
The University is split into two sites - City Campus North and South - both of which are signposted from the Ring Road and the A449.
Although there is only very limited metered parking by the main reception on Wulfruna Street, there are a number of public pay car parks within walking distance.
Of these, the Civic Centre car park, at the end of Wulfruna Street, or the long-term car park off Whitmore/Broad Street are the closest.
If you are arriving by car, there is parking opposite the Lord Swraj Paul Building (MU).
Car parks are labelled 'staff only' but are open for visitors to use on the day ( see street view of our car parks ).
The postcode for Sat Nav is WV1 1SG.
If these are full, then there is overflow parking available at the football club's Stan Cullis Car Park opposite Asda, on Jack Hayward Way (see interactive map).
Once you have parked your car, facing the Business School building, turn right and walk up the road, through the underpass and up the stairs.
Turn right at the top of the stairs and you will find the Ambika Paul entrance in the building on your left-hand side.
By bus: Buses come into the city centre from all over Wolverhampton and the West Midlands.
By train: The train station is on the main London, Birmingham, Manchester, Liverpool and Edinburgh lines.
The station is on Railway Drive, just outside the Ring Road.
By Metro: The Midland Metro offers a service every 10 minutes throughout the day from Birmingham Snow Hill to Wolverhampton St Georges terminus via West Bromwich.
The City Campus is right in the centre of Wolverhampton.
It is a seven-minute walk from both the train station and St Georges Metro terminus, and a five-minute walk from the main bus station.
Ext.
5555 (internal use only)

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlv-gym/wlvgymprivacynotice:
To effectively implement the changes in data protection legislation, as introduced by the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the University has created a Data Protection Privacy Notice.
Please read the notice carefully and keep it in a safe place, as it contains important information about:
◾who collects personal information about you
◾which information we collect and how and why we do so
◾how we use the information and who we may share it with
◾any monitoring we undertake
◾where we may hold your personal information
◾how long we keep your information
◾your rights to correct and access your information and to ask for it to be erased
◾details of where you can find further information about some of the matters listed above
◾how to complain if we get things wrong and cannot resolve them for you.
As you may already be aware, the reason we are communicating about this notice is to ensure the University’s compliance with the new legislation governing data protection.
We are not making any significant changes to the way in which we process information or the reasons for which we do so.
We will continue to process your personal information in the same way.
We are being more open and transparent about what we do with the information we process about you
Take a look at our WLV Sport Centre Privacy Notice - University of Wolverhampton

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/food--drink-on-campus:
Our campuses have an abundance of places to eat and drink There is also The Campus Shop, where you can pick up snacks, drinks, study essentials and University of Wolverhampton merchandise.
You can also download the TEYA app to collect points as you shop and exchange them for drinks, meals and snacks across our outlets.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/living-in-telford:
Telford and its neighbouring areas provide students with a diverse and enriching university experience.
Just a brief train journey away are two historic centres : Shrewsbury, reachable in just 20 minutes, and Chester, accessible in under 90 minutes.
Moreover, Telford provides convenient connectivity to dynamic metropolitan hubs, with Birmingham, the UK's second-largest city, a quick 40-minute ride away, and London within reach in under 2.5 hours.
Whether you're looking for lively nightlife and entertainment, exciting outdoor sports and activities, or delightful dining options, Telford and its surroundings provides all you need for a fulfilling student life.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/staying-safe:
Sexual Harassment, Misconduct and Violence.
This single comprehensive source of information takes precedent over other sources of information and provisions that may be found on our webpages.
On a University of Wolverhampton Campus:
Alert the Security team using the SafeZone app or call the police on 101 or 999 if it’s an emergency
The Safe Zone app is a free-to-download application which enhances personal safety at the University of Wolverhampton.
In the event of an emergency, location and details can be quickly shared with Security, who will be able to give the right assistance.
Off Campus:
If you are off campus, call 999.
For more information surrounding on campus safety, please visit this link
The University of Wolverhampton (the ‘University’) is committed to providing positive work and study experiences for all our staff, students, apprentice learners and visitors.
We will take steps that make a significant and credible difference to achieve this.
Everyone should feel safe, with us providing an environment that is free from discrimination and affirms the rights of all our members to be treated with dignity and respect.
Collective responsibility and a whole University response within the University community is needed to achieve this.
This resource is designed to offer prospective and current students, and apprentice learners, as well as prospective and current staff , a comprehensive source of information detailing the steps we are taking as a university to prevent sexual harassment, misconduct and violence .
It also aims to increase confidence and assurance for those who are affected by setting out the steps we take to respond to and support those effected by sexual harassment, misconduct and violence.
we are imaginative, confident, innovative and deliver excellence.
we have a positive outlook; we are adaptable and recover from setbacks.
we are welcoming, respectful, collegiate and supportive.
we take pride in what we do and how we do it, take responsibility for our actions and operate with transparency and integrity.
The Policy and Frameworks covering sexual harassment and misconduct apply to all alleged incidents, disclosed or reported, of Sexual Misconduct and/or Harassment.
The University Safeguarding Policy will also apply if the reporting person is under 18 or a vulnerable adult.
This Policy and Frameworks does not cover incidents of non-sexual harassment as the University has a separate policy, dignity at work and study policy, and procedure in relation to those matters.
The university has a Personal Relationships Policy which should be read in conjunction with our Policy and Frameworks covering sexual harassment and misconduct .
Our Policy and Frameworks covering sexual harassment and misconduct should be read in conjunction with the university EDI policy and associated resources and schemes.
The University is committed to the highest standards of integrity, probity, and accountability.
It seeks to conduct its affairs in a responsible manner, considering the proper use of public funds, the requirements of its funding bodies, and the standards required in public life, the ‘Seven Principles of Public Life’ (Nolan Principles).
The University will act honestly, ethically, transparently, and within the law.
The University is committed to providing a safe environment for students, apprentices, staff and visitors, and adopts a zero-tolerance approach to behaviours which relate to suspected wrongdoing or dangers at work, without exception.
All policies can be located via the University Policy Hub: https://www.wlv.ac.uk/about-us/corporate-information/wlv-policies/
Our approach to Sexual Harassment and Misconduct – Prevention, Response and Intervention and any associated policies should be read in conjunction with the University Freedom of Speech Code of Practice .
Freedom of speech means that everyone has the right to express lawful views and opinions freely, in speech or in writing, without interference.
To find out more about your rights and your responsibilities, please take a look at our Freedom of Speech page.
A healthy academic environment is one where debate is positively encouraged, where a wide range of ideas can be considered and examined both in the academic curriculum and in the wider life of the University.
Freedom of speech within the law is protected.
This means that speech will not be protected if it contravenes some other law.
Illegal or unlawful acts will not be tolerated by the university.
Hate speech is communication that attacks or demeans individuals or groups based on characteristics like race, religion, or gender.
While free speech is a fundamental right, it is not absolute and can be restricted when it incites violence, discrimination, or poses a threat to others.
The University has a duty to protect its staff, students and apprentice learners from unlawful discrimination, harassment, intimidation or threats of violence on the grounds of race, sex, age, religion or philosophical belief, sexual orientation, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, or pregnancy or maternity.
However, the provisions of the Equality Act 2010 should not be interpreted to undermine freedom of speech and academic freedom.
As a result, there are likely to be elements of the academic and work environment of the University which could include exposure to views that some may find offensive.
Therefore, the freedom of speech principles underpinning this framework include a rebuttable presumption that the university assumes that the exposure of colleagues, students and apprentice learners to course materials, and statements made, and views expressed by a person as part of teaching, research or discussions about any subject matter connected with the content of a course, are unlikely to constitute harassment.
Navigate to other areas for further information on related policies and practices and support.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/freedom-of-speech:
The University of Wolverhampton (the University) recognises and upholds the principle that freedom of expression is a key part of the higher education experience we provide .
For our students, apprentice learners and staff, the sharing of ideas is crucial for learning, and allows students to think critically, challenge and engage with different perspectives.
These are not merely loose ideals.
As a University, we have legal duties to protect free speech, and a regulatory obligation to promote it.
The right to express views and ideas freely, without fear of interference or persecution, is an essential part of democracy.
This comprehensive source of information is designed to support our University student, apprentice learner and staff community to better understand their rights, and indeed responsibilities within this space.
It should be viewed to take precedent over other sources of information and provisions that may be found on our webpages.
As a starting point, please see our Code of practice (Word doc 112k) which includes: t he procedures that members, students and employees must follow in relation to meetings and other activities held on the premises, and the behaviours required of any people in connection with those activities.
In summary it upholds the following principles:
Our key functions are cited throughout and include
In January 2025, the Secretary of State for Education made a statement in Parliament following the government’s review of the Higher Education (Freedom of Speech) Act 2023.
This set out the future direction for the legislation and confirmed the main duties on universities and constituent institutions of the Act that will be brought into force.
For universities and colleges these include:
For the Office for Students these include:
The University of Wolverhampton (the University) stance on institutional neutrality is primarily focused on academic freedom and freedom of speech within the university.
The University of Wolverhampton states its commitment to academic freedom in research and teaching, ensuring a space for open discussion and the autonomy of researchers and educators to pursue their intellectual agendas without unwarranted interference.
The concept of institutional neutrality, for the University of Wolverhampton means that the university refrains from taking official positions on political or moral issues that are not directly related to its core functions or its compliance with the law.
This does not restrict individual academics from expressing their own views, but it does emphasise that these views should not be presented as the university's official stance.
The University, in all its activity, actively promotes diversity and pluralism, encouraging students and staff to engage with different viewpoints and challenge each other's ideas in a respectful manner.
Alongside neutrality, the University values institutional citizenship, which includes activities that contribute to the overall well-being and effective functioning of the university community.
The University acknowledges the need to balance individual freedoms with the responsibilities that come with being part of a university community.
The University emphasises the importance of research integrity, requiring all staff and students to conduct research with honesty, openness, and responsibility.
The University also recognises the importance of institutional citizenship and promoting positive collegial behaviour.
One of our core aims is to create an environment where diverse perspectives can be explored and debated, while also ensuring the University itself does not take partisan positions on external political or moral issues.
When a university takes sides on a controversial issue, it necessarily formally sets itself against the other position.
This provides the bedrock for a potential chilling effect on people who hold another viewpoint.
It also poses the very real risk that we foster an environment where attacking people for their viewpoints becomes acceptable.
To ensure that all members of the University community feel free to express their ideas without fear of repercussion, we must remain neutral on matters of polarising public debate.
A commitment to institutional neutrality means that we refrain from:
However, institutional neutrality does not:
Case studies from the Office for Students Regulatory Advice 24 Freedom of Speech guidance June 2025

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/consent-matters-and-tackling-harassment-courses:
Consent Matters is an award-winning online programme created by experts and used by universities to support the development of a positive consent culture on campus.
Further details, including how to access the courses.
The University of Wolverhampton is committed to being a safe environment for every community member who studies, lives and works here.
We know that experiences of sexual harassment can have a serious impact on people and make it more difficult to achieve their potential.
Everyone at our university is responsible for their part in creating this respectful environment.
Consent and active bystander education have a proven positive impact on preventing sexual harassment and giving people the skills and confidence to positively intervene and support each other.
All University of Wolverhampton students and apprentice learners are invited to complete short online courses called Consent Matters and Tackling Harassment.
The course will help you to understand our expectations, recognise acceptable boundaries and learn how to support your friends and colleagues.
The course will show you what consent looks and sounds like, how you can clearly communicate what you want, when consent can be given and when it can’t, how and when you might step in when consent is not present.
Talking about sex and personal boundaries can be difficult, and through the completion of the programme we hope students within all levels of their study, and whatever pathway through learning they are on, will learn how to recognise and ask for sexual consent, look out for others at the University, and find support if it’s needed.
It is an award-winning online programme developed by experts used by universities to support the development of a positive consent culture on campus.
It enables the University to set clear expectations and provide information on clear communication, boundaries, mutually respectful relationships and the ways in which we can support others.
The course is all online , and self-paced.
It’s divided into three sections, each taking around 20 minutes to complete
Developed in collaboration with subject experts, higher education professionals, and students, Tackling Harassment: Promoting Cultural Change in Higher Education consists of a complementary pair of interactive, online courses that will support us as a university in tackling harassment and hate.
The programme’s courses, Being an active bystander and Responding to disclosures, combine evidence-based best practices with expert learning design to raise awareness, counteract barriers to reporting and intervention, and encourage positive social and cultural change throughout the whole university community.
Token List
DEPARTMENT
TOKEN
Faculty of Education Health and Wellbeing-
School of Nursing
af30f9a9
School of Allied Health and Midwifery
793589fd
School of Psychology
fbeff2ab
School of Sport
48ccfec4
School of Social and Health Studies.
932454d9
School of Education
8d4e67d7
Apprenticeship Programmes
Nursing Degree Apprenticeship
56c1ae22
Nursing Associate Apprenticeship
c383f2d1
Midwifery Apprenticeship
dfbab3a3
Social Work Apprenticeship
db4bbb25
Occupational Therapist Apprenticeship
33734d19
Post Graduate Teacher Apprenticeship
c61c0cdf
School of Social Sciences and Humanities
fbca4918
School of Creative Industries
1d6ad2ec
Wolverhampton Business School
51c8626a
Wolverhampton Law School
c549dda2
Chartered Manager Apprenticeship
7641031e
Senior Leader Apprenticeship
29f339fc
School of Pharmacy
3df1f090
School of Life Sciences
48eb0e5d
School of Engineering, Computing and Mathematical Sciences
ab2ba866
School of Architecture and Build Environment
ca2b41ab
Building Surveying Apprenticeship
7d937e5c
Quantity Surveying Apprenticeship
4d262818
Civil Engineering Apprenticeship
c44acbc3
Manufacturing Engineer Apprenticeship
aa295cfb
Environmental Health Apprenticeship
39064c4f
Laboratory Science Apprenticeship
8f198e3c
Digital and Technological Solutions Apprenticeship
3e8dc050
Health Care Science Apprenticeship
81382837
Paramedic Science Degree Apprenticeship
50b94acb
Podiatry Practice Degree Apprenticeship
c66225ef
Directorate of Academic Development and Success
WLV Online
847e9ae4
Malvern International
e47a62c6
The courses contain a 'Learning' item and an 'End of Module Quiz' for each of the two modules described above.
To mark your completion of the courses, you must complete the Learning for each module and achieve 100% on the End of Module Quiz for each module.
You will know you have completed the course when you can see the 'Course Completed' notification at the end of the course content list.
We run Consent Matters and Tackling H arassment because we want the University of Wolverhampton community to understand the importance of sexual consent.
Consent Matters is designed to be helpful and informative, however we understand that those who have experienced sexual violence may find the content of this course difficult or upsetting, so we offer an opt-out for survivors.
Click here to access the opt-out form .
Or access via the QR code below.
If you opt out, you will receive one confirmation email from us with information about support that is available.
The opt-out process is confidentially managed by our Safeguarding Team and no one else will be informed of you opting out.
Notice: Please complete opt-out form using your University credentials (University email address)
Consent Matters and Tackling Harassment is part of the University of Wolverhampton’s work to prevent sexual misconduct and harassment and provide a safe and respectful environment for all staff, students and visitors.
Consent Matters is delivered through Epigeum, an organisation that began its life with Imperial and is now part of Oxford University Press.
Other institutions using the Consent Matters programme include Oxford, Kings College London, Durham, Queen Mary UoL, Manchester and York.
The course is being administered by our Directorate of Student Life as part of wider Welcome activities and our work to foster a safer environment.
All incoming students are expected to complete this module within the first few weeks following registration.
Students are being sent information about the course via our dedicated get set CANVAS page which provides everything they need to register for and access the course, and dedicated slots will be allocated within all course inductions.
If you have any questions, please email safeguarding@wlv.ac.uk
Successful completion of the Tackling Harassment and Consent Matters modules will also result in the award of a digital badge.
'Badges are self-directed courses to work through at a pace that suits you.
Once you’ve completed a course, you’ll be awarded a digital badge which you can share on portfolio websites such as LinkedIn – a great way to enhance your employability!
Staff are developing more badges across the university, so keep an eye out for updates.
Other badges include the following:
To see your ‘backpack’ of badges, you’ll need to log into this page with your usual student details.
Want to start sharing your badges on LinkedIn and other platforms?
Here's some guidance on how to get started.
Head to our Student Life page for information on support and available resources, or our Safeguarding page to report a concern, and access further safeguarding guidance.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlv-gym/recreational-facilities/facility-hire-prices:
Important Information
Cancellations/moving bookings are generally accepted without penalty by giving 24 hours notice for one off bookings, and one week's notice in writing for regular block bookings.
Failure to do so will result in no refund or movement of the booking.
Facility prices are reviewed each year.
Membership packages are available to Students , Staff and the Community .
Current WLV Sport app members can book our facilities by clicking the below link:
https://sportsbookings.wlv.ac.uk/Connect
To sign up to the WLV Sport app, please follow the link below:
01902 322372
01902 518900

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlv-gym/recreational-facilities/university-sport-zone:
The University has invested in this fabulous a facility for students.
The ‘University Sports Zone’ is accessible to all students free of charge, and is located next to the Lomas Street Halls of Residence.
Just round up some mates, grab a ball and swipe in at the gates using your student ID card and away you go.
No booking, no fees, just fun!
The University Sport Zone is open from 10am- 9pm Monday to Saturday and 10am-8pm on Sundays, and in the winter play doesn’t have to stop early just because it has gone dark ….that’s what floodlights are for!!
During times of adverse weather such as snow and ice the facility will be closed for use.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlv-gym/recreational-facilities/event--bookings-information:
The University is host to a variety of sporting events throughout the year.
We have three booking options, 'Casual bookings', 'Block Bookings' and 'Event Bookings'.
For casual bookings please call or pop into your prefered centre where a member of staff will be able to assist you.
2011 Sports Facilities Booking Form city Campus.pdf .
All booking requests must be accompanied by a signed 'Conditions of hire for Sports Facilities' document, to demonstrate that you fully understand our Sports Facility hiring policies.
For enquiries please contact gym@wlv.ac.uk
These are only requests and will be considered carefully before they are accepted or rejected, not all requests will be successful.
We have previously hosted events for major governing bodies, including:
Event Bookings do require more planning and resources.
Using the 2014 Sports Events Booking Form.pdf and 2011 Sports Facilities Booking Form Back Conditions.pdf you can contact either facility (Walsall or City) with your enquiries.
These requests will be responded to promptly and we hope to provide you with the best event possible availability allowing.
Please email gym@wlv.ac.uk
The Duty Manager who looks after Events and Programming will contact you directly to complete all the necessary paperwork.
Brazilian Ju-Jitsu
Karate
Judo
Gymnastics
BUCS Boxing
Brazilian Ju-jitsu
Empty Hall
Futsal NFS
Kabaddi World Cup
Comic-Con
Lego Brick Event
Walsall Campus - Centre Address
Walsall Campus Sports Centre Gorway Road Walsall West Midlands WS1 3EZ
What3words:
Spice.
Learns.
Sling
Wolverhampton Campus  - Centre Address
Wolverhampton Campus Sports Centre Wulfruna Street Wolverhampton WV1 1LY
Pest.
Factor.
Butter

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/about-us/governance/legal-information/data-protection/wlv-sport-centre-privacy-notice-:
Our Data Protection Officer can be contacted at dataprotection@wlv.ac.uk.
The University of Wolverhampton (WLV Sport) will collect and processes your Personal Data for the following to sign you up to use or sports services in a legal and safe way.
We will in addition process data in relation to age, ethnic background, religion, and disability so that we can process information in relation to usage and exercise trends to inform future products and sessions that will in turn provide a better service to our whole customer base.
Purpose
Lawful Basis (Reason)
Obtaining personal information relating to signing up to and using our sports services including payment details
Article 6,1(b) Necessary for a contract
processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is party or in order to take steps at the request of the data subject prior to entering into a contract;
Where the information is not necessary for a contract, the University will rely on UK GDPR Article 6,1(a) Consent and Article 9,2,(a) Explicit consent
Analysis and interpretation of Individual characteristic data
Article 6,1(a) Consent
the data subject has given consent to the processing of his or her personal data for one or more specific purposes;
and Article 9,2,(a) Explicit consent for Special category data
the data subject has given explicit consent to the processing of those personal data for one or more specified purposes,
All of your personal data is processed in the UK or EEA/ Some of your personal data is processed in the UK or EEA
Most of the information that we process about you will be provided by you.
This will typically be via our website, mobile app or collected from the application process.
We will process the minimum amount of data that is necessary for the above stated purposes.
The data items are detailed below:
The following data items are necessary for you to use our services:
The following data will help the university to plan services and target hard to reach groups.
You have a choice to share this with us:
In addition, specific data may be obtained from and shared with the following external parties for the purposes specified:
Is sharing carried outside the UK (y/n)
Gladstone Leisure Services
To act as a repository for the data and carry out general processing of all the data
Necessary for a contract or entering into a contract.
The data is shared with the 3 rd Party pursuant to Article 6(1)f Legitimate interest of a 3 rd party
No
The University will retain your Personal Data for a period of 4 years in line with the University’s Document Retention Schedule.
Following cancellation of membership, a request can be made for the deletion of all personal data.
Furthermore, upon membership cancellation, your personal data will be removed up to 4 years from the date that you submitted your written cancellation.
Where we have relied on consent to capture parts of your data, such as religion, you will have the right to withdraw consent at any time and the University will delete that section of your data.
As an individual, you have a number of rights available to you.
In this instance, the following rights are available to you:
Right to Access
Right to Rectification
Right to Erasure (or to withdraw consent)
Right to Restriction
To find out more about how you may exercise those rights, for example, The Right of Subject Access: obtaining a copy of your information which we may hold,  or the Right to Rectification: correcting any mistakes or completing the information we hold about you, please see our Data Protection web pages available here or the ICO website for more information.
This privacy notice was last updated on 1 st March 2024.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/campus-transport/ebike-hire:
West Midlands Cycle Hire is now available across the West Midlands, including at our Wolverhampton and Walsall campuses.
You can find docking stations outside the Apprenticeship Hub (Molineux St) and Stafford Road (outside Millennium City Building) in Wolverhampton.
And in Walsall there is a docking station right outside the library.
The bikes are ideal for getting across campus, back to halls or to the train and bus stations in a quick and easy way!
You can also find docking stations at Wolverhampton’s West Park and Walsall Arboretum for a great way to get your exercise in on your lunch break!
To hire a bike, users must download and register on the cycle hire app .
With the app they can then find their nearest available bikes and unlock them using the contactless touchpad or by keying in the 6-digit code found on the bike handlebars.
Rides are charged at 5p per minute (pedal bike) and 10p per minute (electric bike) plus an initial unlock fee of £1 (pedal) and £1.50 (electric).
This makes a 10-minute journey by pedal bike £1.50 and by electric bike £2.50.
For those want to use the scheme regularly you can buy your minutes upfront which saves you money each time you ride!
Buy either 100 minutes (£5), 300 minutes (£15) or 600 minutes £30).

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/campus-transport/staff-self-drive-hire:
The purpose of this instruction is to set out the procedure for hiring vehicles for University use.
On no account is this procedure to be changed without the prior approval of the Director of Estates and Facilities.
Individual Schools and/or departments are responsible for the hire of self drive vehicles for such purposes as; field trips, business trips and/or movement of goods/furnishings.
Individual Schools and/or departments will also be responsible for the process of payment, overseeing delivery/return, any associated administration and the security (parking etc) of the vehicle whilst on hire.
The nominated driver will be responsible, on delivery, to ensure that the vehicle is adequate for purpose and is fit for use.
Should any School and/or department require a dual hire of both vehicle and driver they should contact the Transport Department and complete a Transport Requisition.
The University Insurance covers all classes of vehicles whilst on hire to the University for normal business use.
At no time are vehicles on hire to the University to be used for private use.
The hiring School and/or Department must ensure that the nominated driver has the appropriate licence for the vehicle in question.
Special notice needs to be taken with regard to the hire of minibuses:
Drivers who obtained their licence after January 1997 are only licensed to drive vehicles carrying a maximum of eight (8) passengers.
It is the individual’s responsibility to ensure that they are medically fit to drive; nominated drivers should declare any medical condition that might adversely affect their ability to drive safely.
It is the driver's responsibility to ensure, where required, that a risk assessment is undertaken, taking into account the route and any other factors that could have an adverse effect on the driver and/or any passengers.
Whilst the University does not have an approved suppliers list for self-drive vehicle hire those companies listed below are/or have been used previously and are recommended.
Please note that any hire agreements should comply with current University financial policies and procedures.
TCH Hire
5 Penn Road Wolverhampton WV2 4ET
Tel: 01902 420204
Cars, Vans and Minibuses
Day Rental
1, Sundorne Trade Park, Featherbed Ln, Shrewsbury, SY1 4NS
Tel: 01743 441218
Email: carhireshrewsbury@daysrental.co.uk
Car, Vans & Minibuses
Enterprise Ltd
20 Birmingham Road, Wolverhampton, WV2 3LH
Tel: 01902 450500

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlvhuman/stories/clare-dickens:
← Return to #HumansOfWLV
One of my first formative memories was my first day at nursery.
I had a developing headache from how tightly my pigtails were braided, and a growing self-consciousness that the knot of my tie was far too big to the proportion of my neck.
The entrance of the school was filled with the smells of food being prepared for lunch, and my stomach rolled at the thought of what might be served up for me both in the food hall, and in the classroom I was entering.
I could gauge and glimpse from behind my Mother's leg that it was filled with other children, and I was greeted by Miss Martin.
“Well, who might this little girl be?
Do you have any brothers or sisters?
What do you want to be when you grow up?
They may well have been polite, reassuring pleasantries, but I responded nonetheless as she instantly made me feel important and that what I had to say mattered:
“My name is Clare, no I don’t have any brothers or sisters, and I WILL BE a nurse.”
I achieved that conviction, by the age of 20.
I didn’t falter in my ambition and never strayed from that path.
Reading and dancing were my escape, thinking, learning and daydreaming were my liberation; and the thought of caring for others had always been the counsel I needed, in the midst of what was at times a confusing and turbulent childhood.
Clare Dickens is our Academic Lead in Mental Health.
She is also Chair of the City of Wolverhampton’s Suicide Prevention Stakeholder’s Forum.
I had hedged my bets at the age of 17, applying to the school of nursing at the University of Wolverhampton, which at that time was housed in the grounds of the hospital in which I was born 17 years earlier.
I was advised by many not to get my hopes up, as I was too young and didn’t have much experience.
On the day of my graduation I recall the words of my Father:
“Your Grandad would have been really proud of you, do you know that?
He always bashed the message home that education is the key to freedom, the key that opens the door to choice, and you’ve now opened that door Clare”
My Grandfather, Dennis, was born of Romany heritage.
He could not read or write well, had no formal education so to speak, and had remained steadfast that it was the route to a better life.
Dennis was only governed by the seasons, he would hop and fruit pick in the summer, potato harvest in the late summer to autumn, and other forms of manual labour to get by throughout the year as a child and adolescent.
Each morning, even after he had settled as a young man with a young family, he didn’t know if he would turn left, right or go straight ahead.
A young Clare wearing her school uniform.
He faced many barriers, had many a near miss and no doubt met some colourful characters along the way.
Yet he always returned having provided the next meal.
His destination and purpose was to provide, like the generations before him – but I gleaned that he had always longed for more.
I spent much of my childhood with my grandmother, Ruth.
Dennis had passed away suddenly at the age of 59, when I was four years old; and I suspect I gave her something to focus on.
My parents' work commitments meant she featured very much in my routine, and my formative years - she became the centre of my world.
There are a few reasons why mental health was the direction in which my nursing journey travelled, but she remains the most vivid.
She too didn’t have the best start in life, she was born in Manchester and her family settled in the Midlands when she was a baby.
Her father died suddenly when she was very young, and the relationship with her own mother wasn’t one any of us would aspire to have.
By the age of 17, she was pregnant with her first child and she was supported by a GP who broke the news to her mother.
His fears were realised when she was then sent to London to have the baby alone.
She spoke of that GP “Paul”, with great fondness and respect at the level of conviction, kindness and advocacy he afforded her.
Despite his pleas, she was sent to a convent for the infirm and illegitimate expectant mothers – she must have been so scared.
I was and remain in awe of the woman.
How can someone who has endured so much, received such unkindness and trauma, and who has been let down by the very people who should have loved her and looked out for her, be so warm, resilient, so loving and fun when she has every reason not be?
I also recall a growing dissatisfaction at the social injustices that surrounded her (though I didn’t frame them in this way as a child) – that someone could be considered “ill” and “wrong”, for simply having a baby, and hadn’t managed to get around to being married yet!
Whilst working as a staff nurse on an intensive medium secure psychiatry ward, I received a call to inform me that one of the primary guardians in my life had been found dead by a couple walking their dog that early Sunday morning.
At all times, so many terrible things might happen to any of us.
The typical way to cheer others and ourselves up when we’re mired in grief and fear seems to be to tell us that we will after all be OK.
At a surface level this may seem laudable, but no stoic preparation could have laid the foundation of remedy for this crushing pain – which in reality to an extent flickers on today, furthermore it is completely rational and understandable.
My uncle “David-Paul”, had been born to the same parentage as my father, born out of wedlock, he had spent the first two years of his life with my grandmother in the East End of London – the only true cockney, Black Country man I have ever known!
He was spared adoption to a family much richer in monetary terms than his own, owing to her escaping from the convent, which housed the infirm and illegitimate mothers I spoke of above.
He demonstrated by the eloquence of his example, and never having to say it, that despite your beginnings, you can endure and that people matter; we are nothing without them.
He taught me how to fish, shoot, the benefit of being outdoors and observing the simplicity of how the world is evolving as it should, of music and most importantly how to speak my truth whilst listening to others, and how to forgive.
His death was a pivotal moment for me both personally and professionally, I miss him terribly.
I became a mother in 2006, I recall feeling overwhelmed and completely unprepared for the role, in the midst of excitement and anticipation for another chapter of my life to begin.
I was advised due to complications in childbirth, that I wouldn’t be able to have any more children.
This brush with death and the totality of it all, spurred me to take a longer period of maternity leave given I wouldn’t get the chance again, I cherish that time to this day.
But I also took the chance to return to another comforting mainstay in my life – education.
I commenced my master’s degree six weeks after giving birth to my son “ Zak-David”, as the prospect of nappies, CBeebies and the halt in my career alone filled me with dread.
During this time, my grandmother Ruth, unable and possibly not wanting to recover from the grief of losing her first born child, was becoming unwell.
In the midst of such upheaval, pain, change and eventually loss – reading, thinking and daydreaming again became my liberating escape – enabled by the structure and love of motherhood, and of my master's studies.
By the time I had finished this degree, I became a wife and a step-mother!
I do believe at some unconscious level, the unconventional order of my life to that point, had been a deliberate “up yours” to the world which my grandmother knew.
I returned home to the university, but on a more permanent basis in 2014 as one of its employees.
At this point I had spent much of my career supporting some of the most vulnerable, and beautifully complex our society has created.
Street sex workers, those who use substances as solace, and those in the forty-foot waves of their distress and hopelessness.
Though I confess never feeling completely settled within the structure that the formal psychiatry, medicalised model offered – people just don’t fit into categories or boxes in my world, they never will.
Though the rescuer in me longs for those days again at times, I know I made the right choice to move to a space where some of what I have learnt, and continue to make sense of, can go on to help, shape or influence more people, possibly much further upstream in their journey – who can then go on and help people through the eloquence of theirs.
Education, simply put, is one huge ripple effect.
I often get asked if I could design a recipe to cook up the perfect, happy and wholesome life or human being, what those ingredients would be.
If I am forced to give a response, I would say – a reassurance that we are loved, that we matter, and opportunity.
Through my life and career so far, in the midst of loss and some of the cruelty the world can dole out, I have had the privilege of the above.
Of meeting, and in Ruth’s case being raised by, so many people for whom the odds seemed so stacked against them.
But they have endured, not only surviving, but thriving.
I have little bits of their stories and lessons imprinted on me to this day, and it is my quest to continue to add to them and continue to shape the person I am.
View them through a strength based lens, they are truly remarkable, and are far from victims the world has chewed up and spat out, and by no means do they need to be fixed.
The travelling roots within my heritage, I don’t believe have really left me, as settling on an imagined sensibleness that I have it all sussed and figured out, isn’t a destination I ever want to arrive at.
Though I do firmly believe that if you were to cut us in half, at a meta-physical level, we are so much more alike than we are unalike as a species, there is just so much that unifies and connects us.
And yet, our stories, our experiences and our paths are what make us destined to never be repeated again.
We are unique, stunning masterpieces in the making and it gives us every damn right to be here!
It is to some extent what drives the work I do within suicide prevention.
Though I have no desire or indeed right to coerce or guilt anyone in to the choice to live, I know their life is valuable – it matters, even if it doesn’t seem that way today.
I have been and remain honoured to inform some of this agenda on a larger scale; again within the embrace of my mainstay at the university and the city in which my roots, story and family sit.
I know what makes this my home is that it has nurtured and given me something to be passionate about, and something to do.
It also consists of people, those that I love, I am fond of and know, and those I am yet to meet – each with their own story to tell and lessons to give.
Clare at the 2016 Times Higher Education Awards.
“Three Minutes to Save a Life” was described by judges as a “clear winner” in the Outstanding Support for Students category.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlvhuman/stories/dr-moses-murandu:
Growing up with a single male parent was very hard.
My father was very regimental like a military man.
His hard stance on discipline was one of the memories we recall, me and my elder brother.
He was a very strict father who moulded our resilience today.
I was one of the four boys left behind when mom left my father.
She felt like a prisoner and not loved, even though she had borne seven children to my father.
I guess women were like tools in the villages meant to bear children and listen to the man; a scenario portrayed by D.H.
Lawrence in Sons and Lovers.
Having said that, the departure of my mom left a void in the family.
We had no mother and my father was now both the mother and the father.
At times supported by my elder brother, who had to outgrow his age to fit into the role left by our mother.
He would do most of the house chores at an early age until his departure going to a boarding school.
During these arduous times, I lost my toddler brother having succumbed to childhood communicable diseases that I was also a victim of but managed to survive.
My father took us early morning to the hospital where we were attended to but discharged home.
A few kilometres deep into the dark green woods, my brother gave up the ghost.
It is a memory that is still vivid in my mind today.
I recall my brother’s eyes fixed and dead, my father trying to revive him with no success.
He tried giving him water and the water was just drilling down his cheeks.
I saw tears running down my father’s cheeks holding a lifeless toddler body.
He had two choices, to travel back to the hospital or go home.
We were closer to the hospital than walking all day long home.
He chose to travel home, holding in his arms his precious child, so handsome and peaceful.
He also had another toddler (myself) who was not feeling well.
The journey meant several pit-stops to allow my gaining strengths.
And finally, we got to home where he was given a cradle to tie his lifeless child on his back instead of carrying him in his arms.
It was this experience that left a huge impact on my life.
I questioned the idea of not going back to the hospital and also the choice of heading home with a dead child rather than take him back to the mortuary.
The reasons were never explored as my father is no more and I regret having failed to ask him.
My guess was to do with the care given to him; the health care professionals did not support my father well.
Why would they discharge him with two sick children?
Maybe hospital fees were a problem?
Were fees more important than the life of the two children?
All these questions remained with me throughout my childhood and into my adulthood.
Dr Moses Murandu is a Senior Lecturer in Adult Nursing at the University
This later partly formed the basis of my choice to consider a healthcare profession.
Otherwise, I wanted to be an air force pilot and the thought of killing people led me to opt-out of this career.
I then strongly considered accounting; which was detoured by lack of university tuition fees.
I was left with pursuing nursing as a career, the fees were affordable and I was undertaking the course at a Christian institution Maluti Adventist Hospital School of Nursing in Lesotho.
A college that was internationally recognised and had multi-national tutors.
Ever since starting the course, I have never regretted and I have made an impact on many patients.
After completing my registered general nurse course in Lesotho I moved to St Monica’s Maternity Hospital in Capetown where I undertook Midwifery.
On completion, I was awarded the Ethel Bell Award as the all-round Midwifery student in both theory and practice.
I then moved to False Bay hospital in Fish-Hoek to take up a post as a double qualified, where I was to work rotationally around Accident and Emergency, Male medical and Surgical, Female medical and Surgical, Maternity and Paediatric wards.
This appointment was one of my epics as a registered nurse and midwife as it was a whites-only hospital with no black patients, to begin with.
After Mandela’s release, the hospital was forced to accept blacks and as a result, they had to employ black nurses.
The first black nurses employed were me and my friend, both from Zimbabwe and had trained in Lesotho - a very small country with little resources as compared to South Africa, that had first world funding and resources.
The appointment was not an easy ride as the patients, doctors and nurses were very sceptical of our appointment.
They did not acknowledge our being appointed and wanted us out.
The only supporting person was the Matron, who from time to time debriefed us reassured reminding us of the bigger picture of our appointments.
There were open racists’ remarks from certain medical doctors, telling the Matron the hospital was going down employing blacks.
I recall, my first shift on duty I was never orientated and the assigned qualified nurse to show me around would spend the whole day moaning about the old order, how nice it was before blacks started being admitted.
I wondered how I was going to work here, let alone know the policies and procedures to follow.
The following day was a Sunday and I was on my own.
I tried hard to manage the ward and applied the management skills that we had learnt from the college with good effect but the policies and procedures of a hospital are supposed to be explained.
You cannot provide effective care without knowing how certain acts of care attend with reference to the hospital policy.
On this occasion, it was administering blood transfusion of a private patient whose medical doctor had collected a sample of blood for cross-match.
He left the blood without telling me how to go about assuming I knew the procedure with only less than twenty hours working at the hospital.
I saved the sample in the fridge awaiting transportation to the laboratory at the referral hospital.
By noon the doctor was back to commence the transfusion and lo and behold the blood was safe in the fridge.
He was mad at me citing how useless blacks are and they should have never been employed.
He promised to report the matter to the Matron the following Monday.
I was terrified as if I had killed a patient.
I phoned the other ward to ask one of the nurses who had been working there for a while and the procedure was explained to me; phone the transport section from the referral hospital and come and collect the blood and be cross-matched and they will deliver the blood.
This, I did promptly and by roughly 3 or 4 o’clock the blood was available ready to be transfused.
The doctor came and commenced the transfusion.
He never said a word to me and left.
I was to monitor the transfusion and continue with the rest of the blood, this I did without any problems.
Monday morning the doctor was in the Matron’s office telling her of the incompetent black nurse she had employed.
It pained me to see how I was deemed incompetent because of the failure of orientation.
I absorbed the abuse and all the racist remarks.
The matron later came and invited me to her office, I thought she was to dismiss me.
Fortunately, she stated that she had heard all of the complaints and she is very confident this was dust rising and it will settle.
She reassured me that, the staff had never worked with blacks and I should expect more of these scenarios.
I thanked her and left her office with mixed feelings, should I continue or leave early without further abuse.
And I chose the latter.
I worked and endured the hardships.
My friend who was working in the female ward experienced the same negative comments.
The patients were very sceptical and would not take medication from me.
I recall some of the church members doubted my training.
I would give patients medication to care assistants, as they would not take medication from me and were afraid I would give them the wrong drug or dose whatever they felt in their minds.
My spirits were not dampened as I continued working with care and compassion, despite their negativity towards me.
Within a year I turned out to be their favourite nurse, the very doctor who denigrated me would not stop shouting my praise and when referring his patients for admission he would ask who is on duty, if he hears I was on, he would commend, I am sending my patient happily, so was life as a pioneer at transforming a whites-only hospital into a multi-racial institution and I am proud of my experience over there.
When I was moving to come over to the UK everyone cried and begged me to stay, but it was time to venture into the small Island that at one point conquered three-quarters of the world, I wanted to experience how they undertake their nursing and also taught the nurses in these Isles how we do things in Africa.
There are several challenges when you are working as a minority with patients and other health care professionals coming from the same race.
You are viewed as an intruder ready to cause upsets to the status quo.
The results are preservations of the past and are resistant to change.
This was a constant battle I faced from both staff and patients.
At one point an ambulance brought in a coloured boy, severely knifed, and the doctor liaising with a white nurse decided to bandage and let him go home.
He instructed from his room (sleeping) that he should be bandaged and sent home to pack in the morning.
I happened to go down to accident and emergency to check why the ambulance took so long to leave.
I found the young man bleeding profusely through the bandage.
I called him into the assessment room and examined the bleed.
He had been severed on the radial artery.
I applied pressure and called the doctor.
He responded and asked me why I was calling him instead of the white sister (an enrolled nurse) who was my junior.
I told him I was calling him as I was in charge and concerned about the patient.
He shouted at me telling me to go to the Transkei where I came from and slammed the phone down.
On my ear.
I picked the phone and called him again.
Once more he blasted me with racist words, calling me a baboon and I should go back to the mountain and slammed the phone on my ear.
I picked the phone and called him again, but this time my voice tone was full of anger; ready to face any challenge he paused.
I saw the young man losing blood and the medical doctor who is supposed to be helping was so selfish and did not care yet he was paid by the taxpayer to look after these patients.
I am sure he realised my anger and decided to come down and review the patient.
On arrival, he was so pompous and ignored me talking to the care assistant asking what was going on.
He examined the patient and realised the case was beyond his capability.
He referred the patient to the vascular specialists in Groote Schuur hospital.
When the patient had gone he called me for a debrief in his office.
He apologised to all remarks and comments he had made about me citing his upbringing in Poland; they were told blacks don’t think, they are like monkeys.
I listened and asked myself, how many patients of colour were losing their lives due to negligence?
I accepted his apology but still asked myself are healthcare professionals not supposed to see no colour and treat each individual with respect and dignity.
Surely, this experience demonstrated a lack of that expectation.
Another experience...
Another experience was from a colleague who was handing in after a long and busy day in the maternity ward.
I was to inherit this supposed difficult couple who were expecting their first child.
The nurse was busy telling me how difficult the husband had been throughout the time of admission.
I was listening but took little notice on the part of being difficult.
I always assess my patients and judge them on my interaction with them.
While she was handing over this private patient, the private doctor phoned to check how the woman was progressing.
The midwife was busy explaining how difficult the husband was when suddenly he burst into the office and demanded to talk to the doctor.
He summoned the doctor to come and review his wife immediately as he was paying lots of money for his services and then slammed the phone.
After the handover, I followed the man who closed the door behind me.
I knocked and he refused to open.
I continued knocking and requesting to check the mother and baby.
Later the wife encouraged him to open the door.
I entered and greeted both and the wife answered, but the husband did not.
He continued looking outside the window.
I requested the wife to check her baby’s heart to which she agreed.
I check and informed her of the heart rate, that it was alright and the baby was engaged.
I wanted to give her an enema as her rectum was full.
I gave her the enema and instructed them to call should they need assistance.
The husband later walked the wife to the toilet and thereafter their doctor arrived.
The doctor requested to see his patient alone at that point and I gave her the opportunity to do so.
A few minutes later he was out calling me into the office.
He asked me what I had done to the couple as they were singing praises of me.
My response was nothing much but I had done my routine to what I always do to my patients.
He requested that once he goes back to finish his dinner that I should call him when she is ready to push.
Not long after he had left the woman wanted to push; I took her into the labour ward and delivered the baby still waiting for the doctor whom I had called.
On arrival, the baby was out and he delivered the placenta.
The couple were not pleased with the doctor and wanted to pay me instead and I told them my services were free as I was working for the state.
If they had come as state patients then it would have been free.
Three years later, the mother brought her beautiful thriving daughter to see me and also told me the shocking and touching news.
She brought a watch as a present and informing me that the watch was the husband’s that he used to check the minutes I was counting her baby’s heart rate.
She said he did not trust me and my competence.
He felt embarrassed and wanted to give me the watch as a present for his racist thoughts.
I did not know every time I did the observations and leave the room he also did his and they matched mine.
My drive is services to humanity
My drive is services to humanity; we live on this earth as lodgers of God who is our landlord.
Our rentals are a service to humanity.
One day when my time on this earth is complete I do not want to owe God any rentals.
I should be able to say I did my utmost to help each and every creation of God.
I do not look at my achievements but look at what should I do next to make a difference to human suffering.
Like now, there is Covid-19 and I have helped and saved several people who had severe Covid-19 symptoms, some were not going to make it but they recovered from my innovation.
What makes me human
Human beings are anatomically similar and related to the great apes but are distinguished by a more highly developed brain that poses articulate speech and abstract reasoning.
So I try to use my brain in a positive way that brings alleviation of human suffering.
I see no colour, race or creed but only the creation of God that requires my services in order to pay my rentals.
That is what makes me human.
When the time comes to pass on, my life must be reflected upon my service to humanity not my troubles on humanity.
More so, working for the University of Wolverhampton makes me human as people like you and me, and colleagues and the rest of the university rally around my visual field and that alone makes me human.
You cannot be human when you live like an animal.
In 2015 Dr Moses Murandu clinched third prize in the best research from a developing country award category at the Journal of Wound Care Awards.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlvhuman/stories/charlotte-dunn:
From the moment I could create something on paper I did.
With my mom being an artist and my dad an architect, every minute of free time when I was younger, I spent drawing.
Art has always been my passion.
To have someone look at something I’ve created just fills me with pride and is still what drives me today.
At A level I achieved the highest A level art grade in the country and went on to do a degree in Fine Art, graduating in 2011.
After I left, I felt a bit stuck with what to do with all my buzzing creativity and went to work in retail whilst I had a think.
I pursued an MA but whilst studying was diagnosed with epilepsy.
Epilepsy knocked my confidence tremendously; I could no longer travel on my own and lost my driving licence.
I went straight back into painting every day, continuing my art practice outside my job roles to get me through and give me back a sense of independence again.
My MA provided me with many more business-focused skills that showed me I could apply my creativity in many different ways.
From then, I went on to get marketing roles for numerous companies and eventually became an event manager for a retail events agency.
Whilst there I was diagnosed with another invisible illness, IBD.
Not long after being diagnosed, I applied for an artist’s residency at the School of Art that was themed around the discrimination South Asian women can face who suffer from IBD.
Getting the residency opened my eyes to the creative buzz of the school and I knew I needed an element of that in my job again.
Using the mix of art and health to speak about invisible illness really inspired me and after leaving my event manager role, I became a research assistant within the School of Art working on a project ‘Identifying the Successful Methodologies of the STARTS prize.’ This project concentrated on art and science, but also allowed me to meet and work with amazingly creative and inspiring people from across the University.
I then knew I wanted to work with the University and after my previous role ended became Faculty Marketing Officer for the Faculty of Arts, Business and Social Sciences.
Outside my role I still take part in numerous artists residencies that often involve the theme of art and health, recently working with the NHS in a campaign on mental health conditions as well as with the STEM team as a lead artist in their project ‘Life and Science’.
Charlotte is our Marketing Officer for the Faculty of Arts, Business and Social Sciences.
Being a sufferer of 3 invisible illnesses that have affected my life over the past few years.
I have seen how art and imagery can help people speak about an invisible condition.
In my artwork outside my role at the University, I look at how having a picture of your symptoms, i.e., a scan, could help an individual in speaking about what is going on and how they feel when they can’t explain it to others.
My work, ‘Worlds within Worlds’ that was recently exhibited at Wolverhampton Art gallery, depicts 3 scans of people with invisible illnesses, epilepsy, arthritis and cystic fibrosis.
The illumination of the drawings within the work encourages people to talk about their symptoms and visualise what is going on inside them, a world they can’t always explain.
I have also recently been exhibited in the ‘Now we’re talking’ Art trail in Worcester.
This trail around the city allowed me to produce artwork based on the condition of PTSD, something I have suffered from as a result of my epilepsy.
In this work, I produced large scale prints of my drawings of PET scans of individuals brains who are both sufferers and none sufferers of PTSD.
This allowed viewers to see the difference in the patterns of the brain and depict a visualisation of the changes in our brains when triggers happen.
I feel creativity can help anyone in expressing how they feel and drive them forward to feel like they have achieved something, even if some days inside you feel as if you can’t.
'Worlds within Worlds' - Art by Charlotte Dunn
What drives me forward?
Creativity has always been a big drive for me and working with others to share creative ideas and achieve something together means everything.
If you can look at something and say, ‘we did that’, it’s the best feeling in the world!
It makes me happy to think I have carried on my creativity through my job roles in some way, despite many challenges, and now work with some brilliantly imaginative people within my team and faculty.
I’m different in many ways, but it’s important we all have differences.
We wouldn’t be human if we were all the same, it’s important we can share our differences and make a difference with them.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlvhuman/stories/angel-morphew:
I was born at New Cross Hospital in Wolverhampton on 24 th October 1998.
My mother is Jamaican and Cuban, whilst my father is White British.
I was my father’s fourth child but my mother’s first child.
Two years later my beautiful brother was born, who was diagnosed with Autism at two years old.
Growing up I struggled with my identity as a Black mixed-race girl who attended an all-white primary school.
I never really recognised the significance of being a POC until middle school Year 6, when one of the only other mixed-race students verbally abused me in reference to my colour.
I had never heard the N-word used until I moved to Bedford and went to a multi-racial school, it was there I experienced the most racism.
Before I started the school, the Deputy Head allocated me to a group of girls she thought would ‘be best suited to me’ purely based on my race rather than my interests.
I then had one of my Black friends state ‘you are too black to be friends with the White kids but too white to be friends with the Black kids’.
I was utterly confused about who I was.
Am I more Black because my skin is brown and that is how people see me first … or am I more white due to the environment I grew up in?
As I mentioned, my brother also had autism.
His form of autism presented in being selective mute, seizures, behaviour issues, learning difficulties and other numerous traits.
I used to get very upset as a young child as to why my brother never played with me.
I think he was about 6/7 years old when he first started acknowledging me.
I always knew my brother was special and I protected him from children who bullied him or adults who treated him less than.
Since then, I attend most of my brothers educational and social work meetings to ensure that he can access the resources he deserves, getting the best possible educational experience.
Angel Morphew (she/her) – VP Diversity Officer (Wolverhampton Students' Union)
My whole life story is very lengthy, but I feel these are two key parts in my life which led me to being so passionate about being an advocate for change in equality, diversity and inclusion.
Being mixed race led me to wanting to gain knowledge on my identity.
As an undergraduate I studied Sociology and modules such as Racism, Diversity and Difference, which really enlightened me to thinking different about race as a social construct.
Through reading books such as Mixed Other by Natalie Morris and BRIT(ish) by Afua Hirsch, I’ve come to understand and accept the complexity and dual heritage.
I want to promote and celebrate mixedness and for The University of Wolverhampton mixed population, I hope to improve their experiences.
As whole I’m passionate about Race, Religion, Disability, Gender/Sex, Sexuality and all the above.
I really care for others, their wellbeing and their right to equality and inclusion.
Looking back at my life there were times when I thought I wouldn’t get to this point.
I never thought I would have been in the position of graduating, buying a house or even getting engaged.
I had a traumatic childhood which I carried with me every day for many years, like a lingering black cloud.
I let it dictate my happiness, motivation to achieve and my true potential.
It was not until I started working in various roles such as education, care and the charity sector that I came to overcome my own challenges.
When I worked in the Samaritans I listened to people’s life stories, the challenges that they faced and the mental health issues they lived with.
Many of the conversations ended with a ‘thank you for listening to me, I feel a little better now’ and that meant everything to me, knowing that I had helped someone in their darkest of times to just keep going.
I worked as a care worker during the pandemic supporting young adults with learning difficulties and disabilities.
It was incredibly rewarding to be able to assist them in becoming more independent and productive individuals.
I currently work as the Diversity Officer at Wolves SU and I get to improve students experiences from various liberation groups and champion inclusivity across the university.
Improving others’ lives regardless of the size of the impact has helped me overcome my own personal challenges and mental health.
Being able to make a difference in the lives of many has made me realise my purpose.
What drives me forward?
Wanting to be the best person I could possibly be.
I think personal development is really important, you should set a standard for yourself on who you want to become.
We are only human, so I know I will have times when I haven’t been the best person or made the best choices, but I hope to learn from that.
I want my future children to look up to me as a role model and hopefully others around me.
Not only building a professional career to look back on in 50 years with a smile of achievement but building upon my personality and attributes as a person.
I am happy that I get to inspire and encourage other students to be proactive in creating a university space that they feel comfortable to study and truly belong.
I love when students approach me with ideas or questions on how we can improve their experience and especially when they want to get involved in the projects/campaigns that I have launched.
What makes me human.
I am emotional.
Over the years I have heard from my parents, fiancé, and friends that I am ‘too emotional’ because I cry.
I cry when I’m upset, angry, frustrated, happy, tired, overwhelmed … you name the emotion, and I will cry over it.
I always thought this was my weakness because I wear my heart on my sleeve.
Lately, I’ve begun to embrace it, as the only reason I am emotional is because I truly care.
I’m passionate about the work I do and protective over the relationships I have built throughout my life.
I care a lot about people, how my actions or external factors impact their lives and that’s why I’m so driven in my career focus to improve individuals lives both inside and outside of university.
Being human to me is being in touch with my emotions but instead of the emotions consuming me, I channel it into making positive changes.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlvhuman/stories/janet-macdougall:
I’m currently in my third year of study in the University’s School of Art and it’s taken me 60 years to get to where I always wanted to be – I am incredibly proud of this achievement - for someone who was told that going to University wasn’t for girls and that marriage should be my ambition.
I really wanted to be part of the student art community.
I was a creative girl but going to university wasn’t an option back then – my parents told me that girls only get married and that studying for a creative degree wouldn’t get me a job.
I reluctantly went to work at Boots Chemist on the counter at first and then became a window dresser.
I later got pregnant and because it was the early 60s, there was a real stigma around not being married and having a child out of wedlock.
Opportunities were limited for women at that time and I was forced to find someone to marry.
The first man I met, I married, because that’s what I thought I had to do.
There were no other options back then and my choices were really limited.
It was unheard of to have children and not be married.
The relationship was a struggle – my ex-husband was an alcoholic and also violent.
We bought a run-down Edwardian House for £2,500 which needed a lot of work and very soon after moving in, my ex-husband left me.
I was 29 years old and struggled with the bank and the courts to try to keep the house – it was unheard of for women to own their own property in those days – and I rented my rooms out to all manner of people to pay the mortgage.
By this time, I had three children.
But I worked hard to renovate the property and by the time I was 38 I had paid off the mortgage.
I eventually met my now-husband and fell in love with him when I was 44 – he was 20 years younger than me.
By then, times had changed a bit in the 80s, and I had already broken some of the archaic rules that were made for women in terms of what they were ‘supposed’ to do, so I married the 24-year-old I had met and we are still together now and have been happily together for 32 years and married for 17 years.
It was only when my daughter, Molly, died of throat cancer that I started to think about finding my creativity again and perhaps living those dreams I had when I was a girl.
Molly was such a creative girl, very arty and musical and that inspired me to pick up with my learning again.
Yes, it was something to take my mind off the grief, but also, there was something in me that had always wanted to be creative.
I’d always wanted to be a part of the student art community.
I used to walk past the former School of Art and wish that I could be part of that crowd, part of the student community.
It was always a dream of mine, but one which I didn’t think would ever be realised.
It just wasn’t the same for women back then.
We had no choice but to get married and have children.
I had previously attended life drawing classes, and I was interested in making crafts and sewing and also went to art class for four years, painting with watercolours - It was a life-saver for me, a friend of mine dragged me along to one of the University’s Open Days and before I knew it, I was enrolled on a course studying Textiles and Surface Pattern because one of the academics I met thought that would be a perfect outlet for my talent.
I’ll be nearly 80 when I finish the course and I’m hoping that I will be able to sell pieces and designs.
I once ran a vintage and antique stall on Wolverhampton Market and I focused on the Art Deco period in my work, looking at the aftermath of the First World War and the Spanish Flu pandemic and how people responded.
My work is based on the theme of Music, Song and Dance and I create wall hangings, scarves and kimonos, using Art Deco patterns to reflect an era of enjoyment and hedonism that followed the dark days of the 20s.
I love the tutors at the University and creating the work, drawing, screen printing.
Although I’m not great with computers, I really love the creative side.
I secured a student loan to pay for the course and have been supported with the digital side.
I like learning, it gives you something to think about.
I really have realised a childhood dream.
I didn’t want a degree particularly but I wanted the experience.
I’ll be nearly 80 when I finish the course and I’m hoping that I will be able to sell pieces and designs - even if it’s just one, I will have achieved something.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlvhuman/stories/david-matheson:
I have lost count of the number of times someone has told me “I don’t know how I would cope with a cancer diagnosis.” Funnily enough, neither did I, that is, until I had my cancer diagnosis.
Make no mistake, there are no “good” cancers; they are all horrible.
However, there are some which are worse than others.
My cancer, at least, has not killed me.
It may do so eventually but it has not done it so far.
That part is good, really good.
My treatments have left a lasting impression, well, really a bunch of lasting impressions.
I have prostate cancer, now the most common cancer among those born male – that is, overwhelmingly men but it also includes trans women among those who can develop it.
Currently, on average, one in eight of those born male will develop prostate cancer in the course of their lifetime.
For those of Black African or Black African Caribbean heritage, it is one in four, something that remains unexplained.
Meanwhile, if a man (or trans woman) has a first degree relative with the disease, they are 2 ½ times more likely to develop it.
Another complicating factor is first degree relatives with breast cancer, especially if it occurred before age 60.
Among my treatments first time around was hormone deprivation therapy.
Prostate cancer is hormone-driven, so if you cut out the testosterone and you at least slow the growth of the cancer.
This results in menopausal-type symptoms: hot flushes, brain fog, mood swings, emotional fragility, weepiness, weight change, and loss of muscle mass as well as a whole lot more.
I was fortunate to only have six months of this as I know patients who have been on it for years and years.
In fact, until relatively recently, it was the only treatment for advanced prostate cancer.
Other than hopefully controlling or slowing the disease progression, hormone-deprivation therapy does have one good point: it lets men experience the very symptoms a lot of menopausal women go through.
I have jokingly said that it got me in touch with my feminine side but there is a serious point there.
As a man, I could observe menopause, but I could not feel it.
Thanks to my hormone deprivation therapy, I have felt it, I have compared my experience with women who have been through natural or induced menopause.
Yup, we compare pretty well.
What also compared well was a general lack of understanding of the condition, whether in the workplace or outside of it.
I was fortunate that Catherine, my wife, has supported me in every possible way throughout my disease journey and put up well with me having menopausal symptoms and all that went with them.
As I neared the end of my first lot of treatment, Catherine and I started doing voluntary work for Prostate Cancer UK and, both individually and together, we do awareness talks for lay groups and patient educator workshops for healthcare professionals.
I have prostate cancer in my body; we both have it in our lives.
The work with PCUK led to my being invited to join the trial management group of STAMPEDE, possibly the biggest and longest-running prostate cancer trial in the world, and to me being a co-author on multiple papers that have come out of the trial.
As a patient rep, I am not there as a mascot or just to represent a patient perspective.
My role is to contribute fully to the design and development of the trial and its various branches and sub-studies.
I am an integral part of the study design and implementation, commenting and advising on protocol revisions – currently at Version 22 – and commenting and advising on communications with trial participants.
In terms of article production, I work with the other authors to collate and interpret data, and to edit, review, and approve the final report or article.
Such is the importance of STAMPEDE and my contribution to it that three of my STAMPEDE articles have been entered by the University for the latest REF, the peer reviewers in the University having rated them as 3* or 4*.
STAMPEDE has changed the face of prostate cancer treatment and not only helped extend patients’ lives but also improve their quality of life.
It is good to have been part of this.
I have fed my experience with prostate cancer back into my academic work and run workshops for undergraduate and postgraduate students on the disease itself and my experience of it.
Anyone wanting such a workshop need only contact me and we can set something up.
Although the topic is serious, the workshops are anything but lugubrious.
Currently, I am running some research projects focussed on the lived experience of persons affected by prostate cancer, which means not just the patient but those close to him.
One of these projects is a Phase 1 trial in New Cross Hospital aimed at helping to improve communication between clinician and patient.
Once we have proof of principle that our idea works then we will look to extending it to other hospitals in the UK and beyond.
Part of what keeps me going is the desire to help folk to be aware of what is normal for them, to get themselves checked when they get to a certain age or when normal changes, and to make an informed and authentic choice of treatment.
Catching prostate cancer early improves massively the chances of being definitively cured.
A great achievement is when someone comes and tells me that, having heard me speak, listened to a podcast of mine or read one of my blogs or other outputs, they have got themselves checked, or have encouraged a person close to them to do, and been treated successfully and at an early stage.
So, I am a disabled academic who lives with prostate cancer – I have several disabilities, but cancer is the only life-threatening one.
Whether it shortens my life remains to be seen.
After all, I could step under a bus tomorrow!
What the cancer has done is give me an impetus, a drive to enhance folk’s knowledge and understanding of what it is to live with cancer, to educate them as to their own (or their friends’ and relatives’) risks of developing my kind of cancer.
I want to dispel myths – such as the one where you look healthy, therefore people assume that you are healthy; or that having cancer means you have to look skeletal (that is called cachexia, and it does not happen with all cancers).
If I die from my cancer, does this mean that I didn’t fight hard enough or that I lost the battle?
Does it mean that the cancer won?
No, the best the cancer can hope for is a draw where we both lose!
In the meantime, what is needed is not empathy.
I don’t want people to “feel my pain”, largely because it is impossible to do so.
Nor do I want them to feel sorry for me.
I am not sorry for myself, so I don’t see why anyone else should be.
Instead, what I (and my work on lived experience shows that holds true for a lot of other folk with cancer) is an understanding that, like many folk living with or after cancer, I live daily with the intermittent pain and fatigue that are among the lasting effects from the treatments I have had over the years.
I also live with the dread of another relapse.
I have had two already and a third is far from unlikely.
Cancer is a gift that keeps on giving.
It often brings pain and suffering, but, if one is fortunate, it can bring benefits.
In my case, while I would rather not have had it at all, prostate cancer has enriched my life in ways I could not have imagined.
It took me into voluntary work with PCUK – not only the awareness talks and patient educator workshops with PCUK but also commenting and advising on patient information booklets and leaflets and being invited to serve on one of PCUK’s major committees – and then into STAMPEDE.
It brought me into contact with Prostate Cancer Research for whom I am now Chair of the Patient Advocacy Committee and review patient education materials, information packs as well as chairing patient panels and reviewing funding applications.
It has taken me to conferences and has opened up an entire area of research that I never would have thought of venturing into.
It has brought me into contact with some seriously gifted and kind individuals who work steadily for the betterment of humanity.
And, best of all, it has brought me into contact with folk who tell me that they (or someone close to them) has benefited from what I do.
It also took me into sourdough bread-making.
When you are on the treatment treadmill, you can get very depressed.
After hormone-deprivation therapy and two sorts of radiotherapy, I was feeling rather maudlin.
Side effects were going off the scale and then, one day, we were channel-surfing and there was Paul Hollywood making a bloomer.
“I bet I can do that,” I said to Catherine.
“I bet you can,” she replied, and next day we got flour and yeast and off I went.
I was looking for something to frustrate me, which sounds odd, I know.
I was frustrated by the side effects of my treatments, and I wanted the sense of agency that comes from choosing to do something myself and risking frustration.
The first bread was a stunning success, so was the next and the next.
No frustration for me but, instead, the sheer pleasure of eating lots of freshly baked bread.
To challenge things further, I tried making sourdough starters.
The first few were total failures and just stank after a bit, but the one that was just flour and water went wonderfully as the natural yeasts and lactobacilli on the flour multiplied.
I quickly moved to having one which was wholegrain rye and one that was white wheat.
The resultant bread is great.
Sometimes it is better than other times, but it is always really good, although my electricity bill is better not mentioned.
However, my great fear is to drop one of the jars that contain sourdough starter, so I regularly share my starters with colleagues, friends and relatives.
This is a form of enlightened self-interest: the recipients get some starter and I get some insurance that I can always go and ask for some back if a jar drops out my hand or explodes in the fridge.
I was initially diagnosed in September 2012.
My first lot of treatment began in November 2012 and lasted until April 2013.
I have since relapsed twice and had further radiotherapy in April 2019 and May 2021.
As for my starters, they began in April 2013.
They are still going strong, as am I.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlvhuman/stories/debra-cureton:
I grew up in a hardworking, working-class family that prized earning a living, looking after your family and ‘making a contribution'.
‘Making a contribution’ meant going out to work, earning, contributing to your family’s finances and through this, not taking from society (accessing the NHS, receiving sick pay etc) without first paying into the system.
Education was a means to an end.
You went to school until you were old enough to get a job.
My parents were blue collar workers – they both worked in factories but had worked hard and made their ways into middle management.
My mum was a Supervisor and my dad a Superintendent, and they hoped that I would do a little better than them and perhaps work in an office one day.
This meant that lots of my friends thought I was posh.
I wasn’t posh – far from it; I was just different, I liked reading, I liked learning and soaking up as much knowledge as I could.
I had an old set of encyclopaedias (for those of you who were born after the year 2000 – encyclopaedias were the internet in book form) and they were my most prized possession.
I spent hours reading them and repeating the various facts I could remember from them.
Then one day, whilst watching TV I learned about a place called ‘University’ where people taught interesting facts like the ones I read about in my prized encyclopaedias, and I wanted to know more.
Initially, I thought that University was only on the TV, and late at night.
I used to sneak downstairs when my parents were asleep so that I could watch the ‘Open University’ on the only TV in the house; minding not to step on the 5th and 11th step down because they creaked and would give me away.
Sometimes my parents would find me curled up asleep in the chair next to the TV when they came downstairs in the morning and wondered why I was there.
Now they are both gone, I regret that I never told them why this was the case.
Then, one day, as I flicked through the TV channels I stumbled across ‘University Challenge’ and realised that there was more than one University and that Universities were places, not TV programmes.
By the age of 9 I found myself grappling with questions like ‘what is the nature of reality, and what is the point of our lives?’ but luckily, I had patient junior schoolteachers who not only put up with my strange questions in class but tried to help me navigate them.
That said, I was never considered clever even though I excelled in maths, music and history.
I struggled with spelling and despite loving to read, reading really hurt my eyes.
I would be nearing the end of my secondary education when this was recognised as dyslexia.
In fact, for quite a bit of my secondary school life I was treated like the class dunce, hauled out in front of everyone, and forced to read aloud whilst the teachers encouraged my fellow pupils to mock me as I stammered and stumbled over the words that I could see but could not say.
They thought that this would encourage me to do better.
Then a new English teacher joined the school, and she changed my life.
She was teaching the top set English class, and for some reason, she had sent for me.
When I knocked on her classroom door, she invited me in and told me to take a seat, and then continued to teach the lesson.
I was confused, and scared but listened, and stayed there until the end of the session.
When the bell rang, she told me to stay back and asked if I had dyslexia.
I had no idea what this meant.
So, she went on to explain that she had read through everyone’s work in the year and had been impressed with what I had written, my depth of understanding and the linkages that I had made between areas and topics.
She felt the things that I had written were far more advanced than my peers (this was all down to the things that I had learned from the Open University and in the Encyclopaedias).
However, she had also noted that I couldn’t ‘spell for toffee’.
She said that she thought that this was dyslexia, that it was nothing to be upset about, that she was dyslexic, and she was going to teach me her ways of coping with it.
With my English teachers help, I sat some of my O’Levels a year early and by the time I was old enough to get a job, I had both O’Levels and AS’Level Qualifications.
As a result, I went on to work in an office, just as my parents had hoped I would.
By the age of 19 I had been promoted to the post of Operations and Logistics Manager for a haulage company and managed a team of lorry drivers, van drivers and mechanics as they moved goods around the UK and Europe, and I could often be spotted behind the wheel of a 7.5 tonne lorry (much to my dad’s amusement and my mum’s disgust).
However, I never lost my love for learning and I also continued to study for A’levels at Night School (college in the evenings).
I was 22 when I started my degree.
I was convinced that I was going to be the oldest member of my class.
The first day that I walked through the doors of the University I was petrified, and secretly wished that University was on TV rather than in real life.
I was a girl from Dawley and Dawley girls don’t go to University.
However, I had only been at the University for two days when I heard someone shout across the coffee bar ‘how bist jockey’ in a Dawley accent, and I knew that I had made the right choice to join the University of Wolverhampton.
I studied a BSc (Hons) in Psychology and loved every minute of it.
I found a place where it was okay to be me – a working class girl with a passion to learn.
What more there were lots of other people like me.
However, it wasn’t always easy, my dad was diagnosed with cancer in my first year of study, and died in my final year, but my lecturers were so supportive – more than I could ever have hoped for.
They encouraged me to keep going and to get my degree in memory of my father.
I can wholeheartedly say that I got my degree because of the support and care that I was offered at this University.
Because of this, I wanted to give something back; this was why after studying a PhD, then moving to the University of Birmingham to complete a Post-Doctoral Fellowship, I came back to the University of Wolverhampton to work.
Through working at the University, I have also been able to engage in educational research, and to help the University in its mission to ensure equity of experience for all our students.
Because of my experiences at secondary school, it is immensely important to me, that all students have an equal chance for their University education to change their lives and help them achieve their dreams.
Again, the University supported this, and I have been lucky enough to be the recipient of a number of University supported Fellowships (Early Career Researchers’ Award Scheme, Medici Fellowship, a University of Wolverhampton Learning and Teaching Fellowship and the Aurora Programme); these have allowed me to continue this work and eventually apply for a promotion that led to this dyslexic, working class, Dawley girl become an Associate Professor of Equality in Learning and Teaching.
My parents taught me to work hard, not to expect things to come easy, and to give back as much as you receive.
It is in the act of giving back that we often find joy.
I’ve found this to be true and try to live by these rules throughout my time at the University.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/wlvhuman/stories/geoff-layer:
Professor Geoff Layer joined the University in August 2011 from the University of Bradford where he was Pro Vice-Chancellor and then Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic).
Geoff has always been active regionally, nationally and internationally.
On a national level, Geoff is the Chair of the Disabled Students’ Commission.
Geoff is also currently Chair of the Student Loans Company Stakeholder Forum, a Trustee of the Universities Association for Lifelong Learning, a Trustee of the Worker's Educational Association (WEA), a Director of Advance HE and Chair of the Advance HE Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee.
Previously he was a member of the QAA's Degree Awarding Powers Committee.
Regionally Geoff is a Director of the Black Country Local Enterprise Partnership, Vice-President of the Black Country Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chair of Universities West Midlands (UWM), Director of the West Midlands Growth Company, a governor for the Telford College Corporation.
Between 2000 and 2006 he was the Director of Action on Access, an agency established to advise HEFCE on its Widening Participation Strategy.
He has been a consultant to Universities UK, Higher Education Quality Council and many universities in Widening Participation and Learning and Teaching Strategies.
He was also Director of the HEFCE Innovations Co-ordination Team from 2000-2002 and has researched and published widely on Inclusive Education.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, a Principal Fellow of the Higher Education Academy, a Fellow of Leeds College of Music and was awarded the OBE for services to Higher Education in 2003.
He was educated in the North East of England and in Soham, Cambridgeshire.
He is a Sunderland supporter and plays cricket for Sheffield Collegiate Cricket Club.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/august-2025/clearing-now-open.php:
“If you’ve received your results today, we wish you the very best of luck,” said Jack Clare, Director of Student Recruitment, Marketing and Admissions .
“If you’ve secured your place with us, we look forward to welcoming you in September.
And if you’ve changed your mind, missed out on your expected grades, or haven’t yet applied - don’t worry.
We have places available through Clearing.”
Students are encouraged to visit the Clearing website at www.wlv.ac.uk/clearing call the Clearing hotline, or reach out via the University’s social media channels.
Staff are on hand to offer guidance and answer questions throughout the Clearing period.
To make the process as smooth as possible, applicants should have their exam certificates, key documents, and UCAS personal ID number ready when they get in touch.
For those who prefer to explore the University in person, a series of Clearing events are running throughout August and September.
These can be booked via the website and offer a chance to discover the campuses, meet staff, and learn more about student life at Wolverhampton.
“The main message is simple: stay calm, don’t worry - we’re here to help,” Jack added.
“We’re excited to support you on your journey and can’t wait to welcome you to the University of Wolverhampton this September.”

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/august-2025/from-walsall-to-new-york-alumnus-returns-to-where-it-all-began.php:
Daniel graduated with a BA in Physical Education in 2008, followed by a PGCE in Secondary Education: Physical Education in 2009.
Today, he serves as Director of Athletics & Physical Education at the United Nations International School in New York City, a testament to the global impact of a Wolverhampton education.
During his visit, Daniel enjoyed a nostalgic afternoon with family, reflecting on his time at the University.
“We had a nice family afternoon reminiscing,” he shared.
“My dad was thrilled to be back, pointing out where he lived and chatting to staff at the Sports Centre, someone told him he still holds the swimming record after all this time.”
The visit held special significance for the O’Connor family.
Daniel’s parents first met at the former Students' Union, making the return a full-circle moment that underscored their deep personal ties to the University.
Daniel’s journey from Walsall to New York is a shining example of the University of Wolverhampton’s ethos as the University of Opportunity, empowering students to thrive and succeed both locally and internationally.
His story highlights the enduring strong connection the University’s alumni maintain, regardless of where their careers take them.
From Walsall to the world, #WLVAlumni continue to inspire.
For more information about the University of Wolverhampton Alumni Association, please visit www.wlv.ac.uk/alumni or contact alumni@wlv.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/july-2025/class-of-2025-wildlife-conservation-student-graduates-with-a-passion-for-toads-and-fieldwork.php:
Drawn to the University of Wolverhampton by the unique opportunities offered through the Animal Behaviour and Wildlife Conservation course, Millie first discovered the programme while studying at Sandwell College.
A conversation with a University of Wolverhampton lecturer sealed the decision to apply.
“The course offered multiple opportunities for fieldwork, which was a major factor for me,” Millie said.
“I especially loved our trip to the Lake District in first year - it introduced us to camera trapping and various wildlife sanctuaries.
A trip to Poland was another highlight, where we explored stunning landscapes, tracked bears and wolves, and got our first taste of genetics in the lab.”
This early exposure to genetics inspired Millie’s dissertation on common toad genetics, conducted in the university’s laboratory.
“Working in the lab helped me grow in confidence, both personally and professionally.
I was lucky to work closely with my friend and lab partner - we made so many amazing memories together.”
Support from staff was a key part of the journey.
“Every lecturer on my course has been incredible.
I often stayed behind after class to discuss assignments, and they were always willing to help.
I’m especially grateful to Dr Colin Dubreuil, my dissertation supervisor, who spent hours with me to ensure my work met our shared standards.
His support during stressful times meant the world to me.”
Looking ahead, Millie plans to pursue a career in wildlife conservation, with a focus on educating others about the natural world - especially amphibians.
“I want to thank the University of Wolverhampton and the staff for helping me grow in confidence.
Without them, and the support of my friends and family, I wouldn’t be the person I am today.”
Find out more about the BSc (Hons) Animal Behaviour and Wildlife Conservation - University of Wolverhampton course on the website or visit one of the University Open Days for more information.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/july-2025/class-of-2025-ibm-champion-awarded-an-honorary-doctor-of-technology-.php:
A passionate advocate for education, Mike has spent over 30 years fostering industry-academic collaboration.
He organises national and international i-UG conferences, offering fully funded places to University of Wolverhampton students, connecting them with global experts and opening doors to internships and employment.
Mike continues to champion the University and its students on national and international stages, helping shape the future of computing and technology education .
Mike said, “The University of Wolverhampton has taken a bold step in engaging fully with this Industry-Academia collaboration.
They send out a clear signal to other universities that bold ideas, linked to real-world needs, can — and should — be at the heart of further education.
I am immensely proud that this is recognised in such a way.”
Honorary awards are presented by the University of Wolverhampton to people who have made a significant contribution to their field of expertise .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/july-2025/class-of-2025--global-nuclear-leader-awarded-honorary-doctorate-.php:
He played a pivotal role in Slovakia’s largest private investment, the Mochovce Nuclear Power Plant, and has managed teams of up to 12,000 people across high-profile global projects.
Rob is also a passionate advocate for education and skills development.
He co-developed the University’s award-winning micro-credential course in Quality Control Management and continues to support students through leadership talks, mentoring, and placement programmes.
A proud alumnus, Rob regularly champions the University’s impact on national and international stages.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/july-2025/class-of-2025honorary-doctorate-for-contributions-to-strategic-and-socially-responsible-development.php:
He has held influential roles across numerous government taskforces and industry think tanks, including the Hong Kong Housing Society, Construction Industry Council, and the Hong Kong Construction Association.
His leadership has shaped policy, procurement, and sustainability practices across the built environment sector.
Conrad’s dedication to advancing construction safety, SME development, and sustainable urban planning has left a lasting impact on the region’s infrastructure and governance.
Conrad said, ““To me, professional practice is more than just a career; it’s a way of life.
It’s about applying my expertise professionally.
It is a commitment to excellence, innovation, and service.”
Honorary awards are presented by the University of Wolverhampton to people who have made a significant contribution to their field of expertise.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/july-2025/class-of-2025-outstanding-rail-leader-honoured-with-an-honorary-fellowship-.php:
With over 35 years of experience, Andy has held senior commercial and finance roles across major alliances including Network Rail, Balfour Beatty, and Amey, overseeing multi-million-pound infrastructure programmes.
His expertise spans procurement, governance, and strategic delivery across civil engineering and rail systems.
As Head of Finance and Commercial at the Central Rail Systems Alliance, he leads a £250M+ operation and a 70-strong team, championing apprenticeships and innovation.
A passionate advocate for student employability, Andy has built strong ties with the University, supporting placements and career development.
His career reflects a deep commitment to excellence, collaboration, and mentoring the next generation of rail professionals.
Andy said, “ I’m deeply honoured to receive this Honorary Fellowship from the University of Wolverhampton.
It’s a privilege to be recognised by an institution that played such a significant role in shaping my own journey.
I’m passionate about supporting the next generation of rail professionals—particularly those pursuing careers in commercial disciplines—and proud to champion the University’s mission to create life-transforming opportunities within the built environment.”

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/july-2025/class-of-2025-nhs-leader-honoured-for-lifetime-service-to-healthcare-.php:
Throughout her career, Sally has championed community healthcare, spending significant time as a district nurse and community practice teacher.
As an executive board nurse for over a decade, she played a pivotal role in the region’s COVID-19 response, establishing testing hubs and leading the vaccination rollout across the Black Country.
A proud alumna and advocate for the University of Wolverhampton, Sally received the University’s Lifetime Achievement Award in 2022 and continues to be a passionate supporter of the city and its people.
Sally said, “I am deeply humbled and incredibly grateful to receive the Honorary Doctorate and would like to thank the university for this recognition.
The honour is especially meaningful because 40 years ago I began my Nurse training right here in the Black Country at Sandwell School of Nursing, so this is a full circle moment for me.
I accept this honour on behalf of my fellow nurse colleagues, who continue to lift, teach and remind me every day why my work matters.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/july-2025/class-of-2025-visually-impaired-student-graduates-with-guide-dog-by-her-side.php:
Caitlin, who is visually impaired, overcame significant challenges to complete her degree.
Her success was a testament to her determination, the support of the University, and the unwavering presence of Honey, who attended every lecture, seminar, and practical session, come rain or shine.
“Honey was more than a guide she was my independence, my confidence, and my calm,” Caitlin said.
“I couldn’t have done this without her.”
To celebrate her achievement and honour Honey’s role, Caitlin and the University launched a fundraising campaign with Guide Dogs UK.
The goal is to raise enough to name a future guide dog puppy and Caitlin chose a name that reflects her university pride: Wolfy .
The campaign was promoted in the official graduation brochure and on screens throughout the ceremonies.
Donations can still be made via the university’s alumni giving page: 🔗 wlv.ac.uk/alumni/make-a-donation/guide-dogs-fundraiser
“Caitlin’s story embodies the resilience, compassion, and community spirit we’re proud to foster at Wolverhampton,” said Teresa Graham, Assistant Faculty Registrar “We’re honoured to support her in giving back to the organisation that made her journey possible.”
To anyone facing challenges: don’t let anything stop you.
The university supported me every step of the way, and they’ll support you too.
You are capable of more than you know.”
Find out more about the BSc in Sport and Exercise Therapy course on the website or visit one of the University Open Days for more information.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/july-2025/class-of-2025-wolverhampton-leader-honoured-for-advancing-equity-inclusion-and-stem-education.php:
More recently, his passion for STEM has inspired innovative, community-based science and technology projects that engage underserved populations, fostering curiosity and learning among those traditionally excluded from STEM education.
In recognition of his outstanding contributions to social equity, community empowerment, and inclusive education, Arun has been awarded an Honorary Fellowship by the University of Wolverhampton.
Arun said, ““It was a real shock, and at the same time an honour, to receive the Fellowship as I’m someone who deliberately avoids self-promotion and self-publicity – I let my work speak for itself.
“At the core of our projects is the idea that we don’t want people to feel lonely or isolated no matter what issue they are experiencing.
We want them to get involved in all of our projects, especially the Science projects, learning and doing something new in a fun, practical and exciting way, meeting new people from different backgrounds, communities and cultures – people who they wouldn’t normally come into contact within their everyday lives.
It’s because of our audiences and participants that I’m even here.
So, this Honorary Fellowship is as much a recognition of them as it is of me.” Honorary awards are presented by the University of Wolverhampton to people who have made a significant contribution to their field of expertise .

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/july-2025/class-of-2025-reach-for-the-stars-space-traveller-and-videographer-awarded-honorary-doctor-of-arts.php:
More recently Jannicke was a member of the crew that broke the Guiness World Record for the fastest pole to pole orbit of the earth.
Jannicke managed the cinematography for the record-breaking effort called One More Orbit which was livestreamed.
Jannicke has recently been a crew member of a SpaceX mission, Fram2, which was the first spaceflight where humans flew over and explored the polar regions.
Jannicke said, “ I’m proud to receive my Honorary Doctor of Arts from the University of Wolverhampton.
I stand proud of an art education that has enabled me to forge a unique career as the first cinematographer in space, Astronaut and Commander of my own spacecraft.
May this honour inspire others to answer their own call to explore, create, and keep your internal drive alive to break barriers on your unique path.”
To learn more about the University’s Alumni Association please visit here , where graduates can also update their details with the Association.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/july-2025/graduation-celebrations-include-2678-graduating-students-and-eleven-honorary-awards.php:
The University’s graduation ceremonies will take place from Monday 28 July to Thursday 31 July 2025.
Graduate students have confirmed their attendance across eight ceremonies at the University of Wolverhampton at The Halls.
The students will join a community of over 155,000 graduates in 130 countries across the world, becoming part of the University’s global alumni network.
Eleven individuals have also been nominated for an Honorary Award for exceptional contributions to their fields.
This year’s glittering list includes space explorer Jannicke Mikkelsen awarded an Honorary Doctor of Arts and Jai Herbert; UFC fighter born in Wolverhampton, awarded an Honorary Fellowship.
Professor Ebrahim Adia, Vice-Chancellor at the University, said: “We are an ambitious University that is proudly rooted in our communities.
We offer opportunity to all, regardless of background and that spirit of social mobility and aspiration to equip people with the skills they need to succeed in life and work runs through the heart of what we do.”
To find out more about graduate success, check out the Every Story Has a Start web page which showcases our exceptional alumni across the globe achieving incredible things.
The Clearing hotline number is 01902 968555 for anyone looking for courses starting in September and to find out more about the University’s Open Days

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/funding-costs-fees-and-support/financial-support/disabled-students-allowances-dsas:
Our aim as a department is to provide help and assistance to students with disabilities when it is required.
Support is provided through many different forms, a few examples of the support we offer include advice, extra time in exams or Non-Medical Helper (NMH) support.
Disabled Students Allowance (DSA) provides financial support to students with on-going health conditions, mental health conditions and SpLD’ s to help meet the additional costs that may be incurred when utilising support from the institution.
DSA can help with the cost of having a non-medical helper, specialist equipment, and the cost of extra travel and other items for your course, such as extra books and photocopying.
If you are an apprentice you are not eligible for DSA.
Please refer to the Support for Apprenticeship Students page.
The amount awarded to individual students depends on the type of support that the student has been identified as a necessary adjustment outlined in their Access Report.
To download any forms from Student Finance England (SFE) go to: https://www.gov.uk/student-finance-forms
This video BSL by Student Finance England (SFE) outlines funding available for students with disabilities and other needs.
As a 'home' student living in England, you can apply for a Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA) if you have a disability, including a:
You must meet the definition of disability under the Equality Act 2010.
You can apply for Disabled Students’ Allowances (DSAs) if you live in England and have a disability that affects your ability to study, such as a:
You must also:
You can’t get DSAs from Student Finance England if you’re:
You won’t automatically get DSAs - you need proof of your eligibility.
Postgraduate students who are eligible for standard student finance (Master Loan or the Doctoral Loan) can apply for the Disabled Students Allowance.
You can do this by logging onto your student finance account and ticking the DSA box.
If you are not able to this then you can complete a paper form www.gov.uk/student-finance-forms/y/studying-full-time-in-england-and-qualify-for-support-with-tuition-fees-and-living-costs/apply-for-disabled-students-allowance/2024-to-2025.
More information can be found at Disabled Students' Allowance - Postgraduate Loan - Postgraduate Education - Products - SFE, Practitioners (slc.co.uk)
For part-time students, your course intensity can affect how much you get.
‘Course intensity’ means how long your course takes to complete each year compared to an equivalent full-time course.
You can check course intensity with your university or college.
Part-time courses
You must study at a rate of at least 25% of an equivalent full-time course in each academic year.
The course must last at least a year.
Part-time postgraduate master’s courses
If you’re applying for a Postgraduate Loan for a part-time master’s degree, the course must not last more than twice as long as the full-time equivalent.
The DSA may be used for:
Early application is essential to ensure that students support is in place at the beginning of their course and continued throughout the academic year.
Your DSA Funding Provider (for example, Student Finance England) will pay any Approved Supplier(s) direct for any recommended Assistive Technology and Assistive Technology Training.
You may get money from the General Allowance by sending receipts to your DSA Funding Provider for anything you have paid for, such as photocopying, special paper, or taxi fares.
They will then pay you back, if you have been assessed as requiring these.
You should apply for Disabled Students' Allowance as soon as possible.
You don't have to wait until you have a confirmed place, although you can apply at any stage of your course.
When you complete your student finance application form make sure you tick the box requesting the DSA.
You will be then sent further details of how to arrange for your needs assessment.
More information can be found at Disabled Students' Allowance - Full-time undergraduate - Products - SFE, Practitioners (slc.co.uk) .
If you are still unsure on the process of how to apply for Disabled Students Allowance (DSA) , and you are a current student, please contact ASK@WLV by telephone on 01902 518 518 or log a new help desk call through e:vision.
You can also contact the Student Life Team.
More information can be found at www.wlv.ac.uk/student-life .
If you are an applicant then you can contact the Gateway Team by telephoning 01902 321032 or by emailing gateway@wlv.ac.uk
To show that you qualify for Disabled Students' Allowance, you will need to provide evidence that you have a disability, mental-health condition, medical condition, or a specific learning difficulty, such as dyslexia, which affects your ability to study.
If you have a physical disability, medical condition, mental health condition or sensory impairment, you will need to provide medical evidence of this.
This can be a letter from a Doctor or suitable Specialist.
More information on the support available from the University can be found at www.wlv.ac.uk/student-life .
If you have a specific learning difficulty such as dyslexia, you must provide evidence in the form of a post-16 Diagnostic Assessment from a Chartered Psychologist with a Health Professional Council (HPC) Practising Certificate, or a specialist dyslexia teacher with a Practising Certificate.
You may need to pay for any tests or letters to prove that you qualify.
If you cannot afford this, and are a current student, you may be able to get financial help through the university's Dennis Turner Hardship Fund .
You should speak to a Disability Adviser about any of the above including getting a support letter from your doctor.
Students on Apprenticeship courses are not eligible for Disabled Students' Allowances (DSA).
If you have a disability, Specific Learning Difficulty (SpLD) or mental health condition you can still access support including (as appropriate to the course) automatic extensions, extended library loans, access to accessible software on University computers and access to University support services.
You can speak to your course team about support (known as Reasonable Adjustments) which may include options like getting notes/slides in advance of sessions to prepare.
Please contact the Student Life Team if you would like to set up a meeting with one of our Disability and Inclusion Team who can discuss with you additional support options as appropriate.
Please refer to the Support for Apprenticeship Students page for more guidance.
If you have already applied for funding through Student Finance, then can apply for DSA by logging into your student finance account.
For a paper form or a paper copy of the guidance notes go to www.gov.uk/student-finance-forms/y/studying-full-time-in-england-and-qualify-for-support-with-tuition-fees-and-living-costs/apply-for-disabled-students-allowance/2024-to-2025
You can order forms and guides in Braille, large print or audio by emailing with your name, address, customer reference number along with what form and format you require to:
Please ensure that you have used the correct application form and are sending information to the appropriate funding body before proceeding.
Please make copies of any evidence before sending to your DSA Funding Provider.
It is important to remember the following points when applying for DSA:
If you have completed an online application form for Student Finance and indicated that you want to apply for DSA, Student Finance England will send you a DSA application form with your details already filled in for you to sign and return with evidence.
Alternatively, you can download the shortened DSA application form .
You WILL NOT have to apply again for each year of your course.
If you are only applying for DSA and not additional funding, or are a Part-time student you should download the full DSA application form.
You WILL have to reapply for DSA each year of your course.
Once you have completed your form (if on paper), you will need to send it along with evidence of your disability, or medical condition or mental health condition, or specific learning difficulty (SpLD).
If you completed it online you will just need to send your evidence.
We would highly recommend that you:
Student Finance England PO Box 210 Darlington DL1 9HJ
Your DSA Funding Provider will send you an approval letter to let you know if you qualify for the Disabled Students' Allowance.
You may wish to inform your Disability Adviser, letting them know that you have received DSA approval.
If the letter says that you do not qualify for the Disabled Students' Allowance, you may find it helpful to contact a Disability Adviser .
Once your eligibility for DSAs is confirmed, Student Finance England may ask you to contact an assessment centre to work out what help you need.
This is known as a needs assessment.
Don’t book this until Student Finance England asks you to.
The assessment is paid for through any DSAs entitlement you may have.
A Study Needs Assessment is an informal meeting between a student and an experienced study needs assessor.
This will help identify what support the student requires based on their individual needs.
A Study Needs Assessment is required if the student has applied, and been considered eligible, for Disabled Students’ Allowances.
Your Needs Assessor will write a Needs Assessment Report which will list and justify any recommended Assistive Technology and Specialist Support you will need, how much it will cost, where to get it from, and any Specialist Training you may need to make best use of the Assistive Technology.
Once your eligibility for DSAs is confirmed, Student Finance England may ask you to contact an assessment centre to work out what help you need.
The assessment is paid for through any DSAs entitlement you may have.
After the assessment, you’ll get a report listing equipment and other support you can get for your course.
Don’t buy any equipment until you’ve been assessed - you won’t be reimbursed for it.
Your DSA Needs Assessment Report will be based on:
You can expect the DSA Needs Assessment Centre to send you the Needs Assessment Report in about 10 working days .
If you have not received your Report after the 10 working days, or have any questions, do not hesitate to get in touch with your Needs Assessment Centre
The Needs Assessment Centre will send a copy of your DSA Needs Assessment Report to your Funding Provider.
If you agreed to it, they will also send a copy to your Disability Adviser.
If any Assistive Technology Training is recommended, they may pass some information to the trainers (with your permission) to make sure you get the most out of your Assistive Technology Training sessions.
You should wait for approval from your Funding Provider.
They will send you a DSA Entitlement Letter, telling you what they will pay for.
Sometimes the Funding Provider may refuse to agree to some of the Assessor’s recommendations.
You need to contact your DSA Assessment Centre if your Funding Provider does this.
Once you receive your DSA Entitlement Letter from your Funding Provider you can order the approved support listed in the letter.
Your DSA Funding Provider will send you a letter to tell you what Assistive Technology and other Specialist Support they will pay for from the Disabled Students’ Allowance.
You may need to send a copy of this letter to the relevant approved suppliers listed in the letter .
Equipment Supplier - This is the Approved Supplier who you must contact to order your Assistive Technology.
Quote Reference Number - You will need to quote this when you contact the Approved Supplier.
Assistive Technology Training - A trainer will show you how to use your Assistive Technology.
If the Assistive Technology Trainer is the same as the Assistive Technology Provider then an appointment slot(s) will be arranged for within 10 working days of you receiving your Assistive Technology.
If the Assistive Technology Trainer is different from your Assistive Technology Provider you will need to contact them yourself using the contact details on your Entitlement Letter.
An Assistive Technology Trainer will tutor you on how to use your Assistive hardware and software.
This is normally limited to a maximum of 3 hours per day , but shorter sessions can be arranged.
Specialist Support - This includes Specialist Support like one-to-one support, notetaking, study mentoring, etc.
You should contact your Disability Adviser about this.
The General Allowance helps pay for other disability related spending, such as printer cartridges and photocopying.
You must keep receipts for everything you pay for that you want to claim back through the Disabled Students’ Allowance.
You will not be paid back without receipts.
You should make copies of any receipts.
Additional Travel Allowance can be used to claim for reasonable additional travel costs for the academic year due to your disability.
If you do require help then please contact your Disability Advisor directly or contact the Student Life office either in person, via phone or email:
MI001 Alan Turing Building Tel: (01902) 321074 Email: disability-inclusion@wlv.ac.uk
More information can be found at www.wlv.ac.uk/current-students/student-support/student-support-and-wellbeing-ssw/advice-for-students-with-disabilities-and-specific-learning-disabilities
Also, you may be able to apply to have any £200 equipment costs that you may have to pay refunded via our Dennis Turner Hardship Fund .
For more information including how to apply, whether you are eligible and what evidence you would need to provide please see www.wlv.ac.uk/fund .
You can contact someone from the fund via:
MI001 Alan Turing Building Tel: (01902) 321070 Email: money@wlv.ac.uk
Please contact the team to:
Student Life Team
University of Wolverhampton MI001, Alan Turing Building Wulfruna Street Wolverhampton WV1 1LY
Current students should log an e:vision helpdesk query or contact the ASK Team
Applicants can email disability-inclusion@wlv.ac.uk Online Contact form

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/student-support/midlands-credit-compass:
If you are considering leaving your studies, or wish to transfer to another university, this scheme can help you consider your options.
We understand that you may have to interrupt your studies due to a change in personal circumstances or possibly even a change in location.
If you have passed some credits with the University of Wolverhampton, but can’t continue with your studies right now, you should remember that if you wish to pick up your studies again in the future, you can apply to transfer those credits to study at another institution anywhere in the UK or bring them back to us.
The University of Wolverhampton will issue you with an academic transcript showing the credits you have achieved with us; this is a verified record of your credit achievements that you can present to any university as evidence of your prior certificated learning.
If you are remaining within the Midlands, the University has a partnership with a number of other universities called the Midlands Credit Compass, which is designed to assist students who need to leave their studies, to get back into education when and where they can.
The Midlands Credit Compass Universities are: Birmingham City, Coventry, Derby, Lincoln, Nottingham Trent, and Wolverhampton.
The aim of the Midlands Credit Compass is to support students to transfer between the Midlands Enterprise Universities and to make them aware of opportunities and processes for transferring academic credit.
As part of the service we provide through this scheme, we will:
Further details of the Midlands Credit Compass scheme are available online at their website .
Full details are sent out by the University of Wolverhampton to all students who withdraw from their studies having achieved credits but without having achieved their target award, along with their academic transcript.
When you have successfully completed a module at university, you receive a number of credits for that part of your studies.
These can be used (in full or in part) when you transfer to a different course and/or a different university, so that you do not have to repeat the same area of study.
If you are interested in applying to transfer credit to continue your studies at the University of Wolverhampton via this scheme, please email admissions@wlv.ac.uk with the following information, and we will respond to you within five working days:
Please note you do not have to have studied at a Midlands university to apply to transfer your credits.
Please contact admissions@wlv.ac.uk for information about wider credit transfer arrangements.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-education-health-and-wellbeing/nursing:
Discover the nursing courses that take your education to the next level at the University of Wolverhampton.
Immerse yourself in state-of-the-art skills facilities, including immersive simulations and advanced clinical labs.
Gain hands-on experience in diverse healthcare settings and choose your preferred placement providers.
Prepare for a rewarding future in nursing with us.
It will enable you, if successful, to apply to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) to practice as a Registered Nurse in a range of diverse health and social care settings.
Our graduates have secured successful careers at prestigious companies such as Derbyshire Community Health Services NHS Foundation.
Is it your time to join us?

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/schools-and-institutes/faculty-of-education-health-and-wellbeing/department-of-education/teacher-training:
We are proud of our long-standing tradition of training teachers of Early Years, Primary, Secondary and Post Compulsory Education.
Do you want to inspire the next generation of learners?
Teaching is an increasingly popular choice for a wide variety of people and can be a very rewarding career.
At the University of Wolverhampton we offer a range of teacher training courses for a range of different age phases that can get you to your goal of qualifying as a teacher in the most suitable way.
All four of our teacher training departments (below) are highly rated for their provision.
Our high quality training means that our graduates benefit from high employability and great long-term prospects.
Search for the full list of Postgraduate Teacher Training routes in Primary and Secondary Education (only) via the new Department for Education 'Find Postgraduate Teacher Training' service.
You can search courses/routes by us as a provider and subject.
Come along to one of our Open Days and/or Postgraduate Open Evenings, or where you will have the opportunity to talk to staff and students who are currently studying and find out more about the course and our facilities.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/apply/how-to-apply/guidance-for-mature-applicants:
If you're thinking of returning to studies after a break from formal education, then you'll be pleased to know that we welcome applications from mature students.
Many of our students are classed as mature.
A mature student is anyone over the age of 21, that may or may not have standard academic qualifications.
Deciding to come to university is a big decision, so we understand the advice, information, and encouragement you need to help you along this path.
If have any questions, or would like to discuss your options, then contact the Education Guidance Advisors at the Gateway.
To contact the Team please telephone 01902 321032 or email gateway@wlv.ac.uk .
To request a call back to book an appointment please complete the following form Gateway appointment request form .
Appointments are offered by telephone, Zoom, Teams or in person in MG Building, Wolverhampton City Campus.
We are keen to ensure that access to higher education is not limited to applicants presenting themselves with traditional qualifications and/ or experiences.
If you are worried about not having the required formal qualifications, or if you've been out of the education system for a while, you can consider our foundation year courses (see below) or you could study for an Access to Higher Education Diploma.
Work Experience and Non-standard Qualifications
We value your work experience, so if you don't think you have the right qualifications, where appropriate you may be asked to write an essay or attend an interview so that we can assess your skills and knowledge.
For many courses, we consider 'non-standard' qualifications or learning gained at work, in place of more conventional qualifications.
For example, HNC or Open University credits and some professional qualifications count towards entry, and we may take into account what you have gained from courses that were not formally assessed or certificated.
The University offers 4-year degrees in many subjects, which include a Foundation Year.
These are designed for those people who do not meet the entry requirements to go straight onto a degree.
There are many Foundation Year courses across the faculties of the university and these are usually considered as Year Zero courses (level 3), giving you the opportunity to progress on to undergraduate degree courses.
Alternatively you could consider studying for an Access to Higher Education Diploma.
For more information visit our courses page .
For more information visit or contact the Gateway team via (01902) 321032 or email gateway@wlv.ac.uk .
Find out more about our entry requirements , or contact The Gateway to seek advice and guidance and discuss your options.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/current-students/careers-enterprise-and-the-workplace/jobs-and-placements:
Employers look for graduates with relevant work experience because it helps them prepare for work and develop general business awareness.
In this section, you will find more information on how The Workplace can help you secure relevant work experience (including part-time jobs, volunteering, placements and much more).
Find out how we can help you improve your employability below.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/international/visa--immigration/contact-us:
If you have questions about your visa application or interview preparation, contact:
- Your Regional Manager - Your Agent - International Office - International Admissions
Our Student Visa Compliance and Advice team can assist with:
For assistance, contact: RTS@wlv.ac.uk for queries on your enrolment or right to study Visa-enquiries@wlv.ac.uk for visa advice Visaabsence@wlv.ac.uk for queries or concerns on your attendance.
Via Bookings for a consultation.
Please note: The University cannot advise students who have overstayed their visa.
Students’ Union Advice & Representative Centre The Students’ Union can provide confidential support for non-immigration-related issues.
MD Building, City Campus & WS Building, Walsall Campus 01902 322038 Students’ Union Advice Service
UKCISA The UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) offers resources for international students Visit UKCISA Website .
UKVI (UK Visas & Immigration) UKVI provides official immigration guidance, though the language may be technical Home Office Website .
Independent Legal Advice For complex immigration matters outside our scope, seek independent legal advice Solicitors Regulation Authority Guidance .
The University Visa & Immigration Support Officers are authorised to provide immigration advice under the Immigration Advice Authority (IAA) guidelines.
This service is available to both prospective and current international students.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/current-students/careers-enterprise-and-the-workplace/career-space:
‌Career SPACE is the Careers & Enterprise Centre’s careers portal - available to all University of Wolverhampton students and graduates on a lifelong basis.
Career SPACE allows you to access the latest career-related advice, tutorials, tools, recruiter videos and book 1-2-1 career appointments.
Note: Students can login into Career SPACE using their Student ID and password.
Graduates  & Staff need to register before accessing Career SPACE.
The University of Wolverhampton may share certain information with third party software suppliers to facilitate a single sign on function.
Such information may include your first name, last name, course details and email address.
By using this software you are providing your consent to The University of Wolverhampton  to share such information with its third party software suppliers for this purpose only.
The University of Wolverhampton is committed to complying with Data Protection legislation.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/current-students/careers-enterprise-and-the-workplace/careers/careers-appointments:
Our team of advisers are here to help you investigate your careers options, sort out your career plans and develop the important skills you need to make these plans happen, and we offer practical support at all stages of your job applications.
For CV, application and personal statement support, please email a word document to careers@wlv.ac.uk .
You can also upload your CV via CV360 for instant feedback and submit it to an adviser.
We will aim to respond in 5 working days.
Our 1-2-1 appointments are available in person, via telephone and Microsoft Teams, Monday to Friday between 09:00 -16:00.
To book an appointment, log into Career SPACE .
When booking your appointment, please ensure that you include whether you would like to meet with an adviser in-person, over the telephone, or via Microsoft Teams.
Stay tuned to our Facebook , X and LinkedIn pages for updates on our additional online services.
For any queries please email careers@wlv.ac.uk or call 01902 323 400.
All current students and recent graduates can book a careers interview to discuss any career related issue.
Here are some of the issues and questions that students raise with us:
You can even come and talk to us if you are not quite sure what you want to talk about!
Our services are available to:
Prospective students of this University should contact The Gateway on 01902 321032 or email gateway@wlv.ac.uk .
Current students and graduates of other universities should contact the careers service at their own university.
To book a careers interview:
Once you have book a careers appointment, you will receive a confirmation email to your University email
This is mainly up to you, as you will decide the issues you would like to discuss and work on in the interview.
Our team of careers advisers is here to help you investigate your careers options, sort out your career plans and develop the important skills you need to make these plans happen, and we offer practical support at all stages of your job applications.
Your adviser will provide advice, information and help related to your query and may identify other areas for you to consider.
Your adviser will also help you to plan your next steps.
You may agree with your adviser that you need to spend more time discussing your career and a second appointment will sometimes be made for you.
If you would like a longer appointment the adviser is able to refer you to one of our careers consultants with specialist knowledge of your subject area.
You may sometimes want to give personal and sensitive information to the adviser.
This will not be passed on to anyone else unless you want it to be.
Any notes made by the adviser during the interview are for you and the adviser only and are not passed on to anyone else.
The advice and guidance you receive will be entirely impartial.
This means that you will not be encouraged to take any course of action unless it is in your best interests.
We will not promote particular employers or post-graduate courses, but we will help you decide which options are right for you.
If you are not eligible to use our services and facilities please feel free to use the below list of alternative providers of careers information, advice and guidance:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/security-services/security-apps:
Accessible to students and staff, the SafeZone app provides a valuable source of reassurance to people working and studying on campus.
The app promotes safety in a number of ways, including giving fast access to the University’s security team whenever and wherever you are on campus by allowing users to call for help and assistance when they need it most.
To install SafeZone on your phone, download the free app using the links below and sign in using your WLV email address.
SafeZone has 3 key buttons that can be used to obtain security assistance:
Download from the Apple App Store
Download on Google Play
You can find out more about getting started with SafeZone here.
SafeZone does not share a user’s location until they send an alert (emergency, first aid, or help), use the check-in or check-in timer features, or submit a tip-report that includes their location.
All information that users provide as a SafeZone user is protected by Federal and State Privacy Laws.
Read about SafeZone privacy provisions here: www.safezoneapp.com/privacy-policy .
Yes, the Check In button allows you to share your location with the Security Team if you are working alone or outside of normal hours, although you do not need to be checked-in to be able to use the response alert features.
Check in timer
Setting the ‘Check-In Timer’ checks you in and then starts a countdown timer to cover the length of your work session.
If the timer expires fully, SafeZone will raise an alert.
You will receive a warning push message at “5 minutes to go” at which point you can reset the timer or cancel it.
However, at any time, tap “Cancel Timer” which will automatically clear the timer and check you out.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/security-services/personal-safety:
Whether this is your first time living independently or you’ve been in Wolverhampton for a while, we want to make sure you can safely enjoy your experience here at the University of Wolverhampton.
There’s lots of advice and support available to help you stay safe while having fun and exploring everything that our campuses and local areas have to offer.
Information and guidance for staying safe whilst you are on campus.
Our friendly Security team provide support and advice on campus and are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Your safety is their top priority, so make sure you get in touch if you need help.
The app promotes safety in a number of ways, including giving fast access to the University's security team whenever and wherever you are on campus by allowing users to call for help and assistance when they need it most.
You can also 'check-in' on SafeZone if you are working alone or outside of regular hours on campus.
The Check-In button allows you to share your location with the Security Team, although you do not need to be checked in to use the response alert features.
Find out more about SafeZone and other security apps
The University of Wolverhampton, Students’ Union and West Midlands Police have devised a Safer Walking Route for students at City Campus to use when walking from University accommodation to the main academic buildings.
Follow the signs around campus.
When moving between the Molineux (north) and Wulfruna (south) sides of our City Campus, there are three options, which include the use of the ring road crossings and the subway.
When you are moving between each side of the campus or walking in the city, it’s always best to pair up or walk with a group if possible, but if you do find yourself walking alone, here are some tips for staying safe:
This includes support following incidents of hate crime, harassment and sexual violence.
The incident reporting process has been set up to provide a confidential route to report an incident or concern of harassment, bullying, or other inappropriate behaviour.
Please note that this process is for non-emergency reports.
Security can be reached at any time at the following:
If you are in immediate danger, then please call 999 for the police
Find out more about reporting incidents
Safer Students is part of the West Midlands Police, and their website has lots of help and guidance to keep you and your friends safe.
Make sure you know the difference between taxis and private hire vehicles next time you need to travel.
Follow these SAFETY tips next time you use a taxi or private hire vehicle:
S hare information with someone you trust about your journey and the vehicle you are in A sk the driver to show you their badge before you start the journey F ind out which licensed taxis and private hire vehicles operate in your area and plan your journey E xamine the vehicle before you get in.
Is a licence displayed on the vehicle, does it look roadworthy?
T rust your instincts.
If you feel worried or threatened, ask the driver to stop so you can get out Y ou can report any concerns to the police and your local licensing authority
Find out more about the Get Home Safe scheme from the City of Wolverhampton Council
Wanting to hold a party at Accommodation?
Here is the information we need from you:
You can download the form here: Party Application Form (Word doc 25k)
Once completed please send the form to SecurityTeam@wlv.ac.uk
General information and guidance for staying safe whilst you are on campus and out in the community.
To spike a drink means to put alcohol or drugs into someone's drink without their knowledge or permission.
Spiking has also come to mean injecting someone with drugs without their knowledge or permission.
The aim may be to incapacitate someone enough to rob or sexually assault them, although sometimes it is just intended as a joke – a bad joke as it is very dangerous.
West Midlands Police have lots of officers on patrol looking for suspicious behaviour and we’re working with bars to create safer spaces for fun nights out.
If you’re going out we need you to be part of our shared plans.
You can play your part by:
Spiking is against the law.
It’s a serious crime with serious consequences.
People are more aware of spiking than ever before, so perpetrators are more likely to be found out.
People who have spiked someone to enable sexual activity could face 10 years in jail, and being placed on the sex offenders register.
Criminal convictions change lives.
People can lose their job, their home, future careers will be affected when they know about past crimes and people may also face restrictions on travel with countries like the USA not giving visas to people with convictions for serious crimes.
If you think you’ve been spiked:
If you’ve been affected by this update, the charity Victim Support can help.
Call 24/7 on 08081689111.
Sexual consent means a person willingly agrees to have sex or engage in sexual activity – and they are free and able to make their own decision.
Making sure you get and give consent before having any kind of sex with another person matters.
Sex without consent is rape or sexual assault.
Freedom to consent means doing something because you WANT TO.
A person is not making a free choice if:
Capacity is about whether you are physically and/or mentally able to make and fully understand the consequences of that choice.
A person cannot give consent if:
Any sexual contact or behaviour that occurs without explicit agreement or consent may be considered sexual violence.
If you or someone you know has experienced sexual harassment, assault or violence, help is available.
No matter where you were or what you were doing, wearing and saying, whether you were drunk or under the influence of drugs – you are not to blame .
If there is no immediate threat, the most important thing is to talk to someone you trust.
This could be a friend, family member, Security or anyone else you feel comfortable sharing with.
Talking to a member of University staff (disclosing an assault) is not the same thing as making a formal report.
If you wish to formally report an incident of sexual violence, you can complete the online reporting form .
Visit our Student Support webpages for more information on support services.
Here are some steps you can take when driving alone:
Here are some steps personal safety steps you can take when going on a night out:
Here are some steps personal safety steps you can take when travelling on public transport:
Millions of people around the world use social media.
Whilst it provides a means of keeping in touch with friends and relatives and sharing information, experiences and photographs.
It can also provide information to criminals, fraudsters and bullies, and so it carries some degree of risk to users.
Can be used without pre-booking, for example, at a taxi rank outside a train station.
Must be pre-booked in all scenarios.
Please Note: If in doubt, do not get into the vehicle and report it to the police immediately.
By taking some simple precautions, you can reduce the chance of burglary or theft happening to you.
Mobile phones and laptops are a particular favourite of opportunist thieves.
It is natural to relax and drop your guard when you feel safe but take a few moments to take precautions.
Identity theft is big business for the modern-day criminal.
By obtaining your personal details or bank details, they can:
Do not throw personal information in the bin; you should first shred it.
Criminals will go through bins to obtain your information.
Before throwing away any documents, check and make sure they do not show:
The website Information Commissioners Office can help you protect yourself against this happening, and if it does happen to you, where to get further help.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/security-services/first-aid:
The Security team provide first aid support across all campuses.
If you need assistance and cannot find a Security Officer, you'll need to contact the Security Control Room.
You can also use the SafeZone app to contact the Security team whenever and wherever you are on campus - the app allows you to share your location, meaning someone can get to you quickly, even if you're not sure of exactly where you are.
If someone on campus becomes sick or injured we ask that you follow these steps:

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/security-services/lost-property:
If you find an item on campus that you believe is lost property, please hand it to a Security Officer or a staff member at a reception desk.
If we have been able to identify you as the owner of lost property, we will contact you with a reference number which you will need (along with your University ID card) to claim the item.
Please note that items can be collected from 9am to 5pm, Monday to Friday.
Due to GDPR, USB storage devices and bank cards will be destroyed and disposed of if handed in as lost property.
Any other property not claimed within three months will be disposed of or donated to a charity organisation.
You can speak to an officer on campus, contact them directly using the SafeZone app , or call the Security Control Room.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/security-services/counter-terrorism-advice:
With the enduring terrorist threat, it is now more important than ever that everyone plays their part in tackling terrorism.
Your actions could save lives.
That’s why Action Counters Terrorism (ACT) is encouraging communities across the country to help the police tackle terrorism and save lives by reporting suspicious behaviour and activity.
Like other criminals, terrorists need to plan.
If you see or hear something unusual or suspicious, trust your instincts and ACT by reporting it in confidence at gov.uk/ACT or, in an emergency, dial 999.
Counter Terrorism Policing works around the clock to prevent the threat of extremism and terrorism.
They also work to pursue active terrorist threats and stop those who seek to harm.
You can download the ProtectUK app , which provides access to real-time information from Counter Terrorism Policing plus the latest protective security advice 24/7 – wherever you are.
By making a report, you are not wasting anyone's time, and no call or click will be ignored.
What you report is treated in the strictest confidence and is thoroughly researched by experienced officers before, and if any police action is taken.
Any information could be significant.
It is better to be safe and report it.
Visit gov.uk/ACT and remember, trust your instincts and ACT.
There are different ways you can report possible terrorist activity either in the UK, or that might affect the UK.
If it’s an emergency and you suspect an immediate danger call 999 .
Not if you don’t want them to.
All information provided is treated in the strictest of confidence.
If someone does need to get in touch for any reason, the officers will be extremely discreet.
Everyone providing information for a report is asked to give their name and contact details, but this is your decision.
Providing your contact details will help verify the authenticity of the information and provide support as quickly as possible.
For further advice on counter-terrorism please go to the National Counter Terrorism Security Office Page.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/security-services/security-systems:
The University has a campus-wide barrier system and CCTV scheme across each site, and these are in operation and monitored 24 hours a day by in-house staff.
Our security systems aim to promote a safe community environment and protect the University's staff, students, visitors, and assets.
The University of Wolverhampton’s CCTV system is a comprehensive image only system whose principal purpose is for the detection and prevention of crime and the safeguarding of all users of the University Estate, these cameras cover Telford, Walsall and City Campuses.
The images are monitored 24 hours a day from all sites by trained officers who all comply with the University Code of Practice and all relevant Data Protection legislation.
Code of Practice:
( TBA )
Complaints Procedure:
* Student Complaint Form (Word doc 85k)
* Group Complaints Form (Word doc 97k)
* Complaints NON Students (Word doc 75k)
CCTV Privacy Impact Assessment:
* City CCTV Privacy Impact Assessment
* Walsall CCTV Privacy Impact Assessment ‌
* Telford City CCTV Privacy Impact Assessment ‌
* UWSP Privacy Impact Assessment ‌
The Security team operates intercoms at barrier and refuge points 24 hours a day, year-round.
All calls across this equipment may be monitored and recorded for training, quality and assurance purposes.

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/security-services/building-access:
The opening and closing times of buildings on this webpage are standard as per operational requirements.
Please note that where buildings are unoccupied they may be closed earlier for security purposes, particularly in the summer months.
Staff wishing to access a building out of normal working hours should contact the security team by email: securityteam@wlv.ac.uk to make this request.
Please be aware that not all buildings are set up for out-of-hours working, however, we will always do our best to accommodate any requests.
We encourage staff and students working on campus to download the SafeZone app , which allows you to contact the Security team wherever and whenever you're on campus.
In order to ensure the safety of staff and students and to comply with the new Terrorism (Protection of Premises Bill), Martyn’s Law , the University will be introducing controlled access to buildings across our campuses from Monday 11 November 2024 .
Main entrances, particularly across City Campus, can only be accessed from that date with your University ID Pass and it will be mandatory to display your ID Pass while you are on University premises, whether that be working or studying.
Please note that access restrictions will be lifted during key University events such as graduation, Open Days and for enrolment.
If you have visitors in attendance, please ensure that they are accompanied by a member of staff at all times.
Please note if buildings are unoccupied, they may be closed earlier for security purposes, particularly in the summer months.
Pre-booking must be done in advance to allow any staff and student access on Saturdays, Sundays or Bank Holidays between 0900-1700.
Please note if buildings are unoccupied they may be closed earlier for security purposes, particularly in the summer months.
All buildings except The Darby Building will be on access control swipe access only after their designated closer time.
Visit the Library opening hours webpage for the most up-to-date information
Visit the WLV Gym opening hours webpage for the most up-to-date information

New sentences found on https://wlv.ac.uk/university-life/accommodation/where-can-i-live:
Here at the University of Wolverhampton we offer Ensuite and Standard accommodation that cater for all kinds of budgets.
Explore our vibrant campuses and discover the perfect fit for you!
Take your time browsing through our diverse range of campuses to find the one that makes you feel the most at home.
For an even deeper dive into our vibrant community, don't forget to visit our Instagram page: @wlvaccommodation
Arrival Information 2024 - 2025
Student Support whilst in accommodation
Living In Accommodation Guide
The Student Cook Book
For further information about alternative accommodation options, visit the Students Living Off Campus page.
Membership of the Investors in Students accreditation scheme – Silver awards for 2022 and 2023 and Gold award for 2024.