# Site: https://www.worcester.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 477
# --------

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk:
We use cookies to enhance your online experience.
To find out more, please read our Cookies Notice and Privacy Notice .
We’re here to help you find the right course and a great place to live.
Explore Clearing at Worcester.
We're consistently rated top for jobs.
Our graduates have the highest rate of sustained employment, further study or both, from any multidisciplinary university in the UK – Longitudinal Educational Outcomes Survey 2017-25
Reception: 01905 855 000
Browser does not support script.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/contact/cookies-notice.aspx:
The University of Worcester (“ University ”, “ We ”, “ Us ” or “ Our ”) is committed to protecting and respecting Your privacy.
This Cookies Notice is provided for Our prospective, existing and former users of Our website and online advertisements that are published on third party websites (“ You ”, “ Your ”).
A cookie is a small file that contains text.
If You allow cookies, the file is stored, by Your web browser, on the physical storage media on Your device (e.g.
Your computer’s hard drive) whilst You are browsing the internet or using internet-enabled apps.
Cookies are often used in conjunction with pixels, particularly as part of online advertising.
A pixel is a small, transparent picture file that is included in web pages.
Pixels contain computer code that detects events on the web page (e.g.
a button click) and records the events in the cookie.
To find out more information about cookies, please visit www.allaboutcookies.org .
You can block cookies by changing the settings on Your browser.
How this is done, and the amount of control that you have over different types of cookie, depends on which browser You use.
All mainstream browsers will allow You to turn off cookies completely.
You can also delete all cookies (or a selection of them) from Your device at any time.
The cookies that We rely on are used to select which online adverts You are presented with by Our online advertising service providers, and to collect information about how You interact with Our website and online adverts.
Some of the cookies are placed by Our website or online adverts, and some of them are placed by Our service providers.
A list of Our service providers is set out below.
If You delete any of those cookies but allow Your browser to continue to place cookies, You change the criteria that are used to select the adverts that are presented to You (and You may stop seeing Our adverts on third party websites), and You “reset” the information that We have about how You interact with Our website and adverts.
The cookies that We rely on are placed when You visit Our website or interact with Our online adverts, when You use apps provided by Our service providers who are listed below, and when You interact with tools or services that those service providers provide (e.g.
Facebook “like” buttons) on any web page on the internet.
The cookies that We rely on are used for the following purposes:
Advert targeting and conversion reporting Once the cookies are placed by Our website or online adverts, or by Our online service providers, they are used as follows:
Online analytics Once the cookies are placed by Our website, or by Our online service providers, they are used as follows:
We cannot normally use cookies to identify You by (for example) your name and address, or to distinguish You from other people who use Your device using the same user account.
For information about our legal basis for using cookies, please refer to our Privacy Notice .
You can find more information about the individual cookies we use and the purposes for which we use them in the table below.
We only use cookies for two purposes: either for online analytics, or for online advertising, advert targeting and conversion tracking (as described above):
Google Analytics
Website analytics
See https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/6004245 , under the heading “Google Analytics Cookies”.
Twitter Analytics
See https://help.twitter.com/en/rules-and-policies/twitter-cookies .
Facebook Analytics
For further information on this cookie, please visit https://www.facebook.com/policies/cookies/ .
Click4Assistance
See https://www.click4assistance.co.uk/click4assistance-web-chat-software-cookie-policy .
Google Advertising
Advert targeting and conversion reporting
See https://policies.google.com/technologies/ads .
Twitter Advertising
Facebook Advertising
See https://www.facebook.com/policies/cookies/ .
Snapchat
See https://www.snap.com/en-GB/cookie-policy/ .
AppNexus
See https://www.appnexus.com/cookie-policy .
StackAdapt
See https://www.stackadapt.com/privacy .
Taboola
See https://www.taboola.com/cookie-policy .
OutBrain
See https://outbrain.pactsafe.io/versions/58b48d50b8ffc11fa2ea0828.pdf .
Instagram
See https://help.instagram.com/1896641480634370 .
Spotify
See https://www.spotify.com/uk/legal/cookies-policy/ .
TubeMogul
See https://www.adobe.com/uk/privacy/experience-cloud.html and https://www.adobe.com/uk/privacy/cookies.html .
LinkedIn
See https://www.linkedin.com/legal/cookie-policy .
Bing
See https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/privacystatement .
We have no control over how Our online advertising and analytics service providers use the cookies.
They are accountable to You, and should provide notices to inform You about their use of cookies and Your personal data.
To find out more about their use of cookies and Your personal data, please refer to their Cookie Notices and Privacy Notices.
To opt out of third parties collecting or using data using cookies, You must either disable the cookies using your browser settings or consult the service providers’ Cookie Notices to see if the service providers offer opt outs.
Where opt outs are provided, You must use the methods referred to in the service providers’ Cookie Notices to put in place each opt out.
We have provided hyperlinks above to assist You.
Updated June 2018

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/contact/privacy-notice.aspx:
This Privacy Notice is provided for Our prospective, existing and former users of our Website (“ You ”, “ Your ”).
This Privacy Notice together with Our Cookie Notice published on Our Website (“ Notices ”) tells You about how We process Your personal data, including Our collection, usage and sharing of Your personal data, and including in relation to Your use of Our website (“ Website ”).
We will only process Your personal data in accordance with the Notices (and any other information We give to You about how We process Your personal data) or for compatible purposes, and in accordance with the Data Protection Legislation.
In this Privacy Notice the terms “ personal data ”, “ Data Controller ” and “ Data Processor ” (and, respectively, the synonymous terms “controller” and “processor”) each have a special meaning that is set by the Data Protection Legislation.
The “ Data Protection Legislation ” is: the EU General Data Protection Regulation (2016/679) and the Data Protection Act 2018.
The University is a Data Controller in relation to Your personal data.
Our address is Henwick Grove, Worcester, WR2 6AJ, You can contact Us by email at infoassurance@worc.ac.uk
We have appointed a Data Protection Officer (“ DPO ”), who is responsible for overseeing our compliance with Data Protection Legislation.
If you have any questions about this Privacy Notice, including requests to exercise your rights (as detailed below), please contact the DPO, using the contact details above marking your communication for the attention of the DPO.
We may obtain Your personal data via Our Website, or in relation to something You are using our Website for (such as a booking).
We obtain Your personal data from the following sources:
You will know what personal data We obtain from You, because You (or someone who You trust, and who You have authorised Us to deal with, such as a member of Your family) provide it to Us.
Examples of how We obtain personal data from You include:
Our Website uses cookies to help Us and Our service providers to collect information and build a profile about You.
We will use this information to understand how You use the Website (so we can take that into account when we plan and develop the Website), and to direct Our advertisements to You when You visit locations on the internet where Our service providers show adverts.
See the Cookie Notice on Our Website for more information.
We receive personal data about You from the following third parties who provide services to Us:
To enable Us to deal with Your enquiry or complete a booking or order for You, as a minimum We need the following:
When you provide information via the Website, some fields will be identified as being mandatory.
You will not be able to submit the information via the Website, or We will be unable to deal with Your request, enquiry, booking or order, unless you complete the mandatory fields with true and accurate information.
If You want Us to use less personal data, You can choose to make less available to Us.
For as long as We have access to Your personal data, We will use it for the following purposes (and compatible purposes), unless otherwise required as a result of You exercising Your rights under Data Protection Legislation.
We may use Your personal data for any of the following purposes, whether We obtained it directly from You (or someone You trust), or another source:
We will hold Your contact details (and any contact preferences You have told Us about) indefinitely, until We find Your Contact Details are not current, or We are notified that You are deceased, or You or a regulator ask Us to stop using and erase Your personal data after Our contracts with You have all expired.
Unless You ask Us to keep Your personal information for longer, We will hold job application data that You submit via the Website for 6 months.
We will hold information about orders that You place with Us for up to 7 years.
We will hold information relating to requests and enquiries that You make via the Website for as long as the request or enquiry remains relevant (so, for example, Your enquiry about a future semester may be kept until up to 12 months after that semester has ended).
We will hold Your contact details indefinitely, until You de-register as a user of the Website, or You exercise Your rights so that We must stop using Your personal information.
For as long as We have access to Your personal data, We may share any of it with any of the following to the extent that they need to have access to Your personal data in order to perform their role:
We reserve the right to disclose Your personal data to other third parties if We have lawful grounds to do so, or are under a legal obligation to disclose or share it with them, or in order to establish, exercise or defend Our legal rights, or to protect the rights, property, or safety of the University or Our employees or subcontractors.
We do not share Your personal data with third parties for their own marketing purposes.
Our paper records and our internal IT systems on which We store Your personal data are all within the United Kingdom.
Currently We use Worldpay to process payments that You make on Our website.
When You are ready to pay, Our website transfers You to Worldpay’s computer systems that are located in the UK.
Worldpay is a data controller so, when You provide Your payment card details, You provide them to Worldpay (on its terms and conditions and policies), not to Us.
You must refer to Worldpay’s Privacy Notice, policies and terms and conditions for details of the location(s) where Your personal data will be processed by Worldpay and its service providers.
When We use social networks, Our use (as well as Yours) is subject to each social network provider’s terms and conditions and policies, which may state that the provider will store Your personal data outside of the EEA.
Please refer to each provider and their terms and conditions and policies.
Under the Data Protection Legislation:
If You would like to exercise any of the above rights, please contact Us at infoassurance@worc.ac.uk, marking your communication for the attention of the DPO.
We do not accept any responsibility for the policies of third party Data Controllers, such as providers of search engines and social networks.
Your use of such third parties, their websites and services is at Your own risk, even if we have provided links to third party websites on our Website  Please check the third parties’ Privacy Notices before You submit any personal data to them.
We reserve the right to make changes to this Privacy Notice from time to time.
If this Privacy Notice changes in any way, We will place an updated version on Our Website.
Regularly reviewing Our Website ensures that You are always aware of what information We collect, how We use it and under what circumstances, if any, We will share it with other parties.
Updated August 2018

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/find-a-course/home.aspx:
You can search for courses below, browse undergraduate subject areas or see our full course A-Z .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/open-days/home.aspx:
Visiting us is the best way to get a feel for student life at the University of Worcester.
Book your place at an Open Day to discover what Worcester has to offer.
During an Open Day, you will have the opportunity to learn more about our courses from our lecturers and current students.
You'll also be able to explore our campuses, including our accommodation and specialist teaching facilities.
Located in the beautiful and historic city of Worcester, we're just south of Birmingham and about an hour from Bristol.
Sunday 28 September 2025 (10am-3pm)
Saturday 25 October 2025 (10am-3pm)
Saturday 29 November 2025 (10am-3pm)
Speak to staff, students and recent graduates about what it’s really like to study at Worcester
Explore the University for yourself on a campus tour
Look around our halls of residence and chat with the students living there
Worcester is a Cathedral city in the West Midlands, to the south of Birmingham and north of Bristol.
There are regular direct trains from Birmingham, Hereford, Bristol, Oxford, London and many other places.
Then from Foregate Street station, you can either hop on a bus or walk to our campuses.
If you’re driving, Worcester – located just off the M5 motorway – is about 40 minutes south of Birmingham and an hour north of Bristol.
Open Days are based at our St John's Campus, postcode WR2 6AJ, City Campus, WR1 3AS and Severn Campus, WR2 5JN.
Your arrival location will depend on your course of interest and you will have the opportunity to visit all three campuses during the event.
We will forward programme and registration information, along with details of where to go, in the run-up to the Open Day.
For directions on getting here by public transport check out our find us page .
If you can't make an Open Day, you can still visit us by booking a campus tour.
Although our campus tours won’t give you the same experience as attending an Open Day (where subject talks, accommodation viewings and one-to-one chats with our teaching staff and professional departments are available), they will enable you to take a look around campus and speak to a current student.
You can book onto a campus tour on our Campus visits webpage .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/city-of-worcester.aspx:
Worcester is home to a wealth of shops, ranging from high street chains to quirky independent businesses.
Crowngate shopping centre is the heart of Worcester’s shopping district and historic streets branch off into the city centre which features a variety of larger stores and smaller
You can also explore The Shambles for a range of independent businesses including Pack It In , a zero-waste store, gift shops, and designers.
The city offers a variety of dining options, suitable for many dietary options and cuisine choices.
Whether it’s cosy cafés or lively restaurants , Worcester hosts some great locations for wonderful food and great company.
Be sure to check out Cathedral Square for a great selection of chain restaurants, including Zizzi’s and The Botanist.
If unique food is more to your taste, explore Friar Street, which has many independent restaurants ranging in cuisines, from Mexican to Thai food.
If you’re looking for a break away from your studies, want to socialise with friends, or just fancy getting up to something a bit different, Worcester has plenty of activities to be getting involved with.
Get competitive with a round of crazy golf at Mr Mulligan’s, test your skills and patience at the Commandery escape room, or even give axe throwing a go at Axe Junkies.
The city is renowned for its captivating history, the Historic Quarter of Worcester spans from the Cathedral, through Friar Street, and on to New Street and the Corn Market.
Along this stretch, you will find many buildings steeped in the city’s rich historical past, from the tomb of King John in the Cathedral, to the famous Commandry, which dates back to around 1085.
Today, many of these unique buildings have been repurposed as thriving independent businesses, from an array of vibrant bars and restaurants to independent shops and housing.
Situated in the heart of the countryside, Worcestershire is brimming with various hiking trails and walks , handy for getting some fresh air and exercise.
Malvern Hills is located just a 20-minute drive away and includes some breath-taking views of Worcestershire.
Whether you are interested in sports as a participant or a spectator, Worcester has plenty to offer.
The city is home to Worcestershire County Cricket Club, in its picturesque riverside location on the New Road.
Match nights at the University Arena are a regular fixture in both the social and sporting calendar.
The University Arena is home to the Worcester Wolves basketball club and Severn Stars Netball Super League side which are both owned by the University.
Centrally located with excellent road, rail, and air links Worcester is easy to reach from anywhere in the UK, and the world.
Birmingham, Bristol and Cardiff are all within easy reach, as are Herefordshire, Shropshire, and the Black Country.
The city rail links are excellent and were recently improved by the opening of the new Worcester Parkway station which strengthened connections to Nottingham, Cardiff and London.
You can find out more information on our Find Us pages .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/accommodation:
Our accommodation is high quality, great value and guaranteed.
“One of the best choices I made was getting a room in Halls.
I love living right on campus - everything is really close by; not just my classes, but the great friends I’ve made too.
Living with fellow students is one of the best parts of Worcester life for me.”
Ashley Sports student
Our shorter contract lengths mean you're likely to pay less rent overall compared with private accommodation.
Plus all your bills and gym membership are included in your rent.
Take a look at the options below.
Extra-large bedroom with sink/ Private toilet and bathroom / Kitchen / Breakfast bar / Free gym membership
Large bedroom / Private toilet and bathroom / Kitchen and dining room / Free gym membership
Extra-large bedroom with sink / Private toilet and bathroom / Kitchen and dining room / Free gym membership
Large bedroom with en-suite / Kitchen and dining room / Free gym membership
Extra-large bedroom with en-suite / Large kitchen and dining room / Living room / Free gym membership
Extra-large bedroom with double bed and en-suite / Large kitchen and dining room / Living room / Free gym membership
Situated at the edge of St John's Campus, exclusively for postgraduate students.
Free gym membership
“Living on campus, in such a safe, friendly and supportive environment, really helped me to learn how to live on my own, step by step.
It was a nice transition from getting help from my parents for many things, to sorting everything out by myself.”
Dina Business student
All of our university-managed accommodation operates 24-hour security and emergency maintenance.
Day or night, our friendly staff are here to help.
There are no extra charges for gas, electricity or water usage - they're all covered by your accommodation costs.
Our typical contracts are only 40 weeks (unless your course is longer) compared to many private sector contracts of 52 weeks so you only pay for what you need.
All of our halls of residence are on our St John's or City campuses meaning that you're always in walking distance of the lecture theatre and also the city centre.
Our bedrooms are generous in size - bigger than you'll find at many other universities.
"My accommodation was perfectly balanced between price and comfort!
I was particularly impressed with my room size and I went on to make many forever friendships in Traditional Halls."
Ellie English student
Our halls of residence are on campus so you will be at the heart of student life with all of the benefits that brings.
You will be able to apply for accommodation at the University of Worcester once you have firmly accepted an offer of a place to study with us.
Once you have accepted Worcester as your firm choice, you'll be sent a student ID number and a secure link to complete your application form and select your accommodation preferences.
Accommodation is allocated on a first-come-first-served basis so it is important that you apply as soon as possible.
Accommodation is mixed sex but single sex accommodation is usually available on request.
University accommodation is allocated for a complete academic year.
You will be asked to sign a License Agreement for a specific period and you will need to pay for that time.
A refundable damage deposit is set at £300.00, payable upon signing Licence Agreement.
Our Accommodation Team are here to give you advice, help you apply and support you throughout your time at University, making sure you are happy and settled in your new home.
If you have any questions, please call 01905 855300 or email accommodationteam@worc.ac.uk
If you decide that halls aren't for you, our Accommodation Team can help you find suitable private student housing.
Our Accommodation Guide is the perfect way to find out which of our accommodation options is best for you.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/home.aspx:
Our graduates have the highest rate of sustained employment, further study or both, from any multidisciplinary university in the UK (Longitudinal Education Outcomes 2017-2025).
96% of our graduates are in work or further study 15 months after graduating (Graduate Outcomes Survey 2024).
The University is ranked joint 1st in the UK for Quality Education in the Times Higher Education’s University Impact Rankings 2025 and has been in the top 5 every year since its inception in 2019.
The University has also been ranked in the top 10 in the UK for Gender Equality in all years of the rankings – currently ranked joint 3rd in the 2025 rankings.
In May 2023, the University received arguably the best Ofsted report of any teacher training provider in the 21st Century.
The University’s primary and secondary programmes were rated ‘Outstanding’.
The report opens: “Trainees benefit from an exceptional learning experience at the University of Worcester.
This experience instils in them a deep-rooted commitment to making a difference to the lives of the children in the communities they serve.”
The University is a truly inclusive place where every person counts as an individual.
From designing imaginative facilities to providing practical support and tailored learning, we strive to help people of all backgrounds and abilities to achieve their own rich potential.
We work hard to break down barriers and provide opportunities for all.
In 2020 we were the winner of the Times Higher Education Award for Outstanding Contribution to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion.
Worcester is home to Europe’s first integrated university and public library, The Hive , and Britain’s first inclusive indoor sports hall purpose-designed to include the wheelchair athlete, the University of Worcester Arena , two facilities that exemplify our commitment to inclusion.
We believe in educating and supporting the whole person to succeed in their own personal endeavours but to also use the skills they develop to build a better world.
Outstanding graduate employment
Worcester has one of the best records of graduate employment in the Country.
96.5% of Worcester graduates are in work or further study 15 months after graduating (Graduate Outcomes Survey 2023) and Worcester is 1st in the UK for sustained employment and/or further study 5 years after graduation (excluding specialist institutions) in the 2024 Government-published Longitudinal Educational Outcomes data.
A key feature of a University of Worcester education is the golden triangle of professional education, which interweaves expert knowledge and practical learning.
At the three points of the triangle are the well-motivated student, an inspiring educator, and an expert professional mentor.
With close industry links across a range of sectors, Worcester students have opportunities to access work placements, to earn-as-they-learn in jobs relevant to your studies, as well as volunteering, all helping to build your skills, confidence and employability.
"We will support you whenever needed, with excellent counselling, guidance, welfare and support."
Professor David Green, Vice Chancellor and Chief Executive
In the first ever national Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF), Worcester was rated Silver, with assessors commenting that Worcester “delivers high quality teaching, learning and outcomes for its students” and “consistently exceeds rigorous national quality requirements for UK higher education”.
The TEF panel noted that we excel at teaching which encourages high levels of student engagement and commitment to learning and study.
Including “excellent levels” of contact time and schemes that involve students in the process of enhancing their own learning experience.
In the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024, Worcester’s Law, Social Work and Sociology degrees were all 1st for teaching quality.
Worcester is ranked among the very best in the UK in two national independent surveys exploring postgraduate teaching and research.
In the AdvanceHE Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2023, Worcester is ranked 16th amongst 101 UK universities for overall satisfaction, while Worcester is also ranked 7th out of 94 in the AdvanceHE Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) 2021.
Worcester has been an exemplar in the contribution a university can make to society.
We recognise that the health and wellbeing of the University is inextricably tied to the physical, social, and economic wellbeing of the region in which we live.
Our ideas, skills and resources contribute a great deal to the communities of which we are a part and we are committed to helping businesses, public and voluntary organisations to succeed.
For almost three decades, the University of Worcester has been educating professionals to work in the health and social care sectors, from Nurses and Midwives to Physiotherapists and Occupational Therapists, Paramedics to Physician Associates.
Each year, hundreds of professionals graduate from Worcester and go on to make a significant contribution to society.
The University’s new medical school welcomed its first cohort of students in September 2023.
The Three Counties Medical School will help to address the pressing need for more doctors in this left-behind part of the Country.
Worcester has been shortlisted three times as the Times Higher Education’s University of the Year – in 2016, 2019 and 2020 - and three times for University of the Year in the UK Social Mobility Awards – in 2019, 2020 and 2024.
We have deliberately chosen to develop our facilities differently, creating places that are open to all and that are conducive to co-operation and success.
Worcester is a leader in sustainability and climate change research, teaching and engagement.
The University has been awarded First Class Honours in the People and Planet Green League each and every year since 2009.
Worcester was named Sustainability Institution of the Year in the Green Gown Awards 2019.
Our campus is a living laboratory for developing, testing and implementing solutions that enhance the health of people and planet.
Worcester Shortlisted for University of the Year for the Second Year
University of Worcester Among UK’s Top Three for Quality Education and Top 10 Overall in New Impact Rankings
University of Worcester Among the Best for Teaching, According to Latest Survey
University of Worcester Sees Best Ever Performance in Student Choice Awards
University of Worcester Shortlisted for Seven Awards at Student Nursing Times Awards
University of Worcester Wins Award for Contribution to Community
Journalist at Leading Japanese Newspaper Impressed by Inclusive Sport Approach at University of Worcester
University of Worcester Drawing up Plans to Create International Inclusive Cricket Centre
Global Teaching Conference Looks at Ways to Re-Imagine Education

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news:
The latest news from around the University.
Thursday, 28 August 2025
A special event to help students with a neurodiversity make the transition to higher education has taken place at the University of Worcester.
Wednesday, 27 August 2025
Parents and carers in Worcestershire are invited to a free online event designed to help them confidently support their young people through the university application journey.
Wednesday, 13 August 2025
One of the UK’s leading experts on poverty has praised efforts by the University of Worcester to tackle social mobility and inclusion.
Monday, 11 August 2025
The University of Worcester has announced it will be delivering the Help to Grow Management Course for a further 3 years.
Friday, 08 August 2025
A film made by students at the University of Worcester has been shortlisted for an award at the Stratford Film Festival.
Thursday, 07 August 2025
As A-Level Results Day approaches, the University of Worcester is expecting to be inundated with calls as people look for places on courses through Clearing.
Wednesday, 06 August 2025
Two rare Elizabethan texts will be on show during a talk on witchcraft by a University of Worcester historian, as part of Worcester Cathedral’s MedievalFest next week.
Tuesday, 05 August 2025
An artist from Worcester is to host her first ever major exhibition, after winning a prestigious national award.
Monday, 04 August 2025
An expert in early childhood studies has praised recent work in Worcester to provide high quality play opportunities for children and young people.
Thursday, 31 July 2025
The University of Worcester has been shortlisted for a national sustainability award, recognising its efforts to encourage biodiversity and support nature on campus.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/discover-our-research:
In our Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy 2020-25 we have identified five Areas of Challenge, in which we wish to be recognised in particular.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-degrees:
Undertaking a research degree at Worcester, means you will become part of a thriving community of research students.
At Worcester, we offer three categories of research degree: PhD (Doctor of Philosophy), MPhil (Master of Philosophy) and in some subject areas the MRes (Masters by Research) .
We also offer a Doctorate of Business Administration through a partnership with FHM in Germany.
For more information about this programme please visit.: https://www.fh-mittelstand.de/dba To find out more, get in touch with the Doctoral School on 01905 542182 or email research@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/contact:
If you'd like to get in touch with the University of Worcester, you can contact our Main Reception 01905 85 5000
Worcester Business School is based at our City Campus.
If you need to contact the City Campus directly ring 01905 54 2444.
To contact the Riverside building ring 01905 542475.
Our Clearing Hotline number is 01905 855 111.
St John's Campus:
University of Worcester, Henwick Grove, Worcester, WR2 6AJ.
City Campus:
University of Worcester, City Campus, Castle Street, Worcester, WR1 3AS.
Severn Campus:
University of Worcester, Severn Campus, Hylton Road, Worcester.
WR2 5JN.
If you are coming to visit us in person, get travel information and see how best to find us.
If you know the name of the staff member that you are trying to contact, you can find their telephone number or email address via our staff directory .
Main Reception: Telephone: 01905 855000 Fax: 01905 855132
Admissions Office: Telephone: 01905 855111 Email: admissions@worc.ac.uk
Communications & Participation: (including prospectus requests, Open Day registration and event information) Telephone: 01905 855141 Email: study@worc.ac.uk
HR Operations Team: Telephone: 01905 855173 (options 1) Email: hr@worc.ac.uk
Recruitment Team: Telephone: 01905 855173 (options 2) Email: jobs@worc.ac.uk
International Recruitment: Telephone: +44 (0)1905 542640 Email: international@worc.ac.uk
Graduate Research School: Telephone: 01905 855012 Email: research@worc.ac.uk
Students' Union: Telephone: 01905 543210 Email: studentsunion@worc.ac.uk
Conferencing and Venue Hire: Telephone: 01905 542121 Email: conferencing@worc.ac.uk
Organisational Development, Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Team: Telephone: 01905 855173 (options 3) Email: training@worc.ac.uk
If you need to contact the university outside normal office hours please telephone 01905 855000 which is staffed 24 hours.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/contact/campus:
The St John’s and City Campus are a pleasant 20-minute walk from each other, with the Severn Campus conveniently situated between the two.
St John’s Campus is the largest campus while the City Campus is home to The Hive , the University’s £60 million pound award winning library, and the Severn Campus is home to the University Arena , Britain’s first major indoor sports arena specially constructed to meet the needs of wheelchair as well as able bodied athletes.
Information about the accessibility of all our buildings is available through the AccessAble guides.
The University promotes sustainable travel for students, staff and visitors.
We have car share and bike schemes, and subsidised bus tickets are available.
The cycle to work scheme is being offered by the University of Worcester to promote healthier journeys to work and reduce environmental pollution.
The scheme is open to all University employees providing a tax exemption to staff for the hire of cycles and cyclist safety equipment.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/find-a-course/a-z-of-courses.aspx:
In addition to the below we also offer a range of Joint Honours degrees

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/request-a-prospectus/request-a-prospectus.aspx:
Our prospectus pack includes a copy of our UniLife Magazine and Mini Guide, plus the option to request an Accommodation Guide.
We currently only post prospectus packs to UK addresses.
If you live outside of the UK, please request the digital version.
We always recommend checking our website for the latest course listing .
You can also phone us to request a prospectus on 01905 855141.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/find-a-course/how-to-apply:
We offer an exciting range of courses including single honours (just one subject) or joint honours (two subjects).
Have a look at our course finder to explore the options.
If you don't have the formal qualifications for immediate entry to a degree course, you may be able to take a Higher National Diploma (HND) or foundation degree (FdA or FdSc) .
These courses help you prepare for degree-level studies and gain the necessary academic background.
There will be specific qualification, grade and subject requirements for your chosen course, so be sure to check what these are.
You can find information about entry requirements on each of our courses pages.
For more general information on qualifications and grades, visit our entry requirements page .
You can also visit UCAS.com for further details.
If you're unsure about whether you meet the entry requirements contact the Admissions Office and we’ll be able to advise you.
How you apply depends on the undergraduate or postgraduate course you are interested in and whether you are studying full or part-time.
Please select the relevant page from the navigation of this page for course-specific details.
If you are in any doubt about how you should apply, please contact the Admissions Office, who can also advise you on course vacancies and entry requirements.
01905 855111
admissions@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/find-a-course/how-to-apply/undergraduate-applications:
UCAS is the UK organisation responsible for managing applications to universities and colleges.
UK, EU and international students applying for most undergraduate degree courses in the UK will need to apply through UCAS.
You submit an application via the UCAS website with a list of up to five courses.
All choices are confidential during the application process so universities and colleges considering an application cannot see your other choices.
UCAS accepts applications from September for entry each year.
The closing date for applications to be guaranteed consideration is in January.
Some degree programmes may receive applications after the deadline, but we cannot guarantee this, especially for areas of high demand.
You should contact the Admissions Office for more information about the application deadline.
The UCAS website has detailed information on how to make an undergraduate application .
Most University of Worcester courses may be studied part time and many have flexible start dates - usually in late September or late January.
Applicants for part-time courses can apply directly to the University of Worcester at any time for entry in September or January.
Download an application form for part-time study .
For more information on the benefits of studying part-time, please view our flexible and part-time study page .
You can monitor the progress of your application using the UCAS Apply system .
Read our What happens to my application?
page for more details on the application process.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/find-a-course/how-to-apply/contextual-offers.aspx:
The University of Worcester aims to provide fair and equal access to a university education to all those who have the potential to succeed or benefit from it.
When we review an application, we take into consideration the context in which applicants have achieved their academic qualifications.
If candidates meet certain eligibility criteria, we may make an offer which is lower than our typical entry requirements.
This is called a contextual offer.
For the 2025 admissions cycle our contextual offer is a grade reduction of one grade below the published entry requirements.
You may be eligible for a contextual offer if one of the following statements applies to you:
Because of our close partnership and deeper relationship with your school or college we are able to make a special reduced offer.
You will be eligible for a contextual offer if, at the point of application, you live in an area that has a low rate of progression to higher education according to POLAR4 data.
To determine this, we use the home address on your UCAS application form.
You can check whether your address qualifies by entering your postcode into the POLAR checking tool on the Office for Students (OFS) website.
Eligible postcodes are those as defined as being within Quintiles 1 or 2 using the POLAR4 metric.
Check your postcode on the Office for Students website .
If you have spent three months or more in local authority care, you will be eligible for a contextual offer.
We use the care questions on your UCAS application form to assess your eligibility.
Find out more about the support the University of Worcester provides to care leavers .
If you have been eligible for free school meals during your secondary education you will be eligible for a contextual offer.
The UCAS application will ask you to confirm if you are or have been in receipt of Free School Meals.
Students in the UK are usually eligible for free school meals if their parents or carers are on a low income or in receipt of certain benefits.
You can contact your school or college if you are unsure.
You will be asked about your parents’ education as part of the UCAS application.
If you have declared that neither of your parents attended higher education, a contextual offer will be applied.
This applies to individuals who have a commitment to providing care (unpaid) to a family member or friend.
This may be short-term or long-term care.
If you have provided unpaid care for another person, please select ‘yes’ on the relevant question in the ‘More About Me’ section of the UCAS application and a contextual offer will be applied.
If you provide care to, or are responsible for, a child aged 17 or under, you’ll be eligible for a contextual offer.
This means that you’ve applied for asylum and have received an outcome granting you refugee status.
You'll need to choose ‘refugee’ under the 'residential category' on your UCAS form if you’ve been granted this status.
Individuals who’ve been issued a visa under one of the Ukrainian schemes (Homes for Ukraine, Ukraine Family Scheme or Ukraine Extension Scheme) will be classified as a refugee for the purposes of contextual data.
When submitting your UCAS application, you should select ‘refugee’ as your 'residential category' in the where you live section of the form.
This will ensure that your status is automatically flagged in our system.
If you have served or if either or both of your parents have served in the UK Armed Forces, you will be eligible for a contextual offer.
Please select ‘yes’ on the relevant question in the ‘More About Me’ section of the UCAS application and a contextual offer will be applied.
If your relationship with your parents/family has irreconcilably broken down, you will receive a contextual offer.
If this applies to you, please select ‘yes’ on the relevant question in the ‘More About Me’ section of the UCAS application.
Apply to us through UCAS .
If you meet any of the criteria outlined above, you’ll be automatically considered.
If you have any questions relating to contextual offers, please contact the Admissions Office on 01905 855111 or admissions@worc.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/find-a-course/how-to-apply/teacher-training-applications.aspx:
If you are interested in the Primary Initial Teacher Education 3 Year BA (Hons), you should apply through UCAS (see our page on undergraduate applications for further details).
Applications for PGCE courses, both Primary and Secondary, should be made online through the government's Find Postgraduate Teacher Training website.
Please visit the Get Into Teaching website for detailed information on how to apply for a PGCE.
If you would like to find out more about the application process, please contact the Admissions Office: Tel: 01905 855111 or email: admissions@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/find-a-course/how-to-apply/international-applications.aspx:
If you are applying for a full-time undergraduate course, EU/ Non-EU students are strongly advised to apply online through the Universities & Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
If you are using The Common Application , you can add the University of Worcester to your list of colleges via this link and complete the application there.
You can get in touch with us before you apply to get advice on the offer you are likely to receive.
For further details on when to apply, please see the Undergraduate How to apply section.
If you are applying for a place on a postgraduate course please apply directly to Worcester using the link you will find on the relevant course page .
For further details on when to apply, please refer to the Taught Postgraduate How to apply section.
If you are applying for a place on a PGCE course, please apply online through the government's Find Postgraduate Teacher Training website.
You will find application links on the relevant course page .
You also have the option to use the services of our recognised representatives overseas.
They can give you advice and guide you through the process of applying.
To see who we work with in your country, please visit the Overseas Representatives page.
In order for us to process your application successfully, you will need to provide the following documents:
It is important that you send this information to us - either paper copies by mail or scanned and emailed - as soon as possible.
The International Team and Admissions Office will process your application and, if the application is complete, will endeavour to respond with a decision as soon as we can.
All applications to the University of Worcester are carefully considered by an admissions tutor (an academic member of staff from the relevant course area), whose job is to view applications.
They will make one of the following offers or responses to you through UCAS:
For full details about the different stages of the application process, please refer to the What happens to my application pages.
Good luck with your preparation and we hope that you will become part of our International Community at the University of Worcester.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/find-a-course/how-to-apply/postgraduate-applications.aspx:
You apply directly to the University of Worcester for all taught postgraduate and Postgraduate Certificate programmes.
You will find links to our online application form on each relevant course pages of this website.
If you have any questions regarding your application, please contact the Admissions office via 01905 855111 or admissions@worc.ac.uk
You can apply for postgraduate taught courses and Postgraduate Certificates at any time, but preferably as early as possible before the start of the academic year.
When we receive your application form, your details will be passed to the Masters Programme Leader who will contact you to arrange an informal interview date and time.
You may include additional material, such as references, in support of your application or bring them with you to interview.
You apply directly to the University of Worcester for all research degrees.
You can download an application form or request one from us on 01905 855214 or by email research@worc.ac.uk .
We have a number of different research degree programmes, including MPhil, PhD, MRes and Professional Doctorates.
Once you have completed your application, you should email it to us at research@worc.ac.uk
You can apply for a research degree for entry in either September or late January.
Applications must be received at least 6 weeks before the start of the Semester.
For more information please contact the Graduate Research School on 01905 855214 or email: research@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/find-a-course/how-to-apply/entry-requirements.aspx:
To study at the University of Worcester, you must normally be at least 18 by the time you start the course.
If by that date you are under 18, but at least 17, you can still study at the University.
However, in that case, we will need your parents or guardians to agree to some extra safeguards because you are still legally a minor.
You must also satisfy the entry requirements of the course you wish to study.
All applicants will need to demonstrate that they have the maturity and personal skills to study and live independently in a higher education environment.
There are a wide range of acceptable entry qualifications and the following list is by no means exhaustive.
It is designed to provide a sample of some of the main qualifications that applicants present for entry.
Applicants are advised to contact the Admissions Office if they have any specific questions about qualifications that do not appear on this list.
Further information can be found on the relevant course pages at www.ucas.com.
Each course has specific entry requirements, expressed in terms of the UCAS tariff, although qualifications not currently in the tariff will be considered.
Candidates may offer qualifications in combination to achieve the required total.
The tariff requirements for specific courses can be found on the relevant course page in the University prospectus and the website.
Normally a minimum of two GCE A Level passes.
Advanced supplementary (AS) Level achievements may be counted towards the tariff requirement but applicants will not be disadvantaged if they do not take them.
Considered either on their own (Extended Diploma or Diploma) or in combination with other qualifications (Subsidiary Diploma or Certificate) to meet the tariff requirements.
Considered either on their own (Diploma or Extended Diploma) or in combination with other qualifications (Certificate).
Successful completion of a relevant QAA-recognised Access Diploma is acceptable (60 credits with at least 45 at Level 3).
Some courses may require the achievement of some Level 3 credits at Merit or Distinction.
Tariff point requirements can be met through the achievement of the Welsh Baccalaureate, including Core, and will be counted at the appropriate tariff.
Four higher grade passes at Grade C are regarded as the minimum entry requirements, but all qualifications within the tariff will be considered.
Four to five higher/honours grade passes at Grade C are required, as a minimum condition of entry.
Applicants offering NVQ Level 3 will be considered and may be asked to complete supplementary work.
Similarly, Technical Certificates for those following Advanced Modern Apprenticeships will be considered on an individual basis, with particular reference to relevance to the intended course.
Acceptable providing it is passed at Merit level.
Some subjects/courses may require a Distinction grade, and possibly an additional A Level.
A minimum score of 24 points is necessary in the International Baccalaureate and a minimum score of 60% in the European Baccalaureate.
Higher entry levels may be set for some courses.
Professional qualifications will be considered on an individual basis.
Key Skills at Level 2 are viewed as an enhancement of a student’s application but cannot be accepted as satisfaction of subject-specific requirements.
These qualifications are normally acceptable in part satisfaction of the entry requirements.
T Levels are considered on their own to meet the tariff requirements.
Some professional courses may require particular T-level subjects to have been studied.
Some courses may require an overall Merit or Distinction.
The University of Worcester does not currently intend to use the English Baccalaureate as an entry requirement.
Where there are specific subject or grade requirements, these will be clearly stated in the relevant prospectus entry and on the University website.
International students will need to demonstrate evidence of study at a level equivalent to the general entry requirements.
We welcome applicants who hold alternative qualifications/experience different to those shown in this section who can demonstrate the ability to benefit from the course and show their potential to complete the course successfully.
Although recent preparatory study at an appropriate level (e.g.
an Access course) is recommended, students may be considered on the basis of prior evidenced professional/work experience and/or other assessment procedures, and the assessment of personal suitability.
University Admissions staff will be able to offer information, advice and guidance on this process.
The following qualifications satisfy the English Language requirements for admission to the University, although some courses may require higher scores:
LanguageCert International ESOL Certificate Level 1 (B2) Postgraduate LanguageCert International ESOL Certificate Level 1 (B2) with a minimum of 39 out of 50 in each component (Speaking, Listening, Reading and Writing)
Undergraduate LanguageCert International ESOL Certificate Level 1 (B2) with a minimum of 33 out of 50 in each component (Speaking, Listening, Reading and Writing)
Please note: LanguageCert Test of English LTE is not accepted as it does not have a speaking component.
Students with relevant previous study at HND or degree level or extensive experience may be considered eligible for Accreditation of Prior Learning.
Entry may be possible to Year 2 or 3 of the course, depending upon the qualifications or experience gained.
Credit can also be given for individual modules.
Students studying for qualifications equivalent, or lower than, a qualification they already hold are no longer funded by HEFCE.
The University reserves the right to charge higher tuition fees for such students.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/find-a-course/how-to-apply/ucas-tariff-points.aspx:
The tables below show how grades for some popular qualifications translate into UCAS Tariff points.
For further details UCAS have a Tariff Calculator on their website .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/find-a-course/how-to-apply/admissions-information.aspx:
The admission of students is based on the reasonable expectation that the applicant will be able to fulfil the objectives and achieve the standard required for the award for which they are registered.
For complete details of our admissions principles and procedures, please see the following:
If you would like more information on disclosing a disability or dyslexia please look at our Disability and Dyslexia Services web pages.
The information provided in the document available on the page linked below outlines the terms and conditions between the University of Worcester and Applicants to our programmes of study.
A binding contract is formed between the University and the Applicant when the Applicant accepts the offer of a place at the University.
This contract forms the basis of your relationship with the University.
The documents available on the page linked below provide important information which you need to read and understand before you accept an offer.
If you have any queries or questions concerning this information, please contact our Admissions Office via 01905 855111 or admissions@worc.ac.uk .
Transferring is the process whereby a current student at the University of Worcester, or at another institution, moves from one degree programme to another.
This includes students transferring to Worcester from another institution and transferring between programmes at Worcester.
We publish information on the number of applications, offers and degrees awarded in our transparency return .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/find-a-course/how-to-apply/notice-of-right-to-cancel.aspx:
To exercise the right to cancel, you must inform the University of your decision to cancel your place by providing a clear written statement (e.g.
a letter sent by post or e-mail).
Please download a cancellation form to attach to your written statement.
Our contact details are:
Admissions Office University of Worcester Henwick Grove Worcester WR2 6AJ admissions@worc.ac.uk
To meet the cancellation deadline you must send your right to cancel statement before the end of the cancellation period.
If you cancel this contract in this way we will reimburse you any payments received from you under the contract.
We will make the reimbursement without undue delay within 14 days of receipt of your notification of cancellation where possible.
We will make the reimbursement using the same means of payment as you used to pay us.
The right to cancel is a statutory right under the United Kingdom’s Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013.
Your statutory right of cancellation does not affect your right to withdraw from the University at other times; subject to any ongoing obligations you may have to the University as a result of your registration should you commence studies at the University.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/find-a-course/how-to-apply/applying-as-an-fd-hnd-or-top-up-student.aspx:
If you are already a University of Worcester student, apply using the internal University of Worcester application form available via your student SOLE page.
For all others applying for part time study, apply on the UW application form .
For all others applying for full time study, apply via UCAS .
The merit of each application will be considered individually.
There is an official UCAS deadline for applications in January.
If you miss this deadline, don’t worry!
There will be a number of courses still taking applications throughout the remainder of the year.
Contact Admissions via 01905 855111 or admissions@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/find-a-course/how-to-apply/access-to-he-diploma-students.aspx:
The University of Worcester welcomes applications from students on the Access to Higher Education Diploma.
In September 2024, 108 students with Access courses started here.
In September 2024, 104 students who started their Access course in September 2020 were awarded degrees- of which 63 gained a First class or 2:1 Honours degree.
Apply to the University of Worcester for any non-professional course and we guarantee you a conditional place on  a relevant course or an interview for those courses which require one
You need to apply for all courses through UCAS www.ucas.com
If you have been unable to decide on which course is best for you, or you miss this deadline, don't worry!
Contact our Admissions Office to find out which ones via 01905 855111 or admissions@worc.ac.uk
We usually have some courses available in Clearing from 30 June.
Contact Admissions or see our website for details in August.
www.worcester.ac.uk
When we receive your results, we will make a holistic assessment of your application in order to confirm your place.
As part of our assessment we will take into account all the information you have provided in your application, any contextual information, as well as your results.
Come to one or more of our Open Events , where you can attend a talk on the subject you are interested in, learn about finances, and speak with someone from the course team to discuss any aspect of the course and find out what they are looking for in your personal statement.
You will also be able to meet the Admissions staff who can answer any questions you have about qualifications or entry requirements, or receive pre-entry advice.
You can pre-book, or just turn up for part or all of the event.
Your College Tutors and Student Services will provide you with a lot of support to help you decide which is the best course for you and then to apply for that course.
They will assist you in preparing your personal statement and also help prepare you for interview (if you have one).
Make use of their expertise!
Some colleges also invite our staff in to give extra help to Access students.
Our website is a valuable source of information on the courses we offer, the entry requirements, and the content of the course: search for the course pages for any courses you are interested in.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/find-a-course/how-to-apply/equivalency-tests.aspx:
We offer equivalency tests if you don’t have the required GCSE grade to apply for our courses.
If you successfully complete these tests they can be used to meet our GCSE entry requirements when submitting an application.
We are also happy to accept those equivalency tests that have been taken and passed through https://www.equivalencytesting.com
Please note you are not permitted to take our equivalency tests if you have not applied for or are not currently enrolled on a course at the University of Worcester.
The tests will be held on campus in Worcester.
Please note that the December and March Maths tests will be held online.
For tests on campus you will need:
For a conditional offer, please check that the course you wish to apply for with us accepts these equivalency tests before booking.
If you have not applied for a course at University of Worcester you will not be eligible for these tests.
Visit the online booking and payment form – all currently available dates are listed here – and book your test.
Each test costs £41 and this will not be refunded if you have booked in error or do not attend a test.
An automated email will be sent to confirm the booking.
Be aware that places for each date are limited so do not leave it to the last minute to book.
Revise for the test using appropriate resources.
The University does not provide tuition or test guidance, this is the candidate’s responsibility.
We recommend that you revise sufficiently before sitting the test, especially if you have not attempted GCSE style questions for a while.
Practice test papers and some guidance are provided below but if you need further practice, GCSE exam papers can be downloaded from the internet (e.g.
BBC Bitesize website, www.corbettmaths.com ).
We also recommend you purchase a suitable GCSE revision guide (e.g.
the Letts Study Guide) and that you look for tuition where necessary.
You are aiming to attain a GCSE grade 4 standard (old grade C).
The tests will include the opportunity to gain credit at lower grades but both maths and science do not include questions targeting the higher grades.
Focus the revision on content across grades 2, 3, 4 rather than at the higher grades.
About one week before the test date you will receive an email clarifying the time, place and other arrangements for the test.
The tests will be taken in Worcester, either at St John’s Campus or City Campus.
The only exceptions are the December and March Mathematics tests, which will be taken online.
You will need a suitable uninterrupted quiet space if you select either of these options.
Additional dates will be added to the booking system during the year.
Please allow a minimum of 2 weeks for the test to be marked and for the results to be announced.
This can take longer for July/August tests due to availability of tutors.
Admissions will then send an email stating whether the candidate has passed or not passed.
This information is also added to the records, there is no need to do anything but candidates may wish to contact their tutor.
The English GCSE equivalency test consists of two sections.
Section A: Reading (1 hour)
Candidates must answer all questions in this section.
There will be an extract from a novel to read at the start of the test.
This will be one A4 side of text.
After reading, you will answer a series of questions to show your understanding of the extract.
This will assess comprehension and inference skills.
Section B:Writing (1 hour)
Candidates choose just one task from this section.
There will be non-fiction and fiction choices .
You will be required to complete an extended piece of writing; we recommend you write about 2 sides of A4.
You will have 1 hour to choose, plan, write and edit the task.
We strongly recommend that candidates make a plan before beginning the main task and leave at least 10 minutes for proof-reading and editing.
The maths test lasts two hours and is in two sections, a one hour section that must be answered without a calculator, and a one hour section where use of a calculator is recommended.
Candidates are advised to bring their own calculator and to be familiar with how to use it.
This test targets the grade C/D/E (now 4/3/2) content from the Foundation GCSE content list.
The science tests last s 90 minutes and contains GCSE - standard questions.
These tests are not subject to national validation in the same way as GCSEs so they may not be acceptable outside of the University of Worcester.
If you pass the tests you are not entitled to claim you have a GCSE in these subjects.
The University sends an email confirming whether the test has been passed or not, but does not provide a Certificate.
The tests are ideal for EU or international applicants whose school qualifications are not of an equivalent level to GCSE.
Please check that the course you wish to apply for with us accepts these equivalency tests before booking.
1)    Check that the course you wish to apply for with us accepts these equivalency tests before booking
2)    Apply for a course at the University of Worcester
Please note you are not permitted to take our equivalency tests if you have not applied for a course at the University of Worcester
3)    Complete the online booking and payment form
English sample question paper
English sample extract
Maths sample paper (part 1)
Maths sample paper (part 2)
Maths test preparation
Science test preparation

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/find-a-course/how-to-apply/subject-to-approval.aspx:
Courses shown as ‘subject to approval’ or 'subject to re-approval' have been newly designed or significantly updated, and are in the final stages of approval.
This rigorous approval process is known as ‘Course Approval’ and is undertaken for quality assurance purposes.
The process involves discussions with students, external academics in the subject and potential employers about the proposed curriculum, the student experience and the assessment strategy for the course.
This ensures the best possible course is ready to run at the next intake.
We are keen to display our new and enhanced courses, and aim to give you all the information you require to make your decision about which course to study.
If you have any questions about a course which is subject to approval, please contact:

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/find-a-course/joint-degrees:
Single Honours degrees see you focusing almost entirely on one main subject.
Joint Honours degrees balance two subjects equally, while Major/Minor Honours degrees allow you to combine two subjects but spend a greater amount of time on one than the other.
Whichever you choose, you'll be aiming for the highest academic standards in your studies.
In many subjects it is also possible to transfer from a Joint Honours to Single Honours pathway at the end of the first year.
Why study for a Joint Honours degree?
Support for Joint Honours students
At the University of Worcester we look after you from day one.
During the first few days on campus we run a series of events to help you settle in, find your way around and prepare for university life; this is called Welcome Week.
During Welcome Week we hold an event specifically aimed at Joint Honours students, providing a unique opportunity to meet fellow Joint Honours students from across the University, find out how the Joint Honours degree programme works and what it is like to be a Joint Honours student.
For advice, please contact the University Co-ordinators for the Joint Honours degrees as follows and separated into the relevant schools:
For an example of the joint honours degree structure, please view our sample programme for English Literature and History .
There are opportunities to take work-based learning and work experience modules and to undertake an overseas exchange.
Most of our courses place a lot of emphasis on interactive learning and groupwork, and have a broad range of different kinds of assessment tasks.
Most employers are looking for graduates who have a range of high-level skills and are not necessarily looking for a particular subject knowledge.
Individuals who are adaptable, can solve problems, undertake research and have an ability to work as part of a team and in a diverse range of situations are likely to be well regarded by prospective employers.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/find-a-course/joint-degrees/joint-honours-degree-structure.aspx:
Each subject is made up of modules, some lasting a whole academic year and other modules lasting half a year to enable you to achieve the right balance of core knowledge and skills.
It will also offer you the opportunity to follow your interests.
In Year 1, you study your two subjects in equal weighting.
In year 2, you can opt to:
Your academic tutor will help you plan your studies, review your progress and choose your modules.
In Year 1, you study 60 credits in each subject.
Core modules provide you with the essential foundations of knowledge and skills for undergraduate level study in the subject.
Some subjects permit you to choose from a list of options.
Most subjects have a mix of 30 credit modules taken over the year, to permit you to develop expertise and skills, and 15 credit option modules taken over half a year (a semester) to allow you to select from a range of specialist option.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/find-a-course/joint-degrees/major-minor-honours-degree-structure.aspx:
Each subject is made up of modules, some lasting a whole academic year and other modules lasting half a year.
Therefore, you get the right balance of core knowledge and skills, and scope to follow your interests.
Students opting to take more modules from one subject, take two 30 credit year-long modules from their main subject and then make up their programme from a choice of specialist option modules.
In the second or Minor subject, there is usually again some choice of 30 credit and 15 credit modules.
In the final year, you take an independent study or project module in your Major subject.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/find-a-course/joint-degrees/single-honours-degree-structure.aspx:
Students who opt at the end of Year 1 to switch to Single Honours will have taken the same first year core modules as other Single Honours students, so will have the essential knowledge and core skills for studying the subject, even if it is new to them on entry of the course.
In Year 2, Single Honours students can, therefore, take all their modules from one subject if preferred.
In Year 3, Single Honours students are usually required to take an independent study or project module.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/International:
We have been awarded Top 5 in the UK for Quality Education in all the years of the Times Higher Education’s University Impact Rankings.
Our Campuses have incredible facilities including state-of-the-art Science labs, Healthcare simulation suites, The Art House, a 2000-seat Sports Arena, Lakeside Campus outdoor activity centre and our Business School.
The University of Worcester has been investing over £150 million on facilities to help students across their studies.
Our Library, The Hive , was Britain’s first joint university and public library and was officially opened by Her Majesty The Queen in July 2012.
You can find out more about our facilities on our Campus Facilities webpage.
Our 360 degree virtual tour can help you to explore our University, including our Accommodation, before you arrive.
The University has four main sites:
Discover more information about the entry requirements, scholarships, and visa information for your country of origin.
If your country or area of origin is not listed above, please see our list of Local Representatives Near You or contact the International Team directly via email on international@worc.ac.uk
Worcester is located in one of the most attractive parts of England.
It is situated 45 minutes away from Birmingham by train and 2 hours away from London by road or rail.
Idyllically situated between two areas of outstanding beauty, Worcester is surrounded by the rolling Malvern Hills and the Cotswolds, and offers sensational views of the Severn Valley.
We have car share and bike loan schemes, and subsidised bus tickets are available.
Our standard annual course fees and scholarship opportunities

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/International/international-applicants:
Many students come here for our excellent teaching record and small class sizes.
Some students come to use our state-of-the-art facilities or experience our idyllic, yet exciting city and beautiful parkland campus.
Many students praise the friendly community atmosphere we've created and our first-rate student support.
As well as this, we offer a vast array of specialised, well-taught, and highly flexible courses.
Whatever your reason for choosing Worcester, we offer an excellent environment in which to study and the high-quality teaching you need to get the most from your studies.
You’ll be a part of a truly international student and staff community in a traditional British setting!
The St John’s Campus and the newly developed City Campus have excellent facilities and host a number of cutting-edge specialist centres.
The St John’s Campus is within easy walking distance (no more than 20 minutes) of the City of Worcester , while the City Campus is right at the heart of historic Worcester.
Whilst you're here, consider staying in our top standard student accommodation.
It is a great way to get involved and start an exciting student life at the University of Worcester.
The University has been ranked in the top 5 in the UK for Quality Education in all years of the Times Higher Education’s University Impact Rankings.
The University was shortlisted for Best Student Experience in the annual Student Nursing Times Awards 2022.
96% of Worcester graduates are in work or further study 15 months after graduating (Graduate Outcomes Survey 2022)
Worcester offers all the benefits of a big city combined with the community spirit and safety of a smaller town.
International Recruitment Jenny Lind Building - (Room JL 2026) University of Worcester Worcester WR1 3BB
Telephone: +44 (0)1905 542640 Email: international@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/International/international-applicants/early-payment-discount-for-international-students.aspx:
New this year, if new and continuing international students pay next year's fee for the year in full before 25 July they will receive a £1,000 discount.
Qualifying continuing students should have already received an email from the University of Worcester Finance team letting them know about this valuable new discount, and new students should have heard from the University's Admissions and International teams.
These emails include personalised links to the University's Flywire payment system.
If you have any questions about your payment don't hesitate to get in touch with feesinternational@worc.ac.uk , The University's StudentServices and Money Advice teams are also always available if you have any concerns or questions about any aspect of student life.
If you are a new student you should make the payment via the Flywire link in your email from the University Admissions team.
If you are a continuing student you should make the payment via the Flywire link in your email from the University Finance team or click the "make a payment via Flywire" button on your SOLE page.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/International/international-applicants/english-language-requirements:
If you are currently applying for a pre-degree course (for example pre-sessional or International foundation) and need a Student Visa to study at the University of Worcester, you must have a Secure English Language Test at an approved test centre and it should be an IELTS test for UK visas and Immigration (UKVI) purposes.
6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in each component)
6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in each component)
76 with no less than: Listening 17 Reading 18 Speaking 20 Writing 17
86 with no less than: Listening 17 Reading 18 Speaking 20 Writing 17
59, with no less than 59 in each component
63, with no less than 63 in each component.
Score of 169 overall or above with no less than 160 in each section, equivalent to CEFR B2 score
Score of 176 overall or above with no less than 160 in each section, equivalent to CEFR C score
Score of 169 overall or above with no less than 160 in each component, equivalent to CEFR B2 score
Not accepted for PG level
B2 pass (with no less than B2 pass in each component)
B2 pass with merit (with no less than B2 pass with merit in each component)
65 (with no less than 60 in each component)
70 (with no less than 60 in each component)
A score of 6 overall and no less than 5 in each component
A score of 7 overall and no less than 5 in each component
The University of Worcester accepts a number of other English Language qualifications.
If you have a question about specific English qualifications, please contact the International Recruitment Office at international@worc.ac.uk .
If you have studied or lived in a majority English speaking country, you may not need to prove your English language ability.
You will not need to meet the University of Worcester's or the UK Visas and Immigration's English language requirements if you have successfully completed a qualification equivalent to a taught UK Bachelor's degree in one of these recognised MESCs (list 1) or are from one of these recognised majority English speaking countries (MESCs) (list 2).
Antigua and Barbuda
Australia
The Bahamas
Barbados
Belize
Dominica
Canada
Grenada
Guyana
Ireland
Jamaica
New Zealand
St Kitts and Nevis
St Lucia
St Vincent and the Grenadines
Trinidad and Tobago
The United Kingdom
United States of America
Undergraduate courses usually require a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or 59, with no less than 59 in each component or various Cambridge certificates.
Other equivalent English qualifications will also be considered.
Some courses may require a higher score for professional accreditation or registration.
If you have a question about specific English language qualifications, please contact the International Recruitment Office at international@worc.ac.uk .
Postgraduate courses usually require a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or Pearson 63, with no less than 63 in each component or various Cambridge certificates.
The Centre for Academic English and Skills organises a range of preparatory English Classes for students who need to improve their English before they enrol onto their Bachelor's or Master's courses.
For full details of the courses, please visit the Centre for Academic English and Skills .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/International/international-applicants/arriving-in-worcester.aspx:
If you can, we advise you book a flight which brings you into Birmingham.
Birmingham International Airport is a regional airport and is usually very quick and easy to get through immigration and customs.
Birmingham International Airport is also the closest airport and has excellent low cost train links to Worcester.
If you prefer to travel by taxi, it would take around an hour to drive from Birmingham International Airport to Worcester.
This is a more expensive option but might be useful if you are travelling with a lot of luggage.
Once your travel plans are arranged please submit the details on CAS Shield so that we can be prepared to welcome you.
Please remember to let us know when to expect you and can be prepared for your arrival.
If you will be living in University of Worcester accommodation, please make your way to Main Reception on St.
John’s campus and a member of staff will be waiting to help you.
The International Experience Team is here to welcome you to the University of Worcester and to help you settle into your new home.
We offer pre-arrival advice on topics such as visas and immigration, healthcare, banking and items you should bring with you.
During your first few days at the University, our International Induction will help you navigate your way around the campus and city, make friends with fellow students, access everything you need to acclimatize to your new home, and prepare for your academic studies.
International Experience St Johns Campus University of Worcester WR2 6AJ
Telephone: +44 (0)1905 855146 Email: international-experience@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/International/international-applicants/visas-and-immigration.aspx:
If required, applying for your visa is an essential part to international study.
You can find out more information on what a visa is, how to apply for a visa, and how to gain a CAS letter.
Students who are not UK or Irish nationals need to have some form of immigration permission to study in the UK.
Most students will be sponsored under the student route if they do not hold another type of immigration permission (such as the EU settlement scheme) which already allows study in the UK.
The University of Worcester is a Higher Education Provider (HEP) with a track record of compliance, which allows us to sponsor international students.
To apply for your Student Route visa, you need a Confirmation of Acceptance for Study (CAS) number from us.
We will send this to you once you have met all the offer conditions, confirmed your place and met any eligibility criteria for the CAS.
You may need to attend a credibility interview before a CAS is issued, which satisfies that you are a genuine student and that your English Language ability is at the correct level.
This process is undertaken by our Admissions and International Experience Teams.
The earliest we can issue a CAS to applicants is 6 months before the course start date (provided all the conditions are met).
Once you have your CAS and have prepared your supporting documents you will then be able to complete your visa application on student visa .
You should ensure to do this as soon as possible to allow sufficient time to arrive.
For information on current visa application processing times please visit v isa decision waiting times: applications outside the UK on the UK government website.
The Home Office may contact you about your application via email therefore you must regularly check the email account that you used in your visa application (including your spam/junk folders).
If you receive any communications from the Home Office you must respond to them as soon as possible.
We want to give our international students all the support they need to meet their immigration conditions.
We don't want you to have any problems with your visa, so our Admissions and International Experience teams are available to help you through the process and we will be in regular contact with applicants.
You may find the following websites helpful:

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/International/international-applicants/fees-scholarships-and-loans.aspx:
The University of Worcester wants to help our students as much as we can by keeping our tuition fees as low as possible and by giving you additional support through our scholarship schemes.
Tuition fees are reviewed annually and usually increase in line with inflation.
University of Worcester has partnered with Flywire to accept payments from international students worldwide.
Flywire allows you, your parents or sponsors to pay your student fees in the currency of your choice in a simple and secure way.
Flywire offers the following benefits:
Paying via our Flywire online payment portal is the University’s accepted method of payment for international students.
Please refer to your offer letter or official University communication to make payments using Flywire.
Please be aware that withdrawal from the University may have implications for your immigration status and the University of Worcester is legally obliged to inform UKVI that you are no longer a registered student for which you have been granted leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.
The deposit paid by international students of 50% of the tuition fee is non-refundable , however in exceptional circumstances we may consider a refund after deducting administrative costs of £500.
Requests for refunds, including supporting documentary evidence, should be made by email to creditcontrol@worc.ac.uk within 3 months of the deposit payment date.
See the University's Admissions Terms and Conditions document for more information.
The 2025/26 Tuition Fees – Home and EU Undergraduate Students and 2025/26 Tuition Fees – International Students documents give a complete list of tuition fees for undergraduate students joining the University in the 2025/26 academic year.
The 2025/26 Tuition Fees – Home and EU Postgraduate and 2025/26 Tuition Fees – International Students documents give a complete list of tuition fees for postgraduate students joining the University in the 2025/26 academic year.
The 2026/27 Tuition Fees – Home and EU Undergraduate Students and 2026/27 Tuition Fees – International Students documents give a complete list of tuition fees for undergraduate students joining the University in the 2026/27 academic year.
The 2026/27 Tuition Fees – Home and EU Postgraduate and 2026/27 Tuition Fees – International Students documents give a complete list of tuition fees for postgraduate students joining the University in the 2025/26 academic year.
Unlike many universities we charge home tuition fees to EU students on most of our courses (check individual course pages for exceptions).
The UK Government has announced that it will increase home tuition fees by 3.1% from the 2025/26 academic cycle.
Subject to approval, the University intends to increase our tuition fees in line with this and as per our terms and conditions.
This means that from September 2025 our standard annual undergraduate home and EU tuition fee will be £9,535.
Students have to be studying full-time to be eligible for any of the scholarships and bursaries.
Only one scholarship or bursary can be redeemed by each student, with the exception of the early payment discount which can be added to any other amount.
The scholarships and bursaries do not apply to our graduate entry Medicine MBChB course, but students are still eligible for the early payment discount.
Depending on your academic achievement you are automatically awarded a scholarship on full-time programmes, please see the table below for more information.
• 144 UCAS points or equivalent
• Direct entry with grades equivalent to 1st Class
• 128 UCAS points or equivalent
• Direct entry with grades equivalent to 2:1
• 112 UCAS points or equivalent
• Direct entry with grades equivalent to 2:2
UK 1st class honours 2:1, or equivalent
OR
In partnership with the British Council and the GREAT Britain Campaign, University of Worcester is offering 2 scholarships to students in Kenya and Turkey applying for one-year postgraduate courses.
The GREAT Scholarships 2025 programme, launched by the British Council together with 71 UK universities, supports postgraduate students to access world class UK higher education opportunities.
The scholarship programme offers financial support of a minimum of £10,000 to students pursuing one-year postgraduate study in the UK.
The GREAT Scholarships are jointly funded by University of Worcester with the UK government’s GREAT Britain Campaign and the British Council.
The scholarship offered are as follows:
Applicants who have applied for distance learning programmes are not eligible.
The GREAT scholarship cannot be combined with any other scholarship or bursary.
Application deadline 31 May 2025
For more information on the GREAT Scholarships 2025, please visit Study UK .
Eligibility
How to apply
Applicants must complete a GREAT scholarship application form by 31 May 2025.
If you have any questions, please contact our International team via international@worc.ac.uk
The University awards scholarships of £1,000 to eligible undergraduate students in their second and third year of a degree course at the University.
Students do not apply for these scholarships as they are awarded to eligible students who achieve 120 credits at Grade A- or higher during the 23/24 academic year.
If you have an outstanding record of achievement in a particular sport and want to combine this talent with study at a university with a proven reputation, then you may be eligible for a sports scholarship at Worcester.
Our sports scholarships and bursaries represent a very special partnership with some of the region’s top sports teams, including Worcestershire County Cricket Club (WCCC), Worcester Hockey Club and Worcester Wolves Basketball Club.
Visit the Sports Scholarships page for more details.
University of Worcester EU and non-EU graduates who have successfully completed a BA, BSc or LLB award and then move on to a full-time Masters, or Masters students who progress to a full-time MPhil or PhD course, will receive a 20% reduction in their tuition fees if they apply without the help of an agent.
Family/Sibling bursary is available to the sibling, spouse or child of someone who is either currently studying on, or has graduated from, a full-time course at the University of Worcester.
The eligible applicants will receive a 15% discount on their tuition fees if they apply without the help of an agent.
Students may also apply for a range of scholarships and funding provided by UK and International Government bodies, the European Commission, Funding Trusts and a number of research councils, industry and employers.
Details for funding opportunities from the British Council can be found on their website.
Download our booklet explaining what financial aid is available for American students .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/International/preparing-to-study-at-worcester:
Our Welcome to Worcester webpages offer plenty of information about starting your study at Worcester as well as social events over your Welcome Period.
Be sure to check out these pages regularly as we update them with new events and information in the run up to the Welcome Festival period.
Once you’ve received and accepted your offer to study with us, and your CAS, UK visa and accommodation are organised, there’s a few more things to think about:
Prepare for Success is a learning website for international students who are getting ready to travel to the UK for study in higher education.
You can choose 'study pathways' if you would like to search by skill or topic, practise your language skills, find out about cultural differences, or find out about individual aspects of academic life in the UK by searching for them on the site.
The International Induction is our opportunity to welcome you to Worcester and the UK and to prepare you for your time with us.
International students are invited to attend an international induction during which you will have an opportunity to get over jet lag and begin to address any culture shock you may be experiencing as well as meeting other international students and getting to know Worcester and the UK.
Experience has shown that attending this induction is very valuable and an indicator of future success.
During this time, you will meet the International Experience team and learn about the support they can offer during your time studying with us.
International BSc Nursing students are expected to arrive earlier than students studying other subjects.
As an international student, you are a member of the university family from the start and have access to all the same excellent academic, emotional, and practical support as home students.
However, we recognise that while moving to the UK to study is exciting, getting settled into a new country with different languages, food and currency can also feel daunting.
We have created a specialist International Student Support webpage to help you.
Once you arrive in the UK you can improve your academic English and language skills by utilising the support offered at our Centre for Academic English and Skills .
The Centre runs pre-sessional English courses for improvement before your lectures start and academic English courses, including one-to-one sessions.
Our starting at university webpage is filled with information about accessing WiFi on campus and using Multi Factor Authentication when you arrive here.
Explore our facilities and find out more about our Campuses with our 360-degree virtual tours.
Facebook
Twitter
Student Life Blog
YouTube
TikTok

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/International/preparing-to-study-at-worcester/banking-and-finance.aspx:
As an international student there are many good reasons for getting a UK bank account.
It can give you easy access to money whenever you need it and make it easier to pay your fees.
The UK has a variety of bank providers, such as Barclays, HSBC and NatWest.
They have physical branches across the country, along with ATMs to access quick banking features.
There are many banks in Worcester and St John's where you can open a FREE current account; if you are willing to pay a small premium each month you can opt for an International Student Account which may offer useful benefits.
Be sure that you ask what benefits you are getting for your money.
With the major bank providers in the UK, you'll be able to access international finances, including travellers cheques and international transfers.
For up-to-date guidance on choosing and opening a bank account as an international student, including the types of accounts available and what documents you’ll need, visit the UKCISA advice page on opening a bank account .
To open your account you will need to show your passport or national identity card and take a bank letter which can be downloaded from your SOLE page on your student login.
There are a number of international and UK online bank accounts that you can open quickly and easily online or via an app.
The accounts on offer vary but they will provide you with a bank card and account details that can be used within the UK.
Listed below are a few examples of online bank accounts which are offered within the UK.
Different bank accounts will offer different incentives, so it is advised to research which bank will suit your needs best.
Starling bank is another online UK based bank offering a range of accounts including Euro and multi-currency accounts.
Applying for an account takes 5-10 minutes and is completed online.
When opening a bank account, you'll have the option of two types of account:
A current account will provide you with instant access to your finances.
This includes a variety of facilities to make financing easier, such as standing orders and a debit card.
A savings account means that interest rates will be added to your money, but you may not be able to withdraw your money within the same working day.
It also does not provide the same facilities as a current account, such as direct debit.
Once you have completed your course, you'll need to arrange with your bank to close your account.
This will mean you will either transfer the remaining funds to your home bank or withdraw it as cash.
It may be useful to set a reminder to do this about two weeks before finishing, to give banks enough time to successfully close your account.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/International/preparing-to-study-at-worcester/healthcare.aspx:
In the UK doctors are called General Practitioners (GPs) and they are usually based in Health care Centres called ‘Surgeries’.
If you have an accident or need urgent treatment, you should go to an Accident and Emergency unit in a hospital.
You can call an ambulance by dialling 999.
We advise all students to register with the local medical services so that you can easily access medical assistance as and when you need throughout your study.
When registering, you will be asked to fill out a couple of forms to provide them with your contact details and medical history.
Some surgeries may ask for proof of identity when you register.
Henwick Halt Medical Centre 1 Ingles Drive Telephone: 01905 422 883
St John’s House Surgery 299 Bromyard Rd, Worcester WR2 5FB Telephone: 01905 421 688
Haresfield Surgery 37 Newtown Road – Tel.
0845 450 1924
Spring Gardens Group Medical Practice Spring Gardens Telephone: 01905 744 400
Farrier House Surgery Farrier Street Telephone: 01905 879 100
If you are an international student and are studying for more than 6 months, you can register at these surgeries.
They will also accept students who have their own medical insurance.
A full list of local GPs , and hard copies are also available from Firstpoint.
You can call NHS 111 or access the 111 system online if you urgently need medical help or advice but it's not a life-threatening situation.
You can also call NHS 111 if you're not sure which NHS service you might need.
Worcestershire Royal Hospital – includes Accident and Emergency unit
Charles Hastings Way, Newtown Road Telephone: 01905 763 333 Further surgeries and hospitals can be found on www.nhs.uk
Further information about hospital services is available on the NHS website.
Details of local dentists can be found at www.nhs.uk
If you need help in finding a NHS dentist in the Worcester area, telephone: 01905 760 111 or (out of office hours): 0845 609 0669.
As a student you may be eligible to apply for help with the following health care costs:
NHS prescriptions
NHS dental treatment
sight tests, classes and contact lenses
travel to receive NHS treatment
NHS wigs and fabric supports
Apply for help with healthcare costs by completing an HC1 form.
Forms are available from firstpoint or from the Students' Union .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/International/preparing-to-study-at-worcester/working-while-you-study.aspx:
As an International student, you may have student immigration permission that allows you to take employment to work up to 20 hours a week during term-time.
This depends on when you made your immigration application, where you are studying and the type of course you are taking.
You can work full-time during your holidays and on work placements.
Working part-time can provide you with a ‘background’ in a particular profession or sector and can supply you with a useful referee outside of the University.
It also allows you to build networking contacts and puts you in a strong position if you later apply for a full time job within that organisation as staff will already recognise your strengths.
Work experience can be a vital way for students to build their CVs and acquire transferable skills.
Evidence of a student’s previous work roles can prove to potential employers that they have relevant knowledge, are motivated and that they are reliable.
Find out more about Earn as you Learn.
I’ve had the opportunities to enhance my portfolio with press, social media and photography projects related to national and international events.
Dina Thomas - A Marketing, Advertising and PR graduate who, whilst studying, worked as a student ambassador, press officer, photographer and events co-ordinator.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/International/preparing-to-study-at-worcester/your-mobile-phone.aspx:
When you get here, you may wish to use a UK SIM card in your current mobile phone or you may wish to sign up for a mobile phone contract in the UK - a new contract may include a new phone handset.
Many mobile phone shops in the UK can advise you on mobile phone contracts or sim only deals.
When signing up for contracts in the UK you may be asked to supply your passport or another form of photo ID.
A locked phone can only be used with a specific network and you may not be able to use a new SIM card in the phone when you arrive in the UK.
It is sometimes possible to get phones unlocked, however, this is not possible with all models.
If your phone is unlocked, you can use a UK SIM card in it on your arrival.
SIM only phone deals are available across the UK.
If you are arriving in the UK from Asia or the USA you should consider getting a new phone contract and a new phone as these countries operate in a CDMA band, which is different to the UK.
If you arrive from one of these areas and your phone does work, it may be very expensive to call home or even call local numbers.
UK SIM Cards are available at all high street mobile phone shops, it's best to shop around for the best deal.
UK has 4G or 4G+ mobile coverage, some larger cities have 5G connectivity.
Isolated parts of the UK may only have 2G or 3G coverage.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/International/international-student-support.aspx:
From the moment you apply to study here to the day of your graduation, we’ll make sure you get all the support you need to make the most of your Worcester student experience and fully realise your potential.
During our International Welcome programme, we’ll be on hand to support you as you get to grips with life as a student in the UK.
There will be plenty of social activities to make sure that you quickly meet new friends, and you’ll find out all about the advice and information that is available to every University of Worcester international student.
More information about your international induction can be found on MyDay.
The International Experience Team offers advice on every aspect of life as an international student in the UK.
The Team also organises activities and events for our international students.
You’ll never be short of an opportunity to learn all about life in the UK and at Worcester.
If you have any concerns or queries throughout your time at the University of Worcester, please don't hesitate to contact us at: international-experience@worc.ac.uk
Whether you’re a home or international students, starting university is likely to be different from anything that you’ve done before.
You’ll experience modern classroom technologies, often for the first time, and UK university learning can be very different from your previous studies.
More information about what teaching is like at university can be found on our Welcome Festival webpages.
University learning is based around lectures and seminars.
Seminars in particular will give you opportunities to develop your ideas through conversations and discussions with other students and tutors.
Independent study is also a key element of university learning, and you’ll probably spend a lot of time in our beautiful Hive library.
Our dedicated study skills website can help you with writing assignments, preparing for exams, navigating academic integrity and so much more!
Our study support webpages also cover many of the people and services at The University of Worcester who can offer advice and support, helping you to make informed decisions about your study.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/International/local-representatives-near-you.aspx:
We work with a network of local representatives worldwide.
All of them listed here hold a contract with the University of Worcester.
They offer professional guidance to international applicants and students on studying opportunities at Worcester.
We do not have a representative in your country at the moment.
If you are interested in studying at Worcester and you need any specific information, please contact us at international@worc.ac.uk or call us at +44 (0)1905 542640
Academic requirements: Please contact the international recruitment office.
Telephone: +44 (0)1905 542640
Email: international@worc.ac.uk
English Language requirements: Cameroon GCE O-Level English Language at C or above, or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component).
Other equivalent English qualifications will be considered.
Academic requirements: Pass the bachelor’s degree with at least Second-Class Lower Division or with a GPA 2.7 or grade 'assez bien' or 12
English Language requirements: Cameroon GCE O-Level English Language at C or above, or a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component).
Address: C/O CCIB-CI, Plateau Avenue Delafosse Prolongee, Immeuble Pelieu 4ème étage, Porte 11, Abidjan
Google Maps Location
Telephone: +225 564 36 59 89
Website: https://myinternationaloffice.co.uk/
Email: abidjan@myio.org.uk
Contact: Peggie Ayekaho
Academic requirements: Brevet de Technicien Superieur / Certificat d'Aptitude Pédagogique pour les Collèges d'Enseignment Général / Diplôme d'Etudes Economiques Générales (DEEG) / Diplôme d'Etudes Juridiques Générales (DEJG) / Diplôme d'Etudes Universitaires Générales (DEUG) / Diplôme Universitaire d'Etudes Littéraires (DUEL) / Diplôme Universitaire d'Etudes Scientifiques (DUES) / Diplôme Universitaire de Technologie with at least 14 out of 20 or higher.
English Language requirements: A minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component).
Academic requirements : Diplome d’Etude Approfondies/Diplome d’Etude Superieures Specialisees/ Diplôme d’État de Docteur en Pharmacie/ Diplôme d'État de Docteur en Médecine/ Master with at least 12 out of 20 or higher.
English Language requirements: A minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component).
Applicants with the General Secondary School Certificate (Thanaweya A'ama or Al-Azhar) combined with a successfully completed and recognised International Foundation Programme and an IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in each component) will be considered for admission to our Undergraduate degree courses.
Pass the Egyptian Bachelor degree with a minimum of 65% or higher, with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Mile 7 Aku Link, Pentecost Junction Phone: +233 554 717 878,  +233 554 914 101 Email: info@centurynit.com Website: https://centurynitconsult.com/
Santasi, Adjacent the post office Phone: +233 545 130 650, +233 537 594 408 Email: info@centurynit.com Website: https://centurynitconsult.com/
The Orangery, 89 La Bawaleshi Road, East Legon, Accra, Ghana.
GA-414-2890 East Legon Telephone: +233 24 324 5355 Website: https://www.idp.com/ghana/store-finder/
Address: Atlantic Tower, 6th and 7th Floor, Liberation Road, Airport City, Accra, Ghana
Telephone: +233 592 899 660
Email: ghana@myio.org.uk
Contact: Nana Ameyaw
79 Gateway Road, CP Junction Kasoa, Accra, Ghana Phone: +233302952887 accra@studyin-uk.com www.studyin-uk.com/ghana
Academic requirements: Applicants with the Senior School Certificate (West African Examinations Council (NECO)) combined with a successfully completed and recognised International Foundation Programme.
English Language requirements: WAEC or NECO C6 or above, or an IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in each component).
In addition, applicants with WAEC or NECO qualification are required to attend an English Language interview with the University of Worcester Centre for Academic English and Skills.
Academic requirements: Pass the Ghanaian Bachelor degree with 2:2 (CGPA 2.51 - 3.24) or above
English Language requirements: WAEC or NECO English Language at C6 or above, or a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component).
Epic Business Park, GB2 (Ground Floor) Links Road, Nyali Mombasa, Kenya Tel: +254 114214741 , +254 714185930 Email: info@craydel.com Website: https://craydel.com/
The Pavilion, 1st Floor, Lower Kabete Road, Nairobi, Kenya Email : Ebba.Broome@craydel.com Website: https://craydel.com/
9th Floor, Fortis Tower, Woodvale Grove, Nairobi, Kenya Email: info@uniserveducation.com Tel: +254 734 004 003 Website: https://www.uniserveducation.com/contact
4th Floor Texas Building, Next to Nyali Cinemax, Nyali Road Email: msa@uniserveducation.com Phone: +254 41 4472108 | +254 729 575 173 | +254 735 091 072 Website: https://www.uniserveducation.com/contact
2nd Floor, Euro Towers 27 Muthithi Road, Westlands, Nairobi 00800 Telephone: +254 719284278 Email: miriam.gunda@idp.com
G-01, Madonna House, Westlands Road, Westlands, P.o Box 12830-00400, Nairobi Telephone: +254 (0) 755688242 , +254 (0) 755688247 , +254 (0) 755688253 Email: nairobi@studyin-uk.com Website: www.studyin-uk.com/kenya
Academic requirements: Applicants with an A-level exam at BBC or higher or completing KCSE with a B average in eight subjects.
English Language requirements: Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) English Language at C or above, or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component).
Academic requirements: Pass the bachelor’s degree with at least grade C, satisfactory or 50-59%
English Language requirements: Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) English Language at C or above, or a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component).
Location: Casablanca, Morocco Address: Casablanca, Spaces Anfa Place West Entrance Tower, Level 1 Anfa Place, Corniche Boulevard, Ain Diab Website: www.studycare.ma Contact details: info@studycare.ma / +212624101013
Academic requirements: Applicants withMoroccan Baccalaureate with at least 14/20 for Direct Entry to Bachelor's degree / French Baccalaureate with at least 12/20 for Direct Entry to Bachelor's degree.
Academic requirements : Applicants with Diplôme du Cycle Normal / Diplôme d'Ēcoles/Nationales de Commerce et de Gestion / Diplôme d'Ingénieur d'État with at least 12 out of 20 or higher.
UK University Consultants for West African Students
Website: www.tjbsynergy.com Instagram: @tjbsynergyeducation WhatsApp: +44 (0) 7828 591139
Locations include: Kano, Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt, Ibadan, and Enugu.
Website: https://www.idp.com/nigeria/education-counsellor-office-finder/
1 Emmanuel Folohunso Close, Badore Road.
Ajah.
Lagos.
Nigeria Telephone: +234-803-842-0897 Email: admissions@intedpro.com Website: https://intedpro.com/contact/
3rd floor, Nurses Building, Churchgate Street, Victoria Island, Lagos.
Email: ronalddesk@ronald-partners.com Telephone: +234(1)2953655 Website: https://ronald-partners.net/pages/contact-us.html
38 Opebi Road, Adebola House Ikeja.
Telephone: +234 808 803 7719 Email: Nigeria@unilink.com.cy Website: https://unilink.com.ng/
Maben Terrance, LFS Maben Rd Off Northern Foreshore Rd Off Chevron Drive Lekki, Lagos, Nigeria Telephone: +2348133918219 Email: uk.direct@holmeseducation.group Website: www.HolmesEducationGroup.com
14, Ayo Rosiji Street, off Oduduwa crescent, Ikeja GRA, Lagos.
Email : chidinma.uzodinma@craydel.com Website: https://craydel.com/
Address: Catherine House, 6, Idowu Lane, Off Salvation Road, Opebi, Ikeja, Lagos
Telephone: +234 9099809701
Email: lagos@myio.org.uk
Contact: Charles Okoye
Plot 104, Emmanuel Adiele Street, Off Mike Akhigbe Way, Jabi 240102, Cube Hub, Block 4, 2nd floor.
Tel: +234 09165559090 Email : chidinma.uzodinma@craydel.com Website: https://craydel.com/
38 Gana Street Maitama Abuja Telephone: +2348068286947 Email: hello@school-finders.co.uk
Address: 42, Suez Crescent, Wuse Zone 4 Beside Sheraton Hotel Abuja Telephone: +234 908 015 9222 Email: info@jestoneedu.com Website: https://www.jestoneedu.com/
Address: Novare Central Shared Office, 1st Floor, Novare Central Mall, Dalaba Street, Off Michael Okpara Way, Wuse Zone 5, Abuja
Telephone: +234 8106252000
Email: abuja@myio.org.uk
Contact: Elizabeth Adesanya
14B ADA-GEORGE ROAD By mini Orlu junction besides Maryvic Int'l School Port Harcourt Nigeria Email: macconphc@gmail.com
Address: Kano City, Kano
Telephone: +234 913 894 3054
Email: kano@myio.org.uk
Contact: Linda Ndukwu
Academic requirements: Applicants with the Senior School Certificate (West African Examinations Council (WAEC) or National Examinations Council (NECO)) combined with a successfully completed and recognised International Foundation Programme.
Academic requirements: Pass the Nigerian Bachelor degree with a 2:2 or above.
Address: le Plateau, building 12, Azur 15, Bd Djily Mbaye, Dakar 50555, Senega
Telephone: +221 787349179
Email: dakar@myio.org.uk
Contact: Peggie Ayekaho
Academic requirements : Applicants with Brevet de Technicien Supérieur (BTS)/ Diplôme d'Ingénieur Technologue (DIT) / Diplôme de Technicien Supérieur (DTS) / Diplôme Universitaire de Technologie (DUT) / Diplome d'Etudes Universitaires Generales / Diplôme Universitaire d'Études Scientifiques / Littéraires with at least 14 out of 20 or higher.
Academic requirements : Applicants withDiplôme d'État de Docteur en Médecine/ Diplôme d'Ingénieur/ Diplôme de Docteur en Chirurgie Dentaire/ Diplôme de Pharmacien/ Diplôme d'Études Approfondies/ Diplôme d'Études Supérieures Specialisées/ Maîtrise with at least 12 out of 20 or higher.
Academic requirements: Students that have taken the National Senior Certificate and obtained passes in five or more subjects (with a minimum of three at grade 6 and two at grade 5) and students that have taken the Senior Certificate (with matriculation endorsement) with minimum grades BBBCC could be considered for 1st year entry.
English Language requirements:
An applicant can be considered to have met our English language entry requirements if they have consistently studied in the English language and obtained a minimum grade of 3 on the National Senior Certificate or a grade of C on the Senior Certificate (with matriculation endorsement).
Academic requirements: Pass the bachelor’s degree with at least 2 nd class division 2 or 60%-69%
English Language requirements: An applicant can be considered to have met our English language entry requirements if he or she has consistently studied in the English language and obtained a minimum grade of 3 on the National Senior Certificate or a grade of C on the Senior Certificate (with matriculation endorsement).
English Language requirements: CSE (Certificate of Secondary Education) English Language at C or above, or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component).
Academic requirements: Pass the bachelor’s degree with at least 2:2 (Second class lower division).
English Language requirements: CSE (Certificate of Secondary Education) English Language at C or above, or a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component).
English Language requirements: UCE English Language at C6 or above, or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component).
Academic requirements: Pass the bachelor’s degree with at least 2:2 (Second class lower division) or 3.0 – 3.9 GPA.
English Language requirements: UCE English Language at C6 or above, or a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component).
Address: Kemp House, 160 City Road, London EC1V 2NX Phone: 44330 094 8668 Email: noemi@ga24care.co.uk
Academic requirements: Zimbabwe General Certificate of Education at Advance Level with al least BBC or higher.
English Language requirements: Grade C or above on the Zimbabwe General Certificate of Education at Ordinary Level or the General Certificate of Education Advanced Level, or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component).
Academic requirements: Pass the bachelor’s degree with at least 2:2 (Second class lower division) or 60%.
English Language requirements: Grade C or above on the Zimbabwe General Certificate of Education at Ordinary Level or the General Certificate of Education Advanced Level, or a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component).
Address: House N.
6, Street 574, Boeung Kak II, Toul Kork, Phnom Penh
Email: sen.pidet@springboard4cambodia.com
Office location: #46, Street 214, Sangkat Boeung Raing, Khan Daun Penh, Phnom Penh
Phone: (855) 23 212 113
Office location: #0896, High School Road, Wat Bo Village, Sala Kamreuk Commune, Siem Reap
Phone: (855) 63 964 321
Applicants with the Diploma of Upper Secondary Education with Grade C or above, AND Foundation Year Certificate with GPA 3.0 or above OR Foundation Year at a recognized UK institution with an English Language qualification which is the equivalent to an IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent will be considered for admission to our Undergraduate degree courses.
Pass the Cambodian Masters degree with a minimum of 2.50 or C+ or 65 - 69% , AND an IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Office location: GoWork ASG Tower Level 15th Jl.
Boulevard Pantai Indah Kapuk No.
1 Kav.
OFS Jakarta Utara 14470
Phone: 0851 7422 9909
Other IDP Indonesia offices: Study Abroad Consultants | IDP Education
10A, Nadayu 28 Dagang, Jalan PJS 11/7, Bandar Sunway, 47500, Subang Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia.
WhatsApp: +6012-3697213
malaysia@ukec.com
Office location: 6th Floor, (West Block), Wisma Golden Eagle Realty, (formerly known as Wisma Selangor Dredging), Jalan Ampang 50450 Kuala Lumpur
Phone: 03-27879786
Applicants with the Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (STPM) (Higher School Certificate) with a minimum GPA of 2.33 and an IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in each component) will be considered for admission to our Undergraduate degree courses.
Pass the Malaysian Bachelor degree (3/4 years) with a 2:2 or above, with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Associate degree/ Diploma with minimum of 50-59% (B-/B).
Undergraduate courses require a minimum IELTS of 6.0, Pearson 51 or Cambridge Advanced C.
Bachelor degree in professional subjects (5 or more years) with minimum of 60% or GPA of 3.5/ 5.
Postgraduate courses require a minimum IELTS of 6.5, Pearson 59 or Cambridge Advanced B.
Office location: Unit 1 and 8B Level 21 Tower 2 The Enterprise Center, 6766 Ayala Avenue corner Paseo De Roxas, Barangay San Lorenzo
Other offices in Philippines: please find here: Study Abroad Consultants | IDP Education
Address: 139/85 Moo 1, Samed, Muang, Chon Buri 20000, Thailand Phone: +66(0)38113435 Email: veerathip@smart-globe.com
Office location: ชั้น 4 ซีพีทาวเวอร์ 313 ถ.
สีลม บางรัก กรุงเทพมหานคร
Phone: 66 2 638 3111
Other offices in Thailand please find here: Study Abroad Consultants | IDP Education
1 อาคาร Vasu01, ชั้น G ห้อง G01 ซอยสุขุมวิท 25, ถนนสุขุมวิท วัฒนา กรุงเทพฯ 10110
T: +02-260-6033
E: bangkok@studyin-uk.com
Applicants with the Certificate of Secondary Education/ Maw 6 combined with a successfully completed and recognised International Foundation Programme and Maw 6 with good grades as well as a IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in each component) will be considered for admission to our Undergraduate degree courses.
Pass the Thai Bachelor degree with a minimum score of 2.3, with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent
Address: 1st Floor, 83A Ly Thuong Kiet, Hanoi Phone: (+84) 024 3941 1906 Email: hanoi@isc-intake.com
Address: 8th Floor, Daeha Building, 360 Kim Ma, Hanoi (entrance gate 2 Dao Tan) Phone: (+84) 024 3792 5288 Email: hanoiwest@isc-intake.com
Address: 5th  Floor, 35 Mac Dinh Chi St.
Da Kao Ward, District 1, Ho Chi Minh City Phone: (+84) 028 3824 6622 Email: hochiminh@isc-intake.com
Address: 3th Floor, 172 Bui Thi Xuan St., Dist.1, Ho Chi Minh city Ho Chi Minh City Vietnam Phone: +84 28 3929 3998 Email: hochiminh@studyin-uk.com Website: www.studyin-uk.com/vietnam
Address: 4th Floor, 54-56 Tue Tinh St., Hai Ba Trung Dist., Hanoi Vietnam Phone: +84 24 3972 6849 Email: hanoi@studyin-uk.com Website: www.studyin-uk.com/vietnam
Office location: Lầu 14 - 77 Trần Nhân Tôn, Phường 9, Quận 5, TP.
Hồ Chí Minh Phone: +84 19006955 Other IDP Vietnam offices: Study Abroad Consultants | IDP Education
3th flr, 172 Bui Thi Xuan St.,Dist.1, Ho Chi Minh city, Ho Chi Minh Phone: +84 28 3929 3998 hochiminh@studyin-uk.com www.studyin-uk.com/vietnam
Applicants with the Upper Secondary School Graduation Certificate combined with a successfully completed and recognised International Foundation Programme and an IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in each component) will be considered for admission to our Undergraduate degree courses.
Pass the Bang tot nghiep dai hoc (Bachelors degree) with an overall average of 6.0 from a recognised Vietnamese institution.
With a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Room 2601, Tower C Oriental Media Centre, No.4 Guanghua Road Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100026
Telephone: (86) 10 5870 2114 / 5779 1851 Email: indexbj@indexedu.com
6FU-15 Office Building, JW .Marriott Hotel, No.77 Qingnian Road Yuzhong District, Chongqing City P.R.China, 400010
Telephone: (86) 23 6384 7981 Email: indexchongqing@indexedu.com
Room 2105, Building B, Fengde Wanrui Centre, 7 Xinxiwang Road, Wuhou District, Chengdu
Telephone: (86) 28 85320798 Email: indexchengduxingzheng@indexedu.com
Room 3411, R&F Yingxin Building No.28 Huaxia Road, Tianhe District, Guangzhou 510623
Telephone: (86) 20 3803 1937 Email: indexguangzhou@indexedu.com Website: www.indexedu.com.cn
Room 801, Building A Yinghua Mansion, No.2 North Luoshi Road Hongshan District, Wuhan, 430074
Telephone: (86) 27 8787 0205 / 8787 0208 Email: indexwuhan@indexedu.com Website: www.indexedu.com.cn
Room 506 Longyu International Business Square, No 329 Hengfeng Road, Shanghai, 200070
Telephone: (86) 21-52127971 Email: indexshanghai@indexedu.com Website: www.indexedu.com.cn
Suite 306, Building l, 106 Zhongjiang Road Code: 200062 86-21-32552215
Website: http://www.yucui.org/
Room 704, Feidiao International Building, No.
1065 Zhaojiabang Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai
T: +008615601601917
E: shanghai@studyin-uk.com
Room 1312, Landmark Plaza, no 2 North Jiefang Road Xuzhou Jiangsu 221005
Telephone: (86) 516 8361 8369 Email: indexxuzhou@indexedu.com Website: www.indexedu.com.cn
Room 1412, Pingan Insurance Mansion No.68 Jingsan Road Zhengzhou Henan 450018
Office Manager: Anne Li Telephone: (86) 0371 6582 6136 Email: indexzhengzhou@indexedu.com Website: www.indexedu.com.cn
Applicants with the Chinese University / College Entrance Examination (Gaokao) combined with a successfully completed and a recognised foundation qualification or Gaokao (NCEE) with good results (500 out of 750 for most provinces) and an IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in each component) will be considered for admission to our Undergraduate degree courses.
Pass the Chinese Bachelor degree from a recognised institution with a minimum of 70% or higher, with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent
Office location: Room 2807 - 09, Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong
Phone: +852 21793600
Office location: Room 1202-05, 12/F, T.O.P This is Our Place, 700 Nathan Road, Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong
Phone: +852 21787000
Office: Room 1309, Tai Yau Building, 181 Johnston Road, Wan Chai, Hong Kong Phone: +852 6513 5719, +85229678009, +85229678199 Fax: +85229678959 hongkong@studyin-uk.com www.studyin-uk.hk
Applicants with the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) with grades of 4,4,4 with minimum of 4 in English Language (no component less than 3) will be considered for admission to our Undergraduate degree courses.
Pass the Hong Kong Bachelor degree (3/4 years) with a minimum of 2.7 or higher, with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Office: Takagi Building 3F, Kamiosaki 2−15−14, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo-to, Tokyo 1410021 Phone: 03-5272-9143 tokyo@ukeducation.jp www.ukeducation.jp
Applicants with the Upper Secondary School Leaving Certificate combined with a successfully completed and recognised International Foundation Programme and an IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in each component) will be considered for admission to our Undergraduate degree courses.
Pass the Japanese Bachelor degree (Gakushi) with a minimum of 70% or higher, with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Office location:서울특별시 서초구 서초대로77길 61 S&G TOWER 11층, 12층 Phone: +82 2-550-0303
Undergraduate courses require a minimum IELTS of 6.0, Pearson 51 or Cambridge Advanced C.
Postgraduate courses require a minimum IELTS of 6.5, Pearson 59 or Cambridge Advanced B.
6F-2, No 216, Section 1, Hoping East Road Taipei City Taiwan
Office location: 臺北市大安區忠孝東路四段169號7樓
Phone: 02 2778 2600
Other Taiwan offices: Study Abroad Consultants | IDP Education
6F-1, No.
1, Section 4, Xinyi Road, Da’an District, Taipei City, 106 Taiwan T: +886 2 27556365 E: taipei@studyin-uk.com Email: indextpe@ms42.hinet.net
Applicants with the Senior High School Certificate combined with a successfully completed and recognised International Foundation Programme and an IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in each component) will be considered for admission to our Undergraduate degree courses.
Pass the Taiwanese Bachelor degree (4 years) with a minimum of 70%, with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Taher Tower (4th Floor), 10 DIT Gulshan 2 Circle, Dhaka 1212
Telephone: +880 1321-147373 , +880 1313-444854 Email: n.dhaka@ahzassociates.co.uk Website: www.ahzassociates.co.uk
Applicants with the Bangladesh HSC (Higher Secondary Certificate) with an overall 4.5 (A Grade) out of 5 (with at least 4 subjects at 4.5 and above), combined with a successfully completed and recognised International Foundation Programme with a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent will be considered for admission to our Undergraduate degree courses.
Pass the Bangladesh Master's degree (when following a three or four year Bachelor degree) from a recognized institution with a minimum GPA of 3.0 (or 60%), and an IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Address: Flat No 1001, 10th Floor Surya Kiran Building 19, Kasturba Gandhi Marg, New Delhi-110001, India
Telephone: +917663949494 Email: delhi@ahzassociates.co.uk Website: www.ahzassociates.co.uk
Address: Shop no 319, Kanha Capital, Third floor, RC Dutt Rd, opp.
Express hotel, nr.
Hampton Hotel, Alkapuri, Vadodara, Gujarat, 390007
Email address: inquiry@globalcolliance.com Website: https://globalcolliance.com/ Locations: Ahmedabad, Vadodara NVR, Surat, Rajkot, Delhi
Address: Krishna’ Plot No.
10/2, I.T.
Park, Opp.
V.N.I.T, Behind Infotech Tower, Parsodi, Nagpur (I.T.
Park), Maharashtra, India
Email address: ningale@kcoverseas.com Website: https://www.studies-overseas.com/
Address: 2-1-38 MPR Complex, Uppal, Hyderabad,500039
Email address: satya@sssolutionsabroad.com Contact number: +91 70322 26789 Website: https://sssolutionsabroad.com/
Address: 2nd Floor, Prestige Building, Beside Axis Bank, Race Course Circle, Vadodara Gujarat 390007, India Email address: oecindia@live.com Contact number: +91 9327581167 Website: www.oecindia.com Locations: Vadodara, Hyderabad
Address: 5th Floor, Vaswani Mansion, 27 Dinshaw Vacha Rd, opposite K.C.College, Churchgate, Mumbai, Maharashtra
Email address: info@geebeeworld.com Website: https://www.geebeeworld.com/
Address: Office 1A: 292 – 294, Plashet Grove, London, E6 1EE
Email address: info@leoglobal.uk Contact number: +44 7888812233 Website: https://www.leoglobaloverseas.com/ Locations: London, Hyderabad, Guntur, Vijaywada, Vizaag
Address: 2nd Floor, Imperial Offices, 2 Heigham Road, East Ham, London, E6 2JG
Email address: info@globalstudylink.co.uk Contact number: +44 02035951999, +44 7772134103, +44 07570 220333 Website: www.globalstudylink.co.uk Locations: London (UK), Kerala
Address: No.
1/45 JJ Nagar, Mogappair East, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, 600037
Email address: hq@mail.go.study Website: https://www.gouk.in/ Locations: Chennai, Coimbatore, Trichy, Pondicherry, Cochin, Trivandrum, Hyderabad, Karim Nagar, Bangalore, Mumbai, Pune
Multiple branch locations Email: uk.direct@holmeseducation.group Website: www.HolmesEducationGroup.com
Address: Global Gateway Towers, Tower-B, 5th - 7th Floor, Sector 26, M.G.
Road, Sikanderpur Ghosi, Gurgaon - 122002 (Near Guru Dronacharya Metro Station) - 122003
Email address: info.gurgaon@idp.com Contact number: +91(0)12 4441 1888 Website: https://www.idp.com/india/ Locations: https://www.idp.com/india/education-counsellor-office-finder/
Address: Suite 9-13, 1st Floor, Indra Palace, H Block, Middle Circle, Connaught Place, Opposite H&M, New Delhi 110001, India
Email address: delhi@studyin-uk.com Contact number: +91 1142028200, +91 7827800565 Website: https://gostudyin.com/study-in-uk/ Locations: https://gostudyin.com/offices/
Applicants with an overall grade of 60% from the Standard XII Higher Secondary School Certificate from the All India Boards and 65% in English from standard XII or an IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in each component) will be considered for admission to our Undergraduate degree courses.
Other English Language qualifications will be considered.
All other boards will require an overall grade of 65%.
Pass the Indian Bachelor degree with a minimum of 55% (50% from the University of Delhi) or higher, with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Address: Pentax House, South Hill Avenue, Northolt  Road, South Harrow, Middlesex, HA2 0DU, United Kingdom
Address: 3rd Floor, Y Block, Kathmandu Plaza, Kamaladi-31, Kathmandu, Nepal
Contact Person: Basanta Nepal Contact number: UK - +44 20 8938 4621, +44 77 3886 8527 NEPAL - +977 1 4168612, +977 98020 73325, +977 98570 38837 Email: info@realdreamsedu.com Website: https://www.realdreamsedu.com/ Locations: United Kingdom, Nepal - Kathmandu, Butwal, Kawasoti, Baluwatar
Applicants with a School Leaving Certificate (Grade 11 & 12) minimum GPA of 2.4 out of 4.0 / 60%, with 2.6 / 65% in English* OR an IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in each component) or equivalent will be considered for admission to our undergraduate degree courses.
*Please note that this English requirement currently only applies to non-nursing courses.
Nursing applicants must have IELTS.
Pass the Nepalese Bachelor degree with a minimum of 55% or higher, with minimum 2.6 / 65% in English from the School Leaving Certificate (Grade 11 & 12)* OR an IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in each component) or equivalent will be considered for admission to our postgraduate degree courses.
6-A1, First Floor, Main Boulevard, PIA Road, Lahore, Pakistan.
Telephone: +923440077771 , +923408882225 Email: lahore1@ahzassociates.co.uk Website: www.ahzassociates.co.uk
Applicants with the Higher Secondary Certificate combined with a successfully completed and recognised International Foundation Programme and an IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in each component) will be considered for admission to our Undergraduate degree courses.
Pass the Pakistani Bachelor degree (4 year) or Master’s degree (following a 3-year bachelor degree) with division II or 55% or 3.0, with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
3rd Floor, No.
243, R.A.
De Mel Mawatha, Colombo 03, Sri Lanka.
Telephone: +94 77 703 4630 Email: colombo@ahzassociates.co.uk
36B, Gower Street, Colombo 05, Sri Lanka Telephone: +94 77 588 6880 +94 77 147 5555 Email: oeccolombo@live.com
AddressL 541, 1/1 Nawala Road, Koswatta, Rajagiriya, Greater Colombo 10100, Sri Lanka
Email address: colombo@kcoverseas.com Website: www.studies-overseas.com
Address: 61, Bauddhaloka Mawatha, Colombo 04
Email address: srilanka@global-guidance.com Website: www.global-guidance.com Locations: 61, Bauddhaloka Mawatha, Colombo 04, Sri Lanka
Address: 36B, Gower Street Colombo 05, Sri Lanka
Telephone: (+94) 77 900 5555 Email address: info@cduk.lk Website: https://www.campusdirect.io/ Locations: Colombo, Kandy
Address: 1st Floor, 366 Colombo, Galle Main Rd, Colombo 00300, Colombo
Email address: info@geebeeworld.com Website: https://www.geebeeworld.com/ Locations: Colombo
Address: 4th Floor, Serendib Tower 324, Galle Road, Colombo 3, Sri Lanka
Email address: info.srilanka@idp.com Telephone: +94 11 77 11 888 Website: https://www.idp.com/srilanka/ Locations: https://www.idp.com/srilanka/education-counsellor-office-finder/
Address: 517-2/1, Second Floor, Mayfair House, Galle Road, Colombo 3, 00400, Colombo, Sri Lanka
Email address: colombo@studyin-uk.com Telephone: 0094740434321 Website: https://gostudyin.com/study-in-uk/ Locations: https://gostudyin.com/offices/
Applicants with the Sri Lankan A-Levels will be considered for admission to our Undergraduate degree courses.
Please refer to the UCAS tariff on our course page.
You will also need an IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in each component) OR grade C or above within the Sri Lankan A-level (with successful English language interview).
Pass the Sri Lankan Bachelor (Honours) degree with a minimum of 55%, with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) OR grade C or above within the Sri Lankan A-level (with successful English language interview).
Applicants with the General Secondary Education Certificate combined with a successfully completed and recognised International Foundation Programme and an IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in each component) will be considered for admission to our Undergraduate degree courses.
Pass the Saudi Arabian Bachelor degree (4 years) with a minimum grade of 3.0, with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Address: Bestekar Sok.
No:61 Orta Blok D:5 06680 Çankaya/Ankara
Phone: +903124650801
Email: hakan@academix.com.tr
Tunus Cad.
Toplum Apt.
No:83/9 Kat 2 Kavaklıdere Tel : 0544 767 0701 Email: turkeyank@britisheducation.com.tr
Address: Tunus Caddesi 63/5 Kavaklidere - Ankara
Phone: +903124279000
Whatsapp: +903124279000
Email: ankara@edcon.com.tr
Tunus Caddesi No:65 Daire:6 (Apartment at the intersection of Bülten Street and Tunus Street) Kavaklıdere - Çankaya/Ankara
Phone: +90 312 426 31 33, +90 312 466 59 30
Email: ankara@egitimal.com
Address: Kavaklıdere Mahallesi Tunalı Hilmi Caddesi 81/5 Çankaya / Ankara
Phone: +90 312 425 75 65
Email: ankara@unitedtowers.com
Website: https://www.unitedtowers.com/
Address: Fatih Sultan Mehmet Bulvari Mersa Sitesi B Blok K:2 D:4 16130 Nilüfer/BURSA
Phone: +902244533430, +902122498611
Email: bursa@academix.com.tr
Address: FSM Bulvari Bulvar224 Sitesi C blok D 8 Nilüfer Bursa
Phone: +902242230330, 05326780330
Email: bursa @edcon.com.tr
Address: FSM Bulvarı Selin Sit.
D Blok No: 75/8 16140 Nilüfer Bursa
Phone: +90 224 305 05 50
Email: bursa@unitedtowers.com
Address: Yıldız Mahallesi Çırağan Caddesi No:15 Kat:1 34349 Beşiktaş Istanbul
Phone: +902122590099, +90 212 249 86 11
Email: besiktas@academix.com.tr
İstiklal Cd.
Kallavi Sk.
Leon Apt.
No:1/3-4 Beyoğlu Tel : 0212 244 4000
Email: turkeyank@britisheducation.com.tr
Address: Bagdat Caddesi No: 365/7 Şaşkınbakkal-Kadıköy
Phone: +902163011323
Emaiil: sevilay@edcon.com.tr
Address: Ci̇hannümA Mah.Barbaros Blv.
Mutlu Apt.No:71/2beşi̇kt
Phone: +90 532 788 99 90
Email: besiktas@egitimal.com
Address: Taksim Meydani.
Mete Cad.
Mete Palas Apt No: 20/9 34427 Beyoglu / İstanbul
Phone: +90 212 244 50 05
Email: info@unitedtowers.com
Address: Alsancak Mah.
Kıbrıs Şehitleri Caddesi No:152 Aksoy Plaza Daire:107 35220 Alsancak/İzmir
Phone: +90 232 464 60 70
Email: izmir@academix.com.tr
Address:Aksoy Plaza, Kıbrıs Şehitleri Caddesi No:152, Apartment: B-02 Alsancak / Konak Izmir
Phone: 05412495310
Email: izmir@edcon.com.tr
Address: Kıbrıs Şehitleri Caddesi 1440 Sokak Korkut Apt.
No:1 Floor:3 Flat:5 (above Soul Mate Cafe) Alsancak/İzmir
Phone: +90 232 421 04 20
Email: izmir@egitimal.com
Deren Plaza Şehit Nevres Blv.
No:10/1 GoyaHub Alsancak Tel : 0232 323 1010
Address: Şht.
Polis Fethi Sekin Cd.
No: 6 | Ventus Tower, Floor 30, Office 304 | 35530 Bayraklı | İzmir, Turkey
Contact details: info@studycare.tr / (+90) 535 823 3134
Address: Kıbrıs Şehitleri Cd.
No:9/2 35220 Alsancak İzmir
Phone: +90 232 421 88 77
Email: izmir@unitedtowers.com
Pass the Devlet Lise Diplomasi (State High School Diploma) or the Lise Bitirme Diplomasi (Private High School Diploma) with an overall score of 70% (foundation required if less than 69%) and an English Language qualification equivalent to an IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Lisans Diplomasi (Bachelor degree) with a minimum GPA of 2.2, with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Bachelor degree with a minimum of 2.6-2.99 , with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Address: C-Space 64a, Labzak Street, Tashkent 100077, Uzbekistan
Contact Details: zarina@azeristudent.az / +994 50 241 00 53
Applicants with the Certificado de Conclusao de Ensino Medio combined with a successfully completed and recognised International Foundation Programme or Vestibular with an overall score of 5 or above and an IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in each component) will be considered for admission to our Undergraduate degree courses.
Pass the Brazilian Bachelor degree with a minimum 6.5 or higher out of 10, with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Contact: Kash Mahdi
Email: kash@physioabroad.ca
Website: https://physioabroad.ca/
Alberta High School Diploma with at least 65% in 5 grade 12 subjects
British Columbia Certificate of Graduation with 5 Bs in 5 grade 12 subjects
High School Diploma with at least 65% in 5 grade 12 subjects
Ontario Secondary School Diploma with at least 6 grade 12 U/M subjects at 60% or above
Diplome d'Etudes Collegiales (DEC) with a pass grade
Pass the Canadian Bachelor degree with a minimum grade of 2.5.
For English requirements please see our Language Requirements and Support page.
Applicants who have passed the USA High School Diploma with an overall GPA 2.6 and one of the following:
SAT (after March 2016) - 1100+
ACT - 22
AP - 3, 3
SAT II - 3 x 550+ each
Associate degree with GPA 2.7 or above
Address: Bilal Sina, Tiranë, Albania
Website: www.edubridge.al
Contact details: +355696055800
Address: Albania, Perlat Rexhepi Street, Ivanaj Residence, 4th floor, entrance 31 (above Spar), 1001, Tirana, Albania
Website: www.studycare.al
Contact details: info@studycare.al / +355 67 403 9139
Academic requirements: A minimum of 8/10 from Diplomë e Maturës Shtetërore (Diploma of State Matura)
Academic requirements: A minimum of 7/10 from Diplomë e Nivelit të Pare
Pass the Reifeprufung/Matura with an overall score of 3 or above with 2 or above in English Language within your Secondary School Leaving Certificate or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Austrian Bachelor degree with a good grade, and a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
For more information about the exact grade required please email international@worc.ac.uk
Address: 8 November PR 15, Azure Business Center 20th Floor, Office 135 Baku, Azerbaijan
Website: www.azeristudent.az
Contact details: info@azeristudent.az / +994502917999
179 avenue Louise (1er étage) Boîte 9 1050 Bruxelles - B
Telephone: + 32 (0)2 899 55 07, +32 (0)4 96 93 55 07 Website: www.studyexperience.be
Pass the Diploma van Secundair Onderwijs/Brevet van de Aanvullende Secundaire Beroepsschool with an overall score of 13 or above, with 15 or above in English Language within your Secondary School qualification or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Belgian Bachelor degree with a good grade, and a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Address: 99 Evlogi Georgiev Blv, Sofia, Bulgaria
Telephone: +359 62 605235 Email: integral@integral.bg Website: http://www.integral.bg/
Sofia 1404 Blvd.
Gotze Delchev №103 Floor 2 office 2  / Floor 5 office 10
Telephone: 0878 341 530, 0878 973 431 Email: stillzee.art@gmail.com
Pass the Diploma za Sredno Obrazovanie or Diploma za Sredno Spetsialno Obrazovanie with an average grading of 4.5 or above, with 5.5 or above in English within Secondary School Leaving Diploma or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Bulgarian Bachelor degree with a minimum grade of 4 (Good or Dobur), with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Address: Marticeva ul.
13, 10000, Zagreb, Croatia
Telephone: +385 1 4812 200 Email: education@bhv.hr Website: http://www.bhvedu.com/
Address: Draškovićeva 4, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia
Telephone: +385 (0)1 468-338-1 Email: info@integraledu.org Website: https://www.integraledu.hr/
Pass the Svjedodžba o Maturi with an overall score of 3 or above, with 4 or above for English Language within the Svjedodžba o Maturi or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Croatian Bachelor degree with a minimum of 3 (dobar/good), and an IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Address: 2 Evagora Papachristoforou, Strovolos, P.O.BOX 23670, 1685 Nicosia, Cyprus
Telephone: +357 22517191 E-mail: savvidis@cytanet.com.cy Website: www.savvideseducation.com
Address: 22A Apostolon Petrou and Pavlou Street, 3085 Limassol, Cyprus
Telephone: +357 25 38 80 11 Email: antonis@unilink.com.cy Website: www.unilink.com.cy
Address: 22 Sina, Block B, Office 003, 2406 Engomi, Nicosia Telephone: 22 780250, 22 785022, 22 772244 Email: Info@globaleducationcy.com
Pass the Apolytirio (School Leaving Certificate) with an overall score of 17 or above for public schools and 81% or above for private schools, with 18 or above (88% for private schools) in English Language within your Secondary School leaving certificate or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Cypriot Bachelor degree/ Ptychio with a minimum of 6 out of 10, with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Address: Laubova 1659/2, Praha 3, 130 00, Czech Republic
Telephone: +420 734 693 278 Email: hello@unilink.cz Website: http://unilink.cz/
Pass the Maturitni Zkouška/ Maturita/ Vysvedceni o Maturitni Zkoušce with an overall score of 3 or above, with 2 or above for English Language within your Secondary School Leaving certificate or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Czech Republic Bakalar or Bachelor degree with a minimum of 2 - 2.5 (Good/Dobry), with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Bevis for Studentereksamen (Secondary Education Graduation Certificate) with an overall score of 7 or above, with 10 or above in English Language in Secondary Education or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Danish Bachelor degree with a good grade, and a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Address: J.Poska 51A, 1.korrus, 10150 Tallinn
Contact Person: Katriin Visamaa Telephone: +372 6 314 505 Email: info@dreamfoundation.eu Website: http://www.dreamfoundation.eu/
Pass the Gumnaasiumi loputunnistus with Riigieksamitunnistus with an average grade of 55% in 3 compulsory state exams & achieve an average grade of 3.5 in your school-leaving exams, with no less than B2 in English Language or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Estonian Bachelor degree with a D or above, and a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Ylioppilastutkinto / studentexamen with an overall score of 4 (C or cum laude approbatur) or above, with a 6 ( M or Eximia cum laude approbatur) in English or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Polytechnic, Lower academic or long cycle degree with a minimum of 2 (3 point scale) or 3 (5 point scale), with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Address: 66 rue Condorcet, 75009 Paris
Telephone: +33 1 71 60 03 06 Email: info@studyexperience.fr Website: www.studyexperience.fr
Pass the Diplôme du Baccalauréat Général with an overall score of 12 or above, with 14 or above in English Language within the Secondary School Leaving certificate or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass Licence (Bachelor degree) with a minimum of 12, with a minimum ILETS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Address: Axis Towers Tbilisi (5th floor, Terminal Towers / Office 04)
Website: www.academicabroad.ge/ge
Contact details: info@academicabroad.ge / +995 593 99 00 00
Pass the Zeugnis der Allgemeinen Hochschulreife / Abitur with an overall score of 3 or above, with 2 or above in English Language within the Secondary School Leaving certificate or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the German Bachelor degree with a minimum of 3 or befriedigend, with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent
Address: Leoforos Alexandras 140, Athens 11471, Greece
Email address: apply@edmundo.gr Contact number: +306943698008 Website: www.edmundo.gr Facebook: www.facebook.com/EdmundoGreece/
Address: 84 Vas.
Sofias Avenue, Athens 115 28, Greece, Metro station - Megaro Mousikis
Email address: international@network.gr Contact number: +30 (210) 748 8131, +30 6947 822 488, +30 (210) 778 2401, +30 , 21 300 300 27 Website: www.networkfoundation.gr
Address: 18 P.
Mela Street & Tsimiski, Thessaloniki 546 22, Greece
Email: salonica@network.gr Contact number: +30 (2310) 240 394, +30 6947 822 489, +30 (2310) 226 531 Website: www.networkfoundation.gr
64, Louizis Riankour St.
"Apollo Tower" Ampelokipi 115 23 Greece
Email address: welcome@unibridgedirect.com Contact number: +30 210 010 6745, +30 210 010 6746 Website: www.unibridgedirect.com Facebook: www.facebook.com/unibridgedirect/
Pass the Apolytirio of Lykeio/Ptychio TES/TEL with an overall score of 17 or above, with 18 or above in English Language within the Secondary School Leaving certificate or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Ptychio (awarded from TEI) with a minimum of 5.00 - 6.49 (Good), with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Address: Angyal utca 14, 1094 Budapest, Hungary
Contact Person: Ferenc Pajko Telephone: +36 30 510 9804 Email: info@studyguide.eu Website: www.universityadmission.eu
Pass the Erettsegi / Matura or Erettsegi Bizonyítvány with an overall score of 3 or above, with 4 or above in English Language within the Secondary School Leaving certificate or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Hungarian Bachelor degree with a good grade, and a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Stúdentspróf (from Gymnasium) (Matriculation Certificate) with an overall score of 6 or above, with an English Language qualification equivalent of a IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Icelandic Bachelor degree with a good grade, and a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Diploma di Esame di Stato with an overall score of 70% or above, with 80% or above in English Language within the Secondary School Leaving certificate or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Italian Bachelor degree with a good grade, and a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Address: Brivibas biroju centrs , Brivibas iela 85 (3.
stavs), , Riga, LV-1001, Latvia
Telephone: +371 295 63 827 Email: latvia@dreamfoundation.eu
Address: Vaļņu iela 5,, LV-1050, Rīga
Telephone: +371 25638009 Email: studies@kalba.lv Website: https://www.kalba.lv/lv/studijas-arzemes/
Pass the Atestats par visparejo videjo izglitibu (Certificate of General Secondary Education) with an overall 7 in final school grades.
In addition, you would be required to demonstrate proficiency in English Language with either 8 or above within Secondary School Leaving certificate or an IELTS overall band score at 6.0 (with a minimum of 5.5 in each component) or equivalent.
Pass the Latvian Bachelor degree with a 6 or above, and a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Vilnius Office: Lvovo str.
25 LT- 09320, Vilnius Kaunas Office: Vytauto ave.
32 LT- 44328, Kaunas Klaipeda Office: Paryžiaus Komunos str.
2A.
LT- 91149, Klaipėda Siauliai Office: Tilžės str.
124 LT-77160, Šiauliai Panevezys Office: J.
Urbšio g.
1.
LT-35169, Panevėžys Alytus Office: Seirijų str.
3 LT-62116, Alytus Marijampole Office: Vytauto str.
27 A LT-68300, Marijampolė Vilkaviskis Office: J.
Basanavičiaus ave.
7 LT-70103, Vilkaviškis
Telephone: 8 800 30030 Email: info@kalba.lt Website: https://kalba.lt/studijos-uzsienyje
Pass the Brandos Atestatas (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with an overall score of 7 or above, with B2 level or above for English Language within the Secondary School Leaving Certificate or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Bakalauro Diplomas (Bachelor degree) with a minimum of 8 out of 10, with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Diplôme de Fin d'Etudes Secondaires with an overall score of 40 or above, with 50 or above in English Language within the Secondary School Leaving certificate or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Luxembourg Bachelor degree with a good grade, and a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Matriculation Certificate - Advanced Level with two A-levels at grade C or above, and a minimum of two intermediate level subjects at grade C or above (BC/CCC), and a Secondary Education certificate or an English Language certificate which is the equivalent of a IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Maltese Bachelor degree with a good grade, and a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO) diploma with an overall score of 7 or above, with 8 or above in English Language within the Secondary School Leaving certificate or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Dutch Bachelor degree with a good grade, and a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Other equivalent English qualifications will be considered
Website Phone numbers Questions and help with application
Meet the university in Norway at one of Across the Pond’s events
Pass the Vitnemål fra den Videregående skole with an overall score of 3 or above, with a minimum grade 3 or above in English Language or an English Language qualification equivalent to a IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Candidatus Magisterii with a minimum of C or above, with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Swiadectwo Dojrzalosci /Matura (Secondary School Certificate) with an overall of score of 60% with at least one subject at extended level, with 80% (Basic Level) or 60% (Extended Level) for English Language or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Polish Bachelor degree with a good grade, and a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Address: Praça Luís de Camões 43, 2840-503 Seixal, Portugal
Tel: +351 910 885 439
Email: info@okstudent.com
Website: https://okstudent.com/
Pass the Certificado de fim de Estudos Secundários / Certidão do Décimo Segundo Ano (Secondary School Certificate) with an overall score of 14 or above, with 14 or above in English Language within the Secondary School Leaving certificate or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Portugese Bachelor degree with a good grade, and a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Bucharest Office: Strada Coltei Nr 8, Etaj 2, Sector 3, Bucharest, 030246, Romania Timisoara Office: Piața Victoriei, Nr.
1, Et.
1, Ap.
9, Timișoara, Cod Poștal 300030 Iasi Office: Strada Păcurari nr.
110 et.
3 (lângă Şcoala "Petru Poni"), Cod Poștal 700514, Iaşi
Telephone: +40 745 632 464 Email: edmundo@educativa.ro Website: www.edmundo.ro
Bucharest Office: General Bd Magheru Gh.
41,1st Floor, Ap 1, District 1, Bucharest 010326 Constanta Office: Bd.
Alexandru Lapusneanu, nr.
107, bl.
LV40, sc.
A Craiova Office: Str.
Stirbei Voda, nr.
7A, et.
2 Galati Office: Str.
Brailei, nr.
171A, et.
2 Iasi Office: Str.
Sfantul Lazar, nr.
27, et.1 Timisoara Office: Str.
Eugeniu de Savoya, nr.
13, et.1
Telephone: + 40 21 311 0572 E-mail: office@integraledu.ro Website: www.integraledu.ro
Pass the Diploma de Bacalaureat (Baccalaureate Diploma) with an overall score of 8 or above, with B2 in all elements for English Language within your Diploma de Bacalaureat or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Romanian Bachelor degree with a minimum of 7 out of 10, with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Applicants with the Attestat o Srednem Obrazovanii (Certificate of Secondary Education) combined with a successfully completed and recognised International Foundation Programme and an IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in each component) will be considered for admission to our Undergraduate degree courses.
Pass the Russian 4-year Bachelor degree with a minimum of 4 out of 5, with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Address: Grösslingová 45, 811 09, Bratislava
Telephone: +421 2/526 226 11 Email: info@interstudy.sk Website: www.interstudy.sk
Telephone: +421 903 696 676 Email: hello@unilink.sk Website: www.unilink.sk
Pass the Vysvedcenie o maturitnej skúške (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with an overall score of 3 or above, with 2 or above for English Language within your Secondary School Leaving certificate or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Bakalár (Bachelor) degree with a minimum of C (Good) or 2, with a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Telephone: +385 1 4812 200 Email: education@bhvedu.com Website: www.bhvedu.com
Telephone: +386(0) 040 282 989 Email: info@integraledu.si Website: https://www.integraledu.si/
Pass the Maturitetno spricevalo (Matura Certificate) with an overall score of 3 or above, with 4 or above in English Language within the Secondary School Leaving certificate or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Slovenian Bachelor degree with a good grade, and a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Contact: Martin Hyde
E-mail: info@uniworlduk.com
Website: https://uniworlduk.es/
Telephone: +44 1227470849
Pass the Titulo de Bachillerato with an overall score of 6 or above, with 7 or above in English Language within the Secondary School Leaving certificate or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Spanish Bachelor degree with a good grade, and a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Address: Karlavägen 100A (Floor 5), 115 26 Stockholm
Email: Info@blueberry.nu
Website: https://www.blueberry.nu/
Address: Storgatan 25, 411 24 Göteborg, Sweden
Tel: +46 (0) 31-13 80 85
Website: www.studin.se
Pass the Avgångsbetyg / Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskola (Upper secondary school leaving certificate) with an overall score of grade C or above, with grade B or above in English Language within the Secondary School Leaving certificate or a minimum IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
Pass the Swedish Bachelor degree with a good grade, and a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
No:83/9 Kat 2 Kavaklıdere Tel : 0544 767 0701 Email: turkeyank@britisheducation.com.tr
No:1/3-4 Beyoğlu Tel : 0212 244 4000
Address: Deren Plaza Şehit Nevres Blv.
No:10/1 GoyaHub Alsancak Tel : 0232 323 1010
Applicants with the Certificate of Complete General Secondary Education combined with a successfully completed and recognised International Foundation Programme and an IELTS of 6.0 (with no less than 5.5 in each component) will be considered for admission to our Undergraduate degree courses.
Pass the Ukrainian Bachelor degree with a good grade, and a minimum IELTS of 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in any component) or equivalent.
22-24
65
7-21
70
2-6
80
85
1
90
Bachelor Degree with at least Pass grade; or Honours Degree with at least Upper Second/Lower Second Class.
Total of more than 80 credits and a majority of Achieved / Merits
Total of more than 80 credits and a majority of Merits
Total of more than 80 credits and a majority of Merits / Excellence
Total of more than 80 credits and a majority of Excellence
Pass the Bachelor (Honours) Degree with at least Second Class Degree (Division II).

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/International/study-abroad:
We offer a range of international experiences for both Worcester students and overseas students.
Our students have the opportunity to study abroad for a year, a semester or take part in a short summer program.
Overseas students from partner universities are welcome to study in Worcester as part of a study abroad or exchange program.
There are many benefits for students taking part in the Study Abroad program.
Here are just some of them:
Global experience is attractive to potential employers
Opportunities to learn a new language or improve your current language skills
You can become more self-aware, independent and open-minded
A chance to develop your social skills, confidence and cultural awareness
Make new friends and enjoy extra-curricular activities in a new location
Travel in your chosen country and explore different cultures within
Additionally, research conducted by various bodies such as UUKi also indicates that studying abroad can positively impact on your final degree classification, on your entrance into the job market and more!
Get in touch
Email : international-experience@worc.ac.uk
International Experience University of Worcester Henwick Grove Worcester, WR2 6AJ
Instagram : @globalworcester

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/International/study-abroad/study-abroad-incoming-students.aspx:
The city is big enough for you to encounter a range of cultures, people and environments - but small enough for you to become part of the community.
Many people choose the University of Worcester for our excellent teaching record and small class sizes.
Others come to use our state-of-the-art facilities.
Some come here to experience our idyllic, yet exciting city or our beautiful parkland campus.
Whatever your reason for choosing Worcester, we offer an excellent environment in which to study and the high quality teaching you need to get the most from your studies.
You’ll be a part of a truly international student and staff community in a traditional British setting.
Overseas students from our partner universities are eligible to study abroad in Worcester for a semester or full year.
You can apply for either a study abroad or student exchange as part of your degree.
You can claim academic credits for the modules that you study here, so your study abroad will contribute to your degree at your home university.
The application processes are similar for both study abroad placements and student exchanges.
The key difference between these two programmes is the payment of tuition fees.
For Study Abroad students from partner universities, there will be a 15% discount on the published tuition fee.
Our inbound study abroad programme is open to students from partner universities who are studying a recognised course.
Tuition fees apply, which you will pay directly to the University of Worcester.
Full time for full year
£14,700
£16,200
Full time for one semester
£7,350
£8,100
Students who wish to apply need to be officially nominated by their home university.
If you wish to receive further information on the application process please contact international-experience@worc.ac.uk .
If you are accepted for Study Abroad you will be able to register for your modules online either in advance or as soon as you arrive.
For the range of modules available see our exchanges and study abroad modules.
Our exchange programmes are open to overseas students from our partner universities across Europe and worldwide.
No additional tuition fees apply.
You can continue to pay fees at your home country while studying your degree modules in Worcester.
Visit our Centre for Academic English and Skills webpages for more information about our English Language support services.
For the range of modules available to study abroad and exchange students see our exchanges and study abroad modules.
Incoming exchange students should first contact the International Mobility Team at your current university to be nominated.
Once you are nominated, our International Mobility Coordinator will send you the application pack with all the instructions on the paperwork you must submit.
The application deadline for semester 1 is 30 April and for semester 2 it is 31 October.
For more information, please email the International Mobility Coordinator .
Call : +44 (0)1905 855146 Email : international-experience@worc.ac.uk
Facebook : join our International Experience group

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/International/study-abroad/study-abroad-outgoing-students:
As a Worcester student you have a range of options to study abroad on exchange at one of our international partner universities.
Studying abroad is an exciting time of discovery.
You'll experience new cultures, make friends from all over the world and learn a huge amount about yourself.
It also looks great on your CV.
Less than 5% of UK students study abroad as part of their degree.
This kind of experience puts you among an elite group of enterprising students.
When he was younger, Joe Dipple’s family almost moved to the US.
He had become excited at the prospect of seeing a different part of the world, not just on a holiday, but actually living it.
Read Joe's story
You can spend a semester of year two at one of our partner universities.
This semester will serve as a replacement semester.
You will take modules that fulfil and complement your usual degree requirements.
You will pay your regular tuition fee to the University of Worcester.
Semester one or two may be more suitable for you depending on your course.
Your school’s International Coordinator or the International Mobility Team can help you determine which semester will be the best fit for you.
You can switch your degree to a four-year degree and spend year three abroad.
For this option, you will spend years one, two, and four in Worcester completing your degree requirements.
You will spend year three abroad at one of our international partner universities.
This is an excellent way to expand your experience and skill set.
The exact opportunities available are unique to your course.
In your application you need to make a proposal of what you intend to do on your Third Year Abroad.
It must be approved by both your course leader and/or tutor and the International Mobility Team.
Your Third Year Abroad tuition fee will only cost you 15% of that year’s tuition fee.
For example, if the yearly tuition fee is £9000, you will only pay £1350 for the full year of tuition.
The University of Worcester provides exciting Study Abroad opportunities in a variety of locations all over the world.
It is a good idea to research the partner universities and then discuss the options with the International Mobility Team.
Check out our online map of partner universities here and start planning!
The school guides below list all of the partner institutions available for each school.
Some universities will be more suitable for some courses than others.
For all international opportunities you must have at least a C average and be in good standing with the university.
To be considered for a few partner universities we require you to have a B average.
These universities include Brock University, the University of Navarra and the Autonomous University of Barcelona (UAB).
All students on three year Bachelors level courses are eligible to undertake an international mobility.
Some courses are not eligible for a semester abroad, but students can undertake a Third Year Abroad or attend a summer school.
Some courses offer a placement opportunity as well.
The eligibility of courses can sometimes change.
It is always best to check with the International Mobility Team and your course leader.
To avoid jeopardizing professional accreditation, students on accredited courses cannot normally undertake a semester abroad.
If you think this applies to you, make contact with the International Mobility Team to explore your options.
For both a semester abroad and third year abroad, you will have to submit an application and attend an interview.
When you study abroad you continue to pay your tuition fees to the University of Worcester.
You will not pay tuition fees to your host university.
If you study abroad for a semester, you will pay your usual tuition fee to the University of Worcester, but simply attend one of our partner universities.
If you spend a Third Year Abroad, you will also pay your tuition fee directly to the University of Worcester, but your tuition fee will be reduced to 15% of that year’s tuition fee.
There will be other costs involved during your study abroad, including:
visa (if necessary)
flights or transport
travel cover
health insurance (compulsory for the USA and Canada)
vaccinations (if necessary)
medical tests (needed by some countries to obtain a visa, such as Japan)
accommodation
meal plan, if in the USA
other non-tuition costs at partner universities
other costs (books, commuting and other general living costs).
Your tuition loans and maintenance loans or grants from Student Finance England, Wales or Northern Ireland can be used for your study period abroad.
The amount of maintenance funding you are eligible for will often increase during your period of study overseas.
Be sure to check with Student Finance how many years of funding you have remaining.
The Turing Scheme is the UK’s global programme to study and work abroad.
The scheme provides funding for international opportunities in education and training abroad.
If you are eligible to receive funding from the Turing programme, we will be in touch with you after you have been accepted into the Study Abroad programme.
Alongside the higher grant rate, students from disadvantaged backgrounds will also receive funding towards the direct costs of travel, depending on distance between the UK and your destination.
You could also be eligible to claim for additional travel expenses, including the costs of visas, passports, and health insurance.
Additional support for those with special educational needs and disabilities (SEND)
For participants with SEND, the scheme can fund up to 100% of actual costs for support directly related to these additional needs, if these cannot be facilitated by the host institution.
For further details regarding this and to discuss your individual situation, please contact c.muradore@worc.ac.uk
The UK government offers a means-tested travel grant to cover airfares and medical insurance, immunisations and visas.
The Travel Grant is available to students who have applied for a maintenance loan based on their household income.
To apply for it you will need to send a Travel Grant Claim Form to SFE, along with evidence of expenditure (receipts/invoices).
The reimbursement covers reasonable travel expenses and related costs, and the amount reimbursed depends on your household income.
Please note the first £303 of travel costs is disregarded, which means this is deducted from the total amount of Travel Grant claimed over the year.
There are other UK Student Finance companies offering travel grants with different criteria:
Wales
Scotland
Northern Ireland .
The University of Worcester is a member of the BUTEX network.
As a result, students studying at the University of Worcester are eligible to apply for a £600 scholarship to support a study abroad period.
To find out how to apply, please visit the BUTEX website .
Our partner universities’ websites are the best source of information, and you can also speak with students that have studied abroad.
Just get in touch with the International Mobility Team to get started.
Costing comparison websites can also be a good tool to budget how much the cost of living is in a particular city or town.
Research the destination you want to study at in advance.
Factor in estimated expenses, including rent, food, visas, vaccinations, health insurance and travel cover and compare it to your current situation to see where you are at.
Get in touch with our Money Advice team for more budgeting tips.
You are eligible to study abroad, but will need to research and carefully consider the visa implications and costs.
If you are in the UK on a visa, you will need to consult the International Student Team by emailing isa@worc.ac.uk to seek advice on how studying abroad might impact your UK visa.
You will need to:
Be sure that your chosen destination fits your course needs and learning requirements.
Research the costs involved including living costs at the university and in the city/area, visa fees, health insurance requirements etc.
Research the type of accommodation on offer.
Some universities will offer shared dorms (bedrooms).
Others might not be able to offer student accommodation but will provide advice on how to find a place to stay.
Be sure that you are comfortable with what is on offer.
Public transportation.
Some places, particularly in North America or Australia, might have fewer public transportation options than in the UK.
Research the city and area you will live in to be sure your expectations are realistic.
Research visa costs and requirements.
All of our partners teach in English and you will take your classes in English.
It is certainly encouraged to learn at least the basics of the host language, but it is not required.
You will have the opportunity to take language classes at your host university.
The semester abroad is a replacement semester and so the credit you gain from our partner university will count towards your UW degree.
However, the credit achieved is either ‘pass’ or ‘fail’; individual grades (A-U) will not be used in the calculation of your degree classification.
The Third Year Abroad is an additional year and so the credit you gain from our partner university will not count towards your UW degree.
However, you will receive a transcript from your host university which will be attached to your HEAR (Higher Education Achievement Report).
This is something you can draw to the attention of future employers or show if you apply for a Postgraduate degree.
While some of our partner universities do offer credit bearing summer courses, the credit you gain will normally not count towards your degree but will be additional credit.
You will be clearly advised if there is an exception to this rule.
Yes, of course you are!
International experiences are open to all students.
Some University of Worcester support services will be available to you while you are abroad, while others can be offered to you by your host university.
If you access university services or support, you will want to discuss this early in the process with the International Mobility Team and indicate it on your application to ensure everything can be put in place before your departure.
The International Mobility Team will be in regular contact with you while abroad so that you can get plenty of support and raise any concern with them if necessary.
When you go abroad, you will study at one of our trusted partner universities.
We have built relationships with these universities and are in regular contact with their international offices to help coordinate your experience and support your exchange.
The International Mobility Team will support you throughout your application process both internally and to the partner university.
Before you travel you will attend a pre-departure session to help you prepare for your experience.
It will cover important topics such as the University of Worcester’s insurance policy, risk assessment, cultural awareness and culture shock.
You will still be a University of Worcester student throughout the whole time you spend studying  abroad and  will be able to access a range of Worcester’s student support services.
You will also have access to support services at your host university.
While you are abroad you will be covered by the University of Worcester’s travel insurance policy, which also includes emergency medical and dental coverage.
You will need your own health insurance for routine appointments or prescriptions.
You will also need your own travel insurance if you are travelling in countries that are not your host country or for a long duration before or after your study period.
To study abroad you will need to:
The International Mobility team at Worcester strives to make the Study Abroad program as much accessible and inclusive as possible.
We understand there might be many reasons for you not to opt for the long study abroad options such as the semester abroad or the year abroad but that doesn’t mean we haven’t anything to offer!
You can attend a summer school at one of our partners or endorsed universities!
Summer schools usually run from between one to six weeks.
Some focus on cultural experience, while others will focus on specific course related subjects.
Every year the programs and the destinations are different and there is no limit in what you can do and achieve!
View our Summer Schools pages for more information.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/International/study-abroad/summer-schools.aspx:
It also looks great on your CV.
There might be many reasons for you not to opt for the long study abroad options, such as the semester or the year abroad, but that doesn’t mean we haven’t anything to offer!
You can attend a summer school at one of our partner or endorsed universities!
The following list comprises of Turing Funded programmes and Not Turing Funded programmes.
Turing funded programmes  provide financial support through the Turing scheme ranging from £500 to £1100 according to eligibility.
Funding availability is confirmed on a yearly basis and each year the Turing funded programmes may vary.
Programmes that are Not Turing Funded are managed by our partners and students must apply directly to them.
For these programmes there is no financial support available through the university.
Pay special attention to the last programme on the list, which takes place in the Spring over the Easter break, and not the Summer.
Please contact Shannon Tobin, International Mobility Coordinator, at s.tobin@worc.ac.uk with any questions.
For information on the Germany Summer Program, view International Summer Program (ISP) - Referat Internationales - TU Dortmund
Global Summer Programme (GSP) | Centre for Global Education and Opportunities
Summer School of Economics and Business – Universidad Autónoma de Madrid
UAB Barcelona Summer School - UAB Barcelona
14-25th July 2025
Early bird registration deadline: 30th April 2025
International Summer School (udc.es)
Summer School - Tourism
Brochure attached
Affordable Summer Studies - Turku Åbo Summer School (utu.fi)
Details of the programme – Delightful Istanbul
Spring School – Application Requirements – Delightful Istanbul
Program (pusan.ac.kr)

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/International/contact-us.aspx:
There are a variety of ways you can get in contact with the International team at the University of Worcester.
You can get in touch by writing us an email to: international@worc.ac.uk
Alternatively, you can call us on our telephone: +44 (0)1905 542640
International Recruitment St.
John's Campus University of Worcester Worcester WR2 6AJ
Keep in touch with the latest information and events from our International team.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/International/meet-the-international-team.aspx:
We can help you from choosing the right course, filling in your application and submitting supporting documents to picking you up from the airport and offering extra support when needed.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/professional-development:
We have a diverse portfolio of professional training courses, all taught by expert staff, offering you opportunities to develop new skills and enhance your experience.
Design your own Postgraduate Professional Development MA/MSc/PGDip/PGCert course.
Designed to be as flexible as possible, you can build a course that perfectly matches your professional development goals.
The Postgraduate Awards in Professional Development (MA / MSc, PGDip, PGCert) is a part-time postgraduate course for professionals in almost any field of work.
The course allows professionals to create a bespoke Master’s degree, Postgraduate Certificate or Postgraduate Diploma that meets their needs and fits around their working lives.
This is done by selecting modules from across a wide range of postgraduate courses, as well as undertaking negotiated projects that relate to their professional needs.
The Postgraduate Awards in Professional Development is a student-centred programme that combines the flexibility of online study, with access to taught elements of existing courses.
It is designed around the needs of mid-career professionals, particularly those with specialist roles or interests, who have a clear idea of their developmental needs and have progressed beyond off-the-shelf programmes.
Credit can be given for existing studies, and the course can be completed in anything between 2 and 8 years.
Employers can also design a programme of study for their employees, selecting elements of existing courses, or plan workplace projects that can support the achievement of a postgraduate award.
The Postgraduate Awards in Professional Development can equip you with practical, academic and research skills through a flexible, modular structure centred on your needs.
These enable you and, if appropriate, your employer /manager to tailor a programme of study that aligns with your specific skill development needs.
The programme facilitates the recognition of acquired skills for academic credit and promotes broader access to and participation in higher education.
Your course consists of 15, 30, 45 and 60 credit modules.
With the support of your course leader, you will select the modules, and therefore, the number of credits you want to study in each semester and academic year.
To put this another way- the duration of your course is dependent on credit value of modules you choose to study each year!
The means there are many options for you to manage how and what your study, an illustration for the Master’s degree (180 credits) is provided below:
Part-time over 3 years*
* part-time normally requires registration for modules to a value of not more than 45 credits in a semester
Part-time over 4 years
Part-time over 5 years
Part-time over 6 years
Part-time over 7 years
Maximum periods of registration
The maximum periods of registration (periods in which you must complete your award) allow you flexibility to choose how many credits you want to study each semester or year:
Browse our range of individual modules and take the next step towards achieving your career ambitions.
If you have any questions please get in touch with the team via PG.ProfessionalDevelopment@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/professional-development/health-and-wellbeing.aspx:
Find out more or apply for one of our short courses below.
Take a look at our full range of postgraduate Health and Wellbeing courses and our range of workshops and conferences .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/professional-development/business-and-management.aspx:
Take a look at our full range of postgraduate Business and Management courses .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/professional-development/education.aspx:
Take a look at our full range of postgraduate Education courses and our range of short courses and conferences .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/professional-development/nursing-midwifery.aspx:
Take a look at our full range of postgraduate Nursing and Midwifery courses and our range of health and wellbeing workshops and conferences .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/professional-development/psychology.aspx:
Take a look at our full range of postgraduate Health and Wellbeing courses .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/professional-development/sport-exercise-science.aspx:
Take a look at our full range of postgraduate Sport and Exercise Science courses .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/request-a-callback.aspx:
Whether you want to learn more about one of our courses, have an application query, or would just like to know more about student life at Worcester, we’re on hand to help.
Request a callback using the form below and a member of our team will be in touch soon.
Callbacks will be made Monday-Friday during your preferred time slot (GMT).
We aim to respond to all requests within two working days.
Our callback service is only available to UK residents at this time.
If you are living overseas, you can learn more about the University of Worcester on our dedicated international webpages .
Enter your details below and we will get in touch with you

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/open-days/book-your-place.aspx:
Please use this form to book your place on one of our Undergraduate Open Days.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/open-days/open-day-talks-and-activities.aspx:
In the meantime here's a run down of the talks and activities you can expect to find.
At the Open Day, you’ll be able to attend course talks, see specialist course facilities and chat to current staff about the course.
Explore our facilities in the company of a current student.
You can ask them any questions you have about the University along the way.
You'll have the chance to visit our on-campus halls of residence throughout the day.
You can look round the rooms and communal areas, and to speak to the students who live there.
Chat with experts from our Finance, Admissions, Disability & Dyslexia and Study Abroad teams.
There will also be free tea, coffee and biscuits.
Take the opportunity to explore the beautiful city of Worcester for yourself.
There'll be guides and signs making it easy to walk between campuses and into the city centre.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/open-days/campus-tours.aspx:
There are currently no available campus visits.
The next opportunity to visit campus will be listed here, so please check back again soon.
We will also hold Open Days throughout the year.
Visit our Open Days page to find out more and book a place.
Our friendly students and graduates will show you around our specialist facilities, answer any questions you may have and give you a first-hand insight into student life at Worcester.
Alongside a tour of the campus and particular facilities you are interested in, we'd recommend taking some to explore the city.
You'll discover a host of independent shops and restaurants and take in scenic views of the River Severn and Worcester Cathedral .
Speak to our students about the best places to visit and how they spend their time in the city.
Our halls of residence are great places to live, study and embrace student life.
We'll do our best to arrange for a member of our Accommodation team to give you advice on your accommodation options as part of your visit.
You can also explore all our accommodation options at an Open Day and through our Virtual Tour .
You are more than welcome to bring guests with you.
We can’t wait to meet you!
If you need any support from us during your visit, please contact us at study@worc.ac.uk and we’ll help manage your booking.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/open-days/campus-tour-resources.aspx:
A selection of useful route maps and resources for your Univerisity of Worcester tour.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/events:
Parents and Supporters Q&A Panel
Join us for an informative and interactive webinar designed specifically for parents, carers, and supporters of students who are applying to start university in 2026.
Biomedical Science, Medical Sciences or Biochemistry; which one is right for you?
Join Dr Amy Cherry, Senior Lecturer in Biochemistry, for an informative webinar where you will learn about the science courses on offer at Worcester.
International karaoke
Relax and unwind after your induction period with the return of Friday Night Karaoke in The Hangar
Welcome Party
Kick-start your Welcome Festival with our Welcome Party in The Hangar.
This is the perfect opportunity to meet new people and make new friends.
Big Worcester Welcome
Your Worcester journey begins here!
Meet new people, explore campus, enjoy a BBQ, and unwind at The Hangar bar.
Speed Friending
Join Speed Friending to meet new people, play games, and find shared interests in a fun, relaxed setting.
Board Game Café
Need a break from the buzz?
Head to Hastings Café on City Campus or The Hangar on St John's Campus for a chilled afternoon of board games, drinks, and good company.
Bring your mates or meet new ones!
Fancy a Cuppa
Our "Fancy a Cuppa?" event is a fantastic way to meet fellow students and connect with our dedicated support staff in a relaxed atmosphere.
Disco Binglow
Disco Binglow is one of the biggest parties of the year.
So, prepare yourself for an absolutely unforgettable and unmissable night of inflatables, prize giveaways, and a whole lot more.
The Big Quiz
Assemble your squad and test out your general knowledge to be in with the chance of winning our big £250 jackpot, or one of our many other prizes.
Psychology Taster Lecture
Discover what it’s really like to be a Psychology student at the University of Worcester.
Experience a short lecture and ask your questions to Dr Jack Brimmell, our Psychology course leader.
Welcome Fair
Your Worcester experience starts here!
Meet the SU, clubs, societies & Uni teams at the Welcome Fair.
Discover how to get involved and grab some great freebies!
Reception - 01905 855 000

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/request-a-prospectus/printed-prospectus.aspx:
Complete the form below to request a print copy of our undergraduate prospectus pack.
The Mini Guide contains a full course listing as well as a helpful overview of our campuses, clubs and societies, financial support and the city of Worcester.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/request-a-prospectus/digital-prospectus.aspx:
Complete the form below to request a digital copy of our undergraduate prospectus pack.
Our prospectus pack includes a copy of our UniLife Magazine and Mini Guide.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance:
While you are studying at Worcester, you will need to pay annual tuition fees to us.
You will also need to consider other expenses such as living costs, accommodation fees and study materials.
A wide range of financial support is available to help you cover the cost of your studies, throughout the duration of your course.
Tuition fees are reviewed annually and may increase in subsequent years of your course to reflect increased costs of delivery and to maintain a high-quality student experience.
From September 2025 our standard annual undergraduate tuition fee for full time Home students is £9,535, applying to all years of study.
The University will continue to set undergraduate, PGCE and postgraduate pre-registration Health course fees at the maximum level permitted by the government to be charged to Home students on these courses.
The University will therefore increase tuition fees in line with any uplift determined by the government by law or government policy.
Such increases are usually linked to inflation and determined using RPIX (the Retail Price Index excluding mortgage interest payments).
The University will publish its tuition fees on the Fees and Finance pages of the University website by the end of June prior to the start of the academic year to which they apply.
If you are dissatisfied with the proposed increase, you have the right to terminate your contract with the University by not re-registering for the new academic year.
For information regarding paying fees and deposits in a simple and secure way please visit our Fees, Scholarships and Loans webpage to find out more about Flywire, our online payment portal.
Fees information for Graduate Entry Medicine students can be found on our Medicine MBChB course page .
Since August 2021 EU students studying in England have not been eligible for the home rate for course fees, or undergraduate, postgraduate and advanced learner financial support from Student Finance England.
However, at the University of Worcester we have decided that EU students starting their studies in the academic years 2025/26 and 2026/27 will pay the same course fees as home students (with the exception of the Medicine MBChB and PGCE students who are in receipt of a DFE bursary).
Irish nationals, EU students who have settled or pre-settled status , or EU, other EEA and Swiss nationals benefitting from Citizens’ Rights under the EU Withdrawal Agreement, EEA EFTA Separation Agreement or Swiss Citizens’ Rights Agreement respectively remain eligible for the home rate of course fees and support from Student Finance England.
Eligibility for home fees is subject to various criteria.
For more information, and to confirm your eligibility, please contact our International team via international@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/course-fees.aspx:
Tuition fees cover the cost of your teaching, assessment and support services.
Your fees also pay for membership of the Students' Union and contribute to running essential University facilities.
Fees at Worcester reflect the cost of efficiently providing an excellent education.
Our philosophy is that once a student is selected to study here, they become a member of our community.
This informs everything we do.
At Worcester, we are committed to providing our future students with an outstanding education, facilities and opportunities.
The University remains committed to providing more opportunities for highly talented, ambitious students regardless of their financial circumstances.
If you are dissatisfied with the proposed increase, you have the right to terminate your contract with the University by not re-registering for the new academic year.
Alumni who have successfully completed a BA, BSc, LLB, MA or MSc award at the University of Worcester will receive a 20% discount on their tuition fees for a full-time Master's or PhD course if they progress within 2 years.
Alumni who successfully completed a BA, BSc, LLB, MA or MSc award at the University of Worcester and progress to a full-time Master's or PhD course more than 2 years later, or progress to a part-time Master's or PhD course, will receive a 10% discount on their tuition fees.
(Students are entitled to one discount only, and cannot combine this discount with any other.
The University of Worcester reserves the right to change or remove this discount.
This discount does not apply to our graduate entry Medicine MBChB course.)
To find out more on this please email creditcontrol@worc.ac.uk with your queries.
The University's Money Advice Service is available to you even before you apply.
If you'd like confidential, one-to-one advice, contact our Money Advice office through Firstpoint on:
Tel: 01905 542551 email: firstpoint@worc.ac.uk
If you have a question about tuition fees and how to pay for them, please contact our Finance Department on 01905 542890 or email creditcontrol@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/new-financial-support-for-healthcare-students.aspx:
If you're starting or continuing an eligible healthcare course from 1 September 2020 onwards, you can apply for the NHS Learning Support Fund (LSF) .
This funding is made available by the government.
Students are advised to check the latest information from the government to confirm their eligibility.
From 1 September 2020, students studying eligible pre-registration, undergraduate, or postgraduate healthcare courses will receive a payment of at least £5,000 a year, which they will not need to pay back.
Courses eligible for the payment include Dietetics, Midwifery, Nursing (Adult, Child, Mental Health), Occupational Therapy, Paramedic Science, Physiotherapy and Radiography (diagnostic).
There will also be additional funding available on some prioritised courses.
Additional funding of £2,000 will also be available for parental support, if you have at least one dependent child under 15 years, or under 17 years if registered with special educational needs.
More information on potential funding for financial hardship support and potential travel and accommodation assistance can be found on the NHS Learning Support fund webpage .
The financial support is intended to provide additional funding and not to replace the maintenance loan.
We would expect most students to access both the non-repayable payment and the maintenance loan to help finance their studies.
Together these sources will provide more day-to-day support for study than has ever before been available.
Further information on payment methods and timetables can be found on the NHS Learning Support fund webpage .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/scholarships.aspx:
We appreciate the investment students make in their education.
To help with the financial responsibility of students, we offer a range of scholarships as well as an Access to Learning Fund (also known as the Hardship Fund).
The University of Worcester is actively working to create more scholarship and prize opportunities, so please revisit this page for further updates.
The University awards scholarships of £1,000 to eligible full-time undergraduate students in their second and third year of a degree course or second year of a Foundation degree on the basis of their academic achievement in the previous academic year at the University.
Students do not apply for these scholarships as they are awarded to eligible students who achieve A- or higher for all modules where a grade is awarded during the 24/25 academic year.
For full details of scholarships available for international students, please see our International Fees, Scholarships and Loans page .
If you have completed a BA, BSc or LLB award as a student at the University of Worcester and then study a full-time Masters or PhD course at Worcester within two years of graduation, you are entitled to a 20% discount off your tuition fees.
If you have completed a BA, BSc or LLB award as a student at the University of Worcester and then study a full-time Masters or PhD course at Worcester more than two years after graduating, or if you study a part-time Masters or PhD course regardless of when you graduated, you are entitled to a 10% discount off your tuition fees.
This discount does not apply to our graduate entry Medicine MBChB course.
If you have completed a BA, BSC or LLB award as a home, EU or international student at the University of Worcester and enrol on a full-time PGCE (if you are not employed by an FE College or studying an Apprenticeship) in September 2025 you are entitled to a £500 PGCE Alumni Scholarship payment unless you are receiving a subject-specific scholarship or bursary.
Students are entitled to one discount only, and cannot combine this discount with any other.
If you have any questions about these alumni discounts and scholarships please email creditcontrol@worc.ac.uk
If you'd like confidential, one-to-one advice, contact our Money Advice office through Firstpoint on 01905 542551 or firstpoint@worc.ac.uk
If you have a question about tuition fees and how to pay for them, please contact our Finance Department on 01905 542474 or 01905 855115 or email creditcontrol@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/undergraduate-loans.aspx:
The tuition fee loan covers your annual tuition fees of £9,250 for academic year 2024/25.
UK students apply to their student finance provider who pays this, on your behalf, directly to the University of Worcester for each year of your study.
The loan will be reduced by any fee waiver you have been awarded.
You can also apply for a maintenance loan for day-to-day living expenses such as accommodation and food.
This is also administered by your student finance provider and will be paid into your bank account in three instalments, once you've registered on your course.
If you are a student from England starting you studies in the academic year 2024/25 then the maximum maintenance loan you can borrow is £10,227 per year if you live away from home and £8,610 per year if you live at home with parents.
The exact amount you can borrow depends on a number of factors, such as your household income.
For students who live in England you can learn more about student loans from the Directgov Student Loans website.
To see how much maintenance loan you will be eligible for, please visit the Student Finance calculator.
Higher Maintenance Loans are available for students with an underlying eligibility for means-tested welfare benefits.
If you are a student from England starting you studies in the academic year 2023/24 then the maximum maintenance loan you can borrow is £9,978 per year if you live away from home and £8,400 per year if you live at home with parents.
Loans for tuition fees are available to eligible part-time undergraduate degree students who complete a minimum of 25% of the full-time course load per year (30 credits or more) and started after September 2012.
Eligible part-time students starting after September 2018 can also apply for a Maintenance Loan.
The value of the loan will be a percentage of the full-time student loan, with the percentage depending on the intensity of study.
Applicants for courses offering a Flexible and Distributed Learning Pathway should consult the relevant funding bodies regarding their eligibility for Student Finance.
Students who are European Union residents or residents from Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway or Switzerland who have pre-settled status can also apply for a tuition fee loan from the Student Loan Company.
Students from these countries who can be classed as “workers” or who have settled status may also be able to apply for Maintenance Loans and Dependant Grants.
Irish students do not need to have settled or pre-settled status.
More information can be found at https://www.gov.uk/student-finance/eu-students .
If you are an international student, you will not be eligible for any financial assistance from the UK Government.
You will need to apply for this kind of financial help in your home country.
You may wish to consider applying for a scholarship.
Download our booklet explaining what financial aid is available for American students.
FAFSA Free Application for Federal Student Aid Contact FAFSA on https://studentaid.gov/h/apply-for-aid/fafsa to access the form online Enter the University of Worcester Code G41286
IEFC (International Education Finance Corp) Provides scholarships/loans to US students and other students (with US guarantor) See https://myglobaled.com/
Studying in the US http://www.studying-in-us.org/

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/postgraduate-loans.aspx:
The loan is paid directly to you.
You can use it for your course fees and living costs.
The amount you’ll get depends on when you started your course.
It isn’t based on you or your family’s income.
Please note that the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) may take account of the loan when working out any benefits you receive.
You get the first payment after your course start date, once your university or college confirms that you’ve registered.
If your course lasts for more than a year, the loan will be divided equally across each year of your course.
The loan will be paid in 3 instalments of 33%, 33% and 34% each year.
After your application has been approved, you’ll be sent a letter with your payment dates.
For more information, including detailed eligibility criteria, please visit the Master's Loan page on GOV.UK.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/doctoral-loans.aspx:
Eligible postgraduate doctoral students can apply for a loan to help cover the overall costs of their course.
£30,301, if your course starts on or after 1 August 2025
£29,390, if your course started between 1 August 2024 and 31 July 2025
The amount you receive is not based on you or your family's income.
The loan will be paid directly to eligible students and they will be able to use it for their course fees and living costs.
The loan will be divided equally across each year of the course.
For full details on eligibility, repayments and how to apply, visit the Doctoral Loans page on GOV.UK.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/access-to-learning-fund.aspx:
You must be a Home or EU (but not non-EU International) student as defined by Student Finance England and registered on a course at the University of Worcester.
Or you may be registered as a University of Worcester Student at a Partner College, but ‘Direct Funding’ students who pay fees directly to the Partner College are not eligible.
The Access to Learning Fund is limited and not all applicants will receive financial help or cover for their entire financial shortfall.
In particular, help is given to students who may be financially disadvantaged.
International students (not eligible to apply to the Access to Learning Fund) who are in year 2 or above, with an unexpected financial difficulty requiring one-off short-term help to avoid it impacting on their success at university can apply to the International Student Hardship Fund .
For full details, including information on how to apply, please see our Money Advice pages .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/fee-status-assessment.aspx:
The level of tuition fees that you will need to pay is based on your fee status.
By completing a fee status assessment the Admissions Office will be able to assess whether you will need to pay either 'home' or 'international' tuition fees.
Tuition fees are set at different levels for Home and International students.
You can find more information about our tuition fees by visiting course fees pages .
The criteria for who pays 'home' fees is decided by the UK Government.
In many cases, we will be able to assess your fee status without needing any additional information and your status will be confirmed if/when you receive an offer to study at the University.
If we need further information from you we will contact you directly and ask you to complete our Fee Status Assessment .
If you have applied to study with us, you can complete our fee status questionnaire by following the link below.
Your answers to the questionnaire will provide us with more information about you which will help with your fee status assessment.
Once you have completed the questionnaire we will make a further assessment and inform you of the outcome.
Please answer all of the questions as fully as possible.
As part of the Fee Status Assessment we will ask you to send us copies of your passport and possibly additional documentation (e.g.
evidence of your immigration status) if relevant.
Please use the link below to send us copies of the requested documents.
All documents relating to your Fee Status Assessment should be sent to feestatus@worc.ac.uk .
If you have any questions about your fee status assessment please contact us by emailing feestatus@worc.ac.uk or by calling the Admissions Office on 01905 855111 Monday to Friday, 9am to 4pm.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/apprenticeships:
The University of Worcester identifies three pledges in its core values; stating we will:
Our apprenticeship strategy seeks to support these core commitments and contribute to meeting the national and regional skills needs to develop our future workforce.
This was supported by Ofsted in May 2023, where we achieved an overall grade of ‘Good’, with inspectors recognising university leaders for having a clear focus for their provision, and offer apprenticeships which directly responds to local and regional priorities.
Our apprenticeship programmes offer a high-quality learning experience, with courses that are designed in partnership with our employer partners, to ensure we meet their evolving skill needs; particularly focusing within the healthcare, allied health, and the education sectors.
This enables our employer partners the opportunity to foster potential within their existing workforce, or recruit new talent into their business.
We are extremely proud to have supported 200 apprentices to successfully complete their apprenticeship across Teacher, Nursing Associate, Senior Leader and Operations/Departmental Manager apprenticeship programmes - with 100% of our employer partners consistently giving us a rating of good or excellent in the overall delivery of our apprenticeship programmes.
To find out how we can support you with our apprenticeship offers, please get in touch with us.
email: apprenticeships@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/apprenticeships/courses.aspx:
*Subject to approval
We are currently developing the following courses:

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/apprenticeships/learners.aspx:
For many, the Apprenticeship route isn’t an obvious choice.
However for people who are eager to develop, whether embarking on your career or already in an established role within an organisation, Apprenticeships could be the way forward for you.
Here are our top 5 reasons why you should consider an Apprenticeship as a way to kick start your career:
Our first reason is probably the most obvious.
Unlike other opportunities, you will be earning money at the same time as studying for your qualification.
Just remember that as your experience grows, so will the amount of money you earn!
Plus no debt - your qualification is being funded by your employer and the UK Government's Apprenticeship Levy .
You will learn from industry experts which will give you hands on experience from a relevant source.
This means that in the future when you are looking to develop your career, you will have ‘real’ professional experience to guide you forward.
The modules in your Apprenticeship will provide you with the essential knowledge and behaviours; and the structured programme will coach you through the skills that you need to be successful.
In any industry, it is so important to build your contacts.
Throughout your Apprenticeship you will meet many people within your business and externally that will help shape your career.
Making a great name for yourself and building business contacts will benefit you massively in the future so make sure that you are making the most of the opportunities.
Apprenticeships typically take between one and three years to complete, depending on the type of Apprenticeship and the level.
In this time, you will make relationships and contacts with clients, colleagues, and managers.
Working with local employers, the University of Worcester offers Higher and Degree Apprenticeship programmes and qualifications.
This means whilst you are getting work experience, you will also be gaining a nationally recognised qualification, along with a higher education award, which you can carry forward too many other pathways.
We will ensure that you are well supported from the very start of your Apprenticeship.
We will make sure that you (and your employer) are set up to successfully complete your Apprenticeship and throughout your learning programme provide you with any extra guidance that you may need.
From the very start of your apprenticeship, you will always have a point of contact to go to for any questions or queries you may have.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/apprenticeships/employers.aspx:
There is evidence that employing apprentices can improve the productivity of companies, with recent research demonstrating both short and long-term gains.
The Centre for Economics and Business Research found that, on average, each apprentice brings a gain in productivity of more than £10,000 per year for their employer.
A skills gap is currently affecting many organisations and companies in the UK, meaning it is hard to fill vacancies.
However, by recruiting apprentices, or using apprenticeships standards to develop your existing workforce, you can train people to have the exact skills you need for your business, so investing in the future of your business.
In addition to building a company's skills base, providing quality training to apprentices is also likely to bring benefits in terms of staff retention.
A major reason for this is that staff typically feel loyal to employers who have invested in their development and training, and are therefore more engaged and motivated to stay.
Apprenticeships are particularly cost-effective as a form of training and development because people are making a contribution to the workplace while they are learning; apprentices spend much of their time gaining skills on the job.
Another advantage for employers is that funding is available to cover the cost of apprenticeship training and development.
We can give you detailed advice on how to arrange funding towards an apprenticeship.
From managing the introduction of apprenticeships into your company through to consulting on the regulations of the apprenticeship levy , our employment services will positively impact on your business, driving productivity whilst allowing you to develop your workforce talent in your own way.
There has never been a better time to introduce apprenticeships to your business with the most exciting reforms in Apprenticeship history being introduced from 2017, putting employers in control of designing apprenticeships, and shaping the skills training they need to meet their future workforce needs.
To assist employers in their first steps of employing apprentices we offer a fully supportive approach, to ensure effective selection and recruitment of apprentices.
This includes:

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/apprenticeships/the-apprenticeship-levy-explained.aspx:
The apprenticeship Levy is a taxation placed on large employers in both the public and private sector; paid to HMRC via PAYE returns.
This is then accessible to the same businesses to fund apprenticeship training programmes within their organisation.
The purpose of the levy is to promote employers’ investment in apprenticeship programmes and to raise additional funds to improve the quality and quantity of apprenticeships nationally.
Useful information from www.apprenticeships.gov.uk
The levy amount is 0.5% of a company’s payroll, and every employer gets an allowance of £15,000 to offset against the amount they owe.
That’s why it only applies to businesses with a payroll over £3m.
To explain; a business with a payroll of £6m would have an Apprenticeship Levy payable as follows:
£6,000,000 (payroll) x 0.5% (levy amount) -  £30,000 £15,000 Less Levy allowance = £15,000 Levy amount payable
All businesses that pay the levy will be able to access their contribution in their online digital apprenticeship service account.
This account can be used to pay for apprenticeships training and assessment in England.
As levy payments go out monthly, businesses will start to see funds appear in their digital account a few working days later.
Businesses are required to to set up their account with the digital apprenticeship service .
Yes.
As the money goes into the digital account, it gains a 10% top up from the government.
That means for every £1 that enters a business’ digital account it gets an additional 10 pence.
Using the £6m payroll business as an example, if a business pays £15,000 in levy payments throughout the year which is gradually appearing in their digital apprenticeship account, they will also gain an additional £1,500 from government throughout the year too, so they have £16,500 to pay for apprenticeship training and assessment in their digital account.
Running parallel with the introduction of the Levy there is also a new funding system for businesses that run apprenticeship programmes.
The objective of the new system is to increase businesses’ purchasing power and control over apprenticeship training.
To begin with you will choose the apprenticeship you want, and the training provider you want to deliver it, and you will agree a cost for the training with the provider.
The government will ask you to make a 5% contribution to the overall cost of training and government will pay the rest.
The government will ask you to pay this directly to the provider and you may be able to spread it over the lifetime of the apprenticeship, to an agreed schedule.
As both you and the government make a payment, it’s called ‘co-investment’.
The government will pay their part of the training costs direct to the provider.
In some situations, these additional incentives will mean that 100% of training costs to the employer are covered.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/apprenticeships/impact.aspx:
Prior to joining the University’s Nursing Associate FdSc course, Phillipa Mills had spent eight years working as a healthcare assistant supporting patients living with dementia in an older adult mental health inpatient setting.
“I was encouraged and fully supported by my workplace, where I am still based, to apply for the Nursing Associate course,” she said.
“As part of the course I’ve been able to gain experience in a variety of nursing placements and develop my overall confidence.
"I am hoping to continue gaining more knowledge and experience to provide high quality care and eventually come back to university to progress into a registered mental health nurse.”
Speaking about the award nomination, Phillipa, from Redditch, said: “I feel honoured to even be recognised let alone nominated for such an award.”
Sophie Prothero said she knew she wanted to work in hospitals right from when she was a child.
“I was always playing hospitals with my dolls and teddies,” she said.
“Prior to beginning the apprenticeship, I worked as a healthcare assistant on a ward for two years and enjoyed helping patients in need.
“When the opportunity arose to undertake the Nursing Associate apprenticeship, I applied.
"I wanted to do more for the patients.
"I was delighted to be offered a place on the course and to be able to complete the apprenticeship on the ward I am familiar with.”
Sophie, from Hereford, said was proud to be shortlisted for the Student Nursing Times Award.
“Being dyslexic, I found academic writing difficult but worked hard to get to where I am today and I am grateful and proud to be shortlisted for the award and overwhelmed to have been nominated.
“My goal is to be the best Nurse Associate I can be and positively impact patients' lives.”
Savannah Richards had been working as a healthcare assistant for 12 years when she saw the Nursing Associate Apprenticeship as an opportunity to build on her skills and make the move into a nursing career.
“I had been working in the Accident and Emergency department in Worcester for 4.5 years prior to starting the course,” said the mother-of-one.
“Having the flexibility of attending university and to continue working really appealed to me.”
Savannah, originally from Birmingham and now living in Kidderminster, said she wanted to continue providing emergency care after qualification.
“I enjoy the fast-paced environment as well as working in a fantastic team helping people with their acute illnesses,” she said.
“Once I am qualified, I hope that as well as making change in patient's lives that I can make change and create a more inclusive working environment for my colleagues.”
Speaking about the Student Nursing Times Awards, she said: “At first, I was very surprised as I don't feel that I do anything extra special to be noticed.
However, I am so happy that my hard work has been highlighted which has given me a boost in confidence.
I feel honoured to be shortlisted with so many other wonderful students.”

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/study-in-dudley.aspx:
The University has partnered with Dudley College and the Black Country and Marches Institute of Technology to offer local people the opportunity to study a range of high quality higher education courses on their doorstep.
You can study for a degree in:
These courses are taught in Dudley by our exceptional staff, with placements and opportunities available in Dudley and the wider Black Country region.
People chose to study with the University of Worcester because of our excellent reputation in the region, and because we are:
The University of Worcester, which has been at the heart of training health professionals for the region for many years, is also planning to offer several health-related apprenticeships in the future.
Enter your details below and we'll keep you up to date with useful information about studying with the University of Worcester in Dudley.
Please note the option to study in Dudley is only open to home (UK) students.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study/clearing:
01905 855 111
We're here to answer your call weekdays between 8.30am and 4.30pm.
It’s not too late to secure your place at the University of Worcester this September.
We currently have courses and accommodation available.
We have a wide range of courses available through Clearing.
See the full list of courses with places available to start this September.
Accept a place through Clearing in 2025 and we'll find you a place in University managed accommodation, living with other first-year students.
With Clearing expected to be very competitive this year, take a look at our advice to make sure that you're ahead of the crowd.
Worcester is a beautiful cathedral city around 40 minutes south of Birmingham.
We have great transport links and plenty of on-campus parking.
We're joint first in the UK for quality education (Times Higher Education University Impact Rankings 2025) and our graduates have the highest rate of sustained employment, further study or both, from any multidisciplinary university in the UK (Longitudinal Education Outcomes Survey 2017-25).
Find out more about what it’s like to live and study in Worcester.
Discover the success stories of some of our students who have used the clearing process or have had an unusual transition into university.
A conversation that changed everything — discover how Kristine found her place at Worcester through Clearing.
Jayden shares his experience applying for Biomedical Science at Worcester through Clearing, and his advice for others in his position.
How Sophie Bennett turned her disappointing results into a Biomedical Science degree and a place at medical school.
In just three hours, Kieran went from exploring options to securing a place through Clearing — all before his mum got home from work.
University of Worcester Business school graduate, Molly Evans, explains how she chose to go through clearing.
Thomas talks us through his experience of applying to the University of Worcester through Clearing
If you've already got your exam results and haven't yet applied to Worcester then there's no need to wait.
Apply now via our online application form.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/accommodation/information-for-landlords.aspx:
The dramatic growth of the University has created a huge demand for good quality, well managed property across many areas of the city.
Although the University of Worcester works closely with Worcester City Council to advertise licensed student shared properties in the local area, it does however reserve the right to refuse permission for a landlord to advertise on its Studentpad website.
Decisions to remove an existing landlord from the register, or prevent a new landlord from advertising, will be made by the Residential Experience Manager.
The outcome of this will be non-negotiable.
For more information on Studentpad, please view our private accommodation page .
Our information for landlords provides guidance on a range of issues, including:
If you are a private landlord interested in providing student accommodation please call us on: 01905 855137 / 855300.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/virtual-tour.aspx:
To navigate open the menu in the top left corner of the box below, or use the arrows on the floor where available.
We've teamed up with AccessAble to provide accessibility guides for our building and campuses.
The guides give you the information and detail you need to work out if our facilities are going to be accessible for you.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support:
Our Counselling and Mental Health Service offers a daily triage service for crisis assessment and immediate support, while other initiatives range from visits by Pets as Therapy dogs, weekly informal drop-in sessions and campaigns throughout the year, promoting wellbeing services and encouraging conversations about mental health.
In 2018 we were shortlisted in the Times Higher Education Awards in the category of Outstanding Support for Students.
Recognising the University’s innovative approach to mental health and wellbeing, through its unique ‘Suicide Safer’ initiative and a range of other support programmes.
Library Services ’ Ask a Librarian service (offering guidance by email, live chat and one to one appointments), can help you find, evaluate and reference information.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/services-for-students:
Whether you need advice on paying tuition fees, help finding an obscure book, access to the internet, a dentist, or language lessons, we have the technology, services and resources to ensure that your time with us is stimulating and productive.
The following are some of the many people and student services at the University of Worcester who can offer advice and support:
You can access most student support services through firstpoint in the Peirson Study and Guidance Centre on St.
John’s Campus.
firstpoint is the place to go if you have any queries relating to:
Visit the Student Services web pages for more information.
The Students’ Union :
Offers free, confidential, and impartial advice and representation to all students on a wide range of academic and accommodation issues, alongside societies, clubs, volunteering, student representations and social activities.
Registry Services :
Offers advice on matters relating to your academic work including registration, module selection, assessment and graduation.
Contact firstpoint .
The IT Service :
Responsible for providing IT facilities and Wi-Fi throughout the University.
They also offer a Service Desk which is based on the first floor of the Peirson Study and Guidance Centre on the St John's campus, as well as support from Level Three of The Hive.
Library Services :
Offers over a quarter of a million books, online texts, study support and more in The Hive - the award winning joint university and public library.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/services-for-students/firstpoint.aspx:
Firstpoint is based in the Peirson Study and Guidance Centre, on St John's Campus .
We're here to help you access information and support during your studies.
Our opening hours can be found on the firstpoint website .
Students can phone us on 01905 542551, email firstpoint@worc.ac.uk or visit us at the desk.
Current students can also access further information and support via the firstpoint website .
Our advisers can give information, advice and guidance about anything affecting your studies or your life at university.
If necessary, they can help you to access specialist services, and help you book appointments

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/services-for-students/library-services.aspx:
Library Services are committed to making a significant contribution to student success and academic scholarship, equipping university members and the wider community for lifelong learning through excellent and accessible services, facilities, resources, teaching and advice.
Library Services operates out of The Hive, a ground-breaking, fully integrated academic and public library, run in partnership with Worcestershire County Council, which provides services to all members of the University and community.
For more information about Library Services, information on resources and to use our "Ask a Librarian" service please visit the Library Services website.
To find out more about volunteering opportunities at the The Hive please see our specialist webpages.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/services-for-students/lgbtq-community.aspx:
The University has an LGBTQ+ staff network that offer training to all staff, providing advice and guidance on issues and concerns.
This includes the use of broader reading and teaching materials, as well as support and guidance on how to use pronouns.
In addition, the Students' Union has a number of networks to provide support to students, and the LGBTQ+ staff network engage with them on a frequent basis to help to improve the services that they offer.
This includes inviting members of the student body to attend regular sessions to provide their own insight on the learning experience, and to help staff to understand and acknowledge wider viewpoints.
The LGBTQ+ staff network has also introduced a staff “Allies” programme, in which staff can sign up and declare themselves an Ally.
Those staff are then provided with a rainbow-coloured lanyard to wear, as well as a digital badge for their emails to illustrate they are happy to be approached directly for support or guidance and making it easier for students to visibly identify an Ally.
Our online student systems have also been updated so that they display students' “known as” names (rather than their legal first name) as the default display for all class lists and registers.
We recognise the importance of self-identification and the LGBTQ+ staff network is currently encouraging staff to request the use of pronouns at the start of the year, and to display their own pronouns in their email signatures.
Dr Jenny Hatley, Course Leader for Education Studies , has recently written an academic blog that discusses representation, inclusion and creating safety for the LGBTQ+ community in an educational environment.
In recognition of the University's work in this area, we were presented with the inaugural Times Higher Education Award for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/services-for-students/careers-employability.aspx:
Our Graduates go on to pursue exciting and diverse careers which span a vast variety of employment sectors, countries and individual futures.
We know that, regardless of the career you chose, future employers will want evidence of your expertise and the individual personal qualities which make you the best candidate.
Our courses are relevant, based on current research and our assessments are designed to hone your practical and transferable skills where possible.
Thanks to our close links with local employers, we are able to offer a range of work experience, volunteering, extra extra-curricular activities and internship opportunities.
Just a few of our recent graduate careers include: Performance Analysis for a British Paralympic Squad , enhancing global education and teacher training in India , Nursing and Teaching .
Our Careers and Employability Service are based in the Peirson Study and Guidance Centre.
They offer in-depth support to current students and graduates including leavers toolkits, career planning sessions, CV and cover letter advice and application guides.
The myCareer service is the online home for all things Careers & Employability related and allows students, staff and graduates to book appointments, attend events, workshops and Careers Fairs and search for jobs.
In order to help you determine the best learning environment for you, the Careers and Employability Service offer free psychometric tests to determine your learning styles, your career interests and your readiness to enter employment.
They can support you to gain relevant experience, practice aptitude tests and maximise your potential for future employers.
Many students have opportunities to take placements or work project modules as part of their degree which further equips you for post-graduate employment.
For Business School students, this might include a paid placement year in an area relevant to your future career goals.
At Worcester, we want you to develop personally and socially alongside your studies.
There are many opportunities to do this listed throughout our Enhance your degree page .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/services-for-students/enhance-your-degree.aspx:
University isn’t just about studying and achieving your degree.
It’s also about what happens when you leave and you may never have a better opportunity to try so many different things.
By getting involved in as many activities as you can, you might even surprise yourself and find something you really love to do.
There are several ways in which you can expand your knowledge, develop your understanding of the world and learn new skills at the same time.
There is always room for activities to make you smile, keep you fit and to find some space from your studies.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/services-for-students/earn-as-you-learn:
Part-time work can provide you with the perfect opportunity to gather evidence of your achievements.
Areas improved by part-time employment may include:
Earning money is great but you need a careful balance.
Be realistic about the amount of hours you can work whilst you study and remember that the requirements of your course or your employer can vary throughout the year.
Be careful not to let your studies suffer as the result of too much paid work.
International students should check their visa to see if there are any limits on hours worked during semester time.
Please note that when applying for jobs at the University of Worcester, full time students completing an undergraduate degree will only be considered for roles of less than 20 hours a week during semester time.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/services-for-students/study-support.aspx:
At Worcester we support you in a number of ways throughout your studies, helping you achieve your potential.
By ‘study skills’, we mean the general skills you need to succeed as a student, for example: the ability to manage your time, communicate in writing and verbally and effectively use information technology.
Our Study Skills Portal offers advice on writing assignments, preparing for exams and presentations, managing your workload and much more.
These skills are not just acquired through study; all sorts of experience can be relevant here.
For example, if your work, voluntary activity, or interests have led you to read widely and in depth, you will have developed useful skills for processing information.
Similarly, any extended writing (reports, articles, diaries) helps develop communication skills.
At the same time, there are particular academic requirements and conventions in higher education, and it is a good idea to find out how much reading, writing and public speaking might be involved in a course.
Pre-university study routes, such as Access courses, or A-levels, are designed to help you to develop the relevant skills for higher education, as well as subject knowledge.
University students are ‘independent learners’.
However, being independent does not mean being left on your own.
You will have support from your tutors, your lecturers and from a whole host of support staff and services.
Firstpoint , based in the Peirson Study and Guidance Centre on the St John's Campus, is the first point of call for all student enquiries.
The following are some of the many people and services at The University of Worcester who can offer advice and support, helping you to make informed decisions:
For assistance with academic or general writing skills book a session with our Academic Writers in Residence .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/services-for-students/writers-in-residence-rlf.aspx:
Professional, published writers and Royal Literary Fund Fellows, Mike Woods, Sarah Hilary and Rosalind Harvey, offer confidential, one-to-one tutorials for students in all subject areas and to support all aspects of academic writing.
This includes essays, reports, theses, dissertations, or personal statements.
Sessions last up to 50 minutes .
Our free service is provided by the Royal Literary Fund (RLF) which sponsors over 80 writers to work in universities across the UK.
Sign up for a one-to-one tutorial to help you:
Michael is a poet with three collections - Absence Notes , Algebra and Opening Time published by Templar Poetry.
His poems have appeared in several magazines and anthologies, including Answering Back , Out of Fashion and Empty Nest - all edited by Carol Ann Duffy.
Others have won prizes in the Bridport, Ledbury, Writers’ Handbook, Hungry Hill and Poetry on the Lake competitions.
He is currently working on his fourth collection.
Email: mike.woods@rlfeducation.org.uk
Sarah is an award-winning crime writer whose debut, Someone Else’s Skin , won the Theakstons Crime Novel of the Year.
Her short stories have won the Cheshire Prize for Literature, the SENSE prize, and the Fish Criminally Short Histories Prize.
As well as writing, Sarah teaches crime fiction and mentors its rising stars.
Her ninth book, Sharp Glass , came out in 2024.
Email: sarah.hilary@rlfeducation.org.uk
Rosalind is a critically acclaimed literary translator, focusing on contemporary Latin American fiction.
Her work has been shortlisted for the International Booker Prize, the Guardian First Book Award, and the Oxford-Weidenfeld Translation Prize.
She is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature, an Arts Foundation Fellow, and co-founder of the Emerging Translators Network.
She is currently working on an experimental memoir about translation and therapy.
Email: rosalind.harvey@rlfeducation.org.uk
Tutorials with Mike (who covers Mondays and Tuesdays on campus), Sarah (who covers Wednesdays on campus and Thursdays online) and Rosalind (Fridays online) last up to 50 minutes, and can be booked by emailing them direct.
Face to face sessions take place in Edward Elgar G107 on the St.
John’s campus.
mike.woods@rlfeducation.org.uk or sarah.hilary@rlfeducation.org.uk or rosalind.harvey@rlfeducation.org.uk
Please ensure that you use your UW email address.
Please note that RLF Writers in Residence cannot give advice by email, and do not provide a proof-reading service or support with basic English language skills.
Otherwise, they look forward to hearing from you!

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/services-for-students/student-futures-manifesto.aspx:
Working with Worcester Students’ Union we have written our Student Futures Manifesto for all students at the University.
Collaborating with our students, we will deliver each of the actions and regularly revisit our manifesto to ensure students remain at the heart of all that we do.
At the University of Worcester, we aim to be an outstanding university at which to be a student and are deeply committed to supporting our students to be naturally curious, highly successful, and ethical, global citizens.
We recognise the importance of providing support for our students before they join us.
Our ‘Welcome Festival’ pages provide detailed and timely information for new and returning students on what they can expect before they arrive at university.
The pages help to prepare our students for university study through ‘microlearning’ study skill packages, and it ensure that students are aware that staying safe on campus is a priority.
We give guidance and information to equip our students with the knowledge and confidence to ‘call out’ inappropriate behaviours or to seek support if they need it.
We share details about our community to reflect who we are and what is important to us.
We believe preparing our students to join or return to our community adds to their sense of belonging.
We will ensure our course pages are updated ahead of each academic year with the key information that students need for a successful start.
We are committed to welcoming students at each year of their study and providing opportunities for students to maintain existing friendships, build new ones, and develop a sense of belonging within their course and campus.
We will support our students to create and join a range of student-led groups through our Students’ Union.
We will provide an opportunity for every student joining us in their first year to work collaboratively on a shared university topic during their first few weeks: this will provide all students, regardless of course or subject interest, to collaborate with their peers and University staff on a shared initiative or debate.
We will ensure our Welcome Festival is also a ‘Welcome Back’ festival for all returning students , including those who are returning to postgraduate study.
We will provide refresher sessions on study and library skills, and an academic induction relevant to each level of study, and at the most appropriate times during the academic year.
We will make sure students know what support is available to them should they need it.
We have been at the forefront of student mental health and wellbeing nationally and we will continue to develop our services and champion mental health whilst renewing our work in suicide prevention and postvention.
We will embed wellbeing and promoting good mental health into our welcome period and throughout the academic year.
We will actively promote and support a wide range of cultural and religious celebrations, which have previously included:
We will ensure all students living in our halls of residence are automatically members of our university gym through an opt-out rather than opt-in scheme, and we will actively promote our gym to all students.
We will increase the range of wellbeing activities on campus and publish a recreational sports calendar at the start of each semester.
We will revise our student charter to reflect our commitment to supporting mental health and wellbeing and sharing our collective responsibility to support early conversations around our own mental health and how to access support on campus and for students studying at partner organisations.
We will continue to invest in our digital estate to ensure students have the right tools to access learning.
This includes further investment in loan laptops and our virtual learning environment.
We will work towards every module outline on every course following the same format.
We will include information and IT support on how to access our virtual learning environment and digital resources on our ‘Welcome Festival’ micro-site.
We will ensure all students living in our halls of residence are automatically members of our university gym through an opt-out rather than opt-in scheme, and we will actively promote our gym.
We will support our students to develop new societies and student groups and encourage their engagement in:
The Students’ Union sports clubs offer a great platform for students to meet others who share similar sporting interests, and all students based at University of Worcester campuses are eligible to join them.
The current list of over 30 sports covers everything from Men’s and Women’s Rugby to Cheerleading, Swimming, and Wheelchair Basketball.
Many of our clubs and teams compete nationally against other universities as part of the BUCS (British Universities and Colleges Sport) Leagues and Championships.
Students form the committees that run the sports clubs and will receive comprehensive training and support from the Students’ Union to do so.
A Course Rep is a student elected by their peers to represent their cohort's academic views and concerns.
Course Reps represent their peers by listening to their views and concerns and then sharing this information with staff who can then act by making any appropriate  changes.
Department Reps provide the essential link between Course Reps and senior members of staff within the School, as well as working with the Vice President Education at the Students’ Union and receive a bursary for their work.
We have one Rep per department, who is appointed via an interview selection process.
This is a great way to get more involved in University and Students’ Union life and develop key employability skills.
There are over 30 societies available for students to join to meet like-minded friends, supported by the Students’ Union.
The societies available come under three categories: general interest; academic; faith and culture.
Societies often host events and run charity fundraisers throughout the year for all students to enjoy.
As with sports clubs, students form the committees that run societies, receiving training and support from the Students’ Union, and gaining transferable new skills.
Student Networks , facilitated by our Students’ Union, are student-led groups that exist to connect underrepresented areas of the student population, build communities, enhance diversity on campus, highlight current issues, and empower students to act collectively to bring about positive change.
We will host and facilitate events on campus to increase the opportunities for students to meet with future employers from a wide range of sectors.
We will run an ‘Entrepreneur and Starting Your Own Business’ week to provide practical advice to students on how to start their own business or private practice and highlight to students the transferable skills they are developing.
We will run events on how to use professional social media for networking and employment opportunities.
We will provide opportunities for students to learn from our alumni and the University’s College of Fellows.
We will annually review our scholarships and discounts for postgraduate study for our students.
Updated September 2023

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/personal-academic-tutoring.aspx:
Your Personal Academic Tutor will support you throughout your course in many different ways.
As a new undergraduate student, you are provided with an appointed Personal Academic Tutor.
This is usually one of the people teaching on your course and who will remain with you throughout your undergraduate studies.
This system provides continuity for you.
You’ll get to know one member of academic staff who will be your key regular point of contact with the University.
Most students find that they need some academic assistance and guidance at some point during their studies.
You will be assigned a Personal Academic Tutor at the beginning of your course and meet within the first couple of weeks, usually as part of induction.
You can expect a series of meetings throughout the year either as a tutorial group or on an individual basis.
The three key roles of your Personal Academic Tutor are to:
Support your academic development
Act as a first point of call if you are experiencing difficulties arising whist at University
Provide your official University reference
Your Personal Academic Tutor will help you:
Become a member of the University community and make the transition into higher education
Understand your course's approach to learning, skills development and assessment
Reflect on your progress, identify your learning needs and develop useful study strategies
Get the most out of the different learning resources and learning support available
Plan and record your academic, professional and career development
Access additional support and advice, if you need to
As a student, it's important to get the most of the personal academic tutoring scheme.
During your studies, students are expected to:
Attend scheduled personal academic tutoring sessions
Prepare for personal academic tutoring sessions as guided by your tutor
Take responsibility for your learning through reflecting on your progress
Respond to advice and guidance from your Personal Academic Tutor
Take the initiative in contacting your Personal Academic Tutor in relation to problems or if in need of advice outside the normal schedule of meetings
Keep a record of learning from meetings with your Personal Academic Tutor
Ensure your personal details on the SOLE page are current and correct.
References
Your Personal Academic Tutor will write your University reference, so it is also useful to discuss your career intentions, ambitions and work experience with him/her throughout your studies.
Many employability skills are developed through extra-curricular activity while at University and it is also helpful to discuss this with your Personal Academic Tutor.
The better informed you keep your Personal Academic Tutor of your development, the more able your tutor will be to provide you with an effective reference.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/centre-for-academic-english-and-skills:
Welcome to the University of Worcester Centre for Academic English and Skills.
We can help you to improve your academic English and train you to become a teacher of English as a foreign language (CELTA).
The Centre for Academic English and Skills staff are based on the St John's Campus , in Woodbury .
If you have a general enquiry, please use the contact details below.
You can also contact the Centre for Academic English and Skills staff direct .
Centre for Academic English and Skills
St John's Campus, Woodbury 136-8
Worcester, WR2 6AJ
english@worc.ac.uk
+44(0)1905 855241

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/centre-for-academic-english-and-skills/integrated-academic-english-sessions.aspx:
These sessions, which should be booked by lecturers, are tailored to the academic English needs of students on specific courses.
The content is determined in liaison with lecturers and is suitable for both home and international students.
The sessions are delivered within the course timetable, either as a block or on a one-off basis.
Lecturers can book sessions before a course starts, or during the year when specific needs arise.
Booking early is recommended as these sessions are popular.
As the sessions are course-specific, there is no standard scheme of work.
As a guide, they cover
"Thanks again for today's session.
It was really supportive of the different levels of understanding about literature reviews.
One of my students commented that she had drafted hers and this helped her think about how to make sure it all 'glued' together.
Others who have yet to get started commented that it was a reminder of how to get searching and new ideas to write paragraphs properly."
Lecturer in Criminology, November 2023
If you are interested in integrating academic English sessions into your module teaching schedule, please contact
Penny Golightly (one-off session)
Melanie Jarman (block of sessions)
Due to the popularity of the sessions, requests are handled on a first-come, first-served basis.
"This is my last email sent to you as a student.
I just want to let you know that I have passed the last assignment that you helped me with and yesterday I received my pin and officially I am a registered nurse.
I just want to say: ' Thank you!
for your guidance, for encouragement, for being there when I needed it the most, and importantly, for being a part of my journey.
I could not have done it without your help'.
Many thanks and appreciation."
BSc (Hons) Nursing student, September 2023

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/centre-for-academic-english-and-skills/english-as-a-medium-of-instruction-for-lecturers.aspx:
This professional development course is designed to help university lecturers whose first language is not English to:
EMI for Lecturers is a 10-week part-time course which is delivered to University of Worcester partner institutions.
It is taught via interactive sessions over 9 weeks on Zoom and a week of in-person classes during a visit to the University of Worcester.
The course aims to:
Good teaching, examples from life, nice stay in Worcester, high level on the material for a non-native who is trying to speak English.
Everything was useful and good.
Heidi Norrström, Assistant Professor PhD/Senior Lecturer, Halmstad University Sweden November 2023
Course delivery: Taught sessions are interactive and activities are communicative, offering participants opportunity to practise and develop their language use.
Delivery takes place via:
*Where colleagues in relevant disciplines at the University of Worcester are available
Maximum group size: 20
Self-evaluation and needs analysis
The content will be adapted to suit the pre-course needs analysis and may cover a range of relevant topics, such as:
Creating a supportive learning environment for international student groups
Strategies and language needed to effectively and efficiently start lectures
Techniques and language for engaging students
Communicating lecture structure
Using voice to focus attention and deliver the message
Describing figures and tables
Checking understanding and answering student questions clearly
Developing assignments in English, with a focus on appropriate academic terms as well as grammar
Language for giving constructive feedback, both spoken and in writing
Language for communicating with students via email and other channels
Improving grammar, vocabulary and pronunciation for teaching in higher education
Discussing pedagogy and exploring different classroom practices
University of Worcester visit:
Self-study: 40-60 hours
Guided/taught sessions: 40 hours
Total : approximately 80-100 hours (not including travel time or social programme)
Assessment: Tasks set during the course are optional and not assessed.
Participants' professional development is supported via coaching, feedback and reflection.
Certificate of Attendance: Upon satisfactory attendance and completion of the programme, participants will be eligible for a certificate of attendance from the University of Worcester.
This course is designed for non-native speakers of English who use English as the medium of instruction in higher education.
To fully benefit from the course, an English language level of CEFR B2 or higher is required.
Course dates: The course dates are arranged in consultation with participating institutions.
Please contact Melanie Jarman to express your institution's interest in the course.
Course fees: The course fees are based on a group of up to 15 participants.
They are available on request.
Please contact Melanie Jarman for more information.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/centre-for-academic-english-and-skills/academic-english-modules.aspx:
Taking a module with the Centre for Academic English and Skills will help you to improve the quality of your academic writing and speaking.
You will learn how to express yourself clearly and appropriately in your assignments, using academic vocabulary and style.
You will also develop a good understanding of how to paraphrase, synthesize and reference.
Taken in the first or second year of your undergraduate degree, these modules provide a strong foundation for your future studies and career.
LANG1002 & LANG1003 are 15-credit modules that you can take in your first or second year of undergraduate study, if your main course of study allows you to select optional modules.
The content of the two modules is similar, but LANG1002 is more suitable for native or advanced speakers of English and LANG1003 for international students with an upper-intermediate level of English.
Limited class sizes (with a maximum of 25 students) and approachable tutors ensure that there is plenty of opportunity for individual attention.
You will develop your knowledge and skills through a wide variety of activities, working individually, in pairs or in groups.
You will learn how to present your ideas effectively and appropriately in both spoken and written academic English.
A high standard of English can help you achieve good grades and is a real asset in your future career.
Areas that you will study include:
Communicating fluently using a register and range of vocabulary suited to the task
Academic essay (60%):
A short essay demonstrating the main features of academic style and citation skills.
Before the final submission date you will be able to submit a draft version of your essay for formative feedback.
Presentation (20%):
A 10-minute pair presentation followed by a short Q & A session.
Reflective Writing (20%)
A reflective analysis of the course and the assessments with a focus on the transferable skills that you have acquired and any impact on your future employability.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/centre-for-academic-english-and-skills/teaching-english-as-a-foreign-language:
Developing your TEFL skills:
University of Worcester students can take TEFL modules for credit, as part of an undergraduate degree.
The 15-credit modules LANG1012 and LANG1013 give you a taste of TEFL teaching.
You can also enrol on our 30-credit Access to CELTA (LANG2011) module, which offers an opportunity to obtain a CELTA certificate.
CELTA is a widely recognised TEFL certificate awarded by Cambridge English, part of the University of Cambridge.
CELTA stands for the Certificate in English Language Teaching to Adults.
For more information about the CELTA, please visit the Cambridge English website.
If you’re considering a career in TEFL, it’s worth bearing in mind that many English language teaching jobs require a CELTA qualification.
For me CELTA opened up opportunities that otherwise wouldn't have been available to me.
Helen Crane, Human Geography graduate 2017

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/centre-for-academic-english-and-skills/academic-writing-guidance.aspx:
The Centre for Academic English and Skills can give you practical advice on how to improve your academic writing skills by giving you personalised feedback.
We offer personal tutorials via email in which we answer specific questions and comment on samples of your work.
We can also give advice about writing techniques and areas you would like to improve in.
You can book one appointment per week.
"I am really grateful for your support in academic writing .
.
the insights and guidance you provided helped me to upgrade my marks and I got an A in my dissertation."
3rd-year BSc (Hons) Nursing (Adult) student, 14/06/2024
"I feel so much more confident now in my writing.
I admit I was very lost when we first started, and with practice, and the fantastic support I received from the Centre for Academic English and Skills, I now understand what is expected when writing in an academic style.
Great experience."
1st-year BA (Hons) Integrated Working with Children and Families student, 09/05/2023
You can book AWG tutorials throughout the year, except during some University holidays ( see University term dates ).
Please note that when the service is very busy, and there are no appointments in the week you want to book, there will be a message at the top of the online booking form to let you know.
To request a tutorial, click on the booking link at the top of this page.
Please note that you can only book one appointment per week.
If you no longer require your appointment, please inform the tutor as we will offer the booking to another student; failure to do so may result in further bookings no longer being offered.
A tutor will respond as soon as possible (usually within 5 working days).
This may take longer at busier times of the year (e.g.
during assessment periods).
A short guide and full guidance on how to reference the sources you have used are available on library.worc.ac.uk/referencing .
Also check out the library's Study Skills Live sessions, where you can sign up for interactive clinics and ask any questions about study skills that you may have.
A good place to start your search for information is your module resource list .
Books, journals and other resources are available for borrowing from the library .
Check out this useful guide on finding resources on your resource list and beyond.
For further help with finding resources Ask a Librarian .
Below are some recommended resources that will guide you through the whole process of academic writing.
They include practice with developing your ability to communicate your ideas and research.
All books are available for borrowing from the library , either in printed format or as e-books.
For further help with finding academic writing resources Ask a Librarian .
It is vital that the work you submit for your assessments is your own work.
It is important to be transparent about the tools you use and the sources you are reading and citing.
If you are unsure whether use of AI is appropriate, please speak to your module tutor or course leader.
There may be some assessments where the use of AI tools is permitted or required.
Your module tutor will communicate this to you in advance.
Unless this is the case you should assume that the use of any AI tools for creating the content of an assessment is not permitted.
If you use AI tools as part of the process of creating an assessment, it is important that you acknowledge their use.
See the library's advice on how to reference AI use.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/centre-for-academic-english-and-skills/optional-modules.aspx:
Optional modules are a great way to boost your skills and employability.
As a first- or second-year undergraduate student you can take one or two of the modules below, depending on your degree conditions.
Each module is worth 15 credits of your 120-credit undergraduate degree and takes one semester to complete, except for LANG2011 (Access to CELTA), which counts for 30 credits and is taught over two semesters.
For an overview of all optional modules and their module selection codes, see the dropdown list under Semester 1 and Semester 2 below.
Select either LANG1002 or LANG1003 'Academic Writing and Study Skills' to learn how to express yourself clearly and appropriately in your assignments, using academic vocabulary and style.
These modules provide a strong foundation for your future studies and career.
Developing your TEFL skills helps you to improve your knowledge of English, your awareness of other cultures and your employability.
To find out what TEFL is about, select one or both of the introductory TEFL modules ( LANG1012 and LANG1013 ).
If you're a second-year student and you're interested in getting a TEFL qualification, sign up for LANG2011 'Introduction to Teaching English as a Foreign Language (Access to CELTA)' .
CELTA (Certificate in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages) is a widely recognised TEFL certificate awarded by Cambridge English, part of the University of Cambridge.
By taking this module you have the opportunity to take the CELTA free of charge.
Alternatively, you can do a 4-week intensive CELTA course .
UGTU1001 'Introduction to Tutoring' offers you the potential to seek employment as a tutor within local schools, contribute to the community and “earn while you learn”.
It could also help you set yourself up for future career opportunities, for instance if you are considering teaching in the future.
You will learn about tutoring techniques, safeguarding, how to create an effective learning environment, assessing learners and supporting them with exams.
Click on the module codes below to find out more about each module.
To register for a module, go to your student homepage , log in to SOLE and use Module Selection.
If your course allows you to take optional modules, the modules will be displayed as options in your module selection list.
LANG1002 Academic Writing and Study Skills
LANG1003 Academic Writing and Study Skills for Non-native English Speakers
LANG1012 Introduction to TEFL – Language Awareness
LANG2011 Language Awareness and Analysis in Teaching English as a Foreign Language (Access to CELTA)
UGTU1001 Introduction to Tutoring
LANG1013 Introduction to TEFL – Teaching Skills

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/centre-for-academic-english-and-skills/centre-for-academic-english-and-skills-staff-profiles.aspx:
Language Adviser and Lecturer
Senior Administrator
Lecturer
EFL Teaching Co-ordinator, EFL/TEFL Lecturer
Head of the Centre for Academic English and Skills
Associate Lecturer

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/health-and-wellbeing:
Many employers suggest that being fit for work is important.
However, the University realises that the wellbeing of both its staff and students is critical to individuals' success and securing a healthy future.
Health and Wellbeing is concerned with all aspects of your life; both within and outside of the work/study environment.
What you eat and drink, how you sleep, your physical and mental wellbeing are all important to ensure you can get the most out of your life.
Even a single small change in just one area can improve your health and the University is looking to work with you to help make these small changes.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/health-and-wellbeing/wellbeing-for-staff.aspx:
The PERMA models suggests that we flourish through balancing the Pleasant Life (feeling good or hedonic wellbeing) with the Meaningful Life (having purpose, contribution and belonging, or eudaimonic wellbeing).
Whilst external circumstances can often be out of your control, or difficult to change in a short period of time, research suggests that approximately 40% of your happiness levels can be influenced by the intentional activities that you engage in (Lyubomirsky, Sheldon, & Schkade, 2005).
This wellbeing programme will consist of five-daily themes with a range of short intentional activities for you to participate in.
Given that everyone has different preferences and skills, there will be variance in across individuals in terms of what wellbeing activities work for them, and which activities they will be willing to try out.
Therefore, we have outlined a choice of wellbeing activities each day for you to choose from.
You may find it useful to use this person-activity fit tool to work out the kinds of wellbeing activities that could work for you.
Researchers have suggested that the ideal ratio of 'positive' to 'negative' emotions is 3:1.
Note here that this ratio is not 3:0 - negative emotions are still important.
We therefore advise against focusing solely on increasing positive emotion without identifying and reflecting on the negative emotions you experience during the week.
If you are interested, this TED talk outlines the positivity ratio in more detail: Barbara Fredrickson: The Positivity Ratio , and this TED Talk outlines the dangers of only focusing on the positive and ignoring negative emotions: The risk of positive thinking – the danger to ignore emotions and their messages
In positive psychology, and in psychometric measures of positive affect and subjective wellbeing, the following emotions are considered positive in valence:
Experiencing these emotions can boost the amount of cognitive, social and physical resources that you have available to you.
Research suggests that once you start to cultivate positive emotions, you are subsequently more able to experience them again in the future – creating an ‘upward spiral’ of positivity.
Read more about science behind positive emotions.
Below are a series of short activities designed to boost your level of positive affect.
The number you engage with is up to you, and it is not necessary for you to complete all of them.
You might consider using the Person-Activity Fit Diagnostic to identify which activity is likely to be a good fit for you (see above).
Listening to music is an effective way of boosting positive affect; there is a long history of music being used as a way of inducing positive mood in psychology experiments and neuroimaging studies.
Why not spend some time creating your own playlist of songs that make you feel good.
Post pictures of the things that make you happy to this padlet!
Pets, Nature, (unidentifiable) People, Art, Bands, Food, Places.
Here is one of our examples of things that make us happy .
Below are three simple exercises that take approximately 5-10 minutes to complete.
We have signposted three versions of the exercise for you to choose from:
What this involves:
How it works: This exercise encourages you to find and focus on the positive in your life.
Research has suggested that once you start to focus on positive elements and memories, these become more accessible to you (Fredrickson, 2001; Watkins, 2011).
Because positive emotions broaden your thought repertoire and build social, cognitive, and physical resources, this type of exercise tends to get easier over time.
This is also true of the adaptations to this exercise that you can see below.
Here is one example of the three good things exercise that you can use
Adaptation to the original three good things exercise:
A template for this exercise can be followed here
Another adaptation to the Three Good Things Exercise:
Gratitude is considered a positive and prosocial emotion which involves recognising the benefits one has in their life, typically with reference to the person(s) who provided this benefit (McCullough et al., 2001; Tsang, 2006).
It makes you feel good: Gratitude is a positive emotion that 'broadens and builds’.
It makes you feel connected: Gratitude has a social bonding function that helps build and maintain relationships (it is linked to the release of the hormone oxytocin).
It makes others feel good too: Through expression, gratitude can pass on from person-to-person and create an upward spiral of positivity.
Read more about the benefits of gratitude
Below are a series of short activities designed to boost gratitude.
You might consider using the Person-Activity Fit Diagnostic to identify which activity is likely to be a good fit for you (see above)
This is the most prolific gratitude exercise which has been incorporated into clinical treatments and used in wellbeing interventions globally (Davis et al., 2016).
It is a very simple exercise that takes just 5 minutes a day:
How often should I do this, and for how long?
This activity can be done daily with positive effects on wellbeing noted after just one week.
You may choose to continue with this exercise for longer (some people continue with this simple act of counting blessings every day of their lives).
The positive effects of this exercise can wear off though (because of something called 'hedonic adaptation' where we get used to this new influx of happiness and it no longer has the same effect).
Therefore, you could choose to alter the frequency with which you engage in this activity to be every other day or once a week.
You can, of course, choose to take a break from this exercise and then pick it up again when you are ready.
Here are some instructions from a gratitude intervention that might help you to follow this exercise:
‘Gratitude is an emotion expressed in response to kind actions from another.
Please write down three things that you are grateful for today.
For example, I am grateful for a gift received from another person, I am grateful for my colleague making me a cup of tea, I am grateful for my friend helping me with my essay.’
(Instructions from: Gulliford, L., Morgan, B., Hemming, E., & Abbott, J.
(2019).
Gratitude, self-monitoring and social intelligence: A prosocial relationship?.
Current Psychology, 38(4), 1021-1032).
This website (updated March 2020) , lists various apps that you might consider downloading and using to practice gratitude on a regular basis
Padlet link
Research has indicated that sharing our grateful reflections with others can boost subjective wellbeing and facilitate the ‘upward spiral’ of gratitude where grateful feelings can be passed onto others (Algoe, 2012; McCullough et al., 2001).
Therefore, this exercise involves posting your reflections on what you have to be grateful for on a padlet so that others can see them too.
In the padlet you are asked to reflect on the past week, and add to the following columns:
This activity involves expressing gratitude to another person.
You should:
Here is some helpful guidance on completing the exercise (with the caveat that the physical delivery of this letter is likely not possible in the current circumstances)
These exercises are designed to ‘undo the negativity bias’, where we are biased towards attending to the negative events and emotions and in our lives rather than the positive (Huang & Luo, 2006; Vaish et al., 2008).
(For example, on receiving feedback from others, we might focus on the more negative parts of the feedback over the positive – even if there is much more positive feedback than negative!).
Rather than interpreting events with a negative mindset, positive reframing involves considering the positive elements to the current situation: you reframe the event so that it is not solely negative.
( Important Caveat: The negative elements should not be ignored and simply replaced with positive - remember the positivity ratio and dangers of focusing only on the positive)
Take a moment to reflect on your current living and working arrangements.
Whilst these have changed in comparison to the typical academic year, are there any positive elements you can take from this situation?
Mindfulness is:
How does it work?
Please note:
To find out more about the science behind these activities, please see the following articles:
Today’s session will focus on stress and resilience.
Stress is a physiological and/or psychological reaction to a stressor (i.e.
a situation or event that can cause stress).
There are a range of physical and psychological symptoms of stress including, increased heart rate, sweating, anger, depression and a lack of motivation to name a few.
Stress is a natural part of our daily lives, but we might sometimes want to use strategies to help overcome the negative effects of stress.
Resilience is an ability to ‘bounce back’ from stress or other difficulties and helps you adapt to changes in life.
To begin, you might find it helpful to watch a TedTalk on the Power of Perseverance:
Below are a series of short activities designed to reduce stress and cultivate resilience.
Hope and Optimism involve focusing on planning for the future - individuals who have high levels of hope and optimism are likely to view their futures as being prosperous.
Hope involves planning and meeting future goals and maintaining a positive motivational state (Snyder, 1994; 2000), and optimism involves favourable interpretations of the past and present (Foregeard & Seligman, 2012).
To find out more about the science behind today's "Best Possible Selves" activity, please see the following article:
Loveday, P.
M., Lovell, G.
P., & Jones, C.
M.
(2018).
The best possible selves intervention: A review of the literature to evaluate efficacy and guide future research.
Journal of Happiness Studies, 19, 607 – 628.
Below are a series of short activities designed to boost hope and optimism.
Activity 1: The “Best Possible Selves” practice: Each of these exercises asks you to consider a different life domain (family life, career, physical and mental health, romantic life, interests/hobbies, social life).
This intervention is designed so that you consider one domain per week for six weeks, however, you can also choose to focus on fewer domains over a shorter period.
A wide range of studies have shown that these best possible selves exercises can encourage individuals to be more optimistic about their futures .
Activity 2: Hope is effective in helping you make changes in behaviour.
By creating a hope map, you can visualise your goals, whilst thinking about the pathways and obstacles to that goal.
Create your own hope map by Michelle McQuaid :

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/health-and-wellbeing/remote-working-wellbeing.aspx:
“Won’t I get lonely?” “Will I be isolated?” Working from home can be a lonely enterprise when you are used to the university environment, but it doesn't have to be.
This page is here to help you make the most of your time, plan your flexible working and studying approaches and keep you connected with colleagues and fellow students.
Here you'll find links to useful tools that will help you get the most out of working remotely, getting the best work/ home balance and looking after your wellbeing and mental health.
Access loads of great advice from Student Minds
As ever, please look out on our normal social media feeds (Facebook is very active at the moment) with things going on such as "study club" which Meg has been running, and top tips being posted about working from home
We'll also update this section with links to any specific activity that academic schools are planning.
We'll be making regular updates to these pages and encouraging you to share tips and ideas on making the most of remote work and studying.
You'll find access to interesting blogs, top tips links to all of the key university technology and digital resources as well as opportunities to connect with colleagues from your school or course.
Physical exercise can offer stress relief alongside maintaining good health and fitness.
If you are looking for some activities you can take part in whilst staying indoors, you might wish to try attending Pilates Classes online.
Pilates (Pi-lart-ees) is a system of exercise that focuses on conditioning your core abdominal and back muscles and combining movement with specific breathing techniques.
To register for classes you can download a registration form and return it to Mindy Davey at enquiries@206therapy.co.uk
As another week of remote homeworking continues, I've been thinking how this now feels like the new 'normal'  Face to face meetings seem a long way off and I've got used to the different sounds that all of the video conferencing apps make, so far I've presented online, attended a webinar, chaired a meeting of university colleagues from across the region and had all of my usual day to day meetings virtually.
I'm doing all of my usual work, as well as getting involved in several Covid 19 related projects.
So what's missing?
The thing that I'm starting to miss are the corridor convos; those impromptu chats you have whilst moving around the university, the impulse lunch meeting where you bump into a colleague in the queue and spend half an hour catching up over soup.
I miss just bumping into colleagues and friends and just spending a few minutes catching up.
This isn't something I consciously plan, but it is often how I know my friends and colleagues are ok, snatching a quick coffee when someone needs to offload, keeping up to date on family life, the good, the bad, the sad.
Working virtually means that this is something that I will now have to think differently about;
So here's my plan to reach out, lend an ear or a virtual shoulder to my much-missed colleagues and friends:
If you are finding the lockdown tough and let's face it most of us are – but in different ways, it's really important to stay connected in whatever way we feel most comfortable, Keeping a lookout for your friends and colleagues are things we usually do without thinking.
A friendly approach can make a huge difference to your wellbeing and of those you connect with.
Of course, if you do have concerns about the wellbeing of a friend or colleague, there are some resources on this page to help you in the tabs above.
This week I've had some interesting feedback from my colleagues about what they are seeing when we are having our video meetings.
Who knew that what I'm seeing on my little screen is not what they are seeing!
So far I've showcased my impressive and numerous chins, my nostrils, flashed my knees  (I was wearing shorts- well its been hot!) and best of all shown up as a silhouette - all I needed was the actor voice over and I was a Crimewatch video.
So if like me you have been spending endless hours talking with you fellow students, lecturers or colleagues on video chat the following tip may be just what you need:
You should aim to have your camera at eye level - Almost everyone participates in a video chat with their laptop on their lap or their computer on their desk, which means the camera is shooting up at an unflattering angle that accentuates the jowls.
Do yourself a favour and elevate your computer so that the camera is even with your eyes.
I started off balancing my laptop on books and shoe boxes, not ideal but it did the trick, however without a keyboard this can make typing difficult.
Ideally you should have your laptop on a solid sloping surface.
Fidgeting around and constantly adjusting your position can be disorientating for your audience - remember the knee flashing!
Also looking directly at the person you are talking to wont give the best perspective, instead  look at the lens - and as hard as it is don't look at yourself, this is distracting and can lead to you constantly adjusting while you try to look your best.
If like me you want to avoid looking like a crime reconstruction video getting the light right is a must.
Easier said than done right?
particularly when the sun is shining outside.
Trying to reduce direct light can help, try tilting down the camera - but beware of the unexpected view your fellow video callers will see!
- again the knees!
If all else fails choose a background for your video call, you can dial into your meetings from plain flat background - or a tropical paradise the choice is yours .
Val Yates Director of Access and Inclusion University of Worcester
Social media is a massive distraction.
Before you know it, you've watched 30 videos of penguins dancing to K Pop and have wasted 20 minutes.
Put your phone on silent and keep it lying face down.
Or, even better still, put it on aeroplane mode.
This doesn't mean you have to go cold turkey all day.
Social media is a great way of keeping up with what's going on in the world.
But, make a rule of only checking it once every hour and staying on it for no more than three minutes at a time.
Of course there's an app for this.
There are even web browser extensions nowadays that will help keep you off Facebook and focused on the task at hand.
Please do share tips and ideas on making the most of remote work and studying.
Email Health and Wellbeing at:
Or tweet us at:

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/health-and-wellbeing/relax-well.aspx:
Here are a few ideas of what you could do to relax during the day:
Walk the University mile – Fresh air increases the amount of oxygen you inhale, which will have an effect on your serotonin levels, the hormone associated with mood and feelings of wellbeing.
Walking part or all of the university mile could help alleviate stress and make you feel happier.
Mindfulness – Practicing mindfulness is a great way to relax the mind and body, have a look at our Live Well page for more information on how to be more mindful.
Labyrinth – The University Labyrinth provides a walking meditation area in which to reflect and relax.
It can be found behind the carpark outside the Woodbury building.
Socialise – Take time for lunch and have your break with a friend and remember to talk about things that are not work related.
Of equal importance is to switch off from study or work at weekends to maintain a healthy life balance.
Similarly, annual leave should be a time to relax and if you complete any urgent tasks in the week before you go, you won’t be tempted to do them whilst you are away.
If you turn on your out of office, people will see that you are not available and, if urgent, will contact someone else involved.
It should also mean that there is no reason for you to be tempted to read your emails.
St Johns Campus
City Campus

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/health-and-wellbeing/work-well.aspx:
The University of Worcester is continuously exploring ways to help its employees improve and sustain good health and wellbeing whilst they are at work.
Office Workstation Ergonomics is an important aspect for ensuring health and wellbeing at work.
Poorly designed workstations can cause both short and long term musculoskeletal problems.
Check if your office space is set up correctly by following our workstation assessment guide
Simple changes to improve your health and wellbeing whilst at work might include walking or cycling between campuses.
Lunch with a colleague would ensure that you take a break from your desk, as would be taking the opportunity to walk the university mile .
The sharing of an office fruit bowl, meanwhile, could be a great way to maintain your 5 a day.
Details on mentoring, counselling and flexible working arrangements can be found on the Personnel pages of the website

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/health-and-wellbeing/exercise-well.aspx:
It can be difficult for many people to find the time and motivation to start any kind of exercise regime.
However, fitting in 15 minutes of exercise is better than none, and if you do it regularly over a week you will soon feel the benefits.
Realistic goal setting is the most important part of sustaining motivation to achieve your goals.
This could include walking between campuses instead of driving or taking the bus or walking the University Mile.
You could also use the stairs instead of the lift or join one of the University exercise classes or sports teams.
Walking the University Mile around the St John's Campus.
There's also an AccessAble guide for this route.
If you’re unsure about your fitness, it may be advisable to see a doctor before you start.
Otherwise, try to increase the distance gradually and include rest days.
Eating sensibly will help to provide you with energy and this includes the consumption of complex carbohydrates such as wholemeal bread and brown pasta/rice or potato.
White meat or fish and plenty of fruit and veg, along with breakfast choices of Porridge, Weetabix and Shredded Wheat will also help and don’t forget to rehydrate yourself by drinking 2-3 litres of water per day.
Sensible footwear such as running shoes or walking boots is imperative to avoid blisters and sore ankles.
As fitness increases, why not join a local walking group and enjoy the beautiful Worcestershire scenery?
Don’t try and do too much too soon, especially if you haven’t exercised for a while.
Maybe start with a gentle 20-30 minute jog around your local park or the racecourse but make sure you have good running shoes that support your arch and ankles and have cushioning on the heel.
Some running shops will analyse your running style for free and recommend certain types of trainers.
Motivation could be maintained by altering your route to take in some different scenery or by entering a local 5K or 10K or find a running partner or club.
As with walking, the need to eat sensibly and to keep rehydrated is important.
For information on Personal training sessions at the University, please contact the St.
John’s Campus Fitness Suite at sportscentre@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/health-and-wellbeing/study-well.aspx:
When studying at university you are responsible for managing your time effectively, whilst maintaining your personal health and wellbeing.
Choosing a good study space means taking into account the human factors of the equipment and surrounding environment.
You may like to work in a quiet area or prefer to have a bit of noise in the background.
Just ensure there are minimal distractions and that the temperature and lighting are good for studying.
Where possible, ensure you have an appropriate table and chair to work on.
Try to face your computer away from the window so that you do not experience glare on the screen which could cause eye strain and avoid placing your phone on the desk next to the computer.
This will only cause distractions and an excuse to procrastinate.
It is essential to plan your time effectively to avoid unneeded stress.
This includes academic work such as assignments, lectures and research, as well as paid work, sports clubs and socialising.
To begin with, you could divide assignments and revision into manageable chunks.
Multiple small tasks are much less daunting than entire assignment and in planning a study timetable that is realistic, you will achieve your goals.
Take regular breaks.
Working for 30mins – 1 hour and then taking a 5-10 min break can improve your attention.
Do not leave things to the last minute as this will only cause greater stress which in turn causes difficulty concentrating.
For more information and help with your study skills please visit the Study skills page
Setting goals is an essential way to keep yourself motivated.
They should be personal and realistic and could include an ultimate long term goal such as degree classification e.g.
First Class.
Short-term ambitions could simply be to complete a section in an assignment or in achieving a certain grade.
Either way, goals should be challenging to achieve a sense of achievement once completed.
If you do not have goals you are unlikely to perform at the best of your ability.
During exam time it is important to use all the previously mentioned study tips above to ensure you perform at your optimum.
Stress and anxiety to some degree are inevitable; however, here are a few further tips on how to study well during exam time:
For further advice on how to cope with stress and anxiety during exam time contact Student Services.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/health-and-wellbeing/live-well.aspx:
There are several contributing factors that need to be considered when maintaining a healthy lifestyle:
It is important to try to drink at least 1.6 litres of fluids each day to replace what you lose when you breathe, sweat and urinate.
However, it is also worth considering the type of fluids you are drinking.
Swap sugary drinks for water or a diluted juice.
At the very least, as a recent University campaign suggests, make 'Every Other One Water'.
Your body will thank you as water contains no sugar and has huge benefits for your skin, body, mind and wallet.
Cutting down on sugary will also help you cut calories from your diet.
For example, did you know that 500ml of cola contains the equivalent of 9 teaspoons of sugar?
Try to have some water between each caffeinated drink, swap to herbal teas or change to decaffeinated tea / coffee.
As well as the sugar content (a small latte contains around 120 calories and a white coffee around 18 calories), high levels of caffeine can lead to difficulty sleeping, irritability, stomach upset or raised heartbeat.
Anything over four cups of tea or coffee a day can have an adverse impact and further details can be located at 'How much is too much caffeine?'
A large 250ml glass of wine, meanwhile, has 250 calories and four pints of beer will notch up 680 calories, equivalent to a McDonald's Double Cheeseburger and small fries.
Reducing alcohol could also mean that you feel better, look better and have more money to spare.
Women should not regularly drink more than 2 – 3 units a day and men should not regularly drink more than 3 – 4 a day.
A large 250ml glass of wine is 3.3 units, 1 bottle of wine is 10 units.
A can of 4% lager, beer or cider is 1.8 units, a pint is 2.3 units.
Exceeding these limits could lead to liver damage, heart attacks, reduced fertility and some cancers.
It also suppresses your breathing, giving you a less restful night’s sleep and it is recommended that you make every other drink water, choose singles instead of doubles, drink small rather than large glasses of wine and halves instead of pints.
Never leave your drinks unattended.
Try to avoid binge drinking, which is defined drinking eight or more units of alcohol in one session if you are a man, and more than six units in one session, if you are a woman.
It is worth noting that 1 in 5 24 year olds have had sex they later regretted.
Also, if you are caught drink driving you risk a fine of up to £5,000, a minimum 12-month driving ban and a criminal record.
To find out how much you’re really drinking go to the NHS Change4Life pages to use the Drinks Checker or download the Drinks Tracker app
Further information can be found at Impact of Alcohol
For Help and advice on Drinking well contact Student Services or call Worcestershire Pathways to recovery on:
Eating a balanced diet will improve your health and can give you energy throughout your day.
Balance is the key to getting your diet right.
As well as maintaining your five a day, fruit and vegetables are a good source of vitamins, minerals and fibre.
Fresh, frozen, canned, dried and juiced fruit and vegetables all count, as does a smoothie or unsweetened, non-concentrated fruit juice.
Visit the NHS pages to discover more reasons why you should eat your 5 A Day
Try not to skip breakfast as it will reduce snacking before lunch.
Wholemeal cereal, such as Weetabix, with a handful of fruit is filling, nutritious and tasty and lunches prepared at home are usually cheaper and healthier.
Overall, aim to feel satisfied, not stuffed and healthy snacks such as nuts and seeds, chopped fruit or veg with dips will provide a quick energy fix and prevent you grabbing a high fat or sugary snack.
It is worth considering 'cheaper supermarkets' such as Aldi and Lidl.
Buying fruit and vegetables that are in season will keep the costs down.
For example, strawberries and raspberries grow in the summer months and corn on the cob in Autumn.
Write a list and stick to it to avoid buying unhealthy snacks, or ready meals that are usually high in fat and sugar.
Frozen and tinned vegetables and fruit are healthy and can keep the costs down, but avoid fruit in syrups or vegetables in salted water.
Essential items for the student cupboard include pasta, rice and noodles, gravy granules, olive oil, salt and pepper, dried herbs, baked beans, soups, beans, sardines, pilchards or tuna, pesto, tomato puree, cereals and long-life milk or soya milk.
Good nutrition is even more vital at times of stress and it is important that you do not let healthy habits slip.
A few ideas to help you, include the need to remain hydrated, along with enjoying a healthy breakfast, eating foods such as Blueberries, Goji Berries, fatty fish and nuts as they have been found to improve brain functionality.
Avoid foods that contain sugar, fat and carbohydrates as these can make you feel tired and sluggish.
If you are concerned about your diet or have any conditions that you think are affected by your diet then you can arrange an appointment to see a nutritional therapist at the McClelland Centre’s Nutritional Therapy Clinic.
Feeling tired impacts on your concentration, memory and your ability to perform daily activities at work and at home.
Adults need approximately 7 to 8 hours sleep per night to ensure optimal physical and mental functioning.
Tips to help you get to sleep include keeping your room cool.
Rituals matter too, as they give your body cues that it's time to slow down and sleep.
Listen to relaxing music, read something soothing for 15 minutes or have a caffeine free drink.
Avoid TV in bed or using your laptop or tablet and switch off your mobile phone.
Otherwise you could be awakened in the night by texts and Facebook notification.
Regular exercise can help you sleep well but not if you exercise within four hours of going to bed.
Caffeine and nicotine are stimulates, so will prevent you getting to sleep when you have them in the hours before you go to bed.
A warm glass of milk, however, actually works!
Finally, wake-up well and seek some bright light as it will stimulate your body.
Do something boring until you feel sleepy, have a warm glass of milk or do some relaxation exercises.
For further advice and help on how to sleep well visit our Counselling and Mental Health pages.
Mental wellbeing improves the quality of our lives in many ways including better physical health, faster recovery from illness, fewer limitations in daily life, higher educational attainment, greater likelihood of employment and earnings, and better relationships.
We all get stressed at times; positive stress can help us achieve a goal, but can’t be sustained.
Negative, self-defeating stress has a negative impact on our psychological and mental wellbeing.
If you do find yourself getting stressed, try to chill out and take some ‘me' time.
Deep breathing can make you feel calmer and linking with friends can be invaluable too.
Talking about your concerns can help to keep them in check.
Exercise, meanwhile, helps to release natural chemicals that make you feel better.
Keeping a diary, planning your time and adhering to a budget can help you feel organised.
If you are worrying about your studies try talking to your Academic Tutor, or, for non-academic queries visit Firstpoint and they will guide you to the right person, or book an appointment with the counselling and Mental Health Service.
As a member of staff, try talking to your line manager if you have concerns or contact Human Resources if you would like to access external counselling support.
Research has demonstrated that happiness is a key factor to wellbeing and feeling good.
As your happiness increases you become more compassionate, creative, energetic and emotionally and physically healthy.
Why not tell a close friend/family member how pleased you are to have them in your life or check in with someone who needs some support.
Concentrate on the positives in your life as opposed to focusing on the negatives and remember that experiences make you happier in the long run, rather than material goods.
Finally, make a conscious effort to smile at people you see.
Mindfulness is a way of paying attention to the present moment, using techniques such as meditation, breathing and yoga.
Mindfulness exercises help you become more aware of your thoughts, feelings, bodily sensations and surrounding environments, so that instead of being overwhelmed by them, you are able to manage them.
Research has found that Mindfulness can also help with anxiety, depression, sleeping issues, addictive behaviours, working productively and in reducing sickness levels.
The University provides regular mindfulness sessions for both staff and students.
For further information please contact the counselling and Mental Health Team at cmh@worc.ac.uk
Sometimes you need a quiet place where it is easier to think.
At St Johns Campus there is the small garden beside Woodbury and also the labyrinth, which provides a meditation area.
On City Campus, walk down the hill and rest on the grassy banks overlooking the racecourse and river.
Remember, you are not alone and don’t forget to talk to family and friends.
If you would like help or advice on dealing with stress or improving your mind-body wellbeing please contact cmh@worc.ac.uk students) or wellbeing@worc.ac.uk
Alternatively you could contact Samaritans on jo@samaritans.org
Mental Health matters....be mindful of yours

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/help-and-support/health-and-wellbeing/stay-well.aspx:
To experience living with a group of people you don't know can be quite a shock.
Remember that both your physical and mental wellbeing matter; they are inextricably linked.
There are various factors that contribute to your staying well whilst working of studying at the University or Worcester:
It is important to maintain a healthy weight by ensuring a varied, nutritious diet and participating in physical exercise.
This way you are at a lower risk of heart disease, stroke and type 2 diabetes.
Use the BMI calculator to check if you are a healthy weight.
You should also drink 6-8 glasses of water per day.
Nutritional Therapy is a complementary therapy that uses evidence-based research and practice to support clients where a range of factors including diet, nutrition, lifestyle and eating behaviours along with other factors are assessed.
We offer free nutritional advice to students at our Nutritional Therapy Clinic .
The Functional Medicine Model is applied to review cases and embed a client centred approach where Nutritional Science is reviewed from a cellular level to establish potential deficiencies and roots causes that maybe linked to presenting symptoms.
Basic hygiene will help protect you against avoidable stomach upsets.
Remember to wash your hands properly with soap and hot water before every meal or snack and after visiting the bathroom.
Tips on basic food hygiene in the kitchen can be found at in the food hygiene document .
Remember to register with a GP and dentist whilst you are here.
Download these lists of local GP practices and local dentists.
Colds and flu spread very easily and remember to cover your nose and mouth with a tissue when you cough or sneeze, and encourage visitors and relatives to do the same.
Throw away used tissues as soon as possible and use a hand sanitiser gel when you’re out and about.
If one of your friends or flatmates is feeling unwell, don’t forget to check every now and then on how they are so they don’t feel isolated.
Contact NHS Direct on 111 for information or advice about everyday health concerns.
Talking your symptoms through with a health professional can be very reassuring.
If you think you or a friend has the symptoms of Meningitis it is important that you seek medical attention immediately.
Symptoms may include a headache, stiff neck, aversion to bright light, fever, vomiting and/or diarrhoea, cold hands and feet, confusion /drowsiness.
You could also try the “glass test”.
The rash should disappear when a glass is pressed against it.
If in doubt, contact NHS Direct and they will advise if you need to call an ambulance.
Mumps is very contagious so please don’t go to classes and let Students Services at First Point know if you have been diagnosed.
If you experience symptoms such as headache, joint pain, feeling sick, dry mouth, mild abdominal pain, feeling tired, loss of appetite and a high temperature (fever) of 38°C (100.4°F), or above, call NHS Direct on 111 for information and advice.
STI’s can affect anyone; young or old.
If you are sexually active - always take precautions.
The Students' Union runs a free, confidential condom delivery service.
For free condoms, text your details to 07804 055501.
You can also visit the University Sexual Health Clinic, which takes place in Woodbury 78 Mondays at 12:00-14:30 (term time only).
For more information on the clinic please call 01905 681639.
The Welfare and Financial Advice Service offers advice on a range of topics, including student loans and grants, bursaries, trust funds and charities, welfare benefits, debt management, Tax Credits and general financial queries.
Our advisers can help you with budgeting and making sure that you are accessing all sources of funding available to you.
Contact them on moneyadvice@worc.ac.uk
People can become addicted to many things: a substance like tobacco, drugs or alcohol, or a type of behaviour like gambling, sex, surfing the net, exercise or shoplifting.
Being addicted means having a craving for something and counselling can be useful to help people to look at the underlying difficult feelings.
Visit the University's Counselling team web pages to find out more.
Health risks associated with smoking include an increased risk of cancer, heart or lung disease, negative impact on breathing and fitness, decreased fertility levels and an increased risk of circulatory problems.
Smoking is also expensive, it smells and stains your skin and teeth and you have to stand outside in the designated smoking area (please see the smoking areas on the St John's Campus , and City Campus ).
Although the effects of E-cigarettes are not known, they may help you to stop smoking.
If you want help to give up, try to spend more time with friends who don’t smoke.
Avoid cravings by eating an apple, chewing some gum or doing something active.
You could also make a list of the reasons you want to give up smoking.
Alternatively, try nicotine replacement therapy.
You can buy this over the counter or get it for free through local smoking cessation services or your GP.
After just 20 minutes - your blood pressure and pulse return to normal.
24 hours - carbon monoxide is eliminated from your body.
48 hours - there is no nicotine left in your body.
After 3 days - your breathing becomes easier and energy levels increase.
In 2-12 weeks - your circulation improves and exercising can be easier.
For further help and advice visit the NHS Stop Smoking pages or by downloading further information on where you can get help to stop smoking
A caution from the Police for a drug incident means you will have a criminal record which could affect you staying on your course, at University or getting future employment.
Commonly used drugs include cannabis, ecstasy, hallucinogens and amphetamines and remember, you are supplying drugs even if you’re giving them away for free.
If you wish to seek advice on any issues related to drug misuse, please contact the Student Enquiry desk.
For free confidential drug information: Talk to FRANK, www.talktofrank.com 0800 776600
We are working towards making the work environment healthier by making all our campuses smoke free, except for designated smoking areas on the St John’s Campus.
Please do not smoke tobacco when you are walking onto or around campus, or on the way to a designated smoking area.
The smoking of e-cigarettes is not allowed inside University buildings or at campus entrances.
If you want to report smoking on campus away from the designated area, please send an email to wellbeing@worc.ac.uk .
Try to include details of which campus, location, day of week and approximate time seen.
NB We are not seeking the names of individuals and all information submitted is in confidence.
It is not our intention to send a follow-up email.
Worcester is a relatively safe city but as with any city, you should be aware of your surroundings.
It is important to avoid walking home alone or through unsafe/unlit areas.
If you go out in a group, return in a group and never get into an unmarked or unlicensed taxi.
Look after your belongings and be aware that walking whilst on the phone or listening to a MP3 player can make you vulnerable.
If you feel wary, nervous or uncomfortable, then don’t ignore it.
Similarly, you should never feel coerced or pressurised into doing something that you don’t want to; whether it be sex, alcohol, drugs or crime.
If you are a victim of crime, make sure you report it to the Police.
If you ride a bike whilst working or studying at University of Worcester you must follow the rules laid down in the Highway Code.
This includes obeying traffic lights and signs, only cycling on the pavement when it is permitted and not riding in a dangerous or inconsiderate manner.
Always remember to wear clothing that enables other road users to see you and use front and rear lights at night.
Wearing a helmet is equally important.
For more help and advice on personal safety visit the Student Services page.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/prepare-for-study:
Every university course has its own entry requirements and admissions staff at the University will tell you whether you meet these requirements.
There are also questions you can ask yourself to help you assess whether now is the right time to begin a university course.
Thinking about these issues may help you to make good choices.
Take time to explore a variety of courses.
Look at the module listings (as these give you a good flavour of what it’s like to study the course), entry requirements and assessment methods.
It’s also helpful to consider the ‘related’ courses that are suggested; you might discover something that you hadn’t previously considered.
If you aren’t sure what course might suit you, visit our Inspire Me section-- it helps match your talents and interests against the wide range of courses available at Worcester.
The level of background knowledge you need will vary from course to course.
In some subject areas (often in the sciences, for example), a good level of prior knowledge is essential.
In others, there is more emphasis on your commitment to the course, and your general study skills.
It is always useful to contact the admissions staff for a course you are interested in, to find out their requirements.
It’s also a good idea to attend an Open Day so that you can see the campus for yourself, ask questions about the course and meet other potential students.
If you have any questions, you can contact us on admissions@worc.ac.uk or email 01905 855 111.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/prepare-for-study/welcome-to-worcester:
We know there’s a lot to think about when starting at university.
We've put together this guide to help you through the process.
There are also plenty of useful resources, tips and activities for returning students.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/prepare-for-study/welcome-to-worcester/before-you-arrive.aspx:
It’s almost time to begin your studies!
These are the steps you need to complete before you join us at the University of Worcester.
Once your place at Worcester is confirmed you’ll receive an email from us with your login details for our Student Portal .
Typically this email is sent around a month before the course start date.
We've also produced a video which gives an introduction to the registration process.
Logging in
When logging in to the Student Portal for the first time you’ll be prompted to register for multi-factor authentication .
Registration
Registration is the process of becoming an official member of the University, this is done through our student online learning environment (SOLE).
We’ll already have a lot of the information from your application form, but we will need you to check this and provide some additional information.
As part of the registration we’ll ask you to:
During registration, we’ll ask you how you’re paying your tuition fees.
It’s important to sort out your fees payments as soon as possible.
Many students arrange for their fees to be financed by Student Finance .
If you haven't already arranged your student finance, you can find out details about course fees, as well as information on student loans, in our Figure out Finance section .
There is also a lot of useful information available on our Money Advice pages .
If you have any questions or concerns about paying your fees, you can contact or book an appointment with Firstpoint.
Once you’ve registered you’ll be able to access your timetable in our student online learning environment (SOLE) from late August.
Your timetable will also include any activities for your course during Welcome Weeks.
University wide events and activities will be listed on the Welcome Festival webpage.
The Students’ Union (SU) offers a variety of activities and services that encompass almost all areas of student life, and help you make the most of your time at Worcester.
One of the best ways to get involved with what’s going on at the SU, meet new people, and make the most of your university experience is by joining a sports club or society .
Clubs and societies will run free Give it a Go sessions during Welcome Festival, so check them out on social media for all the details.
The SU and your on-campus bar, The Hangar, host a variety of events and activities throughout the year and over the Welcome Festival period.
Our term dates outline when the majority of teaching takes place for each semester and any assessment weeks during the year.
The University has three main sites.
Full address details for these sites are available on their webpages: St John's Campus , City Campus and Severn Campus as well as information for the nearby Lakeside Campus .
We have information for International students travelling to the University on our international arrival webpages .
Worried about making friends?
Don’t worry!
Whoever you are and whatever your interests, you’ll be able to find like-minded people and a sense of community during your time at Worcester.
The SU organises lots of events throughout Welcome Festival giving you the opportunity to meet other students just like you.
Joining one of our 70 clubs and societies , is a great way for you to make new friends, learn new skills, and discover a new passion.
You can also join a student-led Network where you can be part of a safe, friendly and welcoming community.
The SU also offers lots of opportunities to take part in volunteering as well as charity fundraising , meaning you can meet new people whilst making a difference to the community.
We have more information about our Welcome Festival events on its dedicated webpage as well as helpful tips on our FAQ page.
We understand that starting university can be an exciting but also worrying time.
We’re here to help.
firstpoint is a support and guidance service based in the Peirson building on St John’s Campus.
They’ll help you access disability and dyslexia support, assistance with mental health and wellbeing, finance advice and much more.
Each week, our Student Wellbeing Champions offer “ Fancy a cuppa ” informal meet-ups to chat and make contact with support staff.
The Students’ Union also provide a free, confidential and impartial advice service to all Worcester students -their Academic and Welfare Advisors are here to represent your best interests.
If this is your first time living away from home, our budgeting & boosting your income webpage can help you plan your finances.
Finally, our Health and Wellbeing webpages have useful suggestions on maintaining a study/life balance including exercise, relaxation and study.
You will be assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) when you start .
The role of the PAT is to support you throughout your studies, academic assistance and guidance as well as signposting you to wider services, as needed.
You can contact the Centre for Academic English and Skills to book a tutorial, for practical advice and personalised feedback on your academic writing.
Our RLF-sponsored Academic Writers in Residence are also available for help with academic writing style and offer confidential, one-to-one tutorials for all students, to support all aspects of your academic writing.
You can contact the Library Services ’ Ask a Librarian team for help with finding resources for your subject and with referencing.
We have a New Student Essentials page to get you started.
You can also book onto an online workshop or schedule a one-to-one appointment with an Academic Liaison Librarian, if you need more in-depth guidance.
If you are in Worcester, come and have a tour of The Hive, our unique, joint academic and public library.
At the University of Worcester, you will be taught by expert lecturers in your field who will deliver sessions in an interactive and dynamic way.
You will need to fully participate in the range of learning opportunities open to you to gain the most from your studies.
Lectures, seminars, tutorials, group discussions, placements, field trips and other activities are used to deliver programmes.
Your attendance at scheduled sessions is expected.
Our short Starting at University study skills course is designed to help you succeed as you start at university.
It allows you to assess how confident you are in some of the key skills needed for university study and to find out where to get more help as you develop these skills.
Our wider study skills resource will guide you throughout your degree course, with advice on a range of topics, from note taking to criticality and time management.
What will a typical week look like?
If you're wondering what to expect in a typical week of study, our ' Study Well ' webpages can give you a helpful overview.
At this stage, it’s likely that you have already applied for university accommodation and you’ve recently received information about where you’ll be living.
You’ll now be thinking about what to bring with you when you move in.
Don't worry if your friends find out where they have been allocated before you do.
We are currently matching applicants to their preferred choices and will be in touch with you as soon as possible.
If you didn’t apply for accommodation, but think that you may now wish to take up a place, please get in touch with us on 01905 855300 or email accommodation@worc.ac.uk .
Take a look at our Accommodation pages for more information, including photos of all of our halls.
If you have already applied for university accommodation but you haven’t received your information pack yet, we’ll send you more information shortly.
Whether you're living on- or off-campus, when you arrive on St John's Campus, you'll be directed to our friendly team who will help you to complete your registration, and collect your accommodation keys and student ID card.
Residential Life team
Our Residential Life team are here to support you and can act as mentors on a 1-1 basis.
You can get in touch with the team by emailing ResidentialLife@worc.ac.uk or Instagram @rlt_worc and Facebook @RLTUoW
You can find out more about our Residential Life Team from their introduction video.
Cleaning team
During semester time, our cleaning team will clean and sanitise your communal areas once a week.
Cleaners won’t take out your rubbish or recycling, so it’s a good idea to make a rota between you to keep up-to-date with this.
Cleaning rotas are available from your Residential Life team
Security team
Our Security team are available 24/7 and can be contacted via Main Reception at both campuses (St John’s 01905 855000 and City Campus 01905 542444), or on 07977 973956.
Which means you’ll always have someone to speak to if you’re worried about something.
Maintenance
If something is broken or not working in your Halls of Residence, you can log a job on our Maintenance Portal.
You can access the portal by logging onto your Student Portal .
Laundry
There are several coin-operated launderettes on the campus equipped with washers and dryers.
You can download the Laundry View App to monitor your washing (Android and iPhone) (Select ‘City Campus’ as your university, and then you will be able to select the various launderettes from the drop-down menu.)
Glide Internet in Residences
Please see the following guidance on connecting to the internet on our residences.
You can find out more about facilities on different campuses on our dedicated campus facilities webpages.
Follow us on social media
Next steps

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/prepare-for-study/welcome-to-worcester/when-you-arrive.aspx:
We will send you an invitation to arrive at firstpoint in the Peirson Building on the University's St John's Campus at a designated time.
When you arrive on campus, staff and students will direct you to pick up your student ID card, and your room keys if you are moving into University accommodation.
The letter will also tell you which documents you need to bring, such as identification.
Students on some courses arrive on campus before this Welcome period.
If your scheduled arrival slot is earlier we will contact you with details of your personalised arrival arrangements.
Your start date at the University will depend on the course that you are studying.
Our Term dates 2025/26 page has more information on course start dates, holidays and exam periods.
In your first year, many of you will be living in university accommodation, either on campus or in houses in the local area.
If you have booked accommodation with us, you will be invited to arrive on a specified date via email and you will be able to collect your keys at the same time as you pick up your ID card.
We’re pleased to offer parking across all our campuses, making it convenient for you to arrive, attend your classes, and make the most of your time on campus.
Please view our car parking page for detailed information.
There are a number of catering facilities on campus to grab some food and a hot drink over Welcome Weekend.
View our Food and Drink page s for more information.
The first thing that you will do is collect your Student ID card.
To collect your card you will need to show us some identification, so please bring with you on the day:
if you can’t attend on your scheduled day, you will have other opportunities to collect your ID card from firstpoint (in the Peirson Study and Guidance Centre) throughout the first few weeks of term.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/prepare-for-study/welcome-to-worcester/welcome-festival.aspx:
The Welcome Festival is for new and returning students.
These first few weeks on campus will help you settle in, find your way around and prepare you for university life.
Explore our full line-up of events and activities hosted by the University and Students’ Union (SU) to help you settle in, make friends, and start your Worcester journey.
New events are added regularly, so check back often!
Please be aware that some events may incur a small charge.
Visit the Students' Union website for details of their events and to book tickets.
To find out more about everything going on at your Students' Union, make sure you're following them on Facebook , Instagram and TikTok .
Join a tour to discover your library, find your ideal study space, learn how to borrow books, print, access WI-Fi, and get support.
Plus, you'll learn more about The Hive as a social space and the event programme.
You can book a tour on the Library Services Website.
As part of your academic induction, you will learn more about your course, and meet your fellow students and your lecturers.
Your Course Tutors will set out your Welcome Festival academic timetable for you.
Your first week features a range of events where you'll meet the people who will be an important part of your time at Worcester, and have opportunities to find out more about the exciting University community you have joined!
Check out the highlights from past Welcome Festivals to get an idea of what you can look forward to in September!

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/prepare-for-study/welcome-to-worcester/returning-to-study.aspx:
Returning to university after taking a break from study can cause students to experience academic, financial, and social difficulties.
We want to make your transition back to our student community as easy as possible!
Whether you're returning due to changing your course, coming back after a period of absence, returning after a year abroad or coming back after maternity leave, our firstpoint Team , Programme Advisory Service and your Personal Academic Tutor are here to help.
Our Programme Advisory Service is available Monday to Friday to assist with the planning and registration of your study.
Our Programme Advisors can assist with:
Information on enrolment, picking your modules and how to collect your student ID card is available on our FAQ page.
If you are returning to study after deferring your course, you may need to reapply for student finance.
For more information about Student Finance you can view our Money Advice Service webpages.
As a returning student it can be useful to create new friendships and re-establish previous friendships with course-mates.
Our Welcome Festival events are open to all returning students and are an excellent opportunity to meet new people.
If you are returning to study after changing course, you will be automatically invited to register in August along with other students.
Many courses have shared modules and it might be easier to stay in contact with friends than you expect.
Talk to staff on your new course as well as your existing one if you have any academic concerns.
Our Programme Advisory Service is available Monday to Friday to assist with the planning and registration of your study and you can ask any questions you might have about transferring credits or prior learning.
It’s important to understand the support available to you from your Personal Academic Tutor or firstpoint services, who can offer help with wellbeing.
The Students’ Union has some amazing social activities, including clubs, societies and volunteering opportunities that can help you meet new people.
As a returning student, it can be useful to create new friendships and re-establish previous friendships with course mates.
If you are returning to study after taking some time out of your course, you will be automatically invited to register in August along with other students.
Returning to study after a break can be challenging.
The fact that some of your friends may have left university and settling back into academic study can be a worry.
It’s important to understand the support available to you from your Personal Academic Tutor or Firstpoint services, who can offer help with wellbeing.
The Students’ Union has some amazing social activities, including clubs, societies and volunteering opportunities that can help you meet new people.
If you are returning from a year abroad, you will be automatically invited to register in August along with other students
Returning to Worcester after a year abroad can be exciting, but there can be some challenges.
Adjusting to the culture back home, the fact that some of your friends may have left university and reintegrating from an academic perspective may take a bit of time to get used to.
This is completely normal.
The Students’ Union has some amazing social activities, including clubs, societies and volunteering  opportunities that can help you meet new people.
If you are finding your return to university difficult you might wish to make an appointment with your Personal Academic Tutor or contact firstpoint services for help with wellbeing.
For more information about Student Finance you can view our Money Advice Service webpages

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/prepare-for-study/welcome-to-worcester/student-safety.aspx:
During your time at university, we'll support you to feel safe.
There are lots of services on campus for you to access during the Welcome Festival period and throughout your studies.
The Welcome Festival is a time to meet new people and adapt to your new life as a student.
Remember to try and go out with other people, eat well, and always go out knowing how you are getting home.
If you can, it's a good idea to charge your phone before you go out in the evening and take some emergency money out with you.
If you're staying in, remember to lock your room and flat door at night.
Your safety and wellbeing are our top priorities.
Whether you're settling into student life, exploring the city, or navigating new experiences, we're here to offer practical advice and support to help you stay safe and informed.
If you are living in student accommodation or moving into the area, it is important to register with a GP in Worcester You will be asked to fill in some forms and provide the surgery you chose with some contact information and a short medical history.
You can find detailed advice on our Medical Provisions webpage.
The Callmy Alert app is the University's official safety app for students.
Whether you're feeling uncomfortable in a situation, don't feel safe walking home or have fallen over in your halls, you can easily and immediately notify the University security team and PCSO's through the app.
Use the code 'WR2 students' after downloading the app and registering.
Our firstpoint team are working to support you.
If you feel you need targeted support for your mental health we offer initial STAR (Support, Triage, Advise, Referral) appointments and these can be booked through the Firstpoint desk.
You can find additional resources, including workshops, mindfulness advice and Student Minds on our dedicated Counselling and Mental Health Service webpages.
Our Security Team are all trained in Mental Health First Aid.
You can contact the Security Team directly on Security@worc.ac.uk or you can call on 01905 855000 or on 07977 973956.
The University of Worcester offers a positive, supportive environment, giving our community the confidence to work, study, innovate and excel.
Sexual misconduct and sexual harassment refer to a broad range of behaviours, from the most severe forms of sexual violence to unwanted touching, stalking, abusive or degrading remarks.
We are committed to promoting a culture of tolerance, respect, and inclusion, where everyone’s boundaries and personal space are respected.
Consent is vital in all interactions.
Without consent, behaviour may constitute a criminal offence.
In cases where a crime may have occurred, the matter will be referred to the police, and their investigation will take priority.
We also encourage you to be cautious when using dating apps.
Meeting new people online can be exciting, but it’s important to prioritise your safety, especially if you're considering inviting someone to your accommodation.
Always trust your instincts, and if you ever feel unsafe or need immediate help on campus, contact the University’s 24-hour Security Team .
They are there to support you at any time, day or night.
If you ever feel unsafe while out, the Ask for Angela initiative is available in bars across the city - just ask staff discreetly for help.
We promote a culture of accountability through ou r bystander intervention programme , and we do not tolerate any incidents of sexual harassment or misconduct.
You can read more about this in our Sexual Misconduct policy , including how to access support.
We take sexual health seriously.
Our Students’ Union offer a free condom delivery service, pregnancy advice service and the SH:24 service can assist with questions about contraception and STI testing.
You can access their Sexual Health and Wellbeing webpages for more information.
The NHS Worcestershire Integrated Sexual Health Service offers friendly, non-judgemental, specialist services across Worcestershire.
They can also discuss emergency contraception and guide you through local services and support.
For more information you can check out their ‘Know your stuff’ website.
When you're spending a lot of time online, it’s easy to overlook small warning signs that could signal something suspicious.
A link might look legitimate at first glance, or an email might seem to come from a trusted source.
But scammers often rely on these moments of inattention to trick people.
Take a moment to pause and double-check before clicking on links, downloading attachments, or sharing personal information.
We've had students targeted by scams, including fake job offers.
If something feels off, don’t share personal information or send money.
When in doubt, speak to the Students' Union (SU) or IT Services.
Helpful resources:
If you’re ever unsure or concerned, contact IT Services or the Students’ Union - we’re here to help.
It’s always important to be mindful of water if you are running or walking by the river and canal in the city.
You might be keeping fit, walking a dog, on a walk with friends, or returning home from a night out, whatever you are doing, please be aware of your surroundings, be extra vigilant and stay well clear of riverbank edges.
The University is situated close to the banks of the River Severn, with City Campus on the east side and Severn Campus and St John’s Campus on the west side of the river, connected by several bridges.
While our campuses are unlikely to be affected by flooding, adverse weather can impact travel between them.
Always check local weather and flood warnings before setting out and allow extra time for your journey if conditions are poor.
To help you plan a safe journey:
The Royal Life Saving Society UK have excellent advice for water safety in a variety of environments.
Managing your money wisely is an important part of student life.
Here are a few things to watch out for:
If you're struggling financially or academically, you're not alone.
The University offers a range of support services:
We want everyone to have a positive and safe experience during the Welcome Festival and throughout the year.
Know your limits when drinking.
Try alternating alcoholic drinks with water to stay hydrated and aware.
Look out for your friends and make sure no one goes home alone.
Never drink and drive.
It’s dangerous, illegal, and carries serious consequences.
If you're using a taxi, only get into a pre-booked vehicle.
The University has a zero-tolerance policy on illegal drugs.
If you need help, please reach out to firstpoint or the Students’ Union for advice and resources.
Drink spiking is a serious crime.
Substances used to spike drinks are often odourless, colourless, and tasteless, and alcohol itself can also be used to spike a drink.
Symptoms can vary, but may include:
If you think your drink has been spiked:
You should never leave your drink unattended and always keep an eye on your friends’ drinks too.
If you feel unsafe, the Ask for Angela initiative is available in bars across the city - ask staff discreetly if you need help.
Joining a Sports Club or Society is a fantastic way to make new friends and we encourage you to join one of the wide range of clubs and societies on offer.
We want everyone to be safe and feel included when participating in a club or society.
Upon joining, you agree to abide by our members’ code of conduct , which outlines the standards of behaviour and conduct expected of all members.
The University of Worcester and Worcester Students’ Union have a zero tolerance approach to any “initiation activities”, which are sometimes known as “hazing”.
Any student who is found to have organised or participated in any such event will be subject to the University’s Student Disciplinary Procedures .
The most important thing to remember as a new student is that you are never alone.
There is always someone here to support you.
Your first point of contact for guidance on accessing specialist support and provide information that will be useful throughout your studies.
If you're not sure what to ask or don't know where to start, speak to firstpoint .
The Students’ Union offers free, confidential, and impartial advice to all University of Worcester students.
Whether you need support with academic issues like misconduct allegations, appeals, or mitigating circumstances, or you're facing personal challenges such as drug use, gambling, or sexual health concerns.
Our Security Team are here to keep you safe 24 hours a day 7 days a week.
They can help with multiple issues from locked-out students to first aid to reporting crimes.
A full list of the roles of the security team is available on their dedicated security webpages.
The International Experience Office provide support for international students, including setting in, advice on visas, and helping with cultural adjustment to studying in a different country.
If you have concerns relating to sexual misconduct, domestic abuse or stalking, or harassment, bullying, assault, discrimination or hate crime you can report that concern via the University’s Report a Concern Portal.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/prepare-for-study/welcome-to-worcester/living-costs-budgeting-and-money-management.aspx:
Managing your own money can be a cause of stress for new students.
We’re here to support you with making financial decisions during the cost-of-living crisis and our firstpoint team can put you in touch with our Money Advice Service for those looking for help with their finances.
It’s important to work out how much money you’ve got coming in each month.
This income might be from your maintenance loans, a part time job, your parents, your savings, or from bursaries and scholarships.
Once you know how much money you have each month, you can work out your essential outgoings.
Essential outgoings are things like rent, groceries, bills, TV licence, transport, and books.
Once you’ve subtracted your essential outgoings from your monthly income, you can divide this into a monthly budget for non-essential activities and expenses.
firstpoint offer extra tips on budgeting, current bill costs and boosting your income .
Information on accommodation costs is available on our accommodation webpages .
Budget calculators such as WhatUni?'s help you work out how much money you need.
There are many different types of funds, allowances and grants you can apply for to support yourself at university depending on your circumstances and the course you have chosen to study.
Some of these include:
Our experienced Money Advice Service provides one-to-one support on a wide range of topics, including tuition fees, student loans and grants, NHS funding, scholarships, welfare benefits, budgeting, and debt management.
We also offer advice for students with children and guidance on Universal Credit.
Whether you have a general financial query or are facing a specific challenge, Money Advice Service is here to help.
Taking on a part-time job while at university is a great way to earn extra income and build valuable skills for your future career.
Many students successfully balance work with their studies, and our dedicated Earn as You Learn webpages offer practical advice on how to manage both effectively.
Our Careers Team is here to support you every step of the way.
They post weekly listings of part-time job vacancies and provide a wide range of resources to help you prepare, whether you're building your CV, writing job applications, or practising for interviews.
You can work for the University as a Student Ambassador to earn money during your studies.
Ambassador roles include:
You can find out more information about becoming a Student Ambassador on our Student Ambassador webpages .
We offer a ‘Heat and Eat’ scheme and are committed to providing microwaves on campus to enable students to bring food from home to re-heat.
This is a great way to save money through batch cooking.
Chartwells, our onsite catering company, now offer a ‘Savour Menu’ at our St John’s Campus and City Campuses.
This new selection is available at Elgar Kitchen (St John’s Campus) and Hastings Café (City Campus) throughout the day.
Make a meal plan before going grocery shopping.
Weekly meal planning helps you know exactly what you need to get and makes it easier to keep track of what you’re spending.
Get loyalty/rewards cards for supermarkets.
Get a rewards card for your regular supermarket and collect points every time you shop.
Once you have enough, you can claim discounts on your groceries.
Go grocery shopping in the evenings.
After about 6pm, most supermarkets start discounting food that needs to be sold by the end of the day, meaning you could get some great savings.
Shop in the world food aisles.
Kitchen staples such as lentils, beans, rice, sauces, and spices can often be cheaper in the international food aisles.
Don’t shop whilst hungry.
The hungrier you are whilst shopping, the more likely you’ll end up buying more than you need.
Grocery shop online to catch deals that might be missed otherwise.
Despite the delivery cost, grocery shopping online can often be cheaper than going to the store due to online-exclusive discounts.
Cook at home instead of buying takeaways or eating out.
Meal deal lunches and pizza deliveries can quickly add up.
By taking packed lunches and cooking at home, you can save money and eat healthier.
Have meat-free days once or twice a week.
Trying “Meat-free Mondays” can help cut down the cost of your grocery bill.
Cook communally with housemates.
Cooking and eating together is a great way to save money and socialise.
Freeze food to make it last longer.
Lots of different foods, such as milk, bread, and pasta, can be frozen, which can help it last past the use-by date.
You can also bulk cook and freeze meals to reduce how often you have to cook.
Use leftover food apps.
Apps like Too Good to Go make sure good food gets eaten by allowing customers to collect food that is nearing its sell-by date from businesses.
Create a budget.
Use our budget sheet and spending log to help you keep track of where your money is going and identify places you could make savings.
Get a student bank account.
A student bank account often has benefits including interest-free overdrafts and sometimes freebies such as a 16-25 railcard.
Shop around for the best deal and remember to prioritise things like good repayment conditions and long interest-free periods over free pens or equipment.
You will need to prove student status when opening a student bank account which is often a letter of acceptance from your university or a UCAS offer letter.
Try the 1p Saving Challenge.
Start by saving 1p a day, increase how much you save by a penny every day, and in a year you’ll manage to save over £650.
Have at least one “no-spend” day a week.
This might require a bit of planning, such as bringing lunch with you from home and doing a weekly grocery shop.
Round up your spending.
See if your bank runs a “Save the Change” scheme, which rounds up your purchases to the nearest pound and puts the remainder into a saving pot.
Go to training schools for haircuts.
Find a training school or a salon with trainees to save money on your haircut.
Apps and websites such as Totum , UniDays , Student Beans , and Money Saving Expert offer lots of deals and freebies for students.
The 16-25 Railcard currently offers a 1/3 off train travel (2025) and can help you save money if you’re travelling home.
Save the Student lists the latest student deals and allows you to subscribe to their newsletter for more information.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/prepare-for-study/welcome-to-worcester/who-we-are.aspx:
We strive to value every individual and ensure the highest standards of academic achievement within our university community.
At Worcester, we value the contributions of others and the diversity this encourages within our institution and support all students to behave respectfully towards each other.
We aim to create a culture of inclusivity within our community, providing a positive and fulfilling learning environment and challenging behaviour not supportive of our values.
Our community webpages cover our policies and standards on many key issues including Race Equality , Disability , LGTBQ+ matters , Gender Equality and many more.
To improve the educational experience of all of our students we expect you to interact with other students and colleagues fairly and respectfully, accepting responsibility for your actions.
All students and staff should show impartiality and value diversity across all disciplines, genders, and cultures.
Remember that you are an ambassador for the university in your everyday life and we want everyone to be able to see your achievements!
We want you to be able to learn in an environment and culture that is truly inclusive, where staff and students have a sense of belonging, feel valued for who they are, and are supported to be the best they can be.
We are committed to developing a culture in which individuals are given dignity, courtesy and respect, and unacceptable behaviour is identified and dealt with quickly, fairly and sensitively.
Our EDI policy statement offers information about our values and our staff and student networks.
If you need more information about behaviour on campus you can check out our Student Charter or speak to your Personal Academic Tutor for further help.
You can talk to our Firstpoint Team , International Experience Team and The Students’ Union for information about expectations within the UK, how to behave in clubs and societies, and any difficulties you are having with making friends or meeting new people.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/prepare-for-study/welcome-to-worcester/faqs.aspx:
On this page your find answers to a wide range of questions about joining the University of Worcester.
University is different to secondary school in that you can leave lectures without raising your hand and making the lecturer aware.
If you need to leave a lecture temporarily for a personal reason, you can quietly make your way to the door and return to the lecture when you are ready.
You should address your lecturers by their first name.
They will introduce themselves to you in your first lecture with them.
It is always best to ask someone's name if you are unsure.
Being independent of your family may mean that you will have additional considerations during your study, and although this may be the case, these should not be seen as a barrier to entering or progressing during your time with us.
We have a range of support available for care leavers which is discussed on our dedicated webpages for students who are estranged from their families or have care experience .
Whilst you are at university, you will need to learn how to budget to ensure that you have enough income to cover all your outgoings including rent, food, bills, travel etc.
Our money advice webpages can give you advice on:
Top tip: You can save money whilst living sustainably by reducing your food waste.
Apps like Too good to go can help you find deals in your area.
Our full range on on-site catering facilities are listed on our Food & Drink pages including our restaurant, coffee shops, and the Campus Shop.
If you would like to bring your own food into the university we have microwaves in the restaurant that are free for everyone to use.
Water fountains are available across our campuses and it is best to bring a refillable bottle to keep yourself hydrated throughout the day.
Yes, there are multi faith rooms on our campuses.
Thomas Telford building, TT001 After 10pm and on weekends, access can be requested by contacting Reception.
Charles Hastings LG030
Jenny Lind Chapel
If you're living in a University-managed house or commuting to university from home, joining clubs and societies is a great way to make new friends.
Joining in with Welcome Festival events is a brilliant way to meet new people.
You can also make friends with your new course-mates.
Why not build a study group or group chat at the start of term to speak to others about coursework and lectures?
We have over 25 Societies and more than 35 Sports Clubs (both casual and competitive), so there's something for everyone to get involved in.
Please drop into the SU for more information during welcome week or attend our annual Welcome Fair to meet our societies in person.
We have full lists of our societies and sports clubs for you to explore.
Feeling a bit homesick when you arrive at university is totally normal.
This might be the first time you’ve been out in the world on your own, fending for yourself and doing your own laundry.
During the Welcome Festival and moving-in period it is a good idea not to return home unless necessary.
The Welcome Festival and moving-in period are a key time for meeting friends and lecturers, getting organised, finding your way around and joining clubs and societies.
If you can, try and join in with some of the Welcome events on campus and decorate your room so it feels more like home.
You can chat to your personal tutor or contact Firstpoint , our student advice service, for more support or why not join one of our regular fancy-a-cuppa events.
If possible it can be a good idea to brush up on some cooking skills, talk about budgeting and have a safety talk with your student before they move away to university.
You can help your student by creating lists of things they might need to purchase to move into halls, attending a campus tour with them or helping them with the registration process.
DON'T PANIC, it is very normal for students to feel homesick when they move away to university.
Chat to your student on the phone and talk through how they feel, they may just need to vent.
It's a good idea for students who are living in the University Halls or in University-managed housing to try to stay there during the Welcome Festival period.
This is really useful for making friends, meeting lecturers and getting a feel for the course.
Try to encourage your student to get involved on campus.
This might include attending the Welcome Festival activities , having dinner with flatmates or organising a film night.
Remind your student that they can always return home to visit later in a few weeks time and can return for longer over the winter break.
There are a few things you can help your student with before they move to university.
It's worth chatting through these subjects with them:
There’s a lot of banks to choose from and many have different deals and incentives, help your student make informed choices about bank accounts.
With student finance and accommodation costs, a student bank account is an essential aspect of university life.
Launderettes, equipped with washers and dryers are located at both St John’s and City Campus.
You can use the machines 24-hours a day and current prices are available in the launderettes.
Your student will need to download the Circuit Laundry App from Google Play or the Apple App Store.
First time users will need to register with an email address and add funds.
Help your student set this up and purchase some washing detergent during your first big shop.
Help your student organise a TV license if necessary.
Only the ensuite extra halls of residence have a licence covering the communal area.
All other halls will require a licence to watch in the communal areas and your student will need a separate TV Licence to watch in their room.
Find more information on the TV Licencing website.
Please encourage your student to register with a local GP if they are moving to Worcester.
Keep in touch with your student and chat through any concerns they might have.
It might be useful to familiarise yourself with the University Support Systems that they might want to access throughout their studies.
The first part of the academic year is very busy and exciting for students arriving at university for the first time, and in these circumstances it is unlikely that they will be aware of the upset or worry that this may be causing you.
We would suggest that you keep trying to get in touch, explaining that you are worried and asking that your student contacts you, another family member or a friend by a specific time, just to let you know that they are OK.
If you still do not hear from your student, contact Firstpoint and they will email and phone them encouraging them to make contact.
They will also be able to offer your student support if they are struggling.
If your student gives permission, Firstpoint will contact you to let you know that they have been in touch.
You can also contact Firstpoint if you are particularly concerned that your student is at risk or may have come to some harm.
They will take your concerns seriously, and take the appropriate action, such as arranging a wellbeing check to ensure that your student is OK, and encouraging them to contact you.
Please be assured that the welfare of our students is our priority, and that there is a range of support available if they need it.
During the Welcome Festival there will have lots of opportunities to get to know other students with a range of different activities and classes to attend.
Clubs and societies are a good way to make friends and they will probably be able to find at least one that interests them from the wide range available in the Students’ Union.
We are also planning film nights, ‘giant’ games, a picnic and a food festival to help students meet new people and make friends.
Most students settle and find friends quite quickly but if they do find it a struggle, they can visit one of our 'Fancy a Cuppa' sessions.
Held in firstpoint throughout the year and every day during the first couple of weeks of each semester, this informal event provides a friendly space to chat with staff as well as a free hot drink, biscuits and fruit.
If they are feeling too unwell to come to class students need to contact the tutors of the classes that they will miss, and either their Personal Academic Tutor or the Academic Support Unit.
If they do not already have contact details, they can get them from the Staff Directory tab on SOLE.
There are a number of people who can help.
If your student is struggling with the course content, advise them to speak to their Personal Academic Tutor.
If they need help with more generic study skills, such as referencing or academic writing, the study skills website offers a range of materials that your student may find useful and also has contact details for other staff and services that can help.
These include Writers in Residence who provide tutorials on any aspect of academic writing and the The Centre for Academic English and Skills , which offers one-to-one support sessions on Academic English.
The Study Skills portal is available 24/7 with lots of useful advice and contacts.
Any student can sign up to Study Skills Live , a friendly, year round programme of online workshops on key skills.
Library Services are also available by email, Live Chat and appointments to support students with finding and referencing information.
You confirmation email will include your login ID and password for accessing our Student Portal .
When logging in to the Student Portal for the first time you’ll be prompted to register for multi-factor authentication (MFA) .
If you’re struggling with logging into your account or need assistance setting up MFA please contact the IT Service .
When you have logged onto the Student Portal, select SOLE (Student On Line Environment) and then click or tap 'Register Now'.
More information regarding registration can be found on our dedicated registration webpages .
You will need to upload a photograph of yourself for your student ID card.
If you are having technical problems with the online registration form please contact our Student Records Office on 01905 855 333.
Please note: If you’ve booked to stay in our campus accommodation you may have received your login details and instructions to setup MFA via this process – don’t be alarmed if the password field in your registration email is blank if you’ve done this.
For guidance with module selection contact Student Records on 01905 855333 or studentrecords@worc.ac.uk
For queries about the fees section please contact the relevant finance team:
International students are invited to attend an international induction during September at which you will complete your Right to Study (RTS checks), collect your Biometric Residence Permit (if necessary), have an opportunity to get over jet lag and begin to address any culture shock you may be experiencing as well as meeting other international students and getting to know Worcester and the UK.
During this time, you will meet the International Experience team and learn about the support they can offer during your time at UW.
As an international student you are a member of the university family from the start and have access to all the same excellent academic, emotional and practical support as home students.
The International Experience team is here to help you settle in with a carefully planned International Induction and year long opportunities for social events and trips.
We look forward to meeting you!
If all of your first year modules are mandatory you’ll see a summary of your modules.
Please review these and then continue with the registration process.
Once you’ve completed your module selection our timetabling team are able to create your semester one timetable.
This needs to be coordinated across the whole University so please bear with us.
You’ll be able to access your academic timetable on SOLE (via the Student Portal ) before your course starts.
Through SOLE you’ll also be able to see the welcome and induction schedule for your course.
Once you're registered you’ll receive an email from us inviting you to collect your ID card.
The suggested date to collect your card will vary depending on your course, and whether you’re commuting or living in University accommodation.
If you can’t attend at your allocated collection time, you'll have other opportunities to collect your ID card from firstpoint (in the Peirson Study and Guidance Centre) throughout the first few weeks of term.
To get started with your university IT services, including setting up your account and logging into Wi-Fi, please visit our comprehensive getting started page.
The first time you login with your University of Worcester student account, you’ll be prompted to register for Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA).
This provides an extra layer of security on your account.
You’ll need to register for MFA before you complete your online registration.
Please see our Multi-Factor Authentication set-up video for help registering for this service.
We recommend setting up two separate methods of authentication, the most secure being app authentication.
If you are still experiencing difficulty please contact the IT Service:
The University uses the JISC wireless network “ eduroam ”, which you can connect to in all campus buildings and at other higher education facilities across the UK.
To connect to this network on your devices, please use the following guide .
Please note: Students staying in our residences on campus should connect to the Glide network in those buildings, to do so please follow this guide .
You can borrow a laptop on a short or long term loan from the University (stocks permitting).
Please see the following guide for further information on how to do this.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/prepare-for-study/what-to-expect.aspx:
Your time may be considerably less structured than at school or college and you will be encouraged to take ownership of your learning experience and make the most of the opportunities we offer.
It is through this partnership that you will experience the full benefits that a Worcester education brings.
Ultimately, you are in control of your own learning.
In order to do well, you will need to develop effective study strategies.
These include such skills as:
Your study skills will develop through practice, trial and error and from feedback from lecturers and your classmates.
You may be surprised at how your thinking and writing skills develop over time.
Visit our Study Skills website for advice on how to make the most of your study time and achieve your potential.
A full-time student will normally study 4 modules (i.e.
‘classes’) each semester.
Modules run throughout the day and many are available in the evening.
You’ll select your modules online and build up your own timetable.
Your modules may include lecturers, seminars, tutorials, practical work and placements.
Each module has a ‘module guide’, which gives you detailed information on reading lists, assignments and learning outcomes.
These guides will help you plan your work and will signpost useful resources.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/prepare-for-study/mature-students.aspx:
21 or over?
Find out how Worcester can support you.
A mature student is any student who begins their degree with us aged 21 or over.
Many of our students are mature students and we are committed to improving your career opportunities and supporting your decision to re-train.
We are proud that our mature students are represented across all our academic facilities, from our foundation and undergraduate degrees, to PHDs.
If you have any questions or concerns, we’re here to help.
The majority of our mature students apply to us through the University and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
You will be asked to provide certain supporting statements including your education history, a personal statement, and a reference.
We recommend checking you can meet a university’s entry requirements before you apply.
They may be looking for certain grades, UCAS points, personal qualities, or work experience.
At Worcester, we take a person’s life experience into account during the application process.
If you are unsure if your experience will support your application, you can contact our course admission tutors for more information about whether you may meet their requirements for the degree.
The personal statement is a piece of academic writing that is a minimum of 1,000 characters and a maximum of 4,000 characters or 47 lines, (including blank lines), whichever comes first.
Your personal statement is an opportunity to show off your suitability for your chosen courses.
You can only include one personal statement in your UCAS application, and it will be used for all the courses you apply for.
When you write your personal statement, we recommend including:
You can demonstrate your interest in the course by providing examples of further reading, courses you have attended and any work experience that you have.
Providing practical examples will set you apart from other applicants and prove that you are ready for university.
We also recommend using the ABC method to form the structure of your paragraphs.
Activity – what have you done?
Benefit – what skills has this given you?
Course – how do these relate to your course?
Try to keep your personal statement brief with positive examples.
Your interview will be your chance to expand on your personal statement.
Mature students have the additional benefit of life experience, which makes for an exciting, new angle to a personal statement.
Use this to your advantage and mention any alternative entry requirements you’ve used in your application.
Also make sure to demonstrate your existing skills and then explain how these relate to the course.
This will help you stand out, so be enthusiastic.
UCAS provide additional information on writing personal statements , including a Personal Statement Tool.
If you are looking for 1-1 feedback on your personal statement, Worcester offers personalised advice in our application hub, during our Open Days.
As part of the application process you will be asked to provide a reference.
If you are currently in education, it is likely that a Course Leader or Head Teacher will provide a reference for you.
If you are applying independently, then an employer, volunteering supervisor or trainer can write your reference for you.
It is important not to use a friend or family member for your reference.
You will provide you referee’s details as part of your UCAS application.
UCAS will email your referee directly with a link and password to the reference page and ask them to confirm their identity before submitting a reference.
It is a good idea to give your referee plenty of time to submit their reference for you.
Details of what the reference should contain and the process are available on the UCAS website.
Once you have submitted your application, if it is successful, the university may respond with either a conditional or an unconditional offer.
An unconditional offer means you have been accepted onto the university course.
All you have to do is make an unconditional offer your firm choice on UCAS to confirm your place.
Alternatively, you may receive a conditional offer.
This means you have to meet certain requirements, such as achieving or exceeding a particular grade or amount of UCAS points, to receive your place at the university.
If you make a conditional offer your firm choice, and meet the entry requirements, you can confirm your place on the course.
To work out how many UCAS points your qualifications are or might be worth, we recommend using this helpful calculator .
More questions?
Contact: admissions@worc.ac.uk
As a mature student, you  have access to all of our support, guidance and extra curricular activities.
Our primary point of contact for all support queries is our firstpoint desk .
The firstpoint team are located on the ground floor of the Peirson Study and Guidance Centre, on the St John’s campus.
They are able to signpost you to different student welfare teams as well as offer advice on University procedures.
For opening times please see our firstpoint webpages .
Firstpoint can assist you with:
All undergraduate students are provided with an appointed Personal Academic Tutor (PAT).
Your Personal Academic Tutor is usually a member of academic staff that teaches on your course and they remain with you throughout time at university.
They are here to offer academic guidance and advice where necessary and help to ease your transition into higher education.
You are normally advised to meet your Personal Academic Tutor within the first couple of weeks of your course, as part of your induction.
You can expect a minimum of four scheduled meetings during your first year, either as a tutorial group or on an individual basis.
You can find out more information about this scheme by visiting our Personal Academic Tutor webpages.
If you care for an adult family member or friend, you may wish to talk to your local authority Social Services department.
They are required by law to carry out a ‘carer assessment’, which looks at your needs as a carer, as well as the needs of the person you care for.
If your needs change as a result of becoming a student (full-time or part-time), they will take this into account.
The Mature Students, Parents and Carers Network , run by the Students’ Union can also offer support and advice for students who are studying with increased responsibilities.
The Students’ Union (SU) is an independent charity, devoted to the educational interests and welfare of all of our students.
The SU offers representation and advice to students as well as opportunities to volunteer, join clubs and societies, become a course rep and access the Mature Students, Parents and Carers Network .
You can find out more about the Students’ Union on the SU website.
Welcome Week at Worcester is the perfect opportunity to get settled into university life.
During your first week you will receive your ID card, have the opportunity to explore sports and societies and access FirstPoint for any information or advice you may need before you begin studying.
We recommend mature students get involved in this week and become part of our university community.
A degree from Worcester is a great investment in your future.
It’s important to take the time to find out about the cost of living and studying here, so you know what to expect.
There is plenty of help available and changes to the student loan system means that part-time students can more easily access funds.
The following information is correct for the academic year 2025/26.
Further details on this scheme can be found on our Financial Support for Healthcare Students webpage .
If on the rare occasion you do find yourself in financial difficulty, Worcester has an Access to Learning Fund to make sure you can continue your studies.
Money given to you from the fund does not have to be repaid.
You can also contact the Money Advice team via firstpoint@worc.ac.uk .
There are plenty of provisions in place for students commuting to University.
Our Student’s Union also has a Commuter Students' Network , where you can chat and attend social events with other commuting students.
You can access this if you choose to study with us.
There are lots of different options if you are looking to commute into university.
We have lots of car and motorcycle parking available on our campuses.
You can apply for a parking permit if you will regularly park at the university.
Our Severn Campus has also become one of the largest electric vehicles charging parks in Europe, offering 100 charging points for our students.
If you are looking to cycle to university we provide free bike repair facilities to maintain your own bike, and plenty of secure bike parking.
There are also plenty of public transport routes if you are travelling by bus or train.
As a mature student, you can also apply for a 16-25 railcard no matter your age, as long as you show evidence of enrolment for a course.
If you find yourself hungry and thirsty on campus, there are plenty of options.
The Uni Food Hub has plenty of food options available, alongside our campus shop and The Hanger.
We also offer Starbucks Coffee on two of our campuses and Costa on St John's Campus.
Our Peirson study centre is open 24 hours to all students and is the perfect place to complete work in between your lectures.
It is home to 212 student access PCs, a suite with 40 student access iMacs and 396 study spaces including 42 silent study spaces or a collaborative downstairs area.
Finding the right student accommodation is  an important part of your university experience.
There are several options to choose from and our Accommodation Team and the Students' Union are able to offer help and advice.
Mature Students can choose to live in university accommodation and the University of Worcester has a great variety of halls, including specially designated postgraduate houses.
The University guarantees accommodation for all new, first-year undergraduates, provided they have firmly accepted their place by the UCAS deadline.
Our university accommodation is based right on campus, so you are only a short walk away from your lectures.
For further information, visit our accommodation pages .
If you’re a mature student and wish to live in private accommodation , the Accommodation Office can help you with information and advice to find the best living space to suit you.
The University is located in a pleasant and friendly Worcester suburb, not far from the city centre, with plenty of private options available.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/prepare-for-study/Commuter-students:
You'll benefit from having access to all the support and resources you need, regardless of where you're studying, enabling you to find your perfect balance between your study and homelife.
Being on the M5 corridor, Worcester is linked to both the South West and the Midlands, meaning each University of Worcester campus is a commutable distance from various towns in areas such as Birmingham, Bromsgrove, Droitwitch, Cheltenham, Gloucester, Swindon and Bristol.
This helpful guide will answer any concerns you might have about commuting, plus travel advice and ways you can excel as a commuter student.
Many students study alongside family and work commitments, so living at home can provide the flexibility to study around day-to-day commitments.
Commuting to university also allows you to study and engage with university life, whilst being able to go back to your own home each night and stay close to your friends and family.
To see how you can still feel part of the university community and take advantage of all the University has to offer, check out our helpful commuter student guides below.
If you don’t feel like commuting could work for you, take a look at our variety of on-campus accommodation .
High quality, great value and guaranteed.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/prepare-for-study/Commuter-students/Settling-in-as-a-commuter-student.aspx:
To help you get started, check out our 'Welcome to Worcester' page to find out what you need to do before starting your course.
You'll also find more information about what to expect from our Welcome festival, which is a great opportunity for you to meet your lecturers, your peers and find your way around the campus and the city.
It's also a chance to link up with other commuter students and potentially find a travel buddy or someone to car share with.
Being a commuter student doesn’t mean compromising on the social side of university life.
You might be interested in getting involved with our Commuter Student Network to connect with other commuter students or our Student Sustainability Hub .
You can also join any of our networks and societies, and events hosted at The Hangar .
There will be both daytime and evening activities you can engage with such as Varsity , and themed events for weeks like Go Green Week which you can get as involved with as you'd like.
You can also take advantage of the many cafes across campus to catch-up with classmates and discuss your course with a drink and a snack.
Or you could pop along to ‘Fancy-a-Cuppa' and enjoy a drink and a chat with fellow students and members of the student wellbeing team.
If you’re ever worried about missing the last train home, we have on-site accommodation available, so you’ll always have a safe place to sleep.
If you need a late-night study session on campus or want to attend an event that finishes late, you don’t need to worry about missing your ride home or driving back late.
For just £31.76 per night*, we have on-campus accommodation you can book through the accommodation portal.
You can collect your keys from St.
John's main reception and check in from 2pm.
Check out will be by 10am on your booked departure date.
*Rates accurate for academic year 2024/25 and subject to change.
However you're planning on commuting to campus, we have recommended routes and advice on how to save money when using public transport as a student.
First Bus serves the Worcestershire area and both the 31 and 31A buses can get you to St.
John's campus, but the 31 will drop you off outside of the campus gates, and the 31a will drop you off outside of the SU on the campus itself.
Both buses leave from the main bus station in the city centre.
Route 30 takes 10 minutes and route 31a takes 10 minutes to the University Gates and 20 minutes to the SU on St.
Johns campus.
To find out how to get to a specific campus, see our Campus locations page .
There are two main train companies which can get you to Worcester, and two stations to choose from in the city centre.
West Midlands trains offers student discounts , and with a railcard you could also save on Great Western Railway trains .
The two main stations are Worcester Foregate Street which is in the city centre, and Worcester Shrub Hill station which is a 10-minute walk from the city centre.
Trains often run between the two and the journey takes roughly 3 minutes.
Worcester is served by the M5 motorway and is accessible from Junctions 6 and 7.
Under normal traffic conditions all university campuses can be reached in 15-20 minutes from Junction 7.
The University is clearly signposted once you come off at Junction 7.
There are several car parks across our campuses and all are monitored.
You can apply for a parking permit or use the Pay & Display machines .
You could also use the Welcome Festival to find a fellow student you could lift share to share the cost of petrol and parking.
There are plenty of spaces to park your bike across the campuses, and we have on-site free bike repair facilities on St.
Worcester also has a bike share scheme in place with Beryl Bikes .
These can be found all over the city as well as the City, Severn and St.
John's campuses.
Once you’ve figured out your travel plan, you may wish to familiarise yourself with what to expect as you start your course, to ease your transition into university.
Our Starting at University guide will help you prepare for lectures and independent study.
You could also look at our Study Skills portal to find out what to expect from independent study and how to access support.
We also recommend familiarising yourself with the services we have available on campus , such as the Disability and Dyslexia service, the Counselling and Mental Health service and Money Advice so you can either reach out and ensure you have the support you need in place ready for you, or so you know where to access support when you need it.
If you have any concerns about the cost of university, we have a Fees and Finance webpage dedicated to laying out the course costs and what support is available.
We also have our Budgeting and Boosting Your Income webpage , with helpful tips on how to make your money go further.
There’s also the option to Earn as you learn , by becoming a Student Ambassador.
This is a great way to earn some extra money and gain work experience, with the flexibility of tailoring what shifts you take on to fit your study and personal commitments.
You may also be eligible to receive:
If you’d like to speak to someone about any financial concerns our Money Advice team is there to help.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/prepare-for-study/Commuter-students/Studying-as-a-commuter-student.aspx:
Prepare for your week by taking some time to make a to-do list, making sure you have a balance of university, home, and relaxing/fun to keep you feeling on-top of things.
You can also speak to your Personal Academic Tutor for advice on managing your university work.
The Student Life team will be able to offer support if you’re struggling to balance your commitments.
To help you pack light, we have computers and loanable laptops available for you to use accross our range of study spaces.
There are also free water refill stations across all campuses, and microwaves on St John's Campus, which you are welcome to use to reheat a packed lunch.
There are indoor and outdoor spaces for you to eat, as well as our restaurant on St.
John's Campus, the Campus Shop, and a range of cafes across all our campuses.
We even have lockers available on St.
Johns Campus where you can store anything you need for commuting so you don’t need to carry it throughout the day.
Listening to podcasts and audiobooks can be a great way to study on the go.
You may find something related to your course/research area on an audiobook or podcast platform, or if you’d like to hear texts from your resource list , you can do this with many of the ebooks we have access to.
or
Use the time to relax by reading or listening to a book , enjoy your favourite music, learn a new language or try a mindfulness app.
Take advantage of the time away from campus and home by taking some time for yourself, helping you to either start or end the day feeling good about yourself.
If you find you have large gaps between your lectures, there are plenty of things to do!
Peirson Study & Guidance Centre on St John's Campus is open 24 hours and has both downstairs and upstairs spaces to study, plus rooms for silent study.
The Hive is open every day between 8am and 10pm and is constantly staffed, so there will always be someone on hand to help you.
There are 3 floors of study spaces, plus thousands of print books to support your studies.
There are also study spaces in Jenny Lind, Charles Hastings, Elizabeth Garrett Anderson, and the Duke’s building during the day.
You could use these spaces for independent study, or you could organise a group study session with your course mates.
Group study is a great way to check in, learn from, and support each other.
Regardless of where you’re studying, you can access all our online resources from the Library Services website , which includes a live chat service where you can speak with a librarian instantly.
You can book onto study skills live sessions to learn about referencing and searching.
The library also provides bookable one-to-one tutorials with a librarian for further support with your research.
For writing advice, the Centre for Academic English are on-site to provide support in understanding your assignments and developing your writing style.
We also have our Writers in Residence who can offer support in expressing your ideas and reaching higher grades in your assignments.
At the start of your course, you will also be assigned a Personal Academic Tutor who you can meet with at any time to discuss your assignments, progress and career prospects, as well as being able to signpost you to support for any other concerns you may have.
On occasions, there are lunchtime and evening seminars you can attend, which showcase staff and PhD student research.
Keep an eye on your student email as these events will be emailed to you by course leaders.
Downtime is important as a university student.
You could spend this time having a catch-up with a friend or family member to stay connected with your support system, and unwind with some light conversation.
If you need to stretch your legs between lectures, you could enjoy a walk along the University Mile, or take advantage of our fully equipped and inclusive Riverside Fitness Suite , or enjoy one of the many walks in the area .
You could also hire one of our Beryl bikes and enjoy a bike ride.
If food and drink is your idea of a break, you could spend some time in one of our campus cafes .
If you’d rather spend some time in the city centre, there are numerous chain and independent cafes and restaurants to choose from, covering a wide range of cuisines.
If you’re spending some time in Worcester city centre , you could also enjoy some retail therapy, explore the historic quarter or unwind with a game of crazy golf at Mulligans, bowling in St Johns or axe throwing at Axe Junkies.
Don’t forget you can enjoy these activities by yourself or invite some course mates along!
Here are our top tips for feeling on top of your university work and wellbeing when working at home.
It’s a good idea to have a chat with those you live with and explain what support you need from them.
You could discuss or think about things like:
Setting up your boundaries with those you live with will help you balance your uni and home life, whilst making sure you can be there for you household, and they can be there to support you.
Maybe agree a rule with yourself where you work on campus and focus on yourself and household responsibilities when you're at home.
Make sure to pick a spot that's quiet and away from distractions like the TV and other people.
You’ll need to make sure you have a desk space which fits your laptop, any resources you need like a notepad, and room for a drink and a snack.
The study space may also need room for your books, stationery and charging points, without feeling too cluttered.
Make sure you also have a comfortable chair that positions you at a good height at your desk to avoid neck strain.
It can be easy to put pressure on yourself to be constantly productive with studying and working on your assignments, so it’s important to remember to look after your well-being.
Self-compassion and being forgiving to yourself is key in reducing stress and negative emotions.
Allow yourself breaks and relaxation so you can come back to your work feeling energised and motivated, instead of constantly pushing yourself and burning out.
Part of this is making time to meet up or catch up with friends and family without talking about university work.
Giving yourself and your mind a break will help boost your mood and get you back into the flow of working on your assignments.
Don’t forget you have access to various university services who are there to support you throughout your course.
Firstpoint is your first point of contact for accessing advice and support on wellbeing , mental health and counselling , and disability and dyslexia .
You can also receive money advice , career and employability support , chaplaincy , and studying abroad advice.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/prepare-for-study/flexible-and-part-time-study.aspx:
For many it's the ideal way to return to education later in life, but there are part-time students of every age.
There are thousands of students studying part-time at Worcester, from short bites of learning right through to degree and postgraduate qualifications.
Our courses are designed to be flexible.
If you want to vary the amount of time you spend studying from year to year, or even take a break for a while, you can.
Most part-time students people studying for an undergraduate degree normally take between 4 and 7 years to complete the course.
Although some professional courses, including Nursing and Midwifery, require full-time study, the majority of our programmes can be studied part-time.
It has been a breath of fresh air to be doing something challenging.
I'm studying part-time and have now done four years out of five and I love it.
Chris, part-time student
If you want, or need, to work while studying, then part-time study is the ideal way to balance your time.
Work that ties in with your qualification can also give you relevant work experience that can help put you ahead when it comes to getting further up the career ladder.
As a part time student, you will enjoy all the advantages and support of being a full-time student, such as access to academic and sporting facilities, student services and the Careers Advisory Service .
Tuition fee loans are also available to many part-time students.
Visit the Student Finance website to find out more.
Applications for part time study are made directly to the University of Worcester.
Read more in our How to Apply section or download an application form .
If you would like more information about studying with us part-time, get in touch on 01905 855111 or email admissions@worc.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/prepare-for-study/study-life-balance.aspx:
Here are some good reasons to have time off as well as time studying:

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/prepare-for-study/planning-your-study-week:
For many students, especially those with family or work commitments, the biggest question of all is: can I find the time?
University study is usually quite flexible compared with a full-time job, although childcare and other arrangements will need to be planned carefully.
Your workload will also vary during the year – several pieces of coursework may be due at the same time, for example.
You’ll know in advance when your assignments are due and you can access study support from your lecturer and from the Student Services team.
This is a very approximate guideline to the commitment involved:
Each unit (or part of a university course) is expressed as a number of ‘credits’.
A standard undergraduate module is 15 credits.
The module includes your own independent reading and writing, as well as formal teaching or classroom time.
Once you have developed a clear idea of your key activities and their related tasks you can begin to make plans.
A plan or timetable needs to suit your personal needs.
Take a look at our Time Management Checklist or download our Weekly Planner to give yourself some ideas about studying planning.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/prepare-for-study/applicant-visit-days.aspx:
We’re hosting our 2025 Offer Holder Days on Saturday 15 February 2025 and Sunday 23 March 2025 between 10am and 2pm.
An Offer Holder Day is your chance to find out more about the course you’ve applied for and to meet other applicants and students, as well as lecturers who teach on the course.
You’ll have the chance to see our facilities, including our range of on-campus accommodation and award-winning library.
Applicants will be sent an invitation by e-mail to book their place.
If you’ve got any questions, contact us on study@worc.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/prepare-for-study/university-worcester-social-media.aspx:
You can follow the University of Worcester on most major social media channels.
Here are a few of the best ways to see the full story of Worcester student life.
Many University departments and courses have dedicated Facebook accounts of their own, but the official University of Worcester Facebook page is a great way to keep up to date with everything that’s happening on campus.
Don’t take our word for it!
Worcester Student Life is a blog written by students for students and gives a unique perspective on what it’s really like to be a University of Worcester student.
Follow us on Instagram to see everything that's happening on and around campus.
Don’t be shy!
Tag us on Instagram and we might share your masterpiece with the world.
Stay connected.
Our official University TikTok @universityofworcester showcases a variety of content including student life, student advice, teaching and a mix of footage from all of our campuses.
Our official University of Worcester channels on both YouTube and Vimeo provide the perfect windows on Worcester in motion.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/our-community:
At the University of Worcester we are committed to creating an environment free from discrimination, bullying, harassment or victimisation, where all members of our community are treated with respect and dignity.
We aim to create a culture of dignity and inclusivity within our community, providing a working and learning environment, where all members are valued for their contribution and individuality.
The University of Worcester values and celebrates the diversity of all its students and staff, and its wider community.
Through our policies and practices we work to ensure that all are welcome in our community and have an equal opportunity to succeed regardless of any aspect of their identity, such as age, disability, gender (including gender reassignment, marital status, pregnancy and maternity), ethnicity (including race, colour or nationality), religion or belief (including non-belief), sexual orientation or social-economic background
We are committed to developing a culture in which individuals are accorded dignity, courtesy and respect, and unacceptable behaviour is identified and dealt with quickly, fairly and sensitively.
This policy on harassment and bullying describes the measures and procedures that are in place to ensure that this happens.
You can access The Hive's EDI information , The Hive is our joint library with the Worcestershire County Council.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/our-community/race-equality.aspx:
In 2023/24 7.1% of our staff were from an ethnic minority background including Black, Asian, Arab, Chinese and Mixed, this is an increase from 6.4% in 2022/23.
Our student body represents at least fifteen different ethnic backgrounds.
In 2023/24 this included 5.93% from a range of black ethnic backgrounds and 5.58%  from a range of asian ethnic backgrounds.
Our students come from the United Kingdom as well as overseas and currently represent around 70 countries from Angola to Zimbabwe.
We provide a range of support, help and guidance for all our students including:
The Worcester Students' Union is an independent charity, devoted to the education interests and welfare of all students studying at the University.
Part of its role is to provide social, cultural', sporting and recreational activities and forums for discussions and debate for the personal development and enjoyment of all students.
The Students' Union supports a wide range of clubs and societies run by students for students these currently include:
The Students' Union also hosts a number of student led networks which exist to connect underrepresented areas of the student population and build communities these currently include:

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/our-community/disability.aspx:
The University of Worcester is deeply committed to human equality and dignity, aiming for equal opportunity and true inclusion in all its activities with staff and students.
Disability is one of the nine protected characteristics covered under the Equality Act, which provides individuals with protection from discrimination arising from their disability in employment/study.
The law defines disability as a ‘mental or physical impairment which has a substantial and long-term effect on an individual’s ability to carry out normal day-to-day activities’.
Here we use the social model of disability, which means we acknowledge that people are disabled by physical and/or social attitudinal barriers – such as stereotyping and prejudice - in the environment.
This is best managed by altering or making allowances for the environment and is known as making ‘reasonable adjustments’ which is a legal requirement.
Examples may include providing adaptive pieces of equipment; time off for treatment; phased return to work; moving tasks to more accessible areas.
If you have a disability and would like to discuss your specific requirements, in the first instance contact your line manager, or the HR Business Partner for your department for your department/school.
Alternatively you may, in confidence, self-refer directly to our occupational health provider Soma, 01905 422808 or enquiries@somahealth.co.uk .
The University is recognised as Disability Confident Committed which means our recruitment processes are inclusive and accessible, and we support job applicants and existing employees by providing reasonable adjustments.
The University is a mindful employer and signatory to the charter for ‘Employers who are Positive about Mental Health’.
This confirms our commitment in demonstrating a positive and enabling attitude to employees and job applicants with mental health issues.
If you have a disability, specific learning difference or health condition or an interest in these and would like to contribute to improving facilities, policies and procedures at the university, or would just like to meet and discuss issues with staff members in a similar situation then please contact Steve Joyce.
An informal peer support network run by staff for staff.
If you experience mental health and wellbeing challenges personally or are a carer for someone who does, join bthe network by contacting staffmentalhealthnetwork@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/our-community/gender-equality.aspx:
We report our gender pay gap data annually and pride ourselves on offering excellent support for colleagues and students who become pregnant during their time at the University.
The Equality Charters Athena SWAN Charter was originally established in 2005 to encourage and recognise commitment to advancing the careers of women in science, technology, engineering, maths and medicine (STEMM) employment in higher education and research.
In May 2015 the Athena SWAN Charter was expanded to recognise work undertaken in arts, humanities, social sciences, business and law (AHSSBL), and in professional and support roles, and for trans staff and students.
The charter now recognises work undertaken to address gender equality more broadly, and not just barriers to progression that affect women.
The Athena SWAN Charter covers women (and men where appropriate) in:
In relation to their:
In 2018 the University of Worcester received the Athena SWAN Bronze Award.
This award demonstrates our commitment to advancing gender equality across all academic disciplines, for our professional and support staff and our trans staff and students.
The application and associated action plan were developed by a self-assessment team chaired by Dr John-Paul Wilson, Deputy Pro Vice Chancellor Research, who is also senior lead for Athena SWAN with Professor Maggie Andrews as Academic Lead for Athena SWAN.
This team will now oversee the delivery of our Athena SWAN action plan.
For more information on Athena SWAN at Worcester please email AthenaSWAN@worc.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/our-community/lgbtq.aspx:
In 2023/24 10.9% of our students and 6.6% of our staff identified as LGBTQ+.
The Students' Union hosts an LGBTQIA+ network which provides a safe space for anyone who identifies as par of the LGBTQIA+ community.
The network provides support from fellow students and organising social open to everyone (including allies).
The University has a LGBTQ+ staff network which offers training to all staff, providing advice and guidance on issues and concerns.
The network has introduced an Allies programme; through which staff can declare themselves an Ally and are issued a rainbow coloured lanyard, pin badge and digital badge for their emails to illustrate they are happy to be approached directly for support and guidance.
Stonewall - the University as a Stonewall Diversity Champion works with Stonewall to promote diversity in the workplace.
Stonewall can be contacted at info@stonewall.org.uk in relation to gay, lesbian or bisexual queries
Worcester City Pride - information regarding Worcestershire Pride can be accessed via their instagram page
The Gender Trust specialises in supporting those affected with gender identify issues www.gendertrust.org.uk
TransUnite - is a volunteer run not for profit organisation which provides the most up to date resource for UK and online based support groups.
You can find a local group via their website
Sugar Daddys cafe - LGBTQ+ friendly social space.
Many LGBTQ+ events take place here like book club, ‘crafternoons’, drag brunches, trans, non-binary, aro/ace and neurodiverse meet ups.
Out2gether - Hosts events and offers support
Wilde Studio - Inclusive hair salon
Saucy - LGBTQ+ theatre programme
The LGBTQ+ staff network runs a staff “Allies” programme, in which staff can sign up and declare themselves an Ally.
Staff that are members of the Allies Scheme are provided with a rainbow-coloured lanyard to wear, a pin badge and a digital badge for their emails, to illustrate they are happy to be approached directly for support or guidance and making it easier for students to identify an Ally.
Allies who sign up to the mailing list also recieve updates and information on networking and social events in both the university and wider community.
The Staff LGBTQ+ network is always happy to offer advice and guidance or be made of any concerns staff may have, and can be contacted via email: lgbtqstaff@worc.ac.uk
You can keep up to date with the Staff network via their instagram page.
'Missing Link Theatre,' based at the University of Worcester, encapsulates the beauty of queer rebellion.
Their shows combine dance theatre with spoken word and live music.
Their latest show, 'Burnt Lavender,' is presented by the Masters in Touring Theatre students, and takes place in the Lavender Club, a cabaret pulsing with physical theatre, lip-synced routines and gut-wrenching confessions.
'Burnt Lavender' was inspired by the clubs and bars of the Pride movement, from Berlin’s notorious Eldorado via Stonewall to the Vauxhall Tavern.
As a LGBTQ+ theatre collective, 'Missing Link Theatre,' desired to explore lived experience of conversion therapy and the history of the Pride movement.
Dazzlingly Dark and unapologetically rebellious, 'Burnt Lavender' is a kaleidoscopic exploration of conversion therapy, love and power.
The show toured around the country, including the Edinburgh Fringe, in 2023.
The University's Strategic Plan and Diversity and Equality Policy set out a clear commitment to provide equal opportunities for staff, and student members of its community, in that it will not discriminate directly or indirectly in the appointment, development and promotion of staff, and this expressly includes on the grounds of an individual's sexual orientation.
It will do this through:
Equality Impact Assessment a way of checking that policies, procedures and practices don’t inadvertently disadvantage or discriminate against people across legally protected characteristics including sexual orientation.
It enables positive and negative impact to be identified and addressed.
Initial/Harassment Advisors are members of staff who have been trained and appointed by the University to provide first line response for anyone who considers they may be experiencing harassment, and this includes any member of staff or student who feels they are being harassed or bullied because of their actual or perceived sexual orientation.
For more information go to: Initial Advisors
Legislation – by having due regard to our legal responsibilities including under both The Equality Act (Sexual Orientation) Regulations 2007 and the Employment Equality (Sexual Orientation) Regulations 2003 which set out the ways in which it is illegal to discriminate on the ground of sexual orientation in the provision of goods and service, and the protection the law offers to employees and students in further and higher education.
Staff LGBT Network - the University’s Staff Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Trans group which is a social group and also provides feedback to the University’s Diversity and Equality Committee on equal opportunities in policies and procedures etc, to ensure they address issues and concerns of LGBT staff.
Please contact Daniel Somerville at lgbtstaff@worc.ac.uk for further information on the group.
Stonewall Membership the University as a Stonewall Diversity Champion works with this good practice forum for sexual orientation to promote diversity in the workplace.
Stonewall has a free phone number - 08000 50 20 20 - to respond to questions callers have around gay, lesbian and bisexual issues, available Mon – Fri 0930 to 1730.
Alternatively contact Stonewall’s Info Service at info@stonewall.org.uk The University will be making an application through the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index 2014, a national benchmarking exercise designed to identify how gay friendly organisations are.
Useful contacts: Regional: Midlands LGBT Employees' Network Website - http://www.midlandlgbt.com/ Health contacts: Worcestershire Gay Men’s Health Project 01905 681751 (Lesbian & Gay Help, Advice, Support & Counselling) http://www.sexualhealth.org.uk/ Terrence Higgins Trust http://www.tht.org.uk/

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/our-community/faith-and-belief.aspx:
The University's staff and student population represents around 8 different religions, beliefs and faiths.
We provide support for all staff and students whether you are  member of a faith, or belong to no faith tradition, through our Chaplaincy Service .
The Religious and Spiritual Needs webpages include details of where to access designated multi-faith rooms at our St John's and City Campuses as well as information of how to access Places of Worship in the local area.
As part of Interfaith week Firstpoint held a Marketplace where students could chat with members of various faith communities to learn more about their beliefs and strengthen good inter faith relations.
Our International Team and the Multicultural Group organise Religious celebrations including Diwali, Christmas, Eid and Onam to celebrate and educate staff and students about traditions and cultures and increase consideration between people of religious and non-religious beliefs.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/our-community/families.aspx:
We seek to help individuals to manage these challenges, enabling them to thrive at the University and achieve their full potential.
The university is commited to supporting:

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/our-community/facts-figures-and-policies.aspx:
In 2020 the University was a finalist for the THE University of the Year and we made this film to celebrate who we are and what we do.
In 2023/24 our community was comprised of:
The EDI Oversight Group leads on this area of work for the University, reporting to the senior management team.
The EDI Forum provides a mechanism for the sharing of ideas and views relating to equality, diversity and inclusion in the widest sense.
You can contact the EDI Oversight Group and Forum via EDI@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/societies-and-activities:
Make the most of youir time at Worcester by getting involved in extracurricular activites, Whether you're looking to get active, discover hidden talents or try something completely unexpected, there's plenty to explore.
These groups are run by the Students' Union (SU), an independent organisation dedicated to representing and supporting you.
When you enrol on any course at the University of Worcester, you automatically become a member of the SU and can join any club or society that interests you.
If you don’t find one that matches your passions, starting your own is easy!
For those looking to compete at the highest levels of competitive sport, Worcester has many teams that compete nationally against other Universities as part of the BUCS (British Universities and Colleges Sport) Leagues and Championships.
But there are also opportunities for recreational sport and chances for beginners to have a go.
One of the highlights of the sporting calendar is the annual Varsity contest, where teams from the University of Worcester face off against their counterparts the University of Gloucestershire in a competitive series of matches.
On the SU website you can find an A-Z of sports clubs .
Whether it’s a longstanding hobby or a passion for anything from the arts and culture to religion and politics, you have a whole host of options through the Students’ Union.
These groups offer a space to connect with others who share your interests.
These student-led groups regularly host events, socials, workshops, and campaigns, giving you plenty of opportunities to get involved, have fun, and make a difference.
Whether you're looking to deepen your knowledge, express yourself creatively, or simply try something new, societies are a great way to enrich your experience.
On the SU website you can find an A-Z of societies .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/societies-and-activities/a-sporting-community.aspx:
Alongside University sports, the city of Worcester has a lively sporting tradition, from Premiership rugby and county cricket to riverboat regattas.
Students are an extensive part of Worcester’s sporting community, and there are plenty opportunities for you to attend some of the most exciting live sports events in the UK.
With the University-owned Worcester Wolves basketball team playing in the top-flight of the BBL league, you can get behind the Wolves and make some noise with the wolfpack at home games at the University Arena .
If you can’t make it down the Arena, you’ll find lots of our basketball matches are covered on the BBC Red Button and BBC Sport website.
“The University of Worcester Arena is not only a fantastic venue to train in, it’s a great place to showcase international competitions.”
Sophie Carrigill, Worcester Graduate and Great Britain Wheelchair Basketball captain
We believe that participation in sport, at every level, enhances your experience at a physical, intellectual and personal development level.
Along with Worcester Students' Union , we support a broad base of student sport at all levels.
Through this we actively promote the pursuit of excellence, participation, strength of character, teamwork and ethical conduct.
If you’re studying sports or joining a University club, you will benefit from our state-of-the-art sports spaces, including our floor-sprung studios and gymnasia, floodlit astroturf pitches and extensive playing fields, large dance studios, and the stunning University Arena - the largest venue of its kind in the County.
For those seeking a more leisurely approach to sports, our two fitness suites offer attractive, air-conditioned exercise spaces, as well as massage and sports therapy clinics and advice on nutrition and acupuncture.
Our Riverside campus hosts a busy programme of fitness classes from Yoga to Zumba, with many sessions running during the evenings and on weekends.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/societies-and-activities/students-union.aspx:
Located at the centre of the St John’s campus, the modern Students’ Union building is an ideal place to relax and chat; stock up on supplies from our campus shop or socialise over lunch.
The bar and coffee house is a place for all students to meet with friends and enjoy a drink, play pool and watch the action on the big screens.
As soon as you register for a course at the University you automatically become a member of this student-run, democratic organisation.
See AccessAble for accessibility details.
The Students' Union provides a free, independent, confidential, and impartial advice service to all students at the University of Worcester.
This includes students studying at partner colleges.
Make an appointment
The easiest way to make an appointment is to complete this short, confidential online Advice Enquiry Form .
You will receive a direct booking link, giving you the choice of an in-person, telephone, or MS Teams appointment.
Appointments are offered Monday to Friday 9:00am – 4:30pm.
If you would like an appointment outside of these times, please mention this in your email.
You can also: - Telephone 01905 543210 - Email studentsunion@worc.ac.uk - Collect a paper version of the enquiry form in an accessible format from the Welcome Desk at the Students’ Union.
Advice and support are offered to all students regardless of race, religion, gender, disability, or sexual orientation.
At Worcester you will have the opportunity to get involved with a huge variety of clubs, teams and societies .
Being part of a team or society is a great way to meet new people with similar interests to yourself, and to enjoy a more rounded university experience.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/campus-facilities:
Our four campuses are unified by one vision: to create the right environment for you.
That means investing in outstanding facilities, and the flexibility for you to shape your university experience, your way.
The St John’s, Severn, and City Campuses are closely linked by footpaths, bus services and cycle routes, and are all within a 20-minute walk of each other.
Just a 10-minute drive in to the beautiful Worcestershire countryside will bring you to our Lakeside Campus.
Every student has access to computers, e-learning resources and a well-stocked library to support their studies, but at Worcester, we recognise that students also need specialist facilities that enable them to explore every aspect of their subject.
Future healthcare professionals can hone their skills in our clinical simulation suites, developing confidence and competence in key skills before being asked to execute them on placement.
The Art House is a stunning redevelopment of one of the city’s best loved buildings that provides all the studio, workshop, and exhibition spaces that our arts students need to refine their talents and enhance their future employability by responding to briefs from external clients.
Sports students can take advantage of the award-winning University of Worcester Arena – an internationally acclaimed 2,000 seat venue, physiology labs, performance analysis suites and a 3D motion capture laboratory, to get hands on with a range of skills within their discipline that link directly in to future careers.
And with a state of the art climate control chamber, along-side microbiology and forensics labs, students in the sciences have the practical spaces to test their latest theory.
From the purpose built Law Court suite, to the Business Incubator for budding entrepreneurs, the facilities at Worcester will not only provide you with the perfect environment in which to explore your subject, but also the experience to know how to put your skills to work in the world outside the lecture theatre.
“From all the excellent new study facilities at the University I especially like the Hive – a fantastic big library where you can find all the books that you need.
It’s very modern and high-tech.”
Zhana Yovcheva, International student
With a variety of learning spaces available across the University, including group, social, silent and 24-hour study zones, there’s a study space to suit every task.
The Hive is a bold reimagining of what a library should be in the 21 st century.
It is a joint public and university library, shared by the people of Worcester and the University alike, and the first of its kind in Europe.
The golden structure is home to a quarter of a million books, over 12 miles of archive collections, one of the nation’s most imaginative children’s libraries, a dedicated studio space, and a variety of meeting rooms and event spaces.
In short, everything an enquiring mind might need to satisfy an appetite for learning.
With over 48 awards to its name, The Hive is now the most celebrated university library in the country.
“The facilities at the University are really good, especially the clinical rooms where students can attend training simulations to build on skills and experience scenarios before going out into practice, preparing for the real ward experience.”
Christopher McClelland, Adult Nursing BSc (Hons) student

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/campus-facilities/food-and-drink:
If you are a member of staff , looking to order hospitality you can view our hospitality brochure.
To place a hospitality order please complete the catering request form and send over it toworcesterunifood@worc.ac.uk.
For any special requests please call Natalie Hamilton ext 5179.
We can offer you a job that fits around your studies whilst also maintaining that all important Uni social life!
Experience is not essential but we are looking for passionate, enthusiastic and motivated people to join our amazing team here at Worcester.
There are varied roles available across the Universities catering outlets, and also opportunities in events and hospitality.
To apply please send your CV to alex.hillier@compass-group.co.uk or hand in to one of the team in any of our catering outlets.
We look forward to welcoming you to Team Worcester Uni Food!
Did we make you smile?
Do you have any feedback for food on campus?
Please fill in our feedback form .
Follow our Instagram to keep up to date with everything Uni Food!

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/campus-facilities/st-johns-campus.aspx:
Located in the friendly residential community of St John’s, nearby to shops and pubs, it is an easy walk to the city centre, with excellent transport links.
The parkland site features a range of halls of residence, teaching spaces, sports facilities and is also the main home of Worcester Students’ Union.
The campus also houses the University’s National Pollen and Aerobiology Research Unit, which has been producing the national pollen forecasts for more than two decades, in partnership with the Met Office.
The campus offers an array of facilities, including quality teaching and learning space for any subject to enhance you studies.
These include the specialist lab facilities in our Charles Darwin building, a Drama Studio, Digital Arts Centre, multigym and sports hall, and AstroTurf pitches.
With wireless network and internet connections in every room, students also have access to the latest technology and learning resources.
There are also multiple places to relax and socialise, including a cafeteria and coffee shops.
Our one-stop shop for all student advice and support services, Firstpoint, is also located at St John’s.
For more information on Bike Storage, Travel locations and Useful Maps please see the Campus Location Pages.
Students can choose from a range of high quality self-catered accommodation .
Halls of residence on campus are gathered together to create a lively student community feel.
It’s important to us that you enjoy your downtime during your studies.
If you’re interested in sports, societies or just getting to know people, Worcester Students’ Union can help.
Its recently refurbished home, The Hangar, offers a shop, café, meeting spaces and a large bar.
There is a wide range of clubs and societies to choose from, from American Football to the Comics society, as well volunteering opportunities.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/campus-facilities/city-campus:
It is an easy walk from our St John’s Campus – connected by footpaths, cycle routes and public transport - and across the river from our Severn Campus.
Students will find themselves surrounded by history of both local and national significance.
Opened in 2010, the main Georgian building is the former Worcester Royal Infirmary, dating back to 1771, where the British Medical Association was founded in 1832.
A short walk under the railway arches sits our award-winning £60 million library and study space, The Hive.
For more information on Bike Storage, Travel locations and Useful Maps please see the Campus Location Pages.
Leisure facilities include the McClelland Health and Wellbeing Centre, which offers a gym, and therapy and treatment rooms, and a 24/7 internet café.
There is also the Infirmary Medical Museum with fascinating stories of the building’s former life.
Housed in the former Royal Infirmary, you can immerse yourself in a real world business environment at Worcester Business School .
Featuring open-plan, flexible learning spaces, interconnected with boardrooms and meeting rooms, it is also used as a resource by businesses.
It provides computers, a purpose-built entertainment room and social learning spaces for students to meet, study and chat while accessing learning technologies.
The Jenny Lind building, located a short walk from the Business School is a hub for students studying on Law courses.
Our purpose built courtroom and specialist teaching facilities opened its doors to students in 2016.
The moot Court Room and Jury room are fully accessible, in line with our inclusive ethos.
The Jenny Lind building also provides a home for our international centre and our Graduate Research School.
The Art House is an exciting new facility providing a home for students studying across a range of Arts-related courses.
Located in one of the City’s most recognisable buildings, with its distinctive clock tower, the Art House provides light, airy spaces for getting creative.
It will also act as a fantastic public exhibition space.
There are two halls of residence located on our City Campus, providing high quality, modern living with the city centre on your doorstep.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/campus-facilities/city-campus/the-infirmary.aspx:
Explore the medical stories of one of England’s oldest infirmaries and the place where the British Medical Association began:
The Infirmary displays artefacts from the collection of the George Marshall Medical Museum and the wider collection holds several primary source material including: oral histories, photographs and documents.
The Infirmary is always happy to facilitate visits for visiting researchers and students (of all ages), and have in the past assisted a variety of groups and individuals from pharmaceutical companies, to Key Stage 2 school students!
Research Placements can be offered for student research and work placements opportunities in a range of areas from history and heritage studies to supporting the work of The Infirmary in areas such as visitor research and marketing.
The Infirmary also offers volunteering opportunities for adults, students at GCSE, and students in further and higher education.
Volunteers currently help with collections care and documentation, learning programme development, school visits, open days and events, marketing and administration.
Current events and news are shared on our Facebook page and on Twitter @InfirmaryWorc and Instagram @InfirmaryWorc .
Further information on The Infirmary Museum and the George Marshall Medical Museum can be found at the Medical Museum website .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/campus-facilities/severn-campus:
This state-of-the-art development is home to the University of Worcester Arena , along with modern study facilities, dance studios and performance analysis suites at the Riverside Building.
The recently refurbished Riverside Centre that opened in September 2011 offers two large teaching spaces with multi-purpose sprung floors for indoor mini-games and dance and performance analysis suites that include views to the two larger teaching spaces.
The Riverside Centre also houses a fully inclusive fitness suite, available for use by University staff, students and members of the local community.
See the AccessAble guide for access details.
Home to the university’s Three Counties Medical School and a hub for other health and wellbeing courses, the Elizabeth Garrett Anderson building is a specialist facility for educating health professionals.
Named after the first woman to qualify as a surgeon in the UK, the building features a specialist anatomy skills room with high fidelity models for visualisation of anatomy, pathology, and physiology.
It also houses a suite of simulated GP’s surgery consultation rooms, a range of seminar rooms, a large open-plan learning space, and a café.
The Duke’s Building, named for the University’s long-serving Chancellor, His Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester, is a three-storey flexible teaching space designed to cater for health professional students across a variety of courses as they train to become the next generation of nurses, doctors, paramedics, occupational therapists, sports and exercise scientists, physiotherapists, physician associates and more.
It features clinical skills rooms and sport and exercise science laboratories, as well as space for teaching and learning.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/campus-facilities/severn-campus/university-of-worcester-arena.aspx:
The Arena is Britain’s first indoor sports hall purpose designed to include the wheelchair athlete and regularly hosts major sports tournaments, from wheelchair basketball to cheerleading championships.
If you love sport, the University of Worcester Arena can cater to a wide variety of interests - You can watch top level sports from the University’s two professional sports teams - the Worcester Wolves basketball team and Severn Stars netball team and take part in a range of able-bodied and disability sports
The Arena also hosts a number of non-sporting events, including, in previous years an annual Comic Con.
With spacious, high-tech facilities, the 2000-seat University Arena is the perfect venue for the University to develop innovative sports schemes, whilst also providing a venue that attracts a great range of spectator events to the city.
Currently, the University of Worcester provides Worcester County Cricket Club, Worcester Wolves, Aston Villa FC, Birmingham City FC and West Bromwich Albion FC with support in the areas of performance analysis, fitness and nutrition advice.
The University Arena's facilities cater for disability by design and enable true inclusion.
It is also the home ground for the Worcester Wolves basketball team and the training base for GB Men's Wheelchair Basketball team, as well as being the venue for a wide range of memorable sporting events.
In recent years, the University has also become a Centre for Coach Education, offering courses at all levels as well as extensive sports science support to a range of sporting organisations.
“The University Arena has both state-of-the-art facilities, and an exceptional standard of universal accessibility.”
If you'd like to get in touch with us at the University of Worcester Arena, you can contact our Visitor Reception on 01905 544 444.
University of Worcester Arena Visitor Reception University of Worcester Hylton Road Worcester WR2 5JN
Tel: +44 (0) 1905 544 444 Email: arenareception@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/campus-facilities/lakeside-campus:
Lakeside Campus is located in the beautiful Worcestershire countryside, just a 10-minute drive from our St John's Campus.
The 50 acre site hosts watersports lakes, woodlands and an outdoor education activity centre.
This facility offers a huge range of fantastic opportunities for all our students, either as part of your course or through a Student's Union society.
At Lakeside Campus you could be kayaking with Sport , learning to teach forest school with Education , or testing new UAV mapping technologies with Science and the Environment .
If you'd like to get in touch, please call our helpful team on 01905 54 30 40 or email lakeside@worc.ac.uk
Facebook: / uwlakeside Instagram: @uwlakeside

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/campus-facilities/lakeside-campus/future-developments.aspx:
Our Lakeside campus is constantly being developed to provide the best possible educational environment.
Keep reading to find out more about some of the exciting projects we’re currently working on.
We've planted 240 metres of native hedging along south perimeter to increase biodiversity and longer term site security.
We've been installing of new CCTV across campus in collaboration with wider Top Barn estate.
(In progress)

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/campus-facilities/lakeside-campus/lakeside-campus-testimonials.aspx:
Lakeside is a space where students can explore.
With many activities on offer and a setting that is like no other the students instantly feel challenged and but safe with the complex being so contained.
The students are very much looking forward to the water sports in the summer term.
- Dani Gunn - Holy Trinity School, Kidderminster -
I am writing to express my heartfelt gratitude to you, and all members of staff for an exceptional four days.
Each day, my staff and pupils returned back to school absolutely beaming.
Each one telling me what a fantastic day they had.
Your staff have been fantastic throughout each of our visits; supporting, guiding and encouraging our pupils at every stage and what skills they have learnt and fears overcome.
We could not have asked for more.
We have all been through such a challenging time and this was their first trip in nearly 18 months and what a way to start, hopefully a new chapter - thank you so very much.
I am keen to visit the site for myself now and I am so glad that your brochure landed on my desk.
We really look forward to visiting you again next year.
- Hasina Varachia - Abu Bakr Girl's School, Walsall -
You have amazing staff, that couldn't do enough to accommodate us.
Jon was dynamic with his planning to make the most of the lake, weather and attitudes of our children - they just wanted to be in the water!
Liv, Harry, Fran and Lou all knew their jobs well and were confident to deliver fab sessions the pupils enjoyed.
Thanks to everyone who made our three days so great.
- Broadheath CE School, Worcestershire -
We had a fantastic experience and would highly recommend Lakeside.
As we said at our leaving meal, staff are truly brilliant and the facilities are perfect.
Honestly, one of the best residentials I have been on, relaxed and enjoyable throughout.
Staff could do no more!
Huge thank you to you all, will be booking again.
- Ellesmere Port High School, Cheshire -
I wanted to just write today to say a massive thank you to you and the team for the three-week programme we have completed with yourselves at Lakeside.
From their starting points, the young people that we have taken on the programme over the last three weeks have grown extraordinarily and have developed so many skills that will set them up for life.
Repeatedly, students were saying how each day was "the best day of their lives", and these are memories that they will treasure for ever.
The structure of each of the three days was well balanced, as was the blend of land-based and water-based activities, as well as the opportunity for individual growth as well as team-building.
Every activity was expertly run, where young people's safety and wellbeing were at the highest priority.
I'd like also to make a special mention to Sam P & Emma who were both fantastic.
Right from the first moment they met the group, they have taken every opportunity to remember their name and build a relationship with each individual, learning everything they can about them.
The young people have trust in Sam & Emma after such a short space of time, which is a testament to their approach with such a vulnerable group which has been phenomenal to watch unfold.
Both have carefully, calmly and empathetically nurtured the group throughout the challenges of the last few weeks.
I have worked for many years in partnership with outdoor education centres and Sam & Emma are truly amongst some of the very best and most talented instructors I have had the pleasure to work with.
We will be forever grateful for their work with this group, it has genuinely been life-changing for them.
I look forward to working with you again.
- The Stourport High School, Worcestershire -
Yet again, we had an absolutely fabulous 3 days with our Y6s.
The instructors were all fantastic: clear, calm, well-organised.
The children were active throughout but it was also a lovely relaxed atmosphere in which the children could be themselves, learn a new skill, gain confidence around water and have great fun with their friends!
Perfect, thank you all!
- Hagley Primary School -
The children and staff all had a fantastic day.
For many children it was their first time participating in water activities but they loved it!
We cannot wait to see you next year.
- Howley Grange Primary School -
All was great: the Year 6 children had a fantastic time and staff were very accommodating.
Thank you very much.
- Grimley and Holt Primary School -
We were really fortunate to work with the team who were excellent in making the who trip easy and straight forward.
Thank you so much for offering this opportunity to our students.
- 4 Stones Multi Academy Trust  -
Our students absolutely loved their experiences, we would like to say a massive thank to all of the instructors for making it so enjoyable for the students.
Especially the instructors who made our non-swimmers confident enough to jump into the lake, which was a massive deal for them!
- Holyhead School -
We had weekly paddle boarding sessions for the NCW students.
The staff at lakeside were brilliant, and very accommodating.
Would highly recommend as it has really improved the skills and confidence of the students that attended.
Thank you very much!
- New College Worcester -
On behalf of JNG & DNG we would like to thank all the staff involved with the fantastic activity days spent at Lakeside.
We appreciate how challenging the boys can be but want to praise the staff for the care and encouragement they gave making this a great summer holiday for both of them.
Looking forward to October half term.
- Trish & Colin -
My three children have attended Lakeside and I would say it’s been life changing.
My middle daughter under HAF attended with special needs, she has gained so much confidence.
She would never go places without me but with her brother she has managed your sessions.
She struggles academically so to watch her this summer achieve things physically with no writing spellings or maths in sight (or needed) has been a wonderful change.
Her mental health and well-being has improved from your sessions.
My son attended under HAF his school thought it would really boost his self-esteem and confidence for his first year in secondary school and yes - it has!!
He has had a summer full of friendship, achieving, reaching goals because he has put the effort in, learning new skills - it’s been amazing!
My third child isn’t a HAF child, and I fully appreciated being able to send her on sessions with my other two.
All summer she has experienced summer without her siblings so to be able to join her into their sessions as a mum was amazing!
- Holiday Club Parent/Carer -
Kids absolutely LOVE Lakeside holiday club, and have been coming for many years!
They love all the staff / instructors and all talk about them non-stop on the way home.
Thank you.
Absolutely brilliant!
Kids loved it they came in October and just finished a week at easter half term.
Already booked for Summer.
Thankyou.
Team all very friendly and kids loved them and made lots of friends.
10/10.
My daughter says she would like to swim in the lake in the summer.
I (parent) was really impressed.
My nervous daughter came out asking if she could come back in the summer, thank you for helping build her confidence.
All kids had a great time and are desperate to come back, they came out happy and full of energy, they haven't stopped talking about it yet.
I wanted to thank you all from myself and my two children.
My son usually has difficulties settling into new environments and this really affects is self esteem and acceptance.
He had a very different experience at Lakeside and this really has boosted his confidence.
Both my children really enjoyed the activities and it was lovely to hear how much fun they had.
I would like to thank you all so much for your kindness, care, compassion and for making the club so much fun.
You all did an amazing job and are an absolute credit.
The team at Lakeside have been absolutely brilliant at building confidence and team working skills with our PGCE trainees!
Our shared Team Humanities sessions, trainee RE, History and Geography teachers, get the chance to step out of their comfort zone with the encouragement and support of highly qualified and caring staff.
This helps them build their confidence, their paddle skills, their humanities community of practice and also develop their pastoral skills for working with secondary pupils.
It’s a fantastic fixture in our PGCE year!
- Elena Lengthorn - Senior Lecturer in Teacher Education, University of Worcester -
Time at Lakeside is incorporated into the year 3 BSc nurse program.
This facility provides a fantastic opportunity to employ additional approaches to the development of particular skills essential to nursing practice.
It also allows us to focus on skills across different modules.
Towards the end of year 3 the students undertake activities at Lakeside drawing on the theoretical knowledge developed in their ‘leading and managing nursing care’ theory module, then applying and developing these through a series of outdoor challenges.
These focus on progression of problem solving, lateral thinking, overcoming adversity, self-authorship, effective communication when under pressure, working outside their comfort zone and overcoming fears, amongst others.
Nursing today requires immense mental resilience and focused activities at Lakeside has repeatedly evidenced progression in the skills and qualities needed to support their mental resilience for a sustainable career in nursing.
- Pegeen Fisher - Senior Lecturer in Adult Nursing, University of Worcester -
Everything was amazing the Beavers thoroughly enjoyed themselves.
The staff were great interacting with everyone.
THANK YOU SO MUCH!
- 11th Redditch Beavers  -
Thank you all so much for Saturday!
It was such a great day and it was wonderful to see our families enjoy themselves; to see the children forming friendships and togetherness was really special.
The organisation of the day and the instructors were fantastic and what a day of weather!
- Talk to Footsteps -
We had the most wonderful swim.
Staff were welcoming and caring.
It's a beautiful place with convenient parking and the picnic tables were appreciated.
Thank you – anonymous

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/campus-facilities/lakeside-campus/lakeside-holiday-activities-and-food-haf.aspx:
HAF is a Department for Education (DfE) funded programme aimed at enabling children and young people in receipt of benefits-related free school meals (FSM) to attend school holiday activities and experiences during Easter, summer and Christmas.
85% of the funding is allocated for Children in receipt of Free School Meals (FSM).
15% of the funding is allocated for children between the ages of 5 to 15 who your School consider to be ‘Just About Managing’, vulnerable or in need of this provision.
This may include, for example:
Parents/carers will need to register on the Worcestershire County Council website where all of the Worcestershire HAF providers are advertised.
Parents/carers get 16 tickets to use across providers as they wish.
University of Worcester - Outdoor Adventurous Activity
We deliver engaging experiences through outdoor activities and team building.
We pride ourselves on supporting lifelong, inclusive education in outdoor activity, health and wellbeing in the environment.
Lakeside Campus offers a vast array of outdoor activities, where participants can develop a wide range of personal, social, emotional and health benefits.
Children here, will participate in activities on land, aerial and on the water, that encompass the whole child.
They will build new friendships, develop their confidence and skills within an activity, challenge themselves, learn resilience and so much more.
We offer activities that can be adapted to suit a wide range of needs, and to support their own developmental process.
We have a proven track record of feedback that supports the difference our beautiful 50 acres can offer your child or young person.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/campus-facilities/lakeside-campus/lakeside-outdoor-activities.aspx:
At Lakeside we run activities and deliver courses for schools, universities, youth groups, corporate clients and the general public.
We bring courses to life for you through exceptional instruction from our dedicated and inspirational team, all in a beautiful rural setting.
We take safety and safeguarding very seriously, you can view copies of any risk assessments or associated policies or view them by emailing us at Lakeside@worc.ac.uk
Please note there is currently a maximum operational weight limit of 120kg for the Leap of Faith, Climbing, Abseiling, Big Zip Wire and 111kg for the Small Zip Wire.
As per legislative and standard industry practice all adult participants will be weighed prior to taking part, this ensures we can avoid having to single participants out.
This process is managed sensitively, always ensuring 1-1 privacy and participants at any point can opt out of these activities and choose something different if they prefer.
On occasion it may be necessary for us to weigh u18s.
However, this will be discussed with parent/carer or group lead at point of booking.
As a result, please ensure you are selecting activities accordingly in line with above and conveying this information to your group members where necessary.
Participants will also not be able to take part in rope-based activities unless all rings and jewellery are temporarily removed.
If you have any questions regarding this process, then please do not hesitate to contact us Lakeside@worc.ac.uk
With a wealth of activities to choose from, why not visit Lakeside Campus for a taster session; a team bonding Away Day or maybe even that special birthday party.
Are you searching for more exciting and memorable birthday party ideas or fancy trying your hand at something new?
Then look no further!
Our fantastic Lakeside Campus is the perfect setting for birthday parties and taster lessons.
Whatever your age you can try your hand at any of our activities under the supervision of our skilled, qualified and friendly staff.
They will make your birthday party one to remember and leave you wanting more, the only choice you have to make is which wonderful activities you will choose to take part in whilst with us.
Various fully catered packages available.
For more information contact us at: lakeside@worc.ac.uk .
Lakeside sessions welcome all abilities and allow swimmers to train at their own pace around an accurately measured 500 metre course (and smaller 200m course within same permitter).
Each session lasts for 2 hours and swimmers can complete as many or as few laps as they prefer.
Our experienced & qualified lifeguards are always on hand to ensure your safety and our robust management and testing systems ensure that our lake is prepared for your swim.
Start: May (dependent on water temperature)
End: July (dependent on water temperature)
Saturdays 8am-10am.
Swimmer Safety Information - Please read prior to attending
Book your swim
These packages offer participants the opportunity to learn a skill and gain National Governing Body Qualifications (NGBs).
For students of all ages whether undertaking Physical Education, Duke of Edinburgh Award (D of E) or any other outdoor adventurous activity course.
Training will consist of both practical and theory sessions to cover all aspects of the award, successful participants will receive an NGB qualification.
This can be arranged over the space of one day or multiple sessions to suit your school timetable.
Please contact us about availability.
See our extensive list of qualifications below.
Please call the campus for more details.
To enquire or book please email us at lakeside@worc.ac.uk or call the team on 01905 54 30 40.
From superheroes on the lake to mud-soaked runners, we can cater for your event or help you with a private hire.
With first-class facilities, we are able to host your event and give your guests an experience they won’t forget!
Recent events we’ve hosted include:
Swimathon
Duathlons
Active Herefordshire and Worcestershire Workplace Challenge
To host your next event or for private hire, please email us at lakeside@worc.ac.uk or call the team on 01905 54 30 40.
Experience the great outdoors during half term breaks and school summer holidays.
The University of Worcester presents a series of fun-packed Holiday Clubs.
Held during half term breaks and school holidays, treat your children to quality time playing in the great outdoors under the careful guidance of our qualified and friendly instructors.
Whether it’s canoeing on the lake, soaring on a zip line or testing your bush craft skills - there’s something for everyone to enjoy.
Typical activities will include canoeing, archery, raft building, bush craft and much more…
Example programme .
Book Online
This package is an ideal solution for teachers looking to help students raise their attainment levels and develop leadership and communication qualities.
Created for schools that want to develop students in a number of different life skills that can improve confidence, resilience, team work and behaviour.
We use a range of problem solving exercises/ challenges to link activity scenarios to real emotions of day-to-day living with the goal of improving personal attributes such as:
We understand that each group of people is different and requires bespoke programming and detail, which is why each course we run is tailor-made to suit the requirements of your group and individuals.
We have fully qualified, experienced instructors to facilitate sessions and mentor various aspects of group structure and team development skills.
This option is designed for newly formed teams/ groups of people that have different ideas.
We will teach and coach the team to look at things from other people’s perspectives and start discussing ideas towards the right solution for the problems at hand.
We use a range of team building activities to help develop communication skills.
This option is designed for teams/ groups of people that have been together for some time but require some training needs analysis and further coaching to improve team skills and ability.
We will coach, mentor and review practise through the implementation of facilitation theories to assist in the development of healthy discussions to understand group dynamics and ascertain strengths rather than weaknesses.
We will use a range of basic and advanced challenges to help them grow.
This package is focused towards primary and secondary students.
We start by engaging and motivating students into achievable tasks and activities in our developing woodland environment.
Each participant will be given opportunities to develop intrinsic motivational and social skills through self-awareness to enhance emotional growth, imagination and senses to reach their personal potential.
Our Bushcraft School programme gives an opportunity to learn about and through the natural environment, how to handle risks and most importantly to use own imagination and initiative to solve problems, work and communicate with others.
Our programme runs throughout the year (except in severe weather conditions).
We teach children to use tools, play, and learn boundaries of behaviour; both physical and social, establish and grow in confidence, self-esteem and become self-motivated.
Each student will be sure to get their hands dirty as we go: hunting for bugs, pond dipping, on woodland walks, planting trees and building with natural materials.
We aim to develop:
We apply an Accelerated Learning technique to create a unique learning vehicle that is used to encourage young individuals to utilise their local, open space for interactive play, health, recreation and personal development.
We promise that each and every participant will thoroughly enjoy and learn from this positive experience.
Schools can choose to end the Bushcraft day with an adventurous activity.
Additionally, photos of their experience/ achievements will make it an even more memorable day.
The University of Worcester Lakeside Campus has one of the largest range of both land and water based adventure activities available in one location in the Midlands.
This is aimed at schools and students requiring action packed adventure.
We will assist you in choosing suitable activities for your group and then facilitate the finer details with you to support you in planning your day.
We promise your time with us will be full of fun, adventure, laughter and learning.
Our training centre has a range of activities both land and water based which include:
We can also offer a range of additional activities to bring an extra dimension to your day.
Depending on dates and availability, such activities include: farm tours, river trips, wood craft skills, animal and insect identification and more.
Self-lead camping at the University of Worcester Lakeside campus perfect for schools, scouts, guides and youth groups.
Bring your own tents or use ours and stay in our purpose built camping facility overlooking the lakes, with accessible shower and toilet facilities and space for staff or group leaders.
After a full day of land and water based activities, wind down by sitting around our fire pit and relax in the great outdoors.
We can provide fully catered residential options including breakfast, lunch and dinner as well as full and half week activity packages.
Overnight accommodation at Lakeside Campus is reserved only for schools and youth groups and is unfortunately not for use by the general public, but do take a look at all the great offerings and services we do have; designed just for you, your friends, family and work colleagues.
For more information on these packages contact us at: lakeside@worc.ac.uk
You can download a lit of suitable kit to bring here .
For our latest prices, please see our price list .
Terms and Conditions .
Find us just 5 miles from the centre of Worcester (WR6 6NH).
Lakeside Campus directions

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/campus-facilities/lakeside-campus/example-programmes.aspx:
You can view our full activity list and sample programmes , including their timings, activities and ratios.
You can also view an example programme for a two-night residential visit .
Timings and activity combinations can be amended to suit any requirements.
If you have any questions or would like to make a booking then please get in touch by emailing Lakeside@worc.ac.uk or calling 01905 54 30 40.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/campus-facilities/the-hive.aspx:
The Hive is an outstanding space for students to study, to access resources and to share experiences.
With over a quarter of a million books and 12 miles of archive collections, The Hive is no ordinary library.
Opened by Her Majesty the Queen in 2012, The Hive is Europe’s first fully integrated university and public library.
It has a busy events programme, with regular public lectures, exhibitions and performances.
As a public as well as university facility, The Hive is a new model of university and community engagement, and has achieved its vision to inspire the people of the region to read for enjoyment and for education.
Since it opened, book borrowing and library visitor numbers have soared and it has become a hub for education, study and research, culture, and business support.
"From all the excellent new study facilities at the University I especially like The Hive - a fantastic big library where you can find all the books that you need.
It's very modern and high-tech."
Zhana Yovcheva, Business Psychology MSc
By combining our resources with Worcestershire County Council, we’ve been able to create a spectacular facility.
The Hive is huge, giving you plenty of spaces to study, as well as relax and even eat.
The multi award-winning building is stunning, with plenty of natural light, open spaces, comfortable furniture and inspiring architecture.
There are over 250 fixed computers, along with access to printers, wi-fi and laptop points.
The children’s library is one of the largest in the country.
If you are working towards a teaching or early years qualification, it can help to bring your studies to life and offers some exceptional work experience opportunities.
The building includes a studio theatre, exhibition spaces and meeting rooms.
You can also access a huge range of council facilities, including the records office and archaeology service plus all of the public library books and other resources.
The Hive’s dedicated history floor offers access to information on Worcestershire and beyond dating back to the last Ice Age, all brought to life with the latest technology.
You can study thousands of records detailing archaeological sites, ancient monuments and buildings in Worcestershire.
This gives you the chance to undertake original research and develop high level academic skills.
The Hive also gives you access to electronic information, including databases, e-journals and e-books.
You can access this material from any computer with an internet connection, making it easy to research from home or from one of the many study spaces on campus.
Our helpful library staff will help you navigate through our vast collection of information sources, so you can successfully locate, access and evaluate the resources you need.
Each subject area has a named liaison librarian who can help you with any queries or problems you come across.
The Hive includes its own café where you can take time out from your studies to get refreshed with a hot or cold drink and a range of snacks.
Based at The Hive, our award winning team support you with study advice, academic research and accessing resources.
Find out more about our Library Services .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/campus-facilities/car-parking-information.aspx:
We are fortunate to have 1,400 car parking spaces available across all of our campuses, making it easy for you to commute by car to campus.
Our Car Parking team are always on hand across all University of Worcester campuses, monitoring vehicles as they arrive to ensure our car parks are safe, accessible, and well-maintained.
Their efforts help guarantee that everyone can park efficiently and that emergency vehicles can access all buildings with ease.
When parking on campus, remember to display your parking validation or local authority Blue Badge in your vehicle, and enjoy the peace of mind knowing that our team is working hard to keep our campuses safe and accessible for everyone.
Parking permits are available for purchase for both staff and students at the University of Worcester, providing a hassle-free way to park on campus.
Blue Badge holders can park free of charge, but please remember to register and display a University of Worcester parking permit.
If you prefer not to purchase a permit, we have several Pay & Display machines available, which accept card payments and contactless/cash options.
£2.20 - up to 1 hour £3.70 - up to 2 hrs £7.00 - up to 4 hrs £8.50 - up to 6 hrs £15.00 - up to 24 hrs
£1.40 - up to 1 hour £3.40 - up to 3 hrs £4.50 - up to 4 hrs £5.60 - up to 6 hrs £6.50 – up to 8 hrs £10.00 - up to 24 hrs £3.00 - evenings 18:00 - 23:59
£1.40 - up to 1 hour £2.20 - up to 2 hrs £3.40 - up to 3 hrs £4.50 - up to 4hrs £5.60 - up to 6hrs £6.50 – up to 8hrs £10.00 - up to 24 hrs £3.00 - evenings 18:00 – 23:59 £5.00 - evenings 18:00 - 23:59 (June - Sept only)
Pay & Display machines that accept coin payments are located in Car Park A, M (including overflow car park) and R.
As a registered student you can apply and pay for your student parking permit online.
Permits will be able to be collected from 11/08/2025 onwards.
£110 per semester
Semester 1: 1st September 2025 to 31st January 2026
Semester 2: 1st February 2026 to 31st August 2026
£193 per annum
1st August 2025 to 31st July 2026
All students are eligible for this permit.
£46 per annum
1st September 2025 to 31st August 2026
This permit allows parking on university campuses outside the peak hours of 8am and 5pm Monday-Friday, anytime at the weekends, bank holidays and during the months of July and August
For students, your collection point will be from Firstpoint, located in the Pierson building on St John's Campus.
Please see the Firstpoint page s for opening hours.
For staff, your collection point will either be Facilities Reception in the Hines building (1pm-3pm), or Charles Hastings Reception (3pm-5pm).
Rebates are not available for permits that are purchased through the ‘one-off’ payment option.
For staff who purchased a permit by salary deduction, payments will not stop until you return your parking permit to the Car Parking Team in the Hines Building.
For students, please contact the Disability and Dyslexia Service who will then be able to liaise with the Car Parking team.
For staff, please contact HR, who will then be able to liaise with the Car Parking team.
If you are visiting a member of staff, please ask them to request a reserved parking space at Jenny Lind car park or the visitors' car park (Car Park B) on St John's Campus.
Reserved parking is available for:
Other guests are required to purchase a valid Pay & Display ticket.
There are over 900 car parking spaces available on St John's campus.
All vehicles, except motorbikes, parked on St John’s Campus must have parking validation displayed.
There may be times where an overflow parking scheme will be in operation, particularly in busy periods.
In these instances, you may be required to park in an unmarked car park.
Please refer to the guidance on how to use an unmarked car park .
If you drive to St John’s Campus, you’ll need to make sure you have one of the following:
At St John's Campus, you'll find a variety of car parks around our beautiful parkland grounds.
We offer:
Most car parks also feature disabled bays for added convenience.
For detailed information, please refer to our St John's Campus map.
City Campus offers the convenience of being located in the heart of Worcester, with numerous University car parks, as well as council car parks nearby, and both the bus and train stations just a few minutes' walk away.
If you park at a University car park close to City Campus, you’ll need to make sure you have one of the following:
City Campus is conveniently located in the heart of Worcester, with several nearby car parks to choose from.
The Moors Car Park
The Art House Car Park
Jenny Lind Car Park
For more detailed information, please refer to our City Campus map.
Severn Campus offers ample parking for University of Worcester staff, students, and the public, with 200 car parking spaces available.
There is a drop-off zone for cars and coaches, and dedicated disabled parking spaces on site.
Additionally, Severn Campus boasts 100 electric vehicle charging points, making it one of the largest electric vehicle charging parks in Europe.
An Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) system is in operation on Severn Campus.
Your number plate will be recognised at the barrier when you enter.
To leave, simply enter your registration number at a Pay & Display machine and pay for the time parked.
The exit barrier will open on exit automatically once the fee is paid.
In case of emergency, use the intercom system at the gate to contact University Security.
Permit holders can exit without charge, but please ensure your car registration information is up to date on the Parking Permits portal .
For more detailed information, please refer to our Severn Campus map .
For reasons of safety and security, barriers to car parks may, on occasions be closed.
Security are available 24/7 and can facilitate entry/exit if required.
Any questions or concerns can be emailed to security@worc.ac.uk or you can call us on 01905 855000.
If you are a Blue Badge holder and require accessibility information for our parking, see the AccessAble car park guide .
Even if you have a permit, we cannot guarantee access to individual paces.
Parking on campus is entirely at your own risk.
Students, staff and visitors should not park in residential areas adjacent to our campuses.
Overflow parking is available on St John’s Campus during busy periods, whilst being within walking distance of Severn and City Campus.
We accept no responsibility for any vehicle theft or any loss from damage to vehicles parked on campus.
Please read our Vehicle Parking Regulations to understand what is expected of anyone parking at the University of Worcester.
If you are not adhering to these regulations, you will receive a parking ticket that may contain a fine.
If you have any queries or concerns, please email carparking@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/campus-facilities/the-art-house.aspx:
This newly renovated facility has created innovative and experimental home for the Arts in Worcester.
Inside you'll find a series of large open spaces that are continually transformed to meet the needs of our Arts students.
Studios and workshops are created alongside intimate spaces for small group learning.
This creates a relaxed and welcoming atmosphere that we believe is perfect for creative expression.
The glass fronted exterior is both a source of fantastic natural light and an area for continual public exhibition.
The University hopes The Art House will also become an important centre for children’s creative camps and community artists.
A stunning redevelopment of one of the city's best loved building.
The Art House has recently been restored, including its beautiful clock tower, which can be seen across the city.
The interior has been transformed into a series of large open and light spaces - these multi-purpose rooms can used flexibly as teaching, workshop and exhibition areas.
The building is only the third building in the whole of the UK to earn a Gold standard for environmental sustainability.
This achievement was awarded to the University by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors .
The Art House has already hosted international art, illustration and photography exhibitions .
This site is also home to the final year Worcester Degree Show , where our students can showcase their artwork.
Courses exhibiting at the Degree Show include:
Art House University of Worcester Castle Street, Worcester, WR1 3ZQ
Parking is available at the University of Worcester Arena, Hylton Road, Worcester (WR2 5JN) or The Moors pay and display car park at the bottom of Castle Street (WR1 3EE).

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/campus-facilities/accessibility-guides.aspx:
See our building guides for each campus:
You can also see a list of key route plans .
Information about physical accessibility at The Hive Library is available on their website.
AccessAble, originally called DisabledGo, are an independent organisation that aim to take the stress out of visiting a new place.
Their trained surveyors visit location to produce detailed guides that tell you all about a venue's access.
They recognise that everyone's accessibility needs are different, which is why having detailed, accurate information is so important.
The guides they produce are 100% facts, figures and photographs.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/campus-facilities/capital-developments:
The University of Worcester will be seeking planning permission for important infrastructure required ahead of its future phased development of the remaining areas of its Severn Campus.
Situated behind Hylton Road, between the University’s St John’s and City Campuses, the Severn Campus already includes University Arena and the Riverside, as well as The Garage studio.
In addition, the Health and Wellbeing Centre will see the University’s reuse of the former Berrows House newspaper printing and publishing building to provide a new University medical, health and wellbeing facility.
The University has identified its Severn Campus as its Health, Wellbeing and Inclusive Sport Campus, building on its existing provision here, and these infrastructure works will facilitate its future phased redevelopment coming forward without delay.
The proposals will facilitate the University’s phased development of the remaining areas of its Severn Campus, with the next anticipated development phase comprising an International Inclusive Cricket and Education Centre (IICEC) which will be the subject of a separate planning application to follow shortly after the application for infrastructure works.
The aim of the infrastructure application is to include all necessary infrastructure, including formalising parking (including electric vehicle and cycle parking) provision, improved access into and through the Campus (including to improve flood emergency procedures), and additional green infrastructure, for the whole of the Severn Campus.
Full and detailed information will be submitted with each application to address a number of technical planning matters.
This will include, in particular, information to demonstrate that the proposals have had special regard in respect of design and access in and around the Campus; as well as with regard to flood risk, lighting, ecology and archaeology, in addition to matters associated with transport and travel.
In so doing, the application submissions will ensure that the developments address planning requirements fully.
Within the Development Plan, part (0.99ha) of the application site, to the rear of the University Arena, is allocated for ‘University-related development with use class D1 and D2’ under Allocation SWDP43/29 (‘Chequers Lane / Henwick Road).
The entire site is located in the Worcester City Centre and in a sustainable location between the University’s St John’s Campus (to the west) and City Campus (to the east).
Ahead of the planning application submissions, the University would like to hear your thoughts on its proposals and kindly request that you complete the questionnaire provided on the capital developments feedback pages by Wednesday 23 June 2021.
Following these consultations, all comments received will be considered ahead of the submissions for full planning permission to the council for further detailed consideration.
The University intend to submit the planning application for the Infrastructure Works as soon as possible, with its application for the IICEC to follow that.
The council will then undertake a formal consultation period for each application in accordance with statutory planning procedures, which will include consulting with near neighbours and posting a notice on the site.
Access to the final submitted scheme and supporting reports will be made available to the public where you will have the opportunity to provide the council with further comments at the planning application stage.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/campus-facilities/capital-developments/infrastructure-feedback.aspx:
In addition to the refurbishment of the former Berrows House (Worcester News) building into a state-of-the-art teaching facility for future health professional students, we are planning on developing the wider site to create a campus with pedestrian, cycle and vehicle routes.
This will also include the necessary infrastructure for in the region of 100 electric vehicle charging points and enhancements including flood mitigation measures, improvements to increase cycle use and pedestrian access to the campus and on into the City.
We are in the process of developing a planning application for this work and are keen to hear your feedback on the proposals.
To assist with this, we would appreciate you responding to the following questions.
Please provide any feedback / comments by Wednesday 23 June 2021.
We will also be looking to submit a planning application for a new International Inclusive Cricket Education Centre and residents are able to comment on these plans here .
Over time we will also be working with the City Council and other key stakeholders to create a wellbeing route which will be available to all.
A zone has been identified on the Campus for this and further details, and an opportunity to comment, will be provided as soon as they are available.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/campus-facilities/capital-developments/iicec-feedback.aspx:
In addition to the refurbishment of the former Berrows House (Worcester News) building into a state-of-the-art teaching facility for future health professional students, we are also looking to submit a planning application for a new International Cricket Education Centre (IICEC).
We are in the process of developing a planning application for the IICEC and are keen to hear your feedback on the proposals.
We will also be looking to submit a planning application to develop the wider site to create a campus with pedestrian, cycle and vehicle routes.
Residents are able to comment on these plans here .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/student-surveys:
If you are a final year undergraduate student you will usually be invited to take part in the National Student Survey .
All other undergraduates will be invited to complete the University of Worcester Course Experience Survey .
You will receive an email letting you know which survey you should complete.
You will receive an email letting you know which survey you should complete.
The National Student Survey is accessible via www.thestudentsurvey.com
Links to complete the University of Worcester Course Experience Survey will be made available via Blackboard and at https://worc.bluera.com/worc/ .
The surveys will ask you a range of questions about various aspects of your course and the University, including:
You will also be able to provide comments on your overall experience and suggest improvements relating to your course and student experience.
Please give us honest feedback about your experiences:
Results are used by course teams and University departments to make improvements.
Results also support decisions about course developments, spending on facilities and student support.
Responses to surveys are confidential.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/student-surveys/national-student-survey.aspx:
Worcester students continue to comment on the positive aspects of their experience.
These include:
In relation to your academic experience, we are:
To support health and well-being, we are:
To help with the cost of living, we are:
In relation to assessment and feedback, we have taken a number of steps:

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/alumni:
The University of Worcester Alumni Network forms a vibrant community of past and present Worcester graduates, who play a vital role in the University's ongoing success.
We aim to connect, collaborate and encourage professional development alongside industry professionals, enhancing your continued support from the University.
If you have completed a BA, BSc or LLB award as a student at the University of Worcester and then study a full-time Masters or PhD course at Worcester within two years of graduation, you are entitled to a 20% discount off your tuition fees.
If you have completed a BA, BSc or LLB award as a student at the University of Worcester and then study a full-time Masters or PhD course at Worcester more than two years after graduating, or if you study a part-time Masters or PhD course regardless of when you graduated, you are entitled to a 10% discount off your tuition fees.
If you have completed a BA, BSC or LLB award as a home, EU or international student at the University of Worcester and enrol on a full-time PGCE (if you are not employed by an FE College or studying an Apprenticeship) in September 2025 you are entitled to a £500 PGCE Alumni Scholarship payment unless you are receiving a subject-specific scholarship or bursary.
As life members of the University of Worcester community, alumni can take advantage of the following benefits:
All those who graduate automatically become alumni of the University of Worcester, but to become an active part of our family of former students you can email alumni@worc.ac.uk and start the conversation.
You can also join our Facebook group, and follow us on Twitter.
It doesn’t matter if you graduated this year or 70 years ago, you are forever Worcester, and we’d love to hear from you.
alumni@worc.ac.uk
The Alumni Network The University of Worcester Henwick Grove Worcester WR2 6AJ

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/alumni/Graduate-Stories:
Our graduates go on to excel in a wide range of industries, from education and healthcare to business, sport and the creative arts.
Many have started their own successful businesses or progressed to postgraduate study.
We're consistently rated top for jobs in the UK .
Our graduates have the highest rate of sustained employment, further study or both, from any multidisciplinary university in the UK (Longitudinal Educational Outcomes Survey 2017-25).
Our graduates don’t just find jobs – they build successful, long-term careers.
Additionally, 96.5% of our graduates are in work or further study within 15 months of finishing their degree (Graduate Outcomes Survey 2023).
This places Worcester among the very best universities in the UK for employability.
Want to get an idea of what your future may look like?
See what our students and alumni have to say about their time at Worcester, and find out where it's taken them as they embark upon new careers.
Our outstanding employment record is no accident.
We’ve built a university experience that is designed to prepare you for the world of work from day one.
Friday, 23 May 2025
Family, friends and members of the community celebrated the very best artwork from students in Worcester at the packed opening night of The Show 25.
Friday, 31 January 2025
Tuesday, 24 September 2024
Two University of Worcester graduates have been made partners at a law firm just four years after graduating.
Friday, 13 September 2024
It’s a big week for one family, as a mum graduates and her daughter gets ready to begin her studies at the University of Worcester.
We'd love to hear where your studies have taken you.
You can tell us what you've been working on by getting in touch with our Alumni Engagement Team by emailing alumni@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/alumni/graduation:
Our first Graduation ceremonies for the Class of 2025 will take place during the week of 8-12 September.
Prior to graduation you will need to confirm your attendance and book your tickets as well as arranging academic dress and photography.
On the day of your ceremony, you will first check in and collect your tickets and gown as well as have the opportunity for professional photography in the Elizabeth Garrett Anderson Building on the University’s Severn Campus.
You’ll then make your way to your ceremony, which will be held at the magnificent Worcester Cathedral.
Following the ceremony, all graduates plus their guests with tickets and University staff are invited to return to the Severn Campus for a celebratory drinks reception at the University Arena.
You can view the ceremony information below, including the timings of the day.
We also recommend taking a look at the Graduation FAQs , which are full of useful information about all aspects of graduation.
This page includes information on:
All graduands eligible to attend September's graduation ceremonies will receive an email from the Graduation team, with the time and date of their specific ceremony and information on how to book tickets and academic dress.
To book your tickets, please follow the link from your email or log into your SOLE page and find the Graduation link.
This will take you through to a booking form where you can book your place and reserve guest tickets.
You will be asked how many guest tickets you would like as part of the booking process.
We are able to guarantee two guest tickets per student; additional tickets will be allocated where possible should you request more.
If any additional tickets are available following this process then they will be available from the check-in desk on the day.
We plan to broadcast each ceremony via a live, online video stream, allowing friends and family who are not able to join to access this link from anywhere for free, including on a mobile device.
This will be available to view on our website for two weeks after graduation week.
All graduates attending the graduation ceremony will be filmed on stage as part of this live broadcast.
We'll also be showing the live broadcasting at our Elizabeth Garrett Anderson Building at Severn Campus on the day.
The deadline for confirming your attendance and booking tickets is Sunday 3rd August 2025.
You will not be required to pay for your tickets until Thursday 7th August , once your final ticket allocation has been confirmed, and you will have until Tuesday 26th August to make this payment.
Tickets for Graduates are free, guest tickets are £26.
Once you have booked your tickets you should book your academic dress as soon as possible, by Tuesday 26th August at the latest.
Wearing academic dress is one of the highlights of Graduation and is required for all graduates attending a ceremony.
There is an optional professional photography service available on the day to take portraits.
This can include a portrait of you wearing your academic dress and photographs with your family and friends.
A photograph is also taken when you are presented on stage in the Cathedral.
You should aim to book and pay for your photographs in advance too, as photography may be fully booked if you wait until the day to book this.
Please visit the Marston Events website for details of how to book your academic dress as well as official photography.
An overview of the timings for each ceremony including arrival and gowning, travel to the ceremony, the ceremony itself and the reception is available on this page.
Most graduates generally wear smart attire under their academic gown, such as a suit or a dress.
You may find it helpful to wear a shirt or dress with buttons to help with securing the hood of your gown.
There will be staff available to help you with your gown.
Graduates and guests will need to make their own way to the Cathedral from the City Campus and we are expecting most people will choose to walk.
Although it’s only a 25-minute walk or wheel, you may wish to think about wearing comfortable, sturdy footwear and weather-proof clothing!
You will need to access and exit the stage via a short ramp, so please remember this when choosing your footwear too.
We recommend bringing an umbrella, as you will wish to protect your gown on the walk to and from the Cathedral.
You can bring a small bag with you.
If you bring a bag with you, we may ask to search this for security purposes.
There will be cafes onsite at both the Elizabeth Garrett Anderson building where the pre-ceremony takes place and in the Arena where the post-ceremony takes place, selling various items including sandwiches and hot food.
We will be holding three ceremonies each on Tuesday 9th and Wednesday 10th September and two ceremonies on Thursday 11th September.
Please see below for full details of timings.
School of Health & Wellbeing 1 (Dept of Community, Social Justice & Health (Social Work, Paramedic Science, Criminology, Nutrition))
School of Nursing & Midwifery
Three Counties Medical School
School of Health & Wellbeing 2 (All courses except Social Work, Paramedic Science, Criminology, Nutrition)
Institute of Arts & Humanities
School of Sport & Exercise Science
School of Science & the Environment
Institute of Education 1 (Primary PGCE)
Institute of Education 2 (Primary Initial Teacher Education)
Worcester Business School
Institute of Education 3 (Secondary and Further Education PGCE)
Institute of Education 4 (Departments of Children & Families, Education & Inclusion)
7.30 - 8.45am - Arrive at Severn campus for check-in, ticket collection, robing and photography
Walk to Cathedral - allow 25/30 minutes
9.20am - Latest arrival time at the Cathedral (there is no admittance to the Cathedral prior to 8.30)
9.30am - All Graduates and guests seated in Cathedral
10.00am - Ceremony starts
11.30am - Ceremony ends
Walk back to Severn campus - allow 25/30 minutes
12 noon - 1.30pm - Reception at Severn campus
10.00 - 11.15am - Arrive at Severn campus for check-in, ticket collection, robing and photography
11.50am - Latest arrival time at the Cathedral
12 noon - All Graduates and guests seated in Cathedral
12.30pm - Ceremony starts
2.00pm - Ceremony ends
2.30 - 4.00pm - Reception at Severn campus
12.30 - 1.45pm - Arrive at Severn campus for check-in, ticket collection, robing and photography
2.20pm - Latest arrival time at the Cathedral
2.30pm - All Graduates and guests seated in Cathedral
3.00pm - Ceremony starts
4.30pm - Ceremony ends
5.00 - 6.40pm - Reception at Severn campus
All of the ceremonies will be broadcast live from the Cathedral online, which will be available from this page.
Recordings will also be available to view for approximately two weeks.
There are three main parts to your graduation day:  preparing for your ceremony , the ceremony itself and the reception.
Download a map of Severn Campus .
You should aim to arrive at the Severn Campus around 2 hours before your ceremony.
Full details can be found in our Ceremony Schedules .
This will give you time to collect your gown, have your photograph taken and make your way to the Cathedral.
Your guests can stay with you while you do this.
There will be plenty of signage and staff on site to direct you.
There will be limited free parking available at Severn Campus (WR2 5JN).
Should the Severn Campus car parks fill up then there is also free parking available at our St John's Campus car park M (WR2 6AJ) and the nearby Moors Car Park (WR1 3ED).
The nearest pay and display car parks to the Severn Campus are Pitchcroft Car Park , Croft Road Car Park , Cattlemarket Car Park .
The first thing you should do when you arrive is check in and collect your tickets and your academic gown and mortar board (cap) from the Elizabeth Garrett Anderson Building.
This is the large, golden-clad building that now houses the Medical School and was the former Worcester News building.
It will be well signposted on the day.
When you enter the Elizabeth Garrett Anderson building you will need to collect your ticket and your guests' tickets.
Please keep your tickets with you, as you and your guests will need them at the Cathedral and to access the reception.
Once you've got your tickets staff will be ready to take your name and to give you your specially reserved gown.
Once you’ve got your gown on, it’s time for your official photography.
Follow the signs to the photography studios, which are also in the Elizabeth Garrett Anderson Building.
The optional photography should be booked in advance, so you simply need to arrive at the studio.
Your guests are also very welcome to join you for the photographs.
You can bring a small number of extra friends and family with you for the professional photography (even if they are not attending the ceremony).
You will have the opportunity to buy your photos at the reception in the university of the University Arena.
You can find out more on the official photography website.
If you have chosen not to have photographs, you will be directed out of the building and can make your way directly to the Cathedral.
The Cathedral does not allow indoor photography.
The Severn Campus has toilets, including disabled toilets, which will be open throughout the day.
Our Starbucks coffee shop at the Elizabeth Garrett Anderson building will be open for light refreshments.
A cafe will be also open at the University Arena.
Staff will be available across the site, but if you need urgent help, please visit the Main Reception desk in the University Arena.
Once you have collected your gown and tickets and had your photographs taken, it’s time to go to the Cathedral.
You and your guests will need to make your own way to the Cathedral.
Transport is not provided.
There are two recommended walking routes to the Cathedral from Severn Campus.
The shorter route includes steps and a short, steep hill.
The slightly longer route is more accessible.
Please view the route map for further details.
You should allow about 25 minutes for the walk.
The entrance to the Cathedral is a flat walkway.
Graduands access and exit the stage via a short ramp – please bear this in mind when choosing footwear.
You may also choose to drive to the Cathedral.
There is no parking or drop off available at the Cathedral itself.
If you are driving, you will need to park at a public pay and display car park.
The nearest car parks to the Cathedral are King Street (Sidbury) Car Park , Worcester Cathedral Square NCP , Clare Street Car Park and Copenhagen Street Car Park .
You will need to be at the Cathedral at least 40 minutes before your ceremony.
This gives you time to get checked in and seated.
Guest seating at the Cathedral is on a first come, first served basis, so your guests will be able to choose where they sit.
This may be subject to change due to ongoing works in the Cathedral grounds.
If you need to be dropped off at the Cathedral, you are recommended to stop in the King Street Car Park and make your way up Severn Street to the ‘North door’.
The Cathedral provides a splendid setting for the ceremonies, but due to the nature of the building some seats may have restricted views of proceedings.
To overcome this difficulty, the University arranges for screens to be placed around the Cathedral.
You should aim to be at the Cathedral at least 40 minutes before your ceremony is due to start.
When you arrive at the Cathedral, you will be directed to the ‘North door’.
There will be staff outside the Cathedral to help direct you and answer questions.
There is no parking or drop off available at the Cathedral itself.
If you need to be dropped off, you are recommended to stop in the King Street Car Park and make your way up Severn Street to the ‘North door’.
Once you are in the Cathedral, in order to respect the wishes of the Dean and Chapter of Worcester Cathedral you are requested to remove your mortar board whilst inside the Cathedral.
University/Cathedral staff may ask to check your bag.
When you arrive at the Cathedral, staff will guide you in.
All Graduates sit together.
You will sit in a pre-assigned seat - this will be allocated and you’ll receive your seat number details prior to the ceremony.
This ensures that you are called up to the platform at the right moment.
Seating at the Cathedral is mainly fixed and mostly wooden chairs or pews.
When you arrive at the Cathedral, staff will guide your guests in.
Your guests are able to choose their seats, which are available on a first-come, first-served basis.
If you indicated a special requirement when you booked (i.e.
a wheelchair space, for example), our staff will be expecting you and will be able to assist.
Seating at the Cathedral is mainly fixed and mostly wooden chairs or pews
During the ceremony, there will be speeches from University and Cathedral staff.
The highlight of the ceremony is the presentation of the graduates.
A staff member will call you up from your seat at the right moment.
When your name is read out, you will cross the stage and have a photograph taken.
There is often lots of enthusiastic clapping!
You will need to access and exit the stage via a short ramp, so please remember this when choosing your footwear.
Once you have collected your certificate, staff members will direct you around the Cathedral and back to your seat.
You are not permitted to take photographs inside the Cathedral.
A professional photographer will take your photo when you cross the stage and you will be able to view and purchase this image, if you wish, through the official photographers.
You will be able to take your own photos when you return to the Severn Campus.
There are toilets, including disabled toilets , in the Cathedral cloisters.
These will be well-signposted.
There is a hearing loop available during the ceremonies and staff will be able to advise you on this.
There is a cafe at the Cathedral.
Find out more about the Cathedral and accessibility .
When the ceremony concludes, there will be a short procession of staff from the stage, who will lead everyone out.
Ushers will indicate when it is time for your row to stand and make your way out of the Cathedral.
When you leave the Cathedral, it’s very important that you continue to walk forward (i.e., not waiting by the doors) so that everyone can easily make their way out of the building.
You will have time to take photographs with fellow Graduates if you wish, but our staff will be encouraging everyone to begin their walk back to the Severn Campus as soon as possible.
Depending on how quickly you return from the Cathedral, you should have about an hour at the reception.
Full details are provided further up this page.
Your schedule will indicate a departure time for you and your guests.
As we are managing site numbers carefully you will need to leave the site at your appointed time, so we are ready to welcome the next ceremony.
University staff may ask to check your bag on arrival at the reception.
You do not have to attend your reception.
You are very welcome to make your own plans following the ceremony, but it is essential that you promptly return your academic gown and cap to the Severn Campus.
The reception is a friendly, informal drinks reception, which will give you a chance to spend time with classmates and staff.
The reception also offers you the chance to take your own photographs in your cap and gown.
There will be a cafe onsite selling various items, including sandwiches and hot food.
Gown return is located at the University Arena on Severn Campus and will be signposted.
If you need help on the day, look out for our many friendly staff and student ambassadors: most will either be wearing a blue student ambassador t-shirt, or a red academic gown, so they will be easy to spot!
If you have an emergency or require first-aid assistance, please report to the main reception desk at the Severn Campus.
You can also telephone main reception on 01905 855 000.
The Alumni Association is here to help you keep in touch with the University and with each other – you’ll be part of a worldwide network with thousands of other former students.
As one of our graduates, we’d love to keep you informed about careers support, alumni benefits, our suite of events and exciting opportunities linked with the University that you may be interested in.
We also want to hear your news!
We can help you keep in touch with old friends too.
Whether through practical or advisory involvement, the support and interest of our graduates makes a real difference to the experience of current and future students.
Get in touch with us at alumni@worc.ac.uk or search for us on Facebook.
The University’s Careers and Advisory Service is here to support you after graduation.
We offer graduates:
Contact us at: careers@worc.ac.uk , 01905 855166 and find out more on our Careers webpages .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/alumni/graduation/graduation-faqs.aspx:
If you are unable to attend, please let us know, via the link in your invitation email.
You will need to ensure that we hold the correct contact details for you before we post your certificate to you, and you can update your details by logging on to your SOLE page.
Once you let us know that you can’t attend, this will update our system so that you don’t receive booking reminders from us.
If you book your place and then you find out you are unable to attend, please email graduation@worc.ac.uk with your full name, student ID and the ceremony day and time you were due to attend, so that we can update our records and seating plans.
As your certificate is an important document, we will only post this by Royal Mail Recorded Delivery, for which there will be a charge of £2.50 for deliveries in the UK, £10.00 for deliveries outside of the UK.
Passing the required examinations and assessments is actually what turns a student into a graduate- this means you are not required to attend the ceremonies.
The ceremonies are simply an opportunity to celebrate your achievement with your classmates, academic staff and guests.
You will be able to access a copy of your final module grades and a letter confirming whether you have achieved your qualification on your SOLE page.
Guest tickets cost £26 each.
The ticket price includes:
You can request as many guest tickets as you want, but we can only guarantee that you will be allocated at least two.
Due to data protection regulations (GDPR), we can only publish your name if you have specifically given your consent.
We will ask your permission to publish your name in the Award Ceremonies programme and potentially the local newspaper.
The Award Ceremonies programme names students who have successfully completed their course.
Names will be listed in alphabetical order under the appropriate course titles.
No classifications are shown.
Most graduates generally wear smart attire under their academic gown, such as a suit or dress.
Your tickets will be checked at the door and you will be shown the seating areas available to both graduands and guests.
You will also be asked to remove your mortar boards.
No photography is permitted inside the Cathedral.
However, do take every opportunity to take pictures in the Cathedral grounds after the ceremony.
You will be able to take your own photos when you return to the Severn Campus, as well as getting professional photographs taken ahead of the ceremony.
A complimentary drink and light snack will be provided at the reception.
A bar selling additional drinks, as well as a café selling food, will also be available.
Please do not bring your own food.
If you have a specific question that hasn’t been answered by the information on this page, please email graduation@worc.ac.uk
If you owe more than £500, you will not be permitted to attend.
If you owe less than £500, you can attend but we will withhold your certificate until the debt has been cleared.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/alumni/alumni-benefits.aspx:
Please email us on alumni@worc.ac.uk for more information about any of these opportunities.
If you are organising your own reunion with friends or looking for somewhere affordable to stay in the city, alumni are able to claim 10% off our accommodation costs during the summer months.
20% off Hangar Bookings.
The Hangar is part of the Students’ Union and is a great venue for private events to hold reunions to wedding receptions.
Opportunity to become an associate member of the Students’ Union for free allowing you to be involved in events and activities.
You can continue to use the University Careers Service for three years and beyond following graduation.
Opportunities are as follows:
Our Alumni also enjoy enhanced membership of The Hive.
Find out more about Alumni benefits .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/alumni/find-old-friends.aspx:
We know that its not always easy to stay in touch with friends after graduation.
Even with your best efforts, if you move back home, start work, or go onto further study you can easily find yourself without the time to stay in contact with friends.
If you would like to reconnect with lost friends we can help you.
Though we can't give out the personal details of anyone on our database, we can act as a messenger.
Send us details of who you are, and who you would like to contact
Please include your course, the years you studied and as much information as you can about the person(s) you would like to contact
We'll post your listing on here and in the Spirit alumni magazine
We will pass along any messages that we receive
If you would like our assistance contacting people, or wish to respond to an old friend's request please contact us.
You can also join our facebook group and follow us on twitter.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/term-dates/term-dates-2023-24.aspx:
Induction Week/Review Week: 18th September 2023 – 22nd September 2023
Teaching Commences (Semester 1): 25th September 2023
Progress Week: 30th October 2023 – 3rd November 2023
Christmas Break: 25th December 2023 – 5th January 2024
Teaching recommences: 8th January 2024
Note: Students on semester based courses are expected to be in attendance throughout both semester with the exception of the Christmas and Easter breaks

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/term-dates/term-dates-2024-25.aspx:
Induction Week/Review Week: 16th September 2024 – 20th September 2024
Teaching Commences (Semester 1): 23rd September 2024
Progress Week: 4th November 2024 – 8th November 2024
Christmas Break: 23rd December 2024 – 3rd January 2025
Revision and Assessment Week: 6th January 2025 – 10th January 2025

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/term-dates/term-dates-2025-26.aspx:
Induction Week/Review Week: 15th September 2025 – 19th September 2025
Teaching Commences (Semester 1): 22nd September 2025
Progress Week: 3rd November 2025 – 7th November 2025
Christmas Break: 22nd December 2025 – 2nd January 2026
Revision and Assessment Week: 5th January 2026 – 9th January 2026

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/local-elections.aspx:
A number of elections are scheduled to take place across England on May 1 2025.
This will be your opportunity to have your say and cast your vote for the candidates which best represent your views and perspectives.
You’ve probably heard lots of information about General Elections, when the Country elects its Members of Parliament, but you may not be as aware of local elections.
We’ve put together some FAQs to give you all the information you need, including explaining what positions you are voting for, when you need to register by and how to vote.
We’ve also included some information about the new requirement to take photo ID with you to polling stations.
You can also find out more about local elections on the Government website .
The elections on May 1 will vary according to each region, but essentially you will be voting to elect local councillors and/or local authority Mayors to represent you at a local authority level.
Local government elections take place at least every 4 years but not all local government elections take place at the same time.
Find out if you’re local authority is holding elections this year.
Local councils provide services and facilities in your area.
The type of council you have and their responsibilities depends on where you live.
Local councillors oversee the work of the council and set the strategies and priorities.
When you vote in local elections, you vote for councillors to represent your ward.
You can vote in the Local Elections if you are:
Read more on the Gov.uk website .
If you are registered to vote at both your home address and your term-time university address, you can choose to vote in either or both areas when voting in local council and mayoral elections – as long as the addresses are in different council areas.
You can only vote once in UK Parliament elections, UK referendums and London Assembly and London Mayoral Elections.
Find out more about voting at home and university
In order to vote in the elections on May 1 you must be registered on the Electoral Roll .
Don’t worry, it’s a really quick process and you only need to register once - not for every election.
But you will need to register again if you’ve changed your name, address or nationality, since last registering.
You will need your National Insurance number when registering so make sure you know what that is.
You will find it on your most recent payslip if you are employed, or any tax/pension letters you have received.
You must register by 11:59pm on April 11 to vote on May 1.
The decisions taken at local levels affect us all, so it’s important to have your say, as this will influence decision-making on policing and local legislation.
It is an opportunity to make your voice heard and have a say on who represents you on issues that directly affect day-to-day life.
Local Councillors have control over things like transport, healthcare, education, recycling and much more.
It’s always a good idea to research the candidates for your area to ensure you know who will best represent you and the key issues you’re passionate about.
A list of the candidates will be published by each authority.
You may also have already started to receive leaflets through your letter box for candidates.
Do take time to read and research so that you can decide who best represents your views.
If you are on the electoral register you will be sent a polling card ahead of the elections, which will list your allocated polling station.
Polling stations will be open 7am-10pm on May 1.
Voters in England will need to show photo ID to vote.
Find out more about Photo ID
If you don't have accepted photo ID, you can apply for a free voter ID document, which is known as a Voter Authority Certificate.
Find out more about accepted forms of photo ID and how to apply for a free Voter Authority Certificate
Anyone can apply for a postal vote .
If this is the case you must first register to vote online by April 11, and then complete and return your postal vote paperwork to your Electoral Office before the relevant deadline.
Learn more about applying for a postal vote.
If you know that you won’t be able to get to the polling station on May 1, you can ask someone you trust to cast your vote for you.
This is called a proxy vote and the person casting your vote is often referred to as your proxy.
The person voting on your behalf can either go to your polling station to cast your vote or can apply to vote for you by post.
Find out how to vote by proxy

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-health-and-wellbeing:
The School of Health and Wellbeing encompasses subject areas including physiotherapy, occupational therapy, paramedic science, nutrition, clinical practice, health and social care, mental health, psychology, counselling, criminology, social work, and youth and community studies.
Our expert staff are not only excellent teachers, they are also high-quality practitioners in their own right, undertaking wide-ranging research and consultancy work in the field.
At Worcester, our teaching and research always seek to achieve real-life benefits.
We work closely with our local community and with partners across a wide range of sectors to enhance the student experience and to provide students with invaluable insight into professional practice.
The School supports an acclaimed Research Centre, which includes the Association of Dementia Studies (ADS) , Interpersonal Relationships & Wellbeing Research Group , and the Bystander Intervention Programme .
We also house a specialist health and wellbeing facility, the McClelland Centre .
Thursday, 03 July 2025
Health and Social Care professionals from across Herefordshire, Gloucestershire, Shropshire, Worcestershire and the West Midlands have been recognised for their outstanding contribution in mentoring students from the University of Worcester.
Monday, 09 June 2025
The University of Worcester recently hosted a major event for health services across the Midlands, bringing together providers from the region to share the outcomes of projects aimed at improving patient care.
Tuesday, 06 May 2025
The University of Worcester has been awarded more than £2.2 million for a programme of research to investigate mental health inequalities across Herefordshire and Worcestershire.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-health-and-wellbeing/health-and-wellbeing-facilities.aspx:
Our high specification clinical skills laboratories simulate ‘real life’ situations.
Allowing you to experience, develop and learn practical skills before going out to practice placements.
Our remote control centre enables lecturers to programme and control the manikins to simulate illness, effects of nursing interventions and treatments.
The video recording equipment allows you to review and reflect on your abilities, and to share this with other students.
You can read more about our facilities in our Clinical Skills and Simulation Centre brochure.
Ability House demonstrates what can be achieved in an ordinary semi-detached house through innovative and intelligent design.
The concept of environmental design ranges from simple removal of steps and the use of durable floor covering to allow manoeuvrability for wheelchairs and people using wheeled walking frames, to the installation of ceiling track hoist systems to allow for safe transfers from bed to bath or shower and chairs.
Sim Man is a state-of-the-art training device programmed with over 2,500 abnormal heart rhythms, and can suffer anything from a slight wheezing problem to asthma attacks, profuse bleeding and cardiac arrest.
He is linked up to a monitor and software, which create thousands of scenarios and outcomes ideal for testing decision-making skills.
Sim Man is the next best thing to the students being out within the clinical areas with real patients.
He allows you to gain valuable experience, while giving lecturers an excellent opportunity to assess how you are getting on.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-health-and-wellbeing/health-and-wellbeing-staff-profiles.aspx:
Head of the School of Health and Wellbeing
Deputy Head/Quality Co-ordinator of the School of Health and Wellbeing
Director of The Association for Dementia Studies
Head of Department: Department of Psychology and Mental Health
Head of Department: Department of Community, Social Justice and Health
Head of Department: Department of Allied Health /Principal Lecturer
School Manager
Lecturer/Practice Educator (Physiotherapy and Occupational Therapy)
Lecturer in Occupational Therapy
Course Leader and Principal Lecturer in Diagnostic Radiography
Lecturer in Physiotherapy
Senior Lecturer, Occupational Therapy
Practice Educator (Physiotherapy)
Occupational Therapy Lecturer
Lecturer in Diagnostic Radiography
Occupational Therapist
Principal Lecturer in Occupational Therapy; MSc (Pre-registration) Occupational Therapy Course Lead
Senior Lecturer in Physiotherapy
Occupational Therapy Education Facilitator
Principal Lecturer in Dietetics
Senior Lecturer in Occupational Therapy
Senior Lecturer
Professor of Physiotherapy
Senior Lecturer in Physiotherapy and Course Leader for Foundation Year for Healthcare Professions
Senior Lecturer/Practice education lead for Occupational Therapy and Physiotherapy
Senior Lecturer / Occupational Therapy Degree Apprenticeship Course Lead
Lecturer in Occupational Therapy and Practice Education
Lecturer in Dietetics
Senior Lecturer, Physiotherapy
Course Lead BSc (Hons) Physiotherapy & Senior Lecturer
Senior Lecturer Nutrition and Dietetics, Interim Course Lead BSc Department of Allied Health
Lecturer Practitioner, Physiotherapy
Senior Lecturer - Social Work
Senior Lecturer - Social Work Degree Apprenticeship Course leader
Lecturer in Criminology
Course Lead - Foundation Degree Assistant Practitioner
Senior Lecturer in Paramedic Science
Work Based Learning Tutor and Associate Lecturer
Lecturer – Social Work
Paramedic Lecturer in clinical skills and simulation
Course Leader & Lecturer for MSc Nutrition and Lifestyle Medicine
Paramedic Science Senior Lecturer (teaching)
Lecturer in Paramedic Science
Senior Lecturer, Nutrition and Lifestyle Medicine  Course Leader, MSc/PGDip Nutrition and Lifestyle Medicine
Senior Lecturer Domestic/Sexual Violence and Criminology
Deputy Course Leader of Undergraduate Criminology
Lecture, Paramedic Science
Lecturer, Nutritional Therapy
School Learning
Clinical Skills and Simulation Lecturer
Senior Lecturer, Nutritional Therapy
Work Based Learning Tutor & Associate Lecturer
Senior Lecturer in Psychology and Criminology and Programme Leader for Criminology Related Courses
Lecturer in Nutritional Therapy
Clinical Skills Educator
Principal Lecturer in Health & Wellbeing
Senior Lecturer at the Department of Community, Social Justice and Health
Paramedic Practice Facilitator/Lecturer
Principal Lecturer of Paramedic Science and Physician Associates
Lecturer in Criminology; Learning and Teaching Co-ordinator for the School of Psychology
Senior lecturer in Social Work
Lecturer (Teaching) Paramedic Science
Lecturer, Social Work
Senior Lecturer in Social Policy and Theory
Principal Lecturer, Social Work
Senior Lecturer in Social Work and IMPACT Facilitator
Practice Educator Facilitator Lecturer
Subject Lead for Paramedic Science
Lecturer in Psychology
Psychology Technician, Psychological Sciences
Course Leader for Undergraduate Psychology
Lecturer, Counselling Psychology
Principal Lecturer Psychology; Course Leader, MSc Psychology; Interpersonal Relationships and Wellbeing Research Group Lead
Work-based Learning Tutor
Principal Lecturer in Psychology
Course lead for Child & Adolescent Mental Health FdSc
Senior Research Fellow in Psychological Medicine
Senior Lecturer in Forensic Psychology
Lecturer in Counselling Psychology
Lecturer Clinical Psychology
Course Leader - BSc Child & Adolescent Mental Health Top-up
Lecturer in Psychology/Co-lead Undergraduate Psychology courses
Principal Lecturer in Psychology and Social Science Lead Three Counties Medical School
Senior Lecturer, Psychology
Senior Lecturer in Psychology
Research Associate in Psychological Medicine
Principal Lecturer & Course Lead for Mental Health and Wellbeing Practitioner Training (MHWP)
Senior Lecturer in Clinical Psychology
PhD Student
Senior Research Fellow - Association for Dementia Studies
Housing and Dementia Research Consortium Research Coordinator based at the Association for Dementia Studies
Finance and Projects Administrator - Association for Dementia Studies
Research Assistant - Association for Dementia Studies
Associate Specialist
Research Associate
Dementia Practice Development Coach - Association for Dementia Studies
Administrator
Emeritus Professor and former Director of the University of Worcester Association for Dementia Studies
Senior Research Fellow
Senior Lecturer in Dementia Studies
Honorary Professor of Psychiatry - Mood Disorders Research Group
PhD student
Dr Josh Simpson School Manager j.simpson@worc.ac.uk
Michelle Brinkworth Departmental Administrator 01905 542224 m.brinkworth@worc.ac.uk
Deborah Sabbato Personal Assistant to the Head, School of Health and Wellbeing 01905 855546 d.sabbato@worc.ac.uk
Zuleika Sankey PA to Research Leaders z.sankey@worc.ac.uk
Debbie Hancock Senior Administrator (Quality) debbie.hancock@worc.ac.uk
Debbie Shotton Projects & Finance Administrator 01905 855385 d.shotton@worc.ac.uk
Katie Gayton Course Administrator 01905 542229 k.gayton@worc.ac.uk
Hannah-Marie Mitchell Course Administrator h.mitchell@worc.ac.uk
Emma Roper Course Administrator e.roper@worc.ac.uk
Navindi Mudalige Course Administrator (Apprenticeships) n.mudalige@worc.ac.uk
Hannah Bates Business Administration Apprentice 01905 542617 h.bates@worc.ac.uk
Marcus Fennell Quality and Course Administrator m.fennell@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-health-and-wellbeing/health-and-wellbeing-research:
Research across the School of Health and Wellbeing encompasses a broad range of topics and areas of study, with a focus on health and wellbeing across the lifespan.
Our research aims to extend our understanding, scientific and sociological knowledge and innovative professional practice to improve the wellbeing of individuals, communities and society as a whole.
Our dynamic team of researchers are experts in their professional fields and recognised both nationally and Internationally.
Research is at the heart of our School endeavours and underpins the teaching at undergraduate and postgraduate level as well as opportunities for our staff to undertake consultancy.
Researcher in the School of Allied Health and Community contribute to one or more of our Internationally renowned Research Centres and research Groups:
Health Inequalities and Social Inclusion Group Led by Dr Peter Unwin, this group is concerned with addressing the continuing inequalities in health and social care and with including the voices of seldom heard communities.
Interdisciplinary in nature, the group’s members include academics, practitioners and people with lived experience.
The School’s transformational research projects seek to address some of the major issues both within our professions, local services, our community and beyond it.
By pulling together academics working across disciplines to tackle important, social, scientific and environmental challenges, these projects are making an impact on people's lives and helping to expand our base of world-leading research.
Our research-excellence underpins the content and delivery of all our teaching programmes – undergraduate and postgraduate.
We are committed to enabling all of our students to profit from a culture of learning aligned with our research and knowledge-transfer ethos, which is based upon critical enquiry, debate and self-motivation.
We work in collaboration and partnership with our professional colleagues to ensure that our research is informed by and applicable to practice and that our students are evidence-based professionals.
The School of Health and Wellbeing researchers are passionate about offering supervision to research students at all levels of education.
We have a wide range of research interests and work together in interdisciplinary supervisory teams to support students to achieve their research goals in a range of health and wellbeing related topics.
There are five Higher Research Degree programme across the school including:
We currently offer two types of research degree programme in the School of Health and Wellbeing; Master of Philosophy (MPhil) and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) .
We can offer students supervision across the healthcare professions, including Allied Health, Occupational Therapy, Physiotherapy, Paramedics, Physicians Associates, Social Work, and Social Welfare.
Our research focus is on extending and improving healthcare professional practice and patient outcomes and therefore applied research, evaluative research and educational research related to Health care is encouraged.
For more information please contact the Doctoral School .
Simulating Practice Education: Identifying first year occupational therapy student learning during practice education and determining the effectiveness of simulated practice

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-health-and-wellbeing/health-practice-education:
Guidance documents and training opportunities for practitioners supporting our Occupational Therapy and Physiotherapy students during their placement.
Further information that relates to Paramedic Science, Physician Associate and Social Work students will be available soon.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/campaigns/study-criminology:
Our vision is to deliver high quality Criminology degrees with innovative teaching.
Choose the perfect Criminology course for you.
Our criminology degree is aimed at those who are interested in developing their critical understanding of crime.
Find out more about our criminology course.
This course is delivered at Birmingham Metropolitan College’s Matthew Boulton site and combines the academic elements of Criminology with development and application of vocational skills essential to forge a career within the industry sector.
Our Criminology with Politics degree holds a primary focus on research and debated explanations for crime, victimisation and deviance, and responses to those crimes, by societies and individuals.
Combining the study of criminology and policing, this policing degree will develop your knowledge and understanding of crime.
Find out more about this exciting policing course.
Combining the study of Criminology and Forensic Psychology will allow you to develop a critical understanding of crime with a comprehensive grounding in forensic psychology.
The Law with Criminology degree at Worcester combines a strong foundation in core principles of law and also enables you to gain a valuable insight into related areas of Criminology.
Combining Criminology and Law will enhance your legal studies.
The criminological learning is complemented by modules in Psychology.
The course has opportunities for shared learning with students from other disciplines.
This course offers a critical perspective on contemporary society.
We explore the way society is developing and the present day social crisis, including the problems of globalisation, inequality, crime and conflict.
Worcester is a beautiful, safe, university city within easy reach of Birmingham.
It's a great place to pursue your passion and achieve your potential.
Read the stories of some of our recent students.
Ella Mansfield, who was inspired to fulfil her potential by a quote from Rocky, has graduated with a Criminology with Policing degree
Zak studied Criminology with Policing.
After a difficult first year at another university, Niamh has come to Worcester and gone on to achieve a first-class honours degree in criminology.
Lyndsey now works as a Case Manager on the Drive Project who are a domestic abuse perpetrator programme.
Rachel Ford graduated from the University of Worcester with a degree in Criminology in November 2021.
Read some recent blog posts by Worcester Criminology academics.
Sarah Lloyd is a PhD candidate at Worcester who is focusing her research around jury decision making.
In this academic blog, she talks about the criminal justice system (CJS) and the decision-making process.
Criminology Lecturer, Courtney Smith, investigates the growth of online fraud in a time of crisis.
Explore the campus, meet our lecturers and talk to current students.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-health-and-wellbeing/professional-development:
We offer a wide selection of workshops and conferences, which are under constant review to reflect the changes in health care.
Please get in touch as we are happy to discuss the provision of workshops tailored to the specific requirements of your organisation.
Our workshops and conferences are delivered by the diverse members of our course team and also utilize specialists from clinical practice.
There are no formal assessments but all participants receive a certificate of attendance.
Develop your skills as a Practice Educator amongst colleagues from different Trusts and Organisations.
In line with teaching methods employed with our students, we do require you to undertake a small amount of pre-reading before you attend the course.This enables our sessions to be more interactive and limits time spent in didactic teaching.
The pre-reading & course preparation should not take you more than 30 minutes to complete but we do ask that you ensure that you have done this before attending.
We do not routinely provided printed course materials, however you are welcome to print your own to use during your training session if you prefer.
Our 2 day training introduces any Occupational Therapist or Physiotherapist, who has never had a student before or not had a student for some time, to becoming a Practice Educator.
There is no minimum length of time since registration required to undertake this training.
Learning Outcomes include:
Describe the role and critically evaluate the attributes of an effective practice educator
Critically apply learning theories that are appropriate for adult and professional learners
Plan effective strategies to implement and facilitate learning in the practice placement setting
Apply sound principles and judgement in the assessment of performance in the practice placement setting
Critically reflect on and evaluate the quality of practice education learning
Critically reflect on experience and formulate action plans to improve future practice
All training takes place between 9.30 - 16.30
Please note that whilst we do not charge for training, we do expect delegates to take a student as soon as practicable after their training.
Please consider this before booking and ensure that you have this conversation with your manager before attending.
If you anticipate particular difficulty with this, please contact the team on therapyplacements@worc.ac.uk for an informal discussion.
Download pre-reading here .
Worcester Way training can be arranged within your workplace for 10 or more colleagues.If this is not possible, we are delighted to invite you to the University of Worcester to develop your skills as a Practice Educator amongst colleagues from different Trusts and Organisations.
In order to reduce the amount of information delivered in a didactic manner (and therefore increase your engagement and enjoyment), we do require you to undertake a small amount of pre-reading before you attend the course.
This basic course information should not take you more than 30 minutes to complete but we do ask that you ensure that you have done this before attending.
This training is for Educators who are experienced in providing placements but new to the Worcester course and includes:
Assessment and documentation
Expectations of a student on placement
Managing the hours of the placement
A summary of the academic subjects covered by students
All training takes place between 9.30 - 13.30.
In line with the Royal College of Occupational Therapists and Chartered Society of Physiotherapy legislation, Practice Educators are required to attend update training regularly.
The University of Worcester recommends that training is attended every two years and may not be able to place students with Practice Educators who have not completed this training.
Whilst you only need to update every other year, you are welcome to book on one of these per year to maintain and develop your skills.
All updates will contain a brief overview of documentation and assessment, and an overview of contemporary placements.
Update 1: Managing Challenges in Practice
Managing Challenges in Practice will follow a participant-led format and enable educators to discuss and problem-solve any particular challenges they have faced recently.
These may include, but are not limited to, supporting struggling students, supporting students with additional learning needs, and challenging students who are exceeding expectations.
The course content is participant-led and details of the course materials will be emailed to you after the session.
A basic version of the session is available for your perusal .
Update 2: Facilitating Adult Learning
Facilitating Adult Learning will include an overview of adult learning theory and consider how this can be put to best use within placement settings.
Participants will consider different aspects of adult learning theory including focusing on themselves as adult learners.
Common assumptions will be discussed along with critical appraisal of the evidence in relation to learning styles.
A basic version of the session is available for your perusal.
To enquire about the above opportunities, or to ask about bespoke training for your team, get in touch via:
cpdinfo@worc.ac.uk
01905 855147

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-health-and-wellbeing/mcclelland-centre:
We offer you a new approach to personal health and wellbeing.
Get In Touch : To find out how we can help with your personal health and wellbeing contact our team.
Email: healthhub@worc.ac.uk Call: 01905 542953
We are located on the lower ground floor of the Charles Hastings Building on City Campus (WR1 3AS).
When you arrive head to Main Reception and ask for directions.
For those with limited mobility there is dedicated disabled parking on site and easy access is provided by a lift adjacent to the main entrance.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-health-and-wellbeing/impact.aspx:
The University of Worcester's Experts by Experience Group.
The involvement of people with lived experience (PWLE), has become increasingly important in the health and social care landscape over recent years as the value of learning from the people who use services has become increasingly recognised and valued.
The University of Worcester involved people with lived experience in its social work and nursing training for some years before such practice became a formal requirement within higher education.
The University of Worcester formed its own interest group of service users and carers known as 'IMPACT’, who have consolidated their presence across teaching and learning, recruitment and selection, assessment activity, research, and consultancy within the School of Allied Health and Community , The School of Nursing and Midwifery , and The Three Counties Medical School .
Kay Wall is the academic lead of IMPACT whose members include carers of learning-disabled relatives, mental health survivors, people with long-term physical disabilities, care leavers, survivors of domestic abuse and people living with dementia.
"It is important for all universities to recognise the value of service user and carer lived experience to provide their students with a rounded university education.
Worcester is at the forefront in this process and has provided an opportunity for people like me to play a small part in its academic community.
It is great to feel valued for my expertise and let's hope our contribution will continue to be recognised by the university community."
Mary Nettle - Mental Health User Consultant and Impact Member
The increasing profile regarding the need for dignity and respect across all caring services brings urgency to the involvement of people with lived experience in the forming and moulding of student values and attitudes from day one of their student experience.
Recent studies have seen experts by experience involvement as having great potential for improving health and social care services by:
Nationally, however, this potential has often been diluted, rather than delivered, due to issues of tokenism, negative professional attitudes, unsupportive organisational systems and a lack of resources.
The University of Worcester seeks to counter this trend.
"Service users and carers now have on-going input into courses through student selection, teaching and validation events.
It is encouraging that the expertise of service users and carers is being recognised and used, and that in partnership with students, academics and practitioners we are working towards the same goal: to achieve the highest possible standards in health and social care."
Anne Duddington - Carer and Impact Member
IMPACT members are encouraged and supported to publish academic research jointly with academic staff and independently.
For example, 8 of our members contributed to the recent publication by the British Journal of Social Work.
Moreover, they have supported the recent publication of Social Policy, Service Users and Carers: Lived Experiences and Perspectives , Clive Sealey, Joy Fillingham and Peter Unwin (eds), Palgrave Macmillan, Springer Nature Switzerland AG, 2022, 226 pp., ISBN 9783030698751, Avril McIvor The British Journal of Social Work , bcad202.
IMPACT is determined to deliver on the potential for service user and carer involvement to genuinely enhance the student learning experience and help bring about new cultures of care.
Kay Wall notes how encouraging it is that new areas within the University are looking to more fully involve people with lived experience.
We are confident that IMPACT will increasingly make a real difference to the development of new professional cultures of respect, empathy and professional insight across the fields of health and social care.
If you wish to contact the group please e-mail: impact@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-education:
We are one of the country’s major providers of education, training and research for the children’s workforce.
Founded in 1946 as a teacher training college, the University of Worcester has been training inspirational teachers for over 70 years.
The Institute of Education has built on this legacy to develop a reputation for the highest quality provision, partnership working and delivery.
We place a great value on the individual, and creating a friendly and supportive environment in which to work and learn.
This approach has allowed us to develop a programme of high quality courses, school support services and research.
Tuesday, 29 July 2025
A new textbook aims to bridge the gap between theory and practice for trainee teachers in the Further Education and Skills Sector.
Get in touch with the Institute of Education:
01905 855 231 education@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-education/education-staff-profiles.aspx:
Interim Head of Institute
Personal Assistant to the Head of the Institute of Education
Deputy Head of Institute of Education
Head of Department for Education and Inclusion and Interim Head of Department for Children & Families
Head of Department Secondary and PCE
Institute Manager - Education
Head of Department Primary Education
Professor of Education
Professor of Post Compulsory Education
Professor in Psychology of Education
Senior Lecturer in Children & Families Partnership Development Coordinator
Senior Lecturer and Course Leader in Children and Families & Education & Inclusion
Senior Lecturer &  Course Leader for BA (Hons) Integrated Working with Children and Families
Lecturer, Department for Children and Families
Senior Lecturer & Early Years Partnership-Co-ordinator
Course Leader: Foundation Degree in Early Years  at Heart of Worcestershire College (Worcester)
Course Leader HOW College Redditch
Senior Lecturer in Children & Families
Institute of Education, Quality Co-ordinator Department for Children and Families, Senior Lecturer and  Course Leader for FdA Early Years (Flexible and Distributed Learning)
Principal Lecturer  - Education and Inclusion
Senior Lecturer MA Education
Principal Lecturer and Course Leader PGCert Learning and Teaching in Higher Education (LTHE)
Associate Lecturer and PhD Researcher
Lecturer (Teaching) in Special Educational Needs, Disability and Inclusion
MA Education Course Leader, Senior Lecturer in Education: Research Methods & PG Research Supervision
Senior Lecturer in Special Educational Needs, Disability and Inclusion
Senior Lecturer in Education
Course Leader Foundation Degree in Learning Support & Partnership Enhancement Co-ordinator
Senior Lecturer in Primary Education
Principal Lecturer: Strategic Partnership Lead
Lecturer in Primary Education
Senior Lecturer: Primary Education
Principal Lecturer – Primary Education - Tutoring lead
Primary Education Lecturer
Senior Lecturer in Primary Education (Music)
PGCE Primary Course Leader
Senior Lecturer - English & Religious Education
Senior Lecturer in Primary Education & Placement Co-ordinator
Senior Lecturer in Primary English
Lecturer in Primary Education - Languages
PGCE Primary Teacher Apprenticeship Course Lead
Lecturer in Primary Education, Placement Coordinator & SSLC Course Rep Coordinator
Senior Lecturer in Primary Education (Physical Education)
Senior Lecturer in Primary Education (Mathematics)
Principal Lecturer – Primary Lead for School Based Provision
Senior Lecturer Primary Education
Senior Lecturer (Teaching) in Primary Education: Mentor Lead (Primary Phase)
Course Leader BA (Hons) Primary Education with QTS
Senior Lecturer in Primary Initial Teacher Education
Principal Lecturer in Primary Education & Early Years Initial Teacher Training (EYITT) Course Leader
Lecturer: Secondary Science
Senior Lecturer – Secondary PGCE Partnerships
Subject Lead - PGCE Business with Economics, Institute of Education Quality Coordinator, Regional Training Hub Lead, Academic Integrity Tutor
Lecturer in Secondary Education: Science
Senior Lecturer in Secondary Education: Science
PGCE secondary English subject lead
Principal Lecturer - PGCE Secondary Course Leader
Secondary PGCE – Psychology Lead Mentor
Senior Lecturer in Secondary Education & Course Tutor for the PGCE Secondary in Physical Education
Senior Lecturer in Secondary Education : Computer Science
Senior Lecturer in Secondary Education: PGCE Art and Design
PGCE Secondary English Tutor
Principal Lecturer - Head of Strategic Partnerships (Secondary and FE)
Senior Lecturer Teacher Education
Senior Lecturer in Secondary Education: History
Senior Lecturer PGCE Design & Technology : Food
PGCE Secondary English subject tutor
Lecturer PGCE Secondary Physical Education
Senior Lecturer in Secondary Education: Modern Languages
Senior Lecturer in Post Compulsory Education  and Course coordinator of the  ITE FE Partnership
Senior Lecturer (Teaching) - PGCE Secondary Religious Education
Course Leader of the DET Programme at Halesowen College
Lecturer in Further Education and Skills
Senior Lecturer/Consultant
Senior Lecturer in Secondary Physical Education, Subject lead for Secondary Physical Education, PAT lead for IOE
Education Administrator
School Effectiveness Lead, Executive Leadership Coach
Continuing Professional Development Manager
School Leadership and Strategy Lead
Honorary Senior Research Fellow
Honorary Senior Lecturer
Education Administrator: FdA in Early Years, Leading Culture Change in Safeguarding PG Cert and PA to Head of Department
Quality Administrator
Project and Finance Administrator
Education Administrator: MA Education, National Award SENCO & Postgraduate Certificate in Learning and Teaching in Higher Education
Education Administrator for PGCE Primary
Course Administrator - Educational Studies and PA to Head of Department for Education and Inclusion
Education Administrator: Foundation Degree in Learning Support and Diploma in Tutoring
Education Administrator, PGCE Secondary and Subject Knowledge Enhancement Courses, PA to the Head of Department
Mentor Training Coordinator

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-education/get-into-teaching-at-worcester:
Originally founded as a teacher training college in 1946, we've been training inspirational teachers for over 70 years.
Now we're in the top  five UK universities for Quality Education according to the 2021 Times Higher Education’s global University Impact Rankings.
So you know you'll be in good hands.
We equip you for a career with excellent job prospects and competitive salaries.
A career where you make a difference in your community and shape lives.
We’re a campus-based university with plentiful student parking and on-site accommodation.
Meaning you can safely and conveniently access our world class facilities.
Worcester itself is a beautiful, safe, university city within easy reach of Birmingham.
It’s the perfect place to gain a teaching qualification and take your career further.
When you’ve decided you want to get into teaching, you’ll want your course to lead you smoothly into this fulfilling, rewarding career.
At Worcester, we have excellent contacts with the schools in the region where you’ll do your placements.
They also keep us up to date with vacancies, so not surprisingly, our graduates are incredibly successful at finding their first job.
I got so much from the course, but the biggest thing has been confidence.
My whole family think I'm just a different person - it’s been brilliant.
Taylor Cornes, Teacher and PITE graduate
You can register with us to tap into all our experience of leading people into this fulfilling career.
You'll get advice on everything from arranging school experience to selecting the best course for you.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-education/education-research:
We are an inclusive research community and embrace diverse approaches to research and theory.
We value research that has an impact.
We believe it is important to work in ways that influence changes in peoples’ lives and work, theory and society.
Our research is rooted in local, regional, national and international contexts.We encourage collaborative involvement with professional groups, community projects and more.
Students benefit from cross-departmental seminar programmes and a dedicated research office.
We regularly welcome research visitors from other Departments, especially where research links with our current activities can be developed.
Our staff, along with our postgraduate research student community, are involved in a wide variety of educational research areas.
Research interests include assessment, evaluation and school effectiveness, science and mathematics education, arts, and music education, curriculum practice, international educational development, and critical and philosophical approaches to education.
Tuesday, 02 August 2022
A former PhD student from the University of Worcester has been awarded a prestigious fellowship, on the back of winning a national award for her doctoral thesis.
Thursday, 12 May 2022
Research being carried out at the University of Worcester has been judged to be world-leading or internationally excellent in a new national framework.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-education/school-partnerships:
The Institute of Education works in close partnership with many schools and other settings across the region, ensuring best practice and building links for teaching placements and future employment.
We support a network of national and international collaborative partnerships which enables us to develop innovative programmes and provide an extensive range of professional training and development.
Our outreach provision enhances access to Higher Education for under-represented groups and areas.
The Institute of Education holds networking events with our diverse partners where we jointly explore the changing educational landscape and potential new ways of working.
The Placement Communication Portal (PCP) is our online portal for partner schools.
You can see information on students joining you for placements, sign partnership documentation, book on to mentor training and make future placement offers.
To find out how we can help your school contact our team.
Primary Partnership: 01905 855071 or 01905 855044
Secondary Partnership: 01905 855070

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-education/professional-learning-and-leadership-development:
Welcome to the Institute of Education’s professional development hub, where your journey to excellence in education begins.
We are dedicated to supporting educators at every stage of their career with a wide range of opportunities for growth.
From postgraduate and research degrees that deepen your expertise, short courses and networks designed to enhance your practice, to bespoke training programmes that cater to your unique needs, our offerings are designed to empower you.
In addition, we provide coaching, specialist consultancy services, strategic advice, and evaluation support to help schools, leaders, and education organisations improve outcomes and drive innovation.
Whether you’re looking to enhance your teaching practice , develop leadership skills , access expert consultancy , or engage in cutting-edge research , the University of Worcester is here to support you.
Join us in shaping the future of education and making a lasting impact in your community.
Contact us – for more information please email the CPD Office at cpdeducation@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/institute-of-arts-and-humanities:
The Institute of Arts and Humanities at Worcester encompasses subject areas including Art, Design, English, Media and Culture, History, Sociology, Theatre and Film, Politics, Law and Criminology.
As an academic community, we are ambitious for our achievements and their impact on individuals’ lives and career prospects.
We place a great value on the individual and creating a friendly and supportive environment in which to work and learn.
By sharing our academic work and collaboration with partners, we aim to make a distinctive contribution to public life in the region, and to international knowledge in our academic subjects.
Dynamic interaction with associated professional worlds underpins the day-to-day environment in which learning, teaching and research take place .
Wednesday, 25 June 2025
University of Worcester students’ design work will feature in fire stations across Herefordshire and Worcestershire thanks to a new initiative.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/institute-of-arts-and-humanities/school-of-law:
Our Law programmes are all designed to produce employable, successful, commercially aware graduates who make a meaningful contribution to society.
The specialist facility features benches for judges, barristers, defendants, witnesses and even members of the press, just like a working court.
There is also a jury room next door to simulate the real court experience, and a number of seminar rooms.
Our School of Law taster days are highly interactive and set in our very own courtroom.
The volunteer led clinic will offer free confidential legal advice to members of the public in non-urgent matters relating to family law, personal injury and medical negligence.
University of Worcester law students will benefit from practical in-house training before assisting the solicitor, attending the advice meeting and taking notes.
The clinic offers our students an excellent opportunity to undertake practical work experience, enhancing their job prospects after they graduate with us.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/institute-of-arts-and-humanities/staff-profiles.aspx:
Head of Institute of Arts and Humanities
Head of Theatre, Film & Media Production
Head of History & Sociology
Head of Art & Design Communication
Deputy Head of Institute of Arts and Humanities
Senior Lecturer in Media & Film Studies; Course Leader for Media & Culture; Head of Department for English, Media and Culture
Technical Manager for the Institute of Arts and Humanities
Senior Lecturer, Graphic Design
Senior Lecturer Fine Art
Senior Lecturer in Illustration
Senior Lecturer and Course Leader, Game Art
Senior Lecturer and Course Leader, Illustration
Lecturer in Fine Art Practice
Principal Lecturer in Illustration
Course leader, Graphic Design, Advertising & Marketing
Lecturer in Fine Art
Senior Lecturer, Game Art
Lecturer in Game Art
Senior Lecturer Graphic Design
Lecturer in English Literature (Contemporary), School Research & Knowledge Exchange Coordinator
Lecturer in Media & Film Studies
Professor of Shakespeare Studies, and Director of the EMRG
Senior Lecturer in Media & Film Studies
Senior Lecturer -  Creative Writing, Head of Department of English, Media & Culture
Principal Lecturer in Media & Film Studies
Lecturer - Creative Writing
Professor of International Children's Literature
Course Leader, BA English Literature
Professor Emerita of Cultural History
Professor of Modern History
Lecturer in History and Sociology
Lecturer in History
Senior Lecturer in Sociology
Lecturer in Sociology and Politics
Principal Lecturer in History and Politics
UKRI Future Leaders Fellow and Lecturer in History
Professor of Early Modern History
Professor of History
Senior Lecturer in American History
Senior Lecturer in Law
Head of the School of Law, Senior Lecturer in Policing, Professional Policing Course Lead, University Safeguarding Lead (Students)
Lecturer in Policing
Lecturer in Law
Principal Lecturer in Law
Lecturer in Law, and Institute of Arts and Humanities Personal Academic Tutor Coordinator
Course Leader for all LLB programmes
Senior Lecturer, Film and Television
Senior Lecturer in Film Production
Lecturer, Journalism
Professor Emeritus of Theatre Studies
Senior Lecturer and Course Leader, Animation
Course Leader and Senior Lecturer for Dance Theatre
Senior Lecturer, Film Production
Senior Lecturer and Course Leader, Journalism
Lecturer in Screenwriting
Senior Lecturer Animation
Principal Lecturer in Theatre, Acting & Performance
Course leader for the BA Theatre, Acting and Performance
Senior Lecturer & Research and Knowledge Exchange Co-ordinator
Course Director for Circus Arts and Physical Theatre
Technical Demonstrator for Theatre & Dance
Technical Demonstrator for Art & Design Communication
Technical Coordinator for Theatre, Film & Media Production
Technical Demonstrator for Film & Media Production
Technical Demonstrator for Game Art
Specialist Technical Instructor for Theatre & Dance
MPhil/PhD Student
MPhil/PhD in Law
Course Administrator - Art & Design Communication
Course Administrator- History, Sociology and Politics
PA to the Head of Institute
Course Administrator – Theatre, Film & Media Production
Course Administrator - School of Law
Placements and Employment Manager
Curator of the Infirmary Museum

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/institute-of-arts-and-humanities/arts-facilities.aspx:
The Institute and its courses draw on the full range of facilities available across the University.
This includes a range of fully equipped teaching rooms, multiple social learning spaces, and the Hive library .
In addition to on site specialist facilities shown below, we also call on a range of spaces and environments off-campus in response to the needs of site-based work and projects.
Inside The Art House you'll find a series of large open spaces that are continually transformed to meet the needs of our students.
A stunning redevelopment of one of the city's best loved building - the glass fronted exterior is both a source of fantastic natural light and an area for continual public exhibition.
Our purpose-built Drama Studio has all the facilities you need, whether as a performer or as a producer, from traditional theatre to more experimental performances.
The studio itself is a large, multi-purpose space with a full flexible rig seating more than 100 people.
The rig can be assembled in any location in the space to suit performance needs and this flexibility allows students to explore a range of performance and staging styles.
The studio has its own Green Room, Dressing Rooms, Costume and Properties Stores and Scene Dock – all well stocked with resources for students.
The surrounding Gallery houses production equipment and a Studio Technician is available to help with the technical side of things.
The Drama Studio is linked to the University of Worcester’s new Digital Arts Centre.
This exciting development will effectively create a Digitised Performance Laboratory and will mean than students can extend the scope of their work to include live and recorded performances.
Students on the Drama & Performance course , as well as visiting professional companies, Student Union productions, the University of Worcester’s Musical Theatre Group and Drama Society, all use the versatile performance space extensively.
The studio can be booked by anyone who wants to use it seven days a week.
Digital Arts Centre has been designed to give an impression of light and space, but not at the expense of working areas or flexibility.
A large foyer and well-lit landing on the first floor allow exhibition and reception areas, so that students can exhibit their work within the Centre.
The sound recording studio, offering 360 square feet of performing space, is big enough to house a band for a music video, or a group of actors for a radio drama.
Next door is the sound editing room of the same size.
The academic and the technical team are housed in offices within the Centre and this allows ready access by students and visitors.
On both the ground and first floors are computer rooms that together offer over 1,700 square feet of space for digital graphic and web design, multimedia, video editing and both 2D and 3D animation.
The digital video studio is designed to professional broadcast specifications and provides 1,200 square feet of usable space.
It has a high ceiling with a controllable lighting rig and a control room with talkback for multi-camera productions.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/institute-of-arts-and-humanities/humanities-facilities.aspx:
Humanities courses are taught in modern rooms, fully equipped to meet the range of learning and teaching approaches that we deploy.
Students currently make use of open-access spaces across the University available for self-directed study outside formal teaching sessions.
The Hive, our stunning library and history centre built between the St John’s and City Centre campuses, houses extensive humanities and social sciences book, journal and DVD collections that are continuously being added to and updated.
History students benefit, especially, from the facilities and activity of the history centre, with which the History staff team has strong links.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/institute-of-arts-and-humanities/arts-research:
Research processes are fundamental to the work and development of our undergraduate and postgraduate students, whose teaching is enriched by the research activity and interests of doctoral and postdoctoral researchers, all of whom are also experienced and committed teachers.
Our academics regularly achieve national and international peer recognition for their contributions to knowledge, and we are committed to sharing the outcomes of their work publicly, and engaging in knowledge transfer, to the benefit of communities within our region.
Much of our activity involves partnerships with colleagues based in other universities and with professional organisations and companies.
There is a range of beneficiaries of our research: professional artists/ illustrators/ designers; individuals and organisations in the subsidised arts and creative and cultural industries; the public; children and young people.
We seek to:

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/institute-of-arts-and-humanities/humanities-research:
The Institute of Arts and Humanities has an ambitious and lively research culture.
We are a community of historians, theorists and practice-led researchers.
Our research in English Studies ranges from original poems and performances, to literary criticism and cultural theory, to ethnographic language studies and computer-assisted linguistic analysis.
Striving for excellence in all areas therefore entails the celebration of diversity in ‘English Studies’, and a commitment not only to pure subject specialisation, but also to the interdisciplinary work which challenges traditional boundaries.
Historical research in the School spans early modern Britain, pre-colonial West Africa, and modern Britain, Ireland, and the USA.
Areas of thematic strength in research include gender, imperialism, slavery, political culture, and religious history.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/institute-of-arts-and-humanities/arts-alumni-stories:
Discover the success stories of some of Worcester's Arts graduates.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/institute-of-arts-and-humanities/arts-awards-and-prizes.aspx:
The Worcester Degree Shows are the culmination of work from students on our arts courses.
They feature work by over 100 students.
Undergraduate courses represented at the show are:
For more information and a look at previous student work visit the Worcester Degree Shows website .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/campaigns/study-english-media-creative-writing:
Our degrees help you establish your own identity as a writer and critical thinker.
Choose the perfect undergraduate English, Media and Creative Writing course for you.
Explore the power of language has to influence how people view their world, from community formation to personal identity and business relations.
Explore our English Literature Degree.
This English degree is diverse and stimulating.
By studying English Literature you will encounter a range of writing, from the Early Modern period to the present day.
You will investigate the many different factors that determine how English is spoken and written, while developing your own creative practice as a writer.
Investigate the very latest industry advances and question their function and impact.
Read the stories of some of our recent students
Leah Pellington has graduated with First Class Honours in her English Literature and Media and Culture studies degree.
Luke Oakes graduated with a First Class BA (Hons) in English Literature.
He has now pursued a career as a lecturer in Further Education.
Award-winning student, Charlotte Taylor, is graduating with a BA (Hons) in English Literature.
Prize-winning student, Amy Hill, is graduating with a BA (Hons) in English Literature.
Read some recent blog posts by Worcester academics.
Dr Lucy Arnold explores the connection between Worcester Cathedral and the novels of Hilary Mantel.
As the publication of Hilary Mantel's 'The Mirror and The Light' approached in March Last Year.
Our Creative Writing Department let you know which 5 poets you should be listening to.
Dr Whitney Standlee, a Senior Lecturer on our undergraduate English Literature BA (Hons) investigates the Irish women's writing literary movement.
What is a Poetry Slam?
How is spoken word poetry becoming mainstream?
Dr Jack McGowan who is Course Leader for Creative Writing BA (Hons), explores the art of spoken word.
Professor Jean Webb, Director of the International Forum for Research in Children's Literature, interrogates how Young Adult Science Fiction explores the possible futures of our planet.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/campaigns/study-law:
Our vision is to deliver high quality law degrees with excellent and innovative teaching and outstanding student satisfaction.
School of Law taster days
Choose the perfect Law course for you.
The big difference when studying Law at Worcester is the personal level of support we give you throughout your law degree.
This course combines a strong foundation in core principles of law and forensic psychology, including criminal law.
Gain the legal knowledge that will enable you to develop both practical legal skills and transferable professional skills.
Law with Politics at Worcester combines a strong foundation in core principles of law with a valuable insight into related areas of politics.
Ellie's volunteer work with the police during her studies inspired her career path.
Rosanna Green juggled motherhood and a full-time career to complete her LLB Law degree.
Having wanted to be a barrister for as long as he can remember, Jack Best is now on course to his dream career.
Read some recent blog posts by Worcester Law students and academics.
Law lecturer Nicola Monaghan explores the consequences of jury tampering and what it means in the criminal justice system.
Law LLB student Olivia, talks to us about her favourite modules.
Student Blogger Emily writes us about what happens if you change your mind about your future career.
Enter your details below and we will keep you up to date with useful information about studying at the University of Worcester.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-nursing-and-midwifery:
Nurses form the largest group of staff in the NHS and are a crucial part of a healthcare team.
A career in nursing is both immensely challenging and intensely rewarding.
Protecting health, preventing illness and alleviating suffering are huge responsibilities, but also exceptional privileges.
At Worcester, we know that as a Registered Nurse you will have to be caring and compassionate, as well as being innovative and professional.
We will support you as you become knowledgeable, skilled and proactive at delivering and leading high quality evidence-based care across a range of rapidly changing healthcare environments.
Midwives enjoy the unique privilege of a career caring for mothers, their babies and the whole family.
By studying Midwifery at Worcester you will not only gain the skills and experience needed to become a confident, competent and caring midwife, you will also develop the intellectual tools to help you shape the future direction of the profession by generating new ideas and evaluating innovative ways of working.
Monday, 14 July 2025
A student midwife from Malvern is preparing for the world-famous London Marathon next year.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-nursing-and-midwifery/nursing-and-midwifery-staff-profiles.aspx:
Interim Head of School of Nursing and Midwifery and Strategic Director of Practice Education and Interprofessional Learning in the Health Professions
Principal Lecturer/Deputy Head of School, Quality, learning and teaching co-ordinator
College Director of Research & Knowledge Exchange for Nursing & Midwifery and Science & the Environment
College Director of Learning, Teaching and Quality Enhancement for College of Health and Science
Head of Department Apprenticeships and CPD
Head of Midwifery
Head of Department for Nursing
Midwifery Lecturer
Principal Lecturer
Consultant Midwife
Senior Lecturer and Course Lead - BSc (Hons) Midwifery
Senior Lecturer (Midwifery)
Lecturer in Midwifery
Apprenticeships and CPD
Senior Lecturer in Adult Nursing
Senior Lecturer in Pharmacology and Medicines Optimisation
Nursing Apprenticeship Education Facilitator
Principal Lecturer, Course Lead Registered Nurse Apprenticeship
Senior Lecturer (Adult Nursing), School Learning and Teaching and Quality Co-ordinator
Lecturer in Nursing Apprenticeships
Senior Lecturer in Nursing, Clinical Skills and Simulation
Senior Lecturer Adult Nursing: Skills & Simulation
Senior Lecturer (Teaching)
Lecturer in Adult Nursing
Adult Nursing Lecturer
Senior Lecturer Children’s Nursing
Associate Lecturer in Nursing
Senior Lecturer in Mental Health Nursing
Principal Lecturer for Clinical Skills and Simulation Based Education
Senior Lecturer and Course lead for BSc Pre-Registration Nursing
Principal Lecturer Adult Nursing
Lecturer in Adult Nursing (Practice Learning)
Senior Lecturer in Clinical Skills and Simulation
Senior Lecturer in Children’s Nursing
Lecturer in Mental Health Nursing
Skills & Simulation Lecturer
Lecturer in Nursing
Senior Lecturer Adult Nursing
Lecturer skills and simulation
Senior Lecturer, Admissions & Recruitment Lead and Course Lead for Return to Practice Nursing
Senior Lecturer in Adult Nursing & Lead for Practice Learning and Partnerships
Health Education England
Course Administrator - Apprenticeships
CPD and Events Co-ordinator
Projects and Finance Administrator
Course Administrator
Practice & Projects Coordinator
Student Progression Administrator
PA to Head of School of Nursing & Midwifery
If you are unsure who you need to contact, please email our generic email address: nursingmidwiferyadmin@worc.ac.uk
For general enquiries regarding placements, please contact PLAST@worc.ac.uk
For general enquiries regarding Clinical Skills, please contact: clinicalskills@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-nursing-and-midwifery/nursing-and-midwifery-research:
Research is central to the professions of nursing and midwifery.
At the School of Nursing and Midwifery, we embed research and other evidence into everything we do: in our teaching and learning, our practice, our collaborations with a wide range of partners, and in our contributions to nursing and midwifery research and scholarship.
We provide research training for a wide range of practice partners and contribute to their activity with projects including service evaluations.
There is a wide range of research supervisors in the school, and we welcome enquiries and applications for the research degrees of Master of Philosophy (MPhil) and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD degrees).
There are more details on the nursing and midwifery PhD course webpages.
Matthew Aiello - Urgent, Acute and Emergency Care Transformation
Joy Bevan - An Action Research study into the therapeutic value of holding space in community practice with young people experiencing transition.
Gilda Davis - The place of death through the perceptions and recollections of parents and the views of the health care professionals.
Ifeoma Idigbe - Transitioning From Adolescence To Adulthood: The Lived Experiences of Female Adolescents Living With HIV In Lagos, Nigeria.
Emma Innes - Bridging the education gap: A Phenomenological study of recurrent diabetic ketoacidosis in adult type 1 diabetes
Theresa Pengelly - "My nursing career is congruent with the person I am".
From nursing student to registered nurse: The journey in developing a professional identity
Emma Rossiter - Resilience: Examining the Benefits of a Resilience Intervention Model to Enhance Coping and Health in Adolescents.
Emma Smith - Investigating the use of Photovoice in understanding long-term conditions such as substance misuse
Subedi Prakash - A Structured ‘Certificate of Eligibility for Specialist Registration’ (CESR) Training programme in Emergency Medicine
A wide range of research and scholarship is undertaken within the School.
Much of research is carried out by members of the research group: Philosophy and Ethics of Professional Practice.
However there are many route to research and scholarship and many of our academic staff write articles and books to enhance learning.
A full range of published outputs of members of staff at the School of Nursing and Midwifery can be found on our staff page .
A full range is available at the Worcester Research and Publications (WRaP) page
If you would like to know more about research and scholarship in the School of Nursing and Midwifery please contact:
Dr Kay Norman k.norman@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-nursing-and-midwifery/nursing-and-midwifery-professional-development:
As a health professional you are on a life long learning journey, and here in the School of Nursing and Midwifery we offer many opportunities to continue your development.
There are courses that may be embedded in one of our full programmes, but often they can be taken as individual modules.
For example are you interested in:
Or we have a great range of workshops and conferences that may assist with your continuing professional development .
If you cannot find what you would like to study please contact us on: cpdinfo@worc.ac.uk and our team will direct your enquiry to the person best placed to help you.
We look forward to hearing from you and assisting you with your life long learning.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-nursing-and-midwifery/health-work-placements.aspx:
Nursing and Midwifery students are placed in health care settings for about half of the course.
Placement settings include hospitals, nursing and care homes, health centres and day centres, and district nursing/midwifery teams.
Our Work Based Learning Support Office organises placements for pre-registration Nursing, Midwifery and FdSc Pre-Hospital, Unscheduled and Emergency Care students.
Students are supported in practice by mentors, NHS practice facilitators, and by the University’s Practice Development Team.
Current students can contact the Work Based Learning Support Office at plast@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-nursing-and-midwifery/practice-support:
Welcome to our practice support page.
Here you will discover more about the roles that are required in all practice settings where pre-registration nursing, nurse associate and midwifery students have learning experiences as detailed within the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) (2018) Standards for Student Supervision and Assessment (SSSA).
In order to provide support, supervision and assessment of the students' achievement of the required proficiencies to attain a registrable qualification with the NMC everyone must receive some preparatory training.
If you are interested in playing a part in the preparation of our future healthcare workforce, you can find details of preparation training for these roles within these pages.
Within these pages you will also find information about:
You will find contact details on the individual pages and within the specific sections

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-nursing-and-midwifery/placement-support:
The Placement Support Team (PLAST) supports placements across our School of Nursing and Midwifery and our School of Allied Health and Community .
The PLAST team works with placement partners to plan, arrange and record student placements across several different courses.
The team is based at the St John’s Campus.
Opening hours are 9am to 4pm, Monday to Friday.
For general enquiries please use our team email: plast@worc.ac.uk .
Sandra Ashford
Head of the Placement Support Team
s.ashford@worc.ac.uk
Tel 01905 542201
Sarah Davis
Placement clearances for FdSc Mental Health
Placement planning for BSc Paramedic Science
s.davis@worc.ac.uk
Tel 01905 54 2419
Maisie Farr
PLAST Apprentice; Student Travel Claims
m.farr@worc.ac.uk
Debbie Guest
Placement Allocations for MSc Occupational Therapy, MSc Physiotherapy, MSc Midwifery and Elective placements
d.guest@worc.ac.uk
Tel 01905 85 5375
Clare Moreton
Placement administration for post-registration programmes including prescribing programmes, MA/BA Social Work, Nursing Associates and Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeships.
c.moreton@worc.ac.uk
Tel 01905 542412
Becky Martin
Placement allocations for BSc Midwifery.
Practice assessment documents and hours, Finalist issues/Boards of Examiners, NHS bursaries and Elective placements
r.martin@worc.ac.uk
Tel 01905 85 5461
Ellie Nicklin
Placement allocations for:  BSc Adult Nursing, BSc Mental Health Nursing
e.nicklin@worc.ac.uk
Tel 01905 543223
Lou Brown
Practice placements for BSc Physiotherapy; BSc Occupational Therapy.
Practice Assessors: BSc Nursing and BSc Midwifery, Placement Audits, and practice evaluation
lou.brown@worc.ac.uk
Tel 01905 54 3422
h.sneddon@worc.ac.uk
Tel 01905 544322
Placement clearances for FdSc Health and Social Care, FdSc Child and Adolescent Mental Health
Student travel claims
j.spikes@worc.ac.uk
Tel 01905 54 2486
Placement Allocations for BSc Nursing
a.rouse@worc.ac.uk
f.lawski@worc.ac.uk
Placement Allocations for MSc Physician Associates, MBChB Medicine
l.jeanpierre@worc.ac.uk
Tel 01905 54 3419
The MSc Physician Associate programme now sits within the Three Counties Medical School.
Please send placement queries to physicianassociateplacements@worc.ac.uk .
Placement staff or students with any concerns about a student’s welfare, standards of care or factors affecting learning during placement, can escalate concerns using our report a concern portal .
If you are raising a concern, please be assured that we are committed to addressing all concerns in a respectful and professional manner.
Commendations, compliments, and areas of good practice can also be reported via the tool.
We welcome all positive feedback for our students that supports their professional development and standards of professional care.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-nursing-and-midwifery/become-a-nurse:
Change lives, including yours.
Study to become a nurse at Worcester and move seamlessly into a rewarding career in the NHS.
Nursing is a varied and fulfilling career, with a huge number of job opportunities across the West Midlands.
The Government has also announced that when you choose to study nursing you’ll receive a payment of at least £5,000 a year towards living costs, which you won’t need to pay back.
At Worcester, we’ll teach you the theory of nursing while developing your clinical skills in our specialist facilities, which simulate the ward environment.
You’ll be immersed into different clinical scenarios, learning in a safe, supportive setting.
The typical route into nursing is a three-year degree programme.
You can choose to study our Nursing BSc degree in three different fields of practice: Adult, Children’s or Mental Health.
Other routes into nursing are explored further down this page.
Following the Government's continued commitment to train more nurses you can now study at the University of Worcester starting in March (Adult only) as well as September.
At Worcester, we have an excellent employability record, with many student nurses being offered jobs on placement, and most with a job lined up before graduating.
Which is one reason why we’ve been shortlisted seven times for ‘Nursing Education Provider of the Year’ (Student Nursing Times).
We’re a campus-based university with plenty of student parking and on-site accommodation.
This means you can safely and conveniently access our world class facilities.
It’s the perfect place to study for your future career.
Depending on your qualifications and experiences you may want to consider alternative routes to become a nurse.
Nursing Associate FdSc and Health and Social Care FdSc are both foundation level qualifications in their own right, they also offer flexible progression opportunities onto our BSc (Hons) registered nurse programme.
Another option is our Healthcare Foundation Year which will equip you with the fundamental knowledge and skills needed on your journey towards a successful career in healthcare.
We also offer a Return to Nursing Practice course for nurses whose registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) has lapsed.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-nursing-and-midwifery/epicc-network-conference-why-does-spirituality-matter-in-person-centred-care.aspx:
The EPICC Network (Enhancing Nurses' and Midwives' Competence in Providing Spiritual Care through Innovation Education and Compassionate Care) Conference is scheduled to take place on 7th-9th May 2025 at the University of Worcester, UK.
The chosen theme is "why does spirituality matter in person-centred care?
Evolving expertise through research and discussion".
The aim of this conference is to support the delivery of holistic person-centred care, using a multifaceted and multidisciplinary approach to enhance the person's experience.
Join us for what promises to be a conference full of new insights and stimulating discussions.
Please see the conference flyer for more information.
Check if you need a UK visa on the GOV.UK website .
An Electronic Travel Authorization (ETA) to travel to the UK to visit for up to 6 months is now needed for a number of nationalities as listed on the Government website
It costs £10 to apply.
From the 2nd of April, EU countries nationals will also be required to travel to the UK with an ETA.
Further information on the ETA application process can be found here on the government website .
Evening Meal – 8 May 2025: £15
For individuals with a research background/ interest, there is a Pre-conference workshop for researchers.
The main conference is open to all student/ non-student healthcare providers at both undergraduate and post graduate levels interested in focusing upon Why does spirituality matter in person-centred care?
A graduate of Edinburgh University, Anne initially worked in acute general medicine and then oncology before ‘escaping’ hospital nursing to become a community nurse.
Anne completed her District Nurse Specialist Practitioner Qualification and worked as a District Nurse in diverse East Oxford in the 1990s.
She provided a nursing view to city-wide healthcare provision as a member of the new Primary Care Group Board and subsequently as a Primary Care Trust Board & Executive Committee Member alongside her District Nursing.
After maternity leave, Anne worked flexibly around family commitments as a sessional District Nurse and in an Out Of Hours palliative care role.
Anne became a Queen’s Nurse and completed the MSc in Advancing Healthcare Practice at the Open University in 2016 and worked as a Practice Tutor and latterly as an Academic Assessor at the University from 2017 until 2022, alongside sessional District Nursing.
On 30th March 2020 she joined Parish Nursing Ministries UK Home | Parish Nursing Ministries UK as Director of Nursing.
Professor Melanie Rogers is an internationally renowned Advanced Practice Nurse clinician, educator and researcher.
She is the Professor of Advanced Practice and Spirituality at the University of Huddersfield, in England, as well as a National Teaching Fellow.
She still works clinically as an Advanced Nurse Practitioner in Primary Care and is committed to improving person centred care.
Melanie is an executive member of the International Network for the Study of Spirituality and runs their Student Scholars Network.
Her international work and collaborations on spirituality are extensive and well developed.
Melanie is a Queens Nurse and Global Nurse Consultant.
Melanie is passionate about nursing and how we can provide the care needed at the point of need for our patients.
Her work and research has focused on how to provide truly holistic care to patients and her doctoral studies have led to a spirituality framework for Nurse Practitioners to help patients find hope, meaning and purpose during times of illness and challenge.
She has multiple publications related to advanced practice and spirituality and has published three edited books; Spiritually Competent Practice, Spiritual Dimensions of Advanced Practice Nursing and Advanced Practice Nursing to Enhance Global Health.
Her recent research projects have included global studies on Job Satisfaction for Nurse Practitioners in Developed and Developing Countries, Diagnostic Reasoning skills of APNs and Emotional and Spiritual Wellbeing and Resilience of APNs during Covid-19 globally.
Melanie chaired the working party that developed the 2020 ICN APN Guidelines.
Dr.
Tove Giske is a professor in nursing at the Institute of Nursing at VID Specialized University, Bergen, Norway.
She is a registered nurse with her master and PhD in Nursing from the University of Bergen.
Giske enjoys teaching and doing research and she collaborates with nurse educators and researchers in many countries such as Ghana, Sierra Leone, the Netherlands, the UK, and California.
Her passion is education and research in spiritual care, and she has published extensively internationally and presented her work in many countries.
She has published books in the areas of grounded theory and spiritual care.
The last book is Cone & Giske (2022) The Nurse’s Handbook of Spiritual Care.
Wiley Blackwell.
Giske is a part of the EPICC network.
She leads a research group at VID named SPIRCARE and an excellent research network named Spiritual Care Education and Practice Development (SEP) where she collaborates with international researchers.
I've reached 60 and my life has been an interlocking chain of events.
Of course, my family come first and that has been an adventure on high waves with three adopted kids, now grown, with their own baggage; some of which just can't be jettisoned; and now with children of their own.
The solid rock in my life is my wife and soul partner Alison, As old as I am, I remain curious about how the cosmos works and what makes humanity tick.
I think the stories that we tell ourselves are among the most important things in the world.
Fazilah Twining
Rebekah Thomas
Sally Carvalho
Esther Pierce
Alison Lewis
Gilda Davis
As part of person-centred care, nurses and midwives are required to address personal and spiritual beliefs.
The EPICC Network welcomes proposals for submissions from all people who are interested in spiritual care.
We want to hear the perspectives of students, service users and carers, professionals, researchers and educators.
We hope through sharing these perspectives, we can improve experiences of person-centred spiritual care.
Does the abstract demonstrate a coherent objective and demonstrate a clear presentation idea?
Share your experiences and evidence of spiritual care in clinical practice or education.
Is the abstract relevant to the conference and will it be of interest to the conference audience?
Your abstract will be considered by the committee reviewers.
Posters will be published on the EPICC website and the University of Worcester EPICC conference website.
All abstract presenters will be required to book a conference place at the early bird rate.
Poster presenters are requested to be present during the poster walk at the conference.
There are various places to stay in Worcester.
Some options are listed below:
Refunds will be made in the following ways:
We will do our best to ensure that the event goes ahead, but we reserve the right to cancel at any time.
If we do so (other than for reasons outside of our control), we will refund your event fee in full but will have no further liabilities to you.
In particular we will not meet the costs of any pre-booked travel or external accommodation.
Therefore, we would advise against booking nonrefundable travel or accommodation.
Choice of one of the following:
Worcester has a wide range of things to do and see, from historical sites such as the Cathedral and Commandary, to walks along the River Severn or up the Malvern Hills.
Find out more about what you can do in Worcester.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-science-and-the-environment:
Science and the Environment at Worcester encompasses subject areas including Biology (including Biochemistry, Human Biology and Zoology), Biomedical Science, Environmental Management and Sustainability, Forensic and Applied Biology, Geography and Medical Sciences.
We offer top quality degrees in a friendly and supportive environment, using modern approaches to learning and teaching.
From sustainability to crime scene analysis, our world-leading research focuses on today’s key challenges.
Working in collaboration with different disciplines and with other universities, private industry and the public sector, our research is a means to achieve real-life benefits.
Tuesday, 17 June 2025
University of Worcester students have been recognised in the National Green Impact Awards for creating a podcast series about sustainability in Worcester.
Tuesday, 11 March 2025
The University of Worcester and Worcester and Malvern RSPB Group are working together again on a new project to help improve habitats and increase food supply for birds.
Thursday, 06 March 2025
Research carried out at the University of Worcester has discovered a potentially significant link between markers in the blood and electrical functions of the heart which could transform the way heart disease is detected.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-science-and-the-environment/science-and-the-environment-staff-profiles.aspx:
Head of the School of Science and the Environment
Senior Palynologist and Pollen Forecaster
Senior Lecturer in Biology
Principal Lecturer in Animal Biology/Biology
Principal Lecturer in Human Biology and Human Nutrition
Guest Lecturer
Senior Lecturer in Biochemistry
Course Lead for Biological Sciences
Lecturer in Biomedical Science and Course Leader in Medical Sciences
Lecturer and Admissions Tutor in Biomedical Science
Lecturer in Biomedical Science
Principal Lecturer in Biology
Senior Lecturer in Human Nutrition
Principal Lecturer in Forensic and Applied Biology
Head of Biological Sciences and Senior Lecturer in Forensic and Applied Biology
Principal Lecturer in Geography & Quality Coordinator
Professor of Sustainable Development
Professor of Rural Geography and Head of Geography and Environment
Principal Lecturer in Geography
Senior Lecturer in Geography
Honorary Professor of Human Geography
Senior Lecturer in Physical Geography
Visiting Professor in Molecular Plant Virology
Chair of Molecular Plant and Microbial Biology
MRes Student
Biology Technician
Technician Instructor - GIS, Geophysics and Surveying
Chemistry/Environmental Technician
Geography Environmental Technician
Environmental and Atmospheric Science Research Technician
Science Technician
Ecology and Biology Technician
Head of SSE Laboratories
GIS and Forensic Technician
PA to the Head of the School of Science and the Environment
If you have a general enquiry for the School, or are unsure of who you need to speak to, please contact: School of Science and the Environment  -  Professional Administrative Service
Email: sse@worc.ac.uk | Tel: 01905 855201 / 01905 855202

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-science-and-the-environment/science-and-the-environment-research:
Our mission is to ensure science is accessible and that our research is relevant to society.
Research and Knowledge Exchange within the School of Science and Environment is at the core of what we do, ensuring society benefits from our translational and applied research, and that our undergraduate students benefit from research informed teaching.
The Degree Courses we deliver and the knowledge exchange we undertake therefore embody the range and reach of our impactful research.
Research within the school focuses on ‘Sustainable Futures’ and ‘Human Health and Wellbeing’; Areas of Challenge outlined in the University’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy (2020-2025).
We also actively engage in other research areas and encourage blue skies thinking.
To ensure the continued delivery of high quality and impactful research at the University of Worcester we have invested significantly over the last decade to enhance our research facilities .
The Sustainable Environments Research Group led by Professor Alan Dixon brings together colleagues whose research benefits people and the planet.
‘Sustainable Environments’ encapsulates any situation where there is potential for environmental impacts to be mitigated and for environmental benefits to be achieved.
Research is across five thematic areas: 1) Food security, 2) Sustainable livelihoods, 3) River Science and Uncrewed Aerial Vehicle surveys, 4) Conservation and management of habitats and species, and 5) Sustainable places.
The Worcester Biomedical Research Group led by Dr Steven Coles aims to promote multidisciplinary biomedical science research at the University of Worcester.
The group has forged collaborations with local NHS organisations and other academic institutions with the aim of addressing some major health issues of our time with a particular focus on cancer (leukaemia), cardiovascular disease, neurodegeneration, and infectious diseases.
The Molecular Plant and Microbial Biosciences Research Unit carries out both fundamental and translational research in the field of plant and microbial biosciences.
They are interested in answering the following fundamental questions; how do obligate pathogens such as downy mildews ( Hyaloperonospora arabidopsidis , Hpa and Peronospora vicia f.sp.
pisi, Pvp ) coordinate their attack to overcome the plants’ defence?
What is the basis of their host specificity?
Do they synchronize their physiological and metabolic activity with their hosts?
Can we carry out reverse genetics to reveal the role of pathogenicity and developmental genes?
Since 1995 the School has also been the home of Pollen Forecasting in the UK, for which pollen and fungal spore forecasts are produced in conjunction with the Met Office on a daily basis .
To ensure our research is impactful and makes a difference, colleagues from across the School take many different approaches in sharing the outcomes of their research, including publishing in peer-reviewed journals, books, and conference proceedings, via online events e.g., webinars, and through public community engagement.
Within the School we are committed to delivering a Research Seminar Series, and actively contribute to the College Research Seminar Series.
We also engage directly with growers, farmers, health practitioners etc to enhance the implementation of our research findings and secure positive outcomes.
All staff upload their research outputs onto WRaP , the University’s research repository.
You can also find out more about our colleagues in the School by visiting the Staff Profile pages.
Santos, H.O., May, Theresa and Bueno, Allain (2023) Eating more sardines instead of fish oil supplementation: Beyond omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids, a matrix of nutrients with cardiovascular benefits.
Frontiers in Nutrition.
ISSN 2296-861X.
Frisk, Carl, Apangu, Godfrey, Petch, Geoffrey, Creer, Simon, Hanson, Mary, Adams-Groom, Beverley and Skjøth, Carsten (2023) Microscale pollen release and dispersal patterns in flowering grass populations.
Science of the Total Environment, 880 (163345).
ISSN Print: 0048-9697 Online: 1879-1026.
Shu, P., Zhang, Z., Wu, Y., Chen, Y., Li, K., Deng, H., Zhang, J., Zhang, X., Wang, J., Liu, Z., Xie, Y., Du, K., Li, M., Bouzayen, M., Hong, Yiguo, Zhang, Y.
and Liu, M.
(2023) A comprehensive metabolic map reveals major quality regulations in red-flesh kiwifruit (Actinidia chinensis).
New Phytologist.
ISSN 1469-8137.
Mateos Fierro, Zeus, Garratt, Michael P.
D., Fountain, Michelle T., Ashbrook, Kate and Westbury, Duncan (2023) The potential of wildflower strips to enhance pollination services in sweet cherry orchards grown under polytunnels.
Journal of Applied Ecology.
ISSN 1365-2664.
Avelar, C.R., Nunes, B.V.C., Sassaki, B.S., Vasconcelos, M.S., Oliveira, L.P.M., Lyra, A.C., Bueno, Allain and Jesus, R.P.
(2023) Efficacy of silymarin in patients with Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease – The Siliver trial: a study protocol for a randomized controlled clinical trial.
Trials, 24 (177).
ISSN 1745-6215.
Cortes, D.M., Boulhosa, R.S.S.B., Paz, C.L.S.L., Cunha, C.M., Oliveira, L.P.M., Lyra, A.C., Bueno, Allain and Jesus, R.P.
(2023) Handgrip strength is associated with 12 months survival in male patients suffering with advanced chronic liver disease.
Journal of Human Nutrition and Dietetics.
ISSN Print: 0952-3871 Electronic: 1365-277X.
A key priority of the School is to increase the number of Post Graduate Research (PGR) students.
To help achieve this, the University of Worcester is keen to encourage the development of our research through PGR studies, including fully funded studentship opportunities (usually three-year, full-time doctoral research studentships).
When available, information about these opportunities is advertised on the University’s PhD Studentships page, but also on the Find a PhD website .
We also welcome and encourage applications from Self-funded students to undertake research towards MPhil and PhD degrees across a range of disciplines .
If interested in this route please contact the relevant Research Group lead, but if you are unsure who to contact, please message Dr Fleur Visser , the School’s MPhil/PhD Course Leader.
The University of Worcester runs a scheme for Visiting Researchers and we encourage approaches from researchers who will complement and therefore add value to our existing research programmes.
To find out more and express an interest, please contact Dr Duncan Westbury who is the School’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Coordinator.
We welcome the opportunity to work collaboratively with businesses and the community to help ensure our research continues to be informed and shaped by those benefitting from our research.
For example, we are currently working with the Environment Agency to assess soil erosion on farmland using Uncrewed Aerial Vehicles (drones), and in conjunction with the Bumblebee Conservation Trust (BBCT), how habitat preferences of bumblebees can be determined using multi-scale remote sensing data.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-science-and-the-environment/science-and-the-environment-academic-blog.aspx:
Our blog showcases the subject knowledge and specialities of our academic staff in the School of Science and the Environment, providing an accessible overview of the research undertaken at the university.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-science-and-the-environment/science-and-the-environment-facilities.aspx:
All of our undergraduate students benefit from research informed teaching and we pride ourselves on ensuring students gain experience in the approaches and techniques used in a professional context, preparing them for the workplace.
Investment in teaching equipment and facilities has therefore focused on providing state-of-the-art analytical laboratories, specialised equipment for fieldwork, a dedicated GIS suite for mapping, and cutting-edge monitoring equipment.
Staff and student researchers have access to a range of different laboratories, a large Climate Controlled Chamber, and a plant growth room.
The research laboratories within the School are dedicated to:
Leukaemia research
Our researchers work with immortalised cell lines and are concerned with the molecular aspects that mediate leukaemogenesis.
Utilising various molecular techniques, including, lentiviral transduction and CRISPR, we are investigating the role of developmental and metabolic genes in the promotion and treatment of leukaemia .
To conduct this research, we have a Biosafety level 2 cell human cell culture facility , which includes MACS® magnetic cell sorting (Miltenyi Biotec) and a Guavacyte multiparameter flow cytometer (Merk-Millipore).
We also have several fluorescence microscopes used for cell imaging.
Molecular plant and Microbial biology
We are well equipped to study plant-microbe interactions .
We have the capabilities to: 1) generate molecular markers for accelerated plant breeding, 2) investigate the role of microbial biological control agents to protect plants from fungal and oomycete diseases, and 3) explore small RNAs for plant protection.
We are also able to perform DNA/RNA quality analysis and small-scale sequencing (MinION).
To carry out this research we have high performance computing facilities, growth cabinets, and state of the art equipment such as the Agilent TapeStation system , and high spec microscopes for image analysis, all within our fully equipped molecular laboratories.
Lipidomics (study of lipids)
Diseases with a metabolic background are known to interfere with the composition and function of lipids.
Our tools are used to detect molecular manifestations of diseases , predicting disease progression and possible outcomes, and also adherence to and effectiveness of treatments.
The lipidomics lab is equipped with a Shimadzu HPLC-MS and a GC-FID , alongside sample concentrators and extensive chromatographic equipment.
Samples collected from our cell culture, as well as human samples and food samples, can be analysed for their phospholipid and neutral lipid composition.
Biochemistry
The Biochemistry lab is equipped with refrigerated orbital incubators for large-scale protein expression, sonicator, AKTAPure chromatography system , SDS-PAGE and Western-blotting equipment, a Pxi system for visible, chemiluminescent and fluorescent imaging and vibration-free cooled incubator for protein crystal growth .
Environmental analysis
The School is superbly equipped to perform investigations into a range of environmental variables: The detection of heavy-metal contamination and the analysis of soil micro-nutrients using Microwave Plasma Atomic Emission Spectrometers (MP-AES); determining the composition of microplastics in food and sediment samples using Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR); the analysis of samples for pesticide residuals using Gas Chromatography With Flame Ionization Detection (GCFID); and measuring pollutants such as Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) using Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometry (GCMS).
We have seven teaching laboratories within the School, the largest being the Charles Darwin building, seating 72 students.
All labs are equipped with audio-visual equipment to enhance the student experience.
Two laboratories are dedicated for use by undergraduate students working on their dissertation projects.
At the University of Worcester, our state-of-the-art equipment means students get to use the equipment they are likely to use in the workplace.
Our teaching laboratories are equipped with a range of kit equipment from microscopes (including photographic and fluorescence microscopes), weighing balances, water baths, growth cabinets, autoclaves, centrifuges, spectrophotometers, pipettors, vortex mixers, ovens, and fume cupboards, to the more specialised equipment including that required for gel electrophoresis, Kjeldahl apparatus, CEM microwave digester, a bomb calorimeter, stomachers, shaking incubators, sonicators, sample concentrators, microtomes, and an environmental DNA sampler.
We also have specialist equipment for analysing a range of sample types : spectrophotometers (UV and IR), flame photometers, Gas Chromatograph-Mass Spectrometer (GC‐MS), Gas Chromatograph-Flame Ionization Detector (GC‐FID), High Performance Liquid Chromatograph-Mass Spectrometer (HPLC-MS), and Microwave Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectrometer (MP-AES).
In addition to the standard field kit (ranging poles, compasses, tape measures, etc.), the School has invested in equipment to enable highly detailed land and habitat surveys to be conducted.
This includes a Leica laser scanner , two Trimble survey grade GPS systems (Trimble R8 and 2 Trimble R10s) with Real Time kinematics (RTK), and a Noggin 500 DC/ST ground penetrating radar.
To support fieldwork activities, we also have specialised camera equipment, including GoPro’s , GoPRO Max’s , and an Insta PRO 2 .
To measure water quality, we have YSI Multiparameter Water Quality Sondes , AquaTec Turbidity probes and temperature loggers.
River discharge is measured with Valeport 801 Electromagnetic Current Meters and a Teledyne StreamPro Acoustic Doppler Current Profiler (ADCP).
Data capture in the field by students and staff is also supported through use of Toughpads and iPad minis.
For species surveys, in addition to frame and pin quadrats, the School has a collection of Browning SpecOps trail cameras which can take still images or video clips, hair tubes, hedgehog footprint tunnels , and Longworth small mammal live traps .
We also have two Burkhard Vortis insect suction samplers , and a Robinson moth trap .
All equipment is available for staff and students to book for their own research.
The School continues to maintain and invest in a fleet of both rotary and fixed wing Uncrewed Aerial Vehicles (drones) , enabling staff and students to map and monitor a range of environmental variables.
This includes research by our river scientists for which UAVs are used for the remote sensing of river morphology, river discharge, monitoring soil erosion and sediment delivery to water courses.
Our fleet of rotary UAVs includes: a DJI Phantom 4 PRO, Inspire 1, Matrice 600 and three Phantom 4 UAVs with real time kinematics (RTK), complete with Survey Grade GPS base stations.
The fixed wing fleet includes a C-Astral Bramor and three Bormatec UAVs.
We use a range of different payloads across the fleet of UAVs including RGB and video cameras, multispectral cameras, particle counters, and a Sniffer 4D (for mapping Aerial Pollutants including: Volatile Organic Compounds, CH 4 , NO 2 , O 3 , CO, SO 2 , PM1.0, PM2.5 and PM10).
To support the mapping of data, we have a dedicated GIS suite with high specification PCs running industry standard survey and photogrammetry software.
High-Performance Computing (HPC) facilities are also available enabling researchers to process and analyse large data sets and perform complex computational tasks including modelling and next generation sequencing.
The School maintains two permanent river monitoring sites , supporting YSI multiparameter probes, and Sondes and ISCO water samplers.
These are accessible remotely in real-time via telemetry with online database storage.
Data are used in undergraduate teaching and research to assess the relationships between flow and water quality parameters and to assess the impact of sewage treatment works and agricultural runoff on instream nutrients such as nitrate and phosphate concentrations.
The School maintains two permanent atmospheric monitoring sites, both equipped with research grade meteorological instruments (Campbell).
They are also equipped with instrumentation to measure bioaerosols .
This includes Hirst type impactors, single cyclones, multi-vial cyclones, passive samplers, microtiter traps, high volume samplers, mobile samplers, cascade samplers and a real-time airborne particle identifier .
The University of Worcester therefore has one of the most advanced atmospheric sampling stations in Europe to support staff and student research, enabling the detection of pollen, fungal spores, bacteria and other airborne microorganisms.
The equipment is also used with our undergraduates as part of research-informed teaching.
Furthermore, pollen data are used to create the Daily UK Pollen Forecast .
The School of Science and the Environment's test chamber is used for both commercial and research work.
For example, previously it has been used by sport scientists testing athletic performance under different environmental conditions, and by aerobiologists investigating how real-time pollen collectors respond during prolonged heatwaves.
The chamber is available for hire by external clients for their own Research & Development, which includes support from a fully trained chamber operator.
Features:

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-science-and-the-environment/science-and-the-environment-alumni-stories:
Find out about the success of our Science and Environment Alumni.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-sport-and-exercise-science:
Staff in the School of Sport and Exercise Science are committed to delivering a high quality student experience, in order to inspire and challenge all students to achieve their full potential.
The University of Worcester has a proven record of excellence in the field of sport and exercise science, with plenty to offer anyone who has an enthusiasm for sport, exercise and health.
We have a multi-purpose indoor sports centre, two floodlit synthetic pitches, an exercise physiology suite, two further sports science laboratories, nutrition laboratory, teaching rooms, gymnasium and dance studio.
Recent major developments have seen the introduction of the award-winning Riverside Building and the 2,000 seat Worcester Arena .
Our innovative Motion and Performance Centre is situated on the St John's campus has expertise in a wide range of areas, ranging from Physical Activity, Exercise and Health to Biomechanics and Sport and Exercise Physiology.
The University has particular strengths in basketball and netball.
Our men's and women's basketball teams and netball first team have all enjoyed considerable success.
The Worcester Wolves are the West Midlands' premier basketball team playing in the British Wheelchair Basketball Women's Premier League and the National Basketball League (men's and women's).
The Club is owned by the University of Worcester and home games and training take place at the 2,000 seat University of Worcester Arena.
The Club was formed in May 2000 and teams have competed in the National Basketball League (current), the British Basketball League (2006-2021), the Women's National League (current) and the Women's Wheelchair Basketball Premier League (current).
In addition, the University has good links with the region’s sports teams, particularly Kidderminster Harriers Football Club , Worcester City Football Club , Worcester City Women Football Club and Worcestershire County Cricket Club and Worcester Hockey Club .
If you are already involved in competitive sport, we offer sports scholarships in a range of sports, including basketball, cricket, netball, football and rugby.
You will have to meet certain academic and performance criteria, but the scholarships are a great way to combine study with competitive sport.
For further information on all eligible sports and academic/performance criteria, please visit our sports scholarships page .
Friday, 25 July 2025
A University of Worcester student has been appointed as the new Head Coach of the England Under 14s Women’s basketball team.
Wednesday, 04 June 2025
A former University of Worcester student is preparing for the 2025–26 season as AFC Wimbledon’s Director of Football, having helped guide the club to promotion via the League Two play-offs.
Monday, 12 May 2025
Elite and talented athletes studying at the University of Worcester have been recognised at an inaugural sports award’s ceremony.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-sport-and-exercise-science/sport-and-exercise-science-staff-profiles.aspx:
Head of the School of Sport and Exercise Science
Head of Department for Sport Management, Therapy and Exercise
Deputy Head of the School of Sport and Exercise Science
Department Head for PE and Coaching; Principal Lecturer (Teaching) Sport Development/Sport Business; School Learning and Teaching Coordinator
Director of Sport Partnerships and Community Engagement
University Arena Operations and Engagement Manager
Professor of Sociology of Sport and Exercise
Visiting Basketball Fellow School of Sport and Exercise Science University of Worcester
Course Leader for MSc Sports Coaching and Professor of Sport Coaching
Course Leader for Sport and Exercise Medicine and Senior Lecturer in Sports Therapy
Lecturer in Performance Analysis
Senior Lecturer in Physical Education and Sports Scholarship Programme Lead
Course Leader for MSc Sport (International Sport Management) and BA (Hons) Sport Business Management, Senior Lecturer in Sport Management/Development
Senior Lecturer and Deputy Course Leader in Sports Therapy
Course Leader for PE, and Senior Lecturer in PE and PE and Sports Coaching
Course Leader for FdSc Sports Coaching and PE, and Senior Lecturer in Sports Studies/Coaching HND
Senior Lecturer in Sport and Exercise Science
Principal Lecturer in Sports Therapy, Course Leader for MSci Sports Therapy., Lead for Continuing Professional Development in Learning and Teaching
Lecturer in Sport and Exercise Science
Principal Lecturer in Sport and Exercise Science (Biomechanics)
Principal Lecturer in Sports Coaching Science
Lecturer (Teaching) in Sport & Exercise Science
Principal Lecturer in Sport and Exercise Psychology
Course Leader for MSc Sport (Applied Performance Analysis) and Senior Lecturer in Performance Analysis
Lecturer (Teaching) in Sports Therapy
Lecturer (Teaching) in PE and Coaching, Course Leader for Physical Education and Sports Coaching
Senior Lecturer (Teaching) in FdSc Sports Coaching and Physical Education; Quality Coordinator
Course Leader and Senior Lecturer in Sports Therapy
Senior Lecturer (Biomechanics)
Course Leader and Senior Lecturer in Sport and Exercise Science
Principal Lecturer in Sport and Exercise Science
Principal Lecturer in Adapted Physical Education
UK Research and Innovation Future Leaders Fellow
Deputy Course Leader for Physical Education and Sports Coaching Science and Senior Lecturer (Teaching) in Sports Coaching Science
Course Leader for Sports Coaching Science with Disability Sport and Senior Lecturer in Sports Coaching Science
Senior Lecturer and Course Leader for Physical Education, and Physical Education and Sports Coaching Science
Course Leader for BSc Outdoor Leadership and Adventure Sports Coaching
Senior Lecturer in Sports Coaching Basketball and Course Leader for Sport Development and Coaching BA (Hons)
Senior Lecturer in Sport Management and Sport Development
Senior Research Fellow in Inclusive Sport
Lecturer (Teaching) Sports Coaching (Cricket)
Course Leader for Cricket Coaching & Management, Senior Lecturer (Teaching) in Sports Coaching
Joint Course Leader for Postgraduate Awards in Professional Development; Course Leader for MA in Outdoor Education
Sports Franchise Marketing and Communications Manager
MPC Senior Technical Engineer
Basketball Development Officer
Lead Technician (Motion and Performance Centre)
Sports Science Technician
Outdoor Activity, Sport and Exercise Manager and Safety Adviser
Health and Fitness Officer
Strength and Conditioning Technical Demonstrator
Sports Therapy Technical Demonstrator
Netball Development Coach
Women's Rugby Lead Coach
Sport and Exercise Facilities Manager
University Arena Events Coordinator
University of Worcester Arena and Business Support Officer
University Arena Community and Events Engagement Coordinator
Outdoor Activity Sport and Exercise Supervisor
University of Worcester Director of Strength and Conditioning
PA to Head of School
School of Sport and Exercise Science Administration Office
Monday to Thursday (8.30am – 4.30pm) and Friday (8.30am – 4.00pm)
Email: sportsoffice@worc.ac.uk
Tel: 01905 542658

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-sport-and-exercise-science/sport-and-exercise-science-research:
Priority areas for research development identified in the University of Worcester’s latest strategic plan include Social Exclusion, Physical Activity, Health and Wellbeing and Disability Sport.
We have a broad range of ongoing research projects in these areas.
For more information about ongoing research please explore the Inclusive Sport and Physical Activity , Coach Developer and Performance Analyst and Human Performance Research Groups’ pages.
The School of Sport and Exercise Science embrace a broad range of research with a focus on applied research and knowledge transfer.
The School has successfully supported over 20 PhD students since 2008.
We have research active staff that are currently supervising 16 post-graduate students registered on MPhil and PhD degrees across a wide variety of topics related to sport, exercise, physical activity, sport coaching, sociology of sport, inclusive sport and sports science.
Our research students study for their degrees both part and full-time.
Staff are well experienced at supporting research students from a broad range of backgrounds and we have UK Council for Graduate Education recognised research supervisors.
The School is always seeking to work collaboratively with a range of partners to support PhD studentships and joint projects.
If you are interested in completing a research degree with us (MPhil or PhD) or any aspect of our ongoing work and wish to discuss, engage, or commission any research or evaluation, please contact Professor Győző Molnár at g.molnar@worc.ac.uk .
We publish our research findings in a range of peer-reviewed journals, books and specialist magazines to share our innovative ideas with the international research community.
WRaP is an online catalogue of material produced by members of the University and contains details of our articles, conference papers, book chapters and publications.
For more information, please visit our Worcester Research and Publications webpage.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-sport-and-exercise-science/sport-and-exercise-science-facilities:
The University has excellent facilities supporting participation in sport, exercise and recreation, as well as academic study pathways.
Students wishing to use the exercise facilities pay a small membership fee.
In addition, there are numerous sport clubs offering memberships based in the Students' Union .
For the competitively minded, the University is a member of British Universities and Colleges Sport (BUCS ).
The University Arena provides a new first-class multi-purpose home for recreational and high-performance sport for the University and City.
The Arena has a 2000 seating capacity and a range of sports, fitness, therapy and conference facilities.
The facility is purposely designed for wheelchair and mobility impaired athletes strengthening our capability to offer the country's first sports coaching science degree specializing in Disability Sport.
St John's Sports Centre also includes a floodlit sand based astroturf, third generation (3G) astroturf and extensive playing fields.
The Battenhall Playing fields include: 3 full size (11 a side) Football Pitches, 1 9v9 size Football Pitch, Up to 4 x 7 aside Football Pitches, I rugby pitch, all with changing facilities, 1 cricket square with training nets and a pavilion.
See AccessAble guide for access details to St Mary's Pavilion and Battenhall Playing Fields

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-sport-and-exercise-science/performance-sport-and-sports-scholarships:
At Worcester we are committed to supporting elite and talented sports performers who are dedicated to both sporting and academic success.
We encourage applications from students working as part of an elite athlete pathway, representing at senior or junior national or international competitions, or working towards elite athlete pathway status.
We will support you to combine your studies alongside elite sport.
We are proud of our dual career accredited status with Talented Athlete Scholarship Scheme (TASS) and our partnership with UK Anti-Doping (UKAD) for Clean Sport in Higher Education
Our sports scholarships are available for international level athletes in team or individual sports, with support packages including strength and conditioning, sports therapy, gym membership, nutrition, sports psychology, an identified athlete lifestyle advisor, pastoral workshops and a University of Worcester sports clothing bundle.
The scholarship application process for the 2025/26 academic year is currently closed.
Please keep an eye on our website for further updates .
If you have high representative honours (but not at international level) in the following sports Rugby, Football, Netball, Cricket or Basketball then you are encouraged to contact the following coaches; Men’s Basketball: d.blake@worc.ac.uk ; Women's Basketball: alexis.lewis3@worc.ac.uk ; Wheelchair Basketball: l.warburton@worc.ac.uk ;  Men’s and Women’s Cricket: d.such@worc.ac.uk ; Women’s Football: mike.harris@worc.ac.uk ; Men’s Football: n.howarth@worc.ac.uk ; Netball: h.french@worc.ac.uk ; Women’s Rugby: a.gardener@worc.ac.uk and Men’s Rugby: t.cubitt@worc.ac.uk .
We have a comprehensive sport performance programme which will allow you to access a range of support services if you successfully make the 1st team in any of the above named squads.
Once you've applied for the sports scholarship scheme your application will be reviewed by our panel.
If you are successful you'll be placed on one of our two pathways: Sport Dual Career Scholarship (Tier 1) or Sport Emerging Dual Career Scholarship (Tier 2).
As part of this pathway you'll receive:
We value and celebrate high performance sport at the University of Worcester and recognise teams making significant progress in BUCS as well as having strong links with local high performance clubs.
Students wishing to pursue high performance sport whilst at university can engage in the performance programme in the sports listed below.
To achieve these aims we work closely with the Students' Union and our performance teams regularly compete at the top levels of BUCS competitions.
We have University of Worcester sport teams in the following sports:
Athletes who are part of performance programme squads have access to provision which aims to support athletes and teams in achieving their goals.
This provision includes: performance coaching, strength and conditioning, fitness profiling, sport psychology profiling, nutrition, sports therapy clinics, access to ice baths and recovery sessions and performance playing kit, as well as a comprehensive student athlete education workshop pathway.
If you have any questions about University of Worcester Sport Performance and Scholarships please contact:
Call or Text: 07889 925660 Email: sportsoffice@worc.ac.uk Follow us on TikTok: @uw_sport Follow us Instagram: @uw_sport

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-sport-and-exercise-science/women-in-sport-and-exercise-science:
The WISE task force is formed from a wide range of staff and students across the University, including representatives from:
If you are interested in joining our group please email WISE@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-sport-and-exercise-science/partnerships-and-initiatives.aspx:
We actively work with a range of partners to provide wider access to our programmes.
We develop long-term teaching and research partnerships with academic institutions all over the world.
Our sport reputation also enables us to work closely with policy makers, who apply our research to the industry.
We’re proud of the impact and financial benefit that our research has had on the economic development of the region and the UK.
To find out more about our research, read our Sport and Exercise Science Research page .
Our initiatives over the past 10 years have developed new, flexible approaches to learning and teaching.
These projects have been central to achieving a global presence and providing access to our degrees through partner institutions.
The ability to offer flexible modes of study is a key aspect of our programmes.
Worcester students welcome the opportunity to study close to their homes through our strong network of regional partnerships.
Further afield, our expanding network of international partners has opened many opportunities for staff collaboration, student exchanges and research.
The School of Sport and Exercise Science has many links with local colleges.
This gives you the benefit of studying in different locations and accessing specialised facilities.
We offer the following programme in association with a partner:
We actively encourage our students to study abroad.
All our courses have an international element to the curriculum.
For further information and links to our partnership institutions abroad, visit our International Study Abroad pages .
We provide high quality distance and distributed learning programmes in a range of subjects.
The policy for maintaining these high standards rests on good practice within the University and our approved Learning Partners.
To meet our approval conditions, the student support must meet our standards and quality requirements and the correct procedures must be followed.
If you’d like to find out more about working in partnership with us, contact sportsoffice@worc.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-sport-and-exercise-science/working-with-schools:
We offer a range of services for teachers and careers advisers, aimed at supporting you and your students through every stage of the transition from school to university.
We organise activities for students and teachers visiting the University and also take activities into schools and colleges.
At a variety of levels, we give insights into current research, explain degree and career options and generally enthuse the next generation to enjoy sport, both on the pitch and in the classroom.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-sport-and-exercise-science/sport-and-exercise-therapy-injury-and-rehabilitation-clinic.aspx:
At the University of Worcester Sport and Exercise Therapy Injury and Rehabilitation Clinic, we offer a wide range of treatments tailored to your individual needs.
The services we deliver offer full use of our facilities with specialist equipment for treatments as well as rehabilitation.
Our clinic focuses on the prevention of injury and the rehabilitation of our clients back to optimum levels of functional, occupational, and sports-specific fitness, regardless of age and ability.
We work with the public all the way to high level athletes.
Our personalised rehabilitation plans and follow-up sessions with our student sport therapists provide the continuity our clients need to progress week on week.
Our team is made up of sports therapists who are currently studying BSc (Hons) Sports Therapy degree programme.
Students work under supervision by staff holding professional membership, insurance, and a license to practice in the UK.
To contact us please email sportstherapyclinic@worc.ac.uk
Sports massage can provide several benefits to athletes and active individuals, including enhanced performance, improved flexibility, range of motion, and muscle function, which can contribute to better athletic performance.
Loose comfortable clothing that is easy to be removed if needed to be such as vests, preferably not sports bras for women and a pair of shorts for any lower limb treatment.
When booking please select the "Sports Massage Clinic" option.
We are located on the University of Worcester's St John's Campus (WR2 4LE), in the St John's Sport Centre Balcony.
Over 20 million people in the UK, almost one third of the population, have a musculoskeletal (MSK) condition such as arthritis or back pain.
Symptoms can include pain, stiffness, limited movement, and disability which affect quality of life and independence (NHS England).
MSK injury consult focuses on screening for these conditions, allowing us to give an clinical impression and tailored treatment to help aid recovery and better health.
This session will cover a full 55-minute consultation with one of our third-year students, within this time the student will focus on the main complaint of pain and how it may have occurred.
During this a full subjective and objective assessment will be completed looking at the injured site itself and the possible surrounding factors that could be involved.
From this, the student will tailor their treatment to your specific needs to create a rehabilitation plan aided to the clients’ goals and fitting to their daily lifestyle.
To book please select the "Sports injury Clinic" option on the booking link .
Note: we are an open clinic with no private cubicles with a focus on student experience and learning.
At the university of Worcester, we work alongside out Franchise partners such as Worcester Wolves basketball Men’s and Women’s, Wheelchair Worcester Wolves Basketball and Severn Starts netball.
Delivering support within:
All franchise athletes are fully supported with injury and massage clinics, If you are needing to book in please follow the link and instructions below
When booking please select the "Sports Franchise Clinic" option, then select a time that suits you.
When booking please select the "Sports Franchise Clinic" option.
For an injury assessment, double book back-to-back slots for a full injury consult time.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-sport-and-exercise-science/sport-at-worcester.aspx:
Whatever subject you study, Worcester has a great culture of sport.
Whether it’s playing for fun or competing at an elite level, our facilities, academics, researchers and Students' Union, create an accessible and inclusive sporting environment.
Our Sports clubs and teams compete nationally against other Universities as part of the BUCS (British Universities and Colleges Sport) Leagues & Championships and we also have many recreational opportunities for those who would like to learn a new skill or just have fun.
Students who have an outstanding national or international record of achievement in a particular sport, may be eligible for a sports scholarship when studying with us.
Join Sports students Warwick and Emma as they take you on a guided tour of our facilities and share an inside look at sport at Worcester.
Discover our Research, Undergraduate and Postgraduate courses, and facilities.
Outdoor Education activities, sport & exercise in a beautiful setting.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-sport-and-exercise-science/international-basketball-camp.aspx:
The coaching team will include the senior coaching staff and players from the Worcester Wolves and senior coaches from Valencia Basket of the ACB league.
We had another very successful Worcester Wolves and Valencia Basket International Basketball Camp in 2024, so we encourage any interested players to sign up to the 2025 camp as soon as possible to avoid disappointment.
The main booking page for this camp is now closed.
If you would still like to attend, please email valenciacamp@worc.ac.uk with your preferred option, and we will do our best to accommodate your request.
A £150 non-refundable deposit is required to secure your place.
If you pay the full cost at the time of booking, this will include the £150 non-refundable deposit.
Worcester Wolves and Valencia Camp 2025 is scheduled to run from the afternoon of Sunday 17th August 2025 to the afternoon of Friday 22nd August 2025.
The camp will take place in the beautiful city of Worcester with training at St Johns Campus and the iconic University of Worcester Arena , one of the finest basketball training venues in Europe.
The camp will include a half-day team building session at our outdoor activity centre on Lakeside Campus.
A full schedule will be provided to all campers in advance of arrival.
The daily programme runs from 9am – 9pm and will include skill stations, drills, individual workouts and analysis, competitions and a minimum of two games per day.
Campers are grouped by age and ability level to provide a challenging, yet positive Worcester/Valencia Basket camp experience.
Each player will receive official camp clothing bundle, valued over £100 - more details to follow.
Additional items will be available to purchase during the camp.
The University of Worcester Arena is an iconic and inclusive 2,000 seat venue with three competition basketball playing courts, courtside teaching facilities, corporate area and extended changing rooms with ice baths.
The Arena is the home of the Worcester Wolves and has been the training base for GB Men and Women in preparation for Eurobasket 2015 Championships.
It hosted the 2015 European Wheelchair Basketball Championships.
There are an additional two basketball courts with adjoining fitness facilities at the University’s St.
John’s Sports Centre.
University of Worcester facilities are based on a campus that has large, open and green spaces and is secure without being restrictive.
Single and spacious bedrooms.
Each flat has six bedrooms and a lounge area with comfortable seating.
The perfect place to relax after a day on court!
At the camp, we know that great performance starts with great nutrition.
That's why we offer catering designed to keep players energised, focused and ready to hit the court.
The whole team at the University of Worcester are committed to health and safety, the safeguarding of young people (with relevant accreditation), and in ensuring that all those who stay with us have a safe and enjoyable experience.
Worcester Wolves are a three-basketball team club, consisting of a men’s team, a women’s team and a women’s wheelchair team.
The teams currently play in the 2,000 seat University of Worcester Arena.
The club is a well-established development programme and fields an additional junior basketball team.
In partnership with the University of Worcester, the club have engaged in a wide range of international, educational, player development and research initiatives.
Founded in 1986, Valencia Basket is one of the most powerful basketball clubs in Spain and Europe.
The team has played in the Spanish Elite League (ACB) for 27 of their 30 seasons and have reached the play-off finals once and have been semi-finalists on four occasions.
In 1998 the club enjoyed huge success, winning the Spanish Cup on their first year of entry.
Valencia Basket have a remarkable European history, as the first team to win three Eurocup titles 2003, 2010 and 2014 which enabled them to play for three years in the prestigious Euroleague.
Valencia Basket currently has 7,500 season ticket holders and ‘sell out’ for most of the home games.
The ACB´s team currently plays at Pabellón Fuente San Luis, with a total capacity of 8,500 seats.
The youth teams are an integral part of the club´s structure.
More than 450 boys and girls train and enjoy basketball with Valencia Basket.
This number will be doubled following the completion of the new project “La Alqueria del Basket”.
La Alqueria del Basket will be a 13 basketball courts built just behind the Pabellon Fuente San Luis.
Valencia Basket have 25 years of experience of organising Basketball Camps for youth players and are continuously searching for new ways to grow and develop as a club.
If you have any questions please do get in touch:
Call: 01905 54 4444 Email: valenciacamp@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-sport-and-exercise-science/sport-and-exercise-science-alumni:
Discover the success stories of some of Worcester's Sport and Exercise Science graduates.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/campaigns/study-sport:
Sport
Choose the perfect sport course for you.
The UK’s first cricket-focused degree with an integrated masters, this course will prepare you for a successful career in cricket coaching, management or sport development.
This degree is designed to ensure you have knowledge of the delivery of all areas of the PE curriculum as well as coaching skills.
This degree has been specifically designed to meet the changing needs of the Physical Education professional.
Sport scientists use knowledge of how the body works to help people improve their health or sporting ability.
On this course you'll study the science behind sports, covering areas like physiology, nutrition, biomechanics and psychology.
Our entrepreneurial culture informs this degree and will give you the confidence to be creative, innovative and successful.
The perfect course to kick-start your career in sports coaching or teaching.
Explore sport coaching from a range of perspectives, including the socio-cultural factors that shape the sporting journey.
Sportspeople constantly push their bodies to the limit.
Learn how to protect, diagnose and treat athletes with our degree in Sports Therapy
Unlock your potential in the world of football.
Develop the skills, knowledge and understanding to excel in the dynamic and evolving industry.
Wales international futsal player Chris enjoyed a double celebration when he graduated from the University.
Melissa graduated with a first class honours in Sport and Exercise Science.
After four and a half years of hard work, Dr Alice Burgin is embracing the moment as she celebrates her PhD
Read some recent blog posts by Worcester sport academics.
Dr John Francis discusses how analysts can change the future of sport.
Sports lecturer Gavin Thomas explores female strength and conditioning coaches' experiences in a male-dominated industry.
Dr Andy Renfree examines the challenges faced by athletes in the near future.
Dr Christian Edwards investigates how the desire for the "perfect body" can affect men's mental health.
Dr Andy Renfree, Principal Lecturer in Sport and Exercise Science, shares with us his short guide on how to become a runner.
Our Lakeside Campus is just a 10-minute drive from our St John's Campus.
The 50 acre site hosts a lake, used for a variety of watersports, woodlands and an outdoor education activity centre.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/medical-school:
The creation of a new and distinctive medical school serving the three counties of Gloucestershire, Herefordshire and Worcestershire is an exciting development both for the University of Worcester and the local community and health sector.
Coinciding with unprecedented challenges now facing the NHS that threaten the health and wellbeing of the nation, it presents an exceptional and timely opportunity to answer pressing as well as long-standing needs for a fresh and more innovative and targeted approach to medical education.
The Covid-19 pandemic has highlighted the importance of urgently addressing existing shortages of doctors and other vital healthcare professionals nationally and particularly in rural regions that are significantly under-served, including those to be covered by the Three Counties Medical School (TCMS).
It has also underlined a necessity to train doctors who are resourceful problem-solvers who are used to collaborating as part of a multi-professional team and are therefore capable of responding to rapidly changing situations.
This perfectly describes the kind of individual we expect to graduate from our new medical school.
“Our healthcare professional graduates already make a hugely beneficial impact on the health and wellbeing of our local communities.
The opportunity to expand this further across the counties of Worcestershire, Herefordshire and Gloucestershire, through the creation of a new Medical School, will make a transformative contribution to the region’s health workforce.”
Professor Sarah Greer Chair of the Three Counties Medical School Project
Training the doctors and healthcare leaders of the future means providing a programme that is in tune with the drive towards more care in the community and patient-centred practice.
Our graduate-entry course will feature a unique third year, which will include an integrated community placement.
We will fully utilise the untapped resource of community hospitals as a training ground for students, working alongside professionals and students from other health disciplines.
The programme will stand out for its ambitious plan to embed interdisciplinary and problem-based learning in the curriculum, and for the way it will marry empathetic patient-focussed values with the latest knowledge and professionalism of the modern-day health service.
The TCMS is part of a new wave of medical schools in the UK that are aiming to widen access to careers in medicine.
The University of Worcester, widely regarded as one of Britain’s most inclusive higher education institutions, is in an excellent position to take a lead in this movement.
Its commitment to widening opportunities and equality has been recognised in a string of national awards over the past four years.
The development of a medical school based at the heart of a new health and wellbeing campus is a logical next big step for the University, and is a key objective in its current strategic plan.
It grows organically out of established strengths and a solid and long track record in delivering a wide range of high quality programmes in subjects allied to nursing and health.
The TCMS will build on existing staff expertise, relationships with Trusts and hospitals, professional regulatory bodies and university facilities.
It will also allow for the development of an integrated course experience and community of practice - reflecting the current emphasis on integrated care - as trainee doctors, nurses and other health professionals learn in a shared environment.
“Creating the Three Counties Medical School to serve the people of this region and beyond is a major investment.
There is a serious shortage of doctors in many rural areas as well as in the Acute Hospitals.
The latest official workforce forecasts predict that the shortage of health personnel is going to balloon to 170,000 by 2027, which is just when doctors educated at the Three Counties Medical School should start coming on stream.”
Professor David Green CBE Vice Chancellor and Chief Executive, University of Worcester
The benefits of opening the TCMS extend far beyond the evolution of university healthcare teaching.
In developing the school, the University aspires in the long term to provide a practical solution to the significant difficulties in recruiting and retaining doctors in the region.
Research has shown that focussing on recruitment of local students is likely to be an effective strategy.
The TCMS will work in close partnership with Trusts and hospitals in the region, as well as schools and other local stakeholders, to help realise these objectives.
It amounts to a collaborative venture from which the regional community, healthcare system, medical profession, students, higher education sector and the NHS all stand to gain.
Discover more about our plans for the future:
You can request a text only version by emailing communications@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/medical-school/why-study-medicine-at-worcester.aspx:
The University of Worcester is a thriving university for the 21st century, with one of the best records in the country of sustained graduate employment and a reputation for quality, equality and compassion.
The University was awarded the largest allocation of additional health-related student places in the UK in 2020, putting it in a strong position to add to its substantial and proven experience over the past two decades in training high-quality, effective and compassionate health professionals in nursing, midwifery, physiotherapy, occupational therapy and paramedicine.
A third of the University’s students are currently studying courses allied to health.
This year, it celebrates 25 years of delivering nursing and midwifery education and is now considered to be one of the best training centres in the country for these professions.
In 2014, Worcester became the first university in the UK to introduce a postgraduate MSc Physician Associate (PA) course: a two-year intensive clinical programme to train clinical practitioners in the medical model to work alongside doctors, meeting the needs of a rapidly changing healthcare environment.
The first cohort of PA students graduated in 2016 with a 100 per cent employment rate.
This innovative programme provided local Trusts with a much needed resource, successfully reducing pressure on services and improving patient flow, while creating opportunities for a more diverse body of students.
“I think we have the opportunity here, with the University of Worcester as it is, with its large strengths in health professional education, to do something a little different with our medical school: very much more integrated with the NHS and the people who currently work in the NHS.”
Professor John Cookson Professor of Medical Education and Development Dean of the Three Counties Medical School
Worcester is the number one English higher education institute (excluding specialist institutions) for sustained employment, with or without further study, three and five years after graduation (LEO 2022).
Ranked among the top 10 universities in the country which best reflect society in a 2018 report from the Higher Education Policy Institute.
Winner of the Outstanding Contribution to the Local Community award (2019), winner of the Outstanding Contribution to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion award (2020), and shortlisted for Widening Participation or Outreach Initiative of the Year (2020) in the Times Higher Education Awards.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/courses/medicine-mbchb:
MBChB
PLEASE NOTE THAT THIS COURSE IS NOT AVAILABLE IN CLEARING.
UCAS Code: A101
Single Honours
Our 4-year graduate entry MBChB medical degree will prepare you to become a compassionate, highly skilled doctor.
You’ll work in small groups facilitated by practicing doctors following a 'problem based learning' curriculum.
This often starts with the problems patients bring to you, and means you will learn about health from both the doctors’ and patients’ perspective.
We have places on many of our courses through Clearing.
Check course availability , find out how to secure your place and take advantage of our accommodation guarantee on our Clearing webpages or by calling 01905 855111 .
Our MBChB (Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery) programme will prepare you to become a medical doctor.
With further training you can practice in any specialist area, from General Practice and Public Health, to Psychiatry, Anaesthesia and Surgery.
At Worcester, you’ll spend much of your time learning medicine in the community alongside patients, as well as studying on campus.
You’ll work closely with primary care teams, consultants and allied health professionals during a series of projects and placements - in general practice, outreach clinics, community hospitals and care facilities.
You will of course spend time in hospitals – for example on medical and surgical wards, from specialised cancer treatment centres and psychiatric in-patient units, to labour wards and research laboratories - but from your first weeks as a medical student you will meet patients in general practice and start to join them on their healthcare journey.
While on campus you’ll study in small groups with our team of experienced medical doctors, using a ‘problem based learning’ approach that builds complexity year-on-year.
You’ll be based on our new health and wellbeing campus, working alongside students studying other health professions.
The new facility includes a specialised anatomy skills room using high fidelity models for visualisation of anatomy, pathology and physiology; a simulated GP’s surgery with a suite of consultation rooms; technology for viewing and feedback space; and easily dividable units for Objective Structured Clinical Examinations.
Our MBChB course is taught over four years and divided into two phases.
We regularly review our courses to reflect the latest research and developments in the subject area, as well as feedback from students, employers and the wider sector.
As a result, modules may change to ensure the course remains current and relevant.
Foundations of Medicine 1
Foundations of Medicine 2
Projects - Years 1 and 2
After graduating from the Three Counties Medical School and completing the two year Foundation Programme, you’ll be in a position to apply for posts within your chosen speciality.
For most these will be hospital and primary care posts in the NHS, but there are also research and commercial opportunities in fields such as the pharmaceutical industry, law and the media.
The UK Foundation Programme is a two-year, work-based training programme which is intended to bridge the gap between medical school and specialty or general practice training.
As a graduate of our MBChB you will be in a position to provisionally register with the GMC (providing you meet all of the GMC's Fitness to Practise guidelines) and apply to become a Foundation Year 1 doctor.
Access to the Foundation Programme is competitive and subject to you meeting all the eligibility criteria.
After that you will be working primarily in hospitals to consolidate your knowledge.
Foundation Programmes are run through Foundation Schools.
In the Three Counties area these are the West Midlands South Foundation School , covering Herefordshire and Worcestershire, and the Severn Deanery Foundation School , covering Gloucestershire.
As an international applicant it is your responsibility to ensure that the University of Worcester MBChB, which will be your Primary Medical Qualification (PMQ) upon graduation, satisfies the requirements of the country in which you wish to work.
Learn clinical skills in state-of-the-art simulation and visualisation facilities.
All part of our brand new Health and Wellbeing campus where students from different health disciplines meet and collaborate.
Our MBChB programme is developed according to the General Medical Council Outcomes for Graduates (2018) .
These outcomes describe what a graduate from this course is expected to be able to demonstrate.
As a graduate, you’ll know the importance of self-directed learning.
You’ll be taught by patients, doctors, and other members of the healthcare team (in addition to basic and applied scientists), and it will be up to you to make the most of these valuable learning opportunities.
All your teaching and learning activities, including assessments and work-place-based assessments, will be documented in an e-portfolio, where you will be required to reflect on your progress towards the Outcomes for Graduates .
The learning opportunities that enable the development of these outcomes might occur at planned and unplanned times and in expected and unexpected ways.
The best teachers are the patients, but they do not arrive in accordance with the curriculum, so you will be expected to be flexible and seek out the maximum experience from the learning opportunities.
This means that although many opportunities are designed, others, and perhaps the most valuable, will be opportunistic and they just happen.
The curriculum is ‘spiral’ which means that certain topics or areas might come up time and again and as you travel around the spiral, you will broaden and deepen your understanding.
The responsibility for this developmental progress is ultimately yours as the student, although we will certainly do everything we can to ensure you have all the facilities, support and opportunities you need to achieve your goals.
The MBChB course at Worcester is a graduate-entry programme.
To be considered you will:
If your degree is in a non-Science subject you will also need to:
Additional requirements
International students
Three Counties Medical School preferences
Not a graduate?
If you have any questions about entry requirements, please call our Admissions Office on 01905 855111 or email admissions@worc.ac.uk .
Accreditation
The fees for 2026/27 are not yet confirmed.
For reference the 2025/26 fee is below.
Funding for Year 1
In Year 1 you will be charged a tuition fee which in 2025/26 is likely to be £9,535.
You are responsible for paying the first £3,571 of the tuition fee yourself.
Eligible students can then apply for a tuition fee loan of up to £5,964 to cover the balance of the fee, from Student Finance (this loan is not means tested).
You may be eligible to take out a loan towards living costs of up to £10,544.
£4,915 of the loan is non means tested; the remainder is means tested on household income.
The loan is lower if you live with your parents during term time.
You can apply online for both the tuition fee loan and
maintenance loan via the Government’s student finance website .
Depending on your circumstances you may be eligible for supplementary grants from Government Student Finance, such as: Adult Dependants Grant; Childcare Grant; and Parents Learning Allowance.
Funding for Years 2 - 4
Tuition fees may increase each year with inflation.
Tuition fees are partially paid by the NHS.
You can apply to Student Finance for a tuition fee loan to pay the balance of the tuition fee.
The NHS provides a non means tested grant of £1,020 and a means tested bursary towards living costs (you are advised to check current year rates as these may change year to year).
The means tested bursary is lower if you live with your parents during term time.
Please visit the NHS Bursary website for full details.
Eligible students can also apply for a reduced rate, non means tested, loan of £2,753 (non final-year rate) from Student Finance.
This is lower if you live with your parents during term time.
The loan is also lower for the final year of the course.
The NHS pays additional allowances depending on your personal circumstances (similar to those offered by Government Student Finance in year 1): Childcare Allowance; Dependants Allowance; and Parents Learning Allowance.
The NHS also provides the Disabled Student's Allowance for these years.
The fees for International and EU students enrolling in the 2025/26 academic year are £47,900 per year.
International students who attend an interview in Worcester and are then offered a place, are able to claim back up to £500 from their first year tuition fee to cover travel costs.
Tuition fees are reviewed annually and may increase during the course.
For more details, please visit our course fees page .
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery MBChB - A101
UCAS is the central organisation through which applications are processed for entry onto full-time undergraduate courses in Higher Education in the UK.
Read our How to apply pages for more information on applying and to find out what happens to your application.
Please note: If you have already taken the UCAT or GAMSAT test, it is important that you include your test result in the 'Qualifications' section of your UCAS form.
This will help avoid delays in processing your application and shortlisting for interview.
If you have any questions, please get in touch.
We're here to help you every step of the way.
Admissions Office
Worcester is a welcoming university city with great transport links and plenty of student parking.
Benefit from our accommodation guarantee.
We have rooms on campus to suit every budget including en-suite options.
What does MBChB stand for?
What is the difference between MBBS and MBChB?
What is a Graduate Entry Medicine programme?
Can international students apply for Graduate Entry Medicine in the UK?
Postgraduate
We train graduates from our physician associate course to assist medical teams in clinical environments.
The country's first Physician Associate Masters course.
Undergraduate
This course is designed to help you in your application to study graduate-entry Medicine if you wish to become a medical doctor.
You can also choose to apply for Physician Associate courses or follow a career in the medical sciences.
Gain the scientific knowledge and laboratory skills needed to investigate, diagnose, monitor and treat different types of disease.
You’ll learn to examine patients safely using X-Ray, CT scanning, Fluoroscopy, MRI and more.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/medical-school/staff-profiles.aspx:
Founding Dean of Three Counties Medical School
College Director of Research & Knowledge Exchange
College Director of Learning, Teaching and Quality Enhancement for College of Business, Psychology and Sport
Founding MBChB Programme Lead, Professor of Values Based Healthcare Education
Founding MBChB Phase 1 Lead, Professor of Education in Physiology
Associate Lecturer – Simulation and IPL
Integrated Clinical Methods (ICM) Facilitator
Integrated Clinical Methods Facilitator
Principal Lecturer in Anatomy
Ethics & Law Subject Lead
Professor of Psychological Medicine; MPhil/PhD Course Lead for Three Counties Medical School; MBChB Student Support & Guidance Lead, Psychology Subject Lead and Research Methods Subject Lead
Senior Lecturer in Problem-based Learning, Integrated Clinical Methods and Faculty Development
Principal Lecturer and MBChB Phase 2 Lead
ICM Tutor
Clinical Skills Lead, Clinical Lead for Integrated Clinical Methods (ICM) and University Academic Lead for the Simulated Patient Programme
Founding MBChB Assessment Lead, Equality Diversity & Inclusion Lead, Professor of Student Success and Medical Assessment
Problem Based Learning Facilitator
Public health lead MBChB Program
Professor Sandra Nicholson (Interim Course Lead)
Ms Nimra Nazir (Module Lead)
Mr Andy McDonough (Module Lead and Placements Lead)

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/medical-school/medical-school-admissions:
As a Medical School we're aiming to lead the way on widening access, inclusion and equality.
Building on the University of Worcester’s exceptional and proven record on widening access to higher education, the Three Counties Medical School (TCMS) will aim to direct recruitment primarily at those groups that are under-represented in medical courses and in the profession.
This includes, in particular, students from lower socio-economic backgrounds, who still account for only around 10 per cent of all admissions nationally.
“Regardless of your background, we have got routes into medicine that aim to remove some of the barriers that are preventing the medical workforce from reflecting the diversity of the population.”
Professor Kay Mohanna GP and Professor of Values Based Healthcare Education at the University of Worcester
A further priority will be to encourage and support applications from local students, as part of the medical school’s mission to address difficulties in recruiting and retaining doctors in the region.
A number of specific initiatives will bring these two aims together, to produce a step change in applications from local students with widening participation backgrounds.
Although the TCMS is offering a graduate entry course, existing outreach networks in schools and colleges will be used to highlight opportunities for students to progress into the medical programme via a range of feeder routes, with a guaranteed interview for those achieving academic entry requirements.
In addition there will be a range of tailored activities including targeted mentoring with qualified graduate entry doctors (initially from partner organisations); the use of digital media to help explain the routes to medicine; academic study workshops embedded in programmes; career events focused on medicine; and taster placements and workshops in NHS Trusts.
An important third strand in the TCMS admissions strategy is to offer places to graduates from a wide range of disciplines, including for example behavioural and social sciences, humanities and psychology, who may be more likely to progress into general practice or psychiatry.
The TCMS is one of only a few medical schools adopting this strategy, which it has based on evidence from Swansea University Medical School showing that students from a non-science background perform equally as well as their bioscience peers after the first year of a medical programme.
“The good thing about the Three Counties is that it will look for slightly different characteristics than a typical medical school.
We are looking for really well-rounded people, not just people who are purely academic.
You could have a background in all sorts of different subjects, it doesn’t have to be science based.
As long as you are prepared to put the work in and are passionate about it, give it a go and apply!”
Ms Fiona Court Award-winning consultant breast surgeon at Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, and a member of the TCMS Curriculum Development Group

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/medical-school/medical-school-partnerships.aspx:
The Three Counties Medical School serves the region where most of the University’s student population live: Worcestershire, Herefordshire and Gloucestershire, as well as the surrounding areas.
It is a genuine partnership between the University, NHS Trusts and Clinical Commissioning Groups (CCGs) in the region.
The creation of the new medical school enhances the reputation both of the University and the regional hospitals and health sector that play a critically important role in its success.
It also aims to make a significant contribution to the quality improvement programme of the regional health service.
The Trust runs the the Alexandra Hospital (Redditch), Kidderminster Hospital and Treatment Centre, and Worcestershire Royal Hospital.
In 2015, in partnership with University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust, it developed a £25 million state-of-the-art Oncology Centre, based at Worcestershire Royal Hospital, to provide local radiotherapy services to 1,500 patients a year who previously had to travel to be treated.
The Trust performs about 95,000 planned and emergency operations each year, with 140,000 A&E attendances and about 500,000 outpatient appointments.
The Trust delivers a wide range of services in a variety of settings, including in people’s homes, care homes, schools, community centres and in-patient facilities such as seven community hospitals and recovery wards.
Established in 2011, the Trust is the main provider of community nursing, therapy and mental health services across the county.
In April 2020, it also took over the delivery of mental health and learning disability services in Herefordshire.
The Trust employs around 5,000 staff across the two counties.
In 2017 it was named as a Global Digital Exemplar for Mental Health in the Next Steps on the NHS report, produced by NHS England as part of the implementation of the Five Year Forward View.
It has been given up to £5 million of national funding to develop new digital systems to support mental health patients.
Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust is the largest employer in the county, with over 8,000 staff, and is one of the largest NHS Trusts in the UK.
It provides a wide range of specialist acute services -including a regional cancer centre - from its two large general hospitals, Gloucestershire Royal Hospital and Cheltenham General Hospital, as well as maternity services at Stroud Maternity Hospital.
Its specialist clinicians also see patients in the county’s community hospitals including Stroud, Berkeley Vale, Forest of Dean, Tewkesbury, the North Cotswolds and Cirencester.
The Trust has developed ground-breaking services such as its Mobile Chemotherapy Services, and also provides a national lead in Diabetic Retinal Screening and AAA Screening Services.
Gloucestershire Health and Care NHS Foundation Trust was formed in October 2019 from the merger of 2gether NHS Foundation Trust and Gloucestershire Care Services NHS Trust to provide joined up physical health, mental health and learning disability services.
It is in the early stages of establishing a new community hospital in the Forest of Dean.
The Trust employs more than 5,800 members of staff and works in partnership with a wide range of commissioners, collaborators and colleagues across the health and social care community.
It provides assessment, support, treatment and advice on a range of mental health, physical health and learning disability conditions.
These services are provided both in the community – in people’s homes and other settings – and in hospitals and inpatient units.
Specialist services include Chat Health, which enables young people to obtain confidential health and wellbeing advice from the school nursing team via text message, Let’s Talk, an Improving Access to Psychological Therapy (IAPT) service and Hope House, a Sexual Assault Referral Centre in Gloucestershire.
Established in 2011, Wye Valley NHS Trust is the provider of healthcare services at Hereford County Hospital, based in the city of Hereford, along with a number of community services for Herefordshire and its borders.
It also provides healthcare services at community hospitals in the market towns of Ross-on-Wye, Leominster and Bromyard.
The 3,000-strong workforce provides a range of specialist and generalist functions.
With a turnover of over £230 million in 2019/20, serving a population of 180,000, the Trust is one of the smallest rural District General Hospitals in England.
The Trust is a member of a ‘Foundation Group’, created in 2017 in partnership with South Warwickshire NHS and George Eliot Hospitals NHS Trust (GEH).
The three organisations face similar challenges and the group provides a wider platform to share strategic thinking, best practice and improve whole system patient pathways.
A ward replacement project is underway at the Hereford County Hospital site, which will provide a new 72-bed ward block to replace the last of the two 1940s hutted wards, and is planned to open in 2021.
NHS Herefordshire and Worcestershire Clinical Commissioning Group was established in April 2020 following a merger of NHS Herefordshire CCG, NHS Redditch and Bromsgrove CCG, NHS South Worcestershire CCG and NHS Wyre Forest CCG.
It has 83 GP practices and is responsible for buying health services for 800,888 people across Herefordshire and Worcestershire.
With a £1.19 billion budget, the group plans and commissions hospital, community and mental health services.
It also monitors the quality of the services provided and works with local partners with the aim of providing preventative and anticipatory care and seamless pathways across organisational boundaries.
All 74 GP practices in Gloucestershire are members of the NHS Gloucestershire CCG, which commissions NHS services to meet the needs of local people.
Services include emergency care, operations or treatments that can be planned in advance, community services and mental health services.
As well as commissioning services, CCG clinicians and managers at county and local level focus on planning, prevention and self care, joining up services, community support and the provision of information across health and social care.
The CCG is also developing alternatives to hospital care, including more care, treatment and support at home and in the local community.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/medical-school/medical-school-facilities.aspx:
We have developed a £16 million Three Counties Centre for Health and Wellbeing, as a new home for the Medical School.
Designed to maximise opportunities for interprofessional learning, the Elizabeth Garrett Anderson Building is a physical embodiment of the aims of the Three Counties Medical School (TCMS) and its programme.
Centrally situated on the Severn’s St John’s riverbank in Worcester, it is a major new resource for skills across the health professions.
The use of state-of-the-art simulation and visualisation facilities means there is no need for laboratories for cadaveric dissection and standard wet laboratories to support basic science courses.
Instead, space are available to provide students access to computers and to allow them to engage in small study groups.
A large open-plan learning space with café facilities acts as a communal area for students from different health disciplines to meet and collaborate in an informal environment.
The new building also provides a significant expansion of continuing professional development opportunities for those who are currently working in the regional health service.
The Centre for Health and Wellbeing significantly enhances the University’s existing health and science facilities.
These existing facilities include:
The Medical School’s students also have access to the University’s other first class facilities , such as The Hive, Europe’s first fully integrated university and public library based in a multi-award winning iconic building providing access to a quarter of a million books and over 12 miles of archive collections.
Known for its imaginative innovation as well as its generosity, the Clive and Sylvia Richards Charity has made a major donation of a quarter of a million pounds towards the creation of the new anatomy suite at the Three Counties Medical School.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/worcester-business-school:
Worcester Business School is an approved Chartered Management Institute Centre and a member of the Chartered Association of Business Schools, the European Foundation for Management Development (EFMD) and the Network of International Business Schools (NIBS).
Rooted in the region, supporting business growth and leading the employability agenda, Worcester Business School (incorporating the Department of Computing) is interdisciplinary and outward-looking.
Our strong emphasis on business enterprise and work-related learning delivers immediate benefit for our graduates, their organisations and the regional economy.
We work closely with organisations and businesses across the region including our partners in regional development at Worcestershire Local Enterprise Partnership and Herefordshire and Worcestershire Chamber of Commerce and the Federation of Small Businesses.
Details of upcoming taster events will be added as soon as they become available.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/worcester-business-school/worcester-business-school-staff-profiles.aspx:
Head of School, Principal Lecturer in Leadership and Business
Deputy Head of School, Principal Lecturer in Business
Professor of Entrepreneurship
Professor of HRD and University of Worcester Staff Researcher Development Lead
Head of the Department of Management & Finance
Head of the Department of Computing & Senior Lecturer in Computing
Course Leader and Lecturer in Computing
Principal Lecturer in Computing
Lecturer in Computer Science & PhD student
Laboratory and Services Technical Specialist
Lecturer in Web Development in Computing
Lecturer Information Systems
Lecturer in Computing
Senior lecturer/Consultant in Web Development and Social Media Lead
Senior Lecturer in Cyber Security
Admissions Tutor and Lecturer in Web Application Development
Associate Lecturer in Leadership
Course Leader Accounting & Finance, and Lecturer
Senior Lecturer in International, Procurement & Supply Chain Management
Principal Lecturer and WBS PRME Lead
Lecturer in Organisational Behaviour
Senior Lecturer in Economics & Business
Senior Lecturer in HRM and Organisational Behaviour
Lecturer of Leadership and Organisational Behaviour
Senior Lecturer in Leadership
Senior Lecturer – Leadership and Organisational behaviour
Senior Lecturer in Finance
Course Leader MPhil/PhD, Senior Lecturer in Human Resource Management & Inclusivity Tutor
Lecturer in International Business, International Lead (Undergraduate Students) & Director of China Studies
Senior Lecturer in Operations Management/Project Management
WBS Quality Co-ordinator, Senior Lecturer in Accountancy
Postgraduate and Undergraduate Admissions Tutor
Senior Lecturer in International Marketing
Digital Marketing Lecturer
Senior Lecturer in Enterprise and Entrepreneurship
MBA & MSc Course Leader, Senior Lecturer in Strategic Marketing
Senior Lecturer in PR and Corporate Reputation, Public Relations and Campaigning Leader
Senior Lecturer in Marketing
Course Leader in Marketing & Digital Business
Senior Lecturer in Digital Marketing
Course Leader for UG Business, Lecturer in Digital Business and School and College Liaison
Associate Lecturer – Marketing
Business Development Manager
Placements and Internships Coordinator
Business Development Officer
PhD/MPhil Student
DBA student
DBA Student
Research Degree Student
Senior Administrator - Quality
Postgraduate Course Administrator
Senior Administrator (Projects and Finance)

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/worcester-business-school/international-students-at-wbs.aspx:
We welcome students and client organisations from across the world.
Worcester Business School students are immersed in a global and interdisciplinary environment, led by expert faculty with business acumen and experience.
Our Business School programs will prepare you for an increasingly international world with a wide variety of courses that include innovative teaching environments, case studies, international study, and work placement opportunities.
Your experience at Worcester will be welcoming and friendly, supported by friendly students and expert staff, while living in a city boasting both historic treasures and a modern lifestyle.
Our curriculum will challenge you to examine global perspectives and business and management challenges.
As an international student, you can apply to study on any of our undergraduate or postgraduate courses.
Find out more about our undergraduate programmes.
Find out more about our Postgraduate Programmes .
You will be taught by international scholars and practitioners who have taught, researched and advised in organisations around the world.
Meet our experts.
Our innovative teaching methods have been featured in recent academic publications.
Our international team hosts events and trips, and there are many opportunities to take part in or host cultural experiences and celebrations with your fellow students.
We also have extensive links with international universities, giving you the opportunity to take part in intercultural projects.
Our students come from all over the globe and are excited to share their experiences.
Learn more about scholarship opportunities for international students .
Undergraduate students studying a minimum 3-year full time degree course can also choose to spend time studying at one of our partner universities in the USA, Canada, Europe, Australia or New Zealand.
Find out more about our study abroad opportunities.
The University of Worcester is renowned for its friendly and highly supportive learning environment.
You will find students, staff and the local community will all give you a very warm welcome and help you to feel at home.
Worcester is a safe and beautiful city, rich with history and culture, but alive with a vibrant social scene.
Learn more about the city of Worcester.
Your journey towards your degree will be aided by your Academic Tutor, who will help you with your academic development, act as your first point of call for guidance and provide your official University reference when you graduate.
Ready to take control of your future?
Find out about our admission requirements and application process and the scholarships available.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/worcester-business-school/employability-and-placements:
Your time at university is an important investment in your future career potential and your ability to compete for the most desirable graduate jobs.
The employment prospects for University of Worcester graduates are excellent - 96% of Worcester graduates are in work or further study 15 months after graduating (Graduate Outcomes Survey 2022).
The combination of teaching methods and opportunities for skills development can really help you to develop the qualities that today’s graduate employers seek.
Many of our graduates enter employment directly connected to their qualification.
Others aspire to careers in research and therefore go on to study for a masters degree, or a PhD, in specialist fields.
We recognise that optimising your future employment and earning potential are key factors in selecting your degree.
Our courses:

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/worcester-business-school/business-research:
In Worcester Business School, our research focuses on improving the lives of people working in and interacting with organisations.
We generate knowledge that not only advances our understanding, but has a practical value on a local, national, and international level.
We work with many different organisations, including those in the private, public and third sectors to deliver outcomes that have real-world impact.
Our teaching is research-led, ensuring that our students are working with and generating knowledge at the cutting-edge of the discipline.
Our research active staff belong to four research groups: Digital Innovation and Intelligent Systems, Interpersonal Relationships and Wellbeing , ParCeL (Participant Centred Learning in Management Education) , and Sustainable Organisations .
The Digital Innovation Research Group is focused on the application of intelligent systems to real world problems.
This incorporates the design, creation and research of technological systems that dynamically respond to the world around them to address practical issues in a wide variety of applied domains.
It incorporates computational approaches such as Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, Modelling and Simulation, Data Mining and Pattern Recognition.
Worcester Business School researchers within the Interpersonal Relationships and Wellbeing research group work within two key themes: Customer Interactions and People and Work .
Our colleagues focusing on Customer Interactions aim to understand the complexity surrounding customer interactions within the marketplace through conducting both theoretical and applied research.
Colleagues within the People and Work theme engage in the study of workplace relationships.
This includes leadership, human resource management and development, as well as the development of individuals in learning and teaching environments, such as universities.
Find out more on the Interpersonal Relationships and Wellbeing Research Group blog .
ParCeL Research Group has the vision to promote participant centred learning in management education through impactful collaborative research.
ParCeL focuses on how we understand and deliver impactful teaching and learning in management education and how new signature pedagogies are emerging to re-imagine learner development in new management contexts.
The main area of focus for this group examines complex pedagogical questions involving learning, approaches to management education and the learner experience.
Find out more on the ParCeL blog .
The Sustainable Organisations Research Group focuses on the environmental and social sustainability and governance of organisations.
It aims to explore and inform the decision-making, systems and processes through which organisations can meet their environmental and social sustainability aspirations and obligations as well as their economic ones.
It encompasses corporate social responsibility strategies and practices; the environmental management and auditing of organisations; risk evaluation and management; decision-making; education for sustainability, and business ethics.
To find out more about our research and researchers, please visit the research group web pages using the links above, where you will find more details of our researchers and current projects.
If you are interested in joining us to study a research degree, then please visit our MPhil/PhD and DBA webpages where you will find more information.
If you have any questions please contact the research group lead Dr.
Catharine Ross ( c.ross@worc.ac.uk )

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/worcester-business-school/for-organisations:
Business organisations and Senior Executives choose Worcester Business School for:
Applying our experience and expertise to understand your business, we offer a flexible, affordable, client-centred approach to identify a customised solution to suit your needs and objectives.
As a not-for-profit organisation, we measure our success purely on the positive impact we have on businesses.
Our partnership philosophy has enabled us to grow by over 150% in the last 5 years.
To find out how we can help your organisation, contact Janey Robins by emailing j.robins@worc.ac.uk .
Find out more about the Worcester Business School team.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/worcester-business-school/business-school-alumni-stories:
Discover the success stories of some of Worcester's Business School.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/4-of-the-best-cookbooks-for-students.aspx:
Student life requires a knack for budget cooking and, while we do have guides and suggestions for meals on our posts here, sometimes it’s a good idea to look to the professionals.
So, here’s our four suggested student cookbooks.
Nosh for Students by Joy May is a fantastic book that acts as both a starting guide for cooking, as well as a collection of great recipes to try when on a budget.
It comes complete with estimated total prices for each recipe, star ratings to show difficulty in preparation and how many people the meal serves.
It also comes with advice on streamlined processes of cooking meals, listing everyday items used in measurement.
Recipes are broken down into categories and offer cheaper alternative ingredients with meals like their student chilli con carne.
The publisher also offers other books in this series for teens and vegetarians.
We highly recommended for first years who want to try their hand in the kitchen but need help starting out.
A book for the student wishing to make satisfying meals, Mob Kitchen focuses on budget dishes that feed up to four people for under £10; a must-have if you’re planning to cook for friends, flatmates or have as leftovers for a few days.
This book offers a broad range of recipes that cover vegan, vegetarian, meat-heavy and healthy dishes.
The website associated with the book also offers more recipes like the ones in this book, with a whole category dedicated to student meals.
Highly recommended by news sites like The Independent, this book acts as a collection of classic meals made with basic kitchen gear.
Much like Nosh for Students, this comes with breakdowns of suggested kitchen equipment and guides on their storage and use.
With a collection of classic meals like toad in the hole to whole sections about sandwiches and toast toppings, this book acts as a clear and simple guide to cooking for beginners.
The website Student Beans offers a guide not only for cooking, but aspects of student living too.
Containing simple recipes that range from comfort food to evening meals, The Ultimate Student Cookbook contains recipes, advice, and breakdowns on meals for all occasions that you can make from your very own kitchen.
A fantastic cookbook for students, by students.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/5-ways-to-be-an-lgbtq-ally.aspx:
For many, university is a time of self-growth and personal development.
Many LGBTQ+ people decide to come out when they are at university.
It’s important to remember  that if someone comes out to you, they see you as someone they trust as they are sharing something personal with you.
It can be difficult to know best how to react when someone you know shares that they are LGBTQ+.
The 5 steps below will help you to understand some ways in which you can support them, although remember that everyone’s experiences are unique, and the support needed may look different for each individual.
It’s time to learn your pronouns!
People wish to be identified in a variety of ways so make sure to take the time to ask your colleague, friend or loved one what their preferred pronouns are.
The most common pronouns you may have come across are he/him, she/her and they/them.
However, there are lots of different combinations of how people choose to express themselves.
Using inclusive language and referring to people as ‘they’ before you know their pronouns or a group of people as ‘folks’ instead of ‘girls’ or ‘boys’ can be really helpful.
Try to start integrating gender-neutral terms into your vocabulary and watch out for any offensive language you might be using unintentionally.
Remember, mistakes happen!
If you get someone’s pronouns wrong or forget, it isn’t the end of the world, just correct yourself and try to remember for next time.
Trust me, your colleague, friend or loved one will really appreciate it!
Now you know your pronouns, another way to show support is through attending events as an ally.
This isn’t something you have to do but it’s a nice gesture and will help introduce you to the community you are supporting!
It could be a pride parade, a local meet up at a queer café or a drag night!
As an ally, one of the most important things you can do is to educate yourself.
Whether this is listening to your friend, loved one or colleague sharing their experiences with you, or by doing your own research into the LGBTQ+ community online.
A good place to start with research is learning things like LGBTQ+ terminology, history, and the struggles still encountered by the community today.
This research will help you to develop your understanding of how the world views and treats the LGBTQ+ community as well as allowing you to recognise your own privileges.
Being an ally is not just a label you give yourself, it’s about taking action!
For example, being supportive of LGBTQ+ rights and taking a stand against anti LGBTQ+ jokes.
It’s important to let those around you that you won’t tolerate these comments towards the community and that as an ally you find them offensive.
These jokes and comments can seem meaningless but they are harmful.
Like with pronouns, language matters!
If you accidentally misgender someone, or use the wrong pronouns or label, don’t panic!
Just make sure to apologise and correct yourself - your research will come in handy here!
It might be a good opportunity to ask the person you are talking with to help correct you when this happens.
They will see that you are making the effort to learn and support them.
There are lots of great resources available online to help you educate yourself and become a better ally, and hopefully this short guide has given you a good idea.
You can even join the university’s LGBTQ+ network, there is one for both staff and students .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/a-foodies-guide-to-worcester.aspx:
Worcester is a goldmine when it comes to fantastic places to eat and drink.
Whether you’re looking for your favourite chain restaurant or want to support a local independent business, there are tons of options available for students who want to grab a bite to eat in between lectures.
In this blog post, I’m going to be sharing some of my favourite food locations throughout the city centre, as well as my top menu recommendations from each.
One of my favourite things about Worcester is that it offers the benefits of a big city but with the friendly feel of a small town.
That means you can find lots of familiar favourites hidden within its scenic city streets.
Not sure where to start?
The recently developed Cathedral Square is home to several popular chain restaurants, including ASK Italian, Zizzi's, All Bar One, Five Guys, Pizza Express, The Botanist, Cosy Club and Yo Sushi.
You can also grab yourself a cheeky Nando’s on Friar Street, or if bottomless brunch is more your thing, head on over to Bill’s in Chapel Walk.
Wayland’s Yard has been serving hungry Worcester students since opening their OG location in 2016, and has since expanded to branches in Bristol and Birmingham.
Located conveniently next to Foregate Street station, this popular spot offers speciality coffee, brunch and lunch in a calm and relaxed environment.
My pick: Raspberry Buttermilk Pancakes
GoodRoots describe their ethos to be about “serving good food, in a good vibe to good people”, and they certainly succeed.
Located within the stunning Worcester Royal Porcelain Works, GoodRoots specialise in made-to-order breakfast and brunch options.
My pick: TheBreakfastButty with French Fries with Truffle + Cheese
HANBAO has previously been dubbed the “best burger place in the UK “, and it’s really not hard to see why.
They serve great burgers in a great environment with great service.
Be warned though: their portions are HUGE.
This is a perfect option for the days where you want to indulge.
My pick: Odd Future Burger with BBC Fries
Located under the railway arches, Burger Shop offers a unique vibe whether you're sitting outside surounded by fairy lights or cozied up inside.
They're big on local produce and have a variety of vegetarian and vegan options such as their Katsu burger, delicious rosemary fries, waasabi mayo and their house kimchi!
To quench your thirst, you can aloso enjoy their homemade sodas!
My pick: Buttermilk Chick burger with skin on rosemary fries and Apple & Elderflower Fizz
Pizza Freakz is a bit of a hidden gem, nestled above Hop Lords on Pump Street.
They sell pizza New York-style, by the slice, and it just might be the best pizza I’ve ever tried (no exaggeration).
The slice sizes are generous and very reasonably priced, and they often offer bundle deals for students looking to save a little extra.
My pick: Pepp God
The Olive Branch is a Mediterranean tapas bar situated in the heart of the city centre.
A little on the pricier side for the typical student budget, this is one I keep for special occasions such as birthdays or end-of-year dinners.
Fancy a quiet night in but still want to splash out?
They also offer delivery via the Deliveroo app.
My pick: Patatas Bravas
And there you have my top picks for restaurants in Worcester city centre.
There are so many more fantastic options that didn’t make it to this list, so be sure to check out Worcester’s TripAdvisor page for even more suggestions.
I hope you have the best time exploring all that Worcester has to offer!
Until next time, fellow foodies.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/careers-to-consider-with-a-law-degree.aspx:
Law degrees are great.
Not only because of the content, which we all know and love… but also because of how versatile they are!
Law degrees promote critical thinking, communication skills, and demonstrate an impressive level of time management skills.
All this combined means that employers LOVE law grads.
So, here are some careers available to you with a Law degree.
I’ll start with the most obvious root into a career in Law.
A Law degree from Worcester is the first step to becoming a lawyer.
Now, you may think this sounds silly, but Worcester offers a ‘Qualifying Law Degree’ – this means that it covers the seven mandatory law modules, as prescribed by the Solicitors Regulation Authority!
Aside from the academia of a law degree, Worcester offers a million (that’s an exaggeration) employability events, sessions, and activities, to make you the most employable you can be!
As a law grad, you now have a degree!
Possessing a degree already opens doors for you!
A degree in any subject enables you to become a teacher, should you so wish!
To do so, you would study the Post Graduate Certificate of Education, and follow the requirements set by the Teaching Regulation Agency.
You do not have to teach law!
Law is often associated with various humanities, and, although there would be additional requirements, you can teach History, English, Religious Studies etc, if you so wish!
Unfortunately, to become a lecturer, most will expect you to have, at minimum, a Masters in Law or significant experience!
Paralegals are vital in the running of the legal system.
Their role is to support solicitors, barristers, and legal executives.
They also help ‘litigants in person’ represent themselves, they support research, drafting, and the day to day running of a law firm!
You do not need to be a qualified lawyer to become a paralegal but they do ask for legal knowledge.
Law grads are perfect for this role!
The Civil Service is a government organisation, and there are a vast array of roles throughout the civil service; some are, evidently, more appropriate than others!
The Home Office, Foreign Office, and Ministry of Justice all have roles perfectly suited for law graduates!
The Civil Service also offer ‘The Fast Stream’ programme – this programme is accelerated training and development for highly skills graduates!
This is a great opportunity to begin working for the Civil Service.
Accounting and Tax sounds like a whole different world to Law, but its not!
The skills you gain from a law degree are required for a career in accountancy; for example, analysing large amounts of complex information, client relationships, and outstanding written ability.
Similarly, there are several modules you can take should you wish to specialise in an accountancy career.
Commercial Law, for example, would be of particular use.
There are further qualifications to undertake should you wish to go down this route, but all information is available on the appropriate websites!
Being a final year is scary.
There is a strange feeling of impending doom – it is tough being in final year, let alone with all the additional pressures!
Having several applications to fill out, a house to keep tidy, viewings coming in left right and centre, assignments, lectures, and so many other things, all at the same time!
I’m tired just typing it all out!
All of that is so normal – and if you are struggling, remember that your PAT, first point, and the teaching staff are all available should you need any additional support.
I hope that this blog has helped inspire some of you, or made you feel less alone in such an uncertain time!

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/easy-cupcake-recipes-to-get-you-through-your-exams.aspx:
As a University student, you’re going to be using a lot of brain power.
This means you need a lot of energy.
What screams energy and tastes amazing?
Baked treats!
If you have a sweet tooth and enjoy baking, then these simple recipes that I have collected as a university student will be useful to you, especially if you are looking for a relaxing activity.
But caution is advised because these treats are deliciously irresistible.
Preheat the oven to 180 degrees Celsius.
Put 12 paper cases in a muffin tray.
Place the chocolate and butter in a saucepan and heat gently, stirring constantly until melted.
Remove from the heat and stir until smooth.
Leave to cool slightly.
Place the eggs and brown sugar in a large bowl and beat together, then add the vanilla extract.
Sift in the flour and fold in gently, then stir in the melted chocolate mixture until combined.
Stir in the chopped walnuts (optional).
Spoon the mixture into the paper cases.Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes, or until firm to the touch, but still slightly moist in the centre.
Transfer to a wire rack and leave to cool.
Preheat the oven to 190 degrees Celsius.
Put 12 paper cases in a bun tray.
Sift the flour into a large bowl.
Add the butter, caster sugar, and eggs and, using an electric mixer, beat together until smooth.
Fold in the chocolate chips.
Spoon the mixture into the paper cases.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/how-I-made-friends-as-a-commuter-student.aspx:
If you’re planning to commute to university, whether for financial reasons, family commitments or simply because you live nearby let me reassure you: it’s absolutely possible to build a great social life.
Here's how I did it:
Your course mates are often your first and best chance at making friends, especially in your first semester, and you already have at least one thing in common with all of them.
I made a point to attend all lectures, seminars, and study groups, and I joined in on discussions and activities.
My course has a lot of hands on, creative and practical sessions and group projects and jumping feet first into these has been the best thing I’ve done to build friendships.
It might feel awkward at first, but being open and engaged is a really great icebreaker.
Keep an open mind and interact with a wide range of people, the first people you sit with or work with might not end up being your closest friends, and that’s completely okay.
It’s fine to move between groups as you find where you feel most comfortable.
We also set up a cohort WhatsApp group early on, which became a lifeline for everything from study questions to arranging meetups, especially when I was studying at home or when we were all on practice placements.
Worcester has over 25 societies and 35 sports clubs, so there really is something for everyone.
From Gaming and Poetry to the Garlic Bread Society, these groups meet regularly and host events throughout the year and are super welcoming to new people even if you have no experience.
So this really is the time to try something completely new!
Even if you don’t see something that interests you, starting your own society is easier than you think.
When I joined, my course didn’t have its own society but with some encouragement between course mates, we started one!
It’s now a great way to meet people across different year groups and feel more connected.
Once you start talking to people, you’ll be surprised how many of them are also commuters.
After chatting at some welcome events (seriously, go to those!), I found out one of my course mates actually lived on the same street.
We started car sharing, which saved us both time and money and gave us a great chance to catch up outside of lectures.
Or maybe you spot the same person on your train every morning?
A simple “hi” could lead to a travel buddy and potentially a new friend.
Don’t just stick to your course bubble.
Keep an eye out for roles like Student Ambassador, Department Rep, or other part-time positions on campus.
I became a Student Ambassador in my first year, and it was one of the best decisions I made.
Not only did it help me earn some extra money, but it also introduced me to people from other courses and years.
The training, like leading campus tours, gave me a deeper appreciation for the university too.
I discovered parts of campus I’d never seen just commuting in and out of lectures.
Being a commuter doesn’t mean missing out.
With a bit of effort, an open mind, and a willingness to get involved, you’ll find your people.
Friendships can form in lectures, on trains, through societies, or even over garlic bread.
So, if you’re commuting to Worcester, don’t worry, you’re not alone and there are so many ways to make the most of your student life.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/how-to-create-your-own-society.aspx:
When you join university, societies or sports clubs are a great way to make new friends and socialise with people that have the same interests as you.
However, when looking for a society there might not be one that offers your hobby, or you feel like you want to increase awareness regarding a certain topic.
If that's you, this blog will teach you how to create your own society in few easy steps!
To start the process of creating a new society, first make sure that a similar one does not already exist!
You need to have a clear and unique idea for your society, as well as a name that will reflect its aims.
When you have put all your ideas together, to set up the society, you will need at least 3 members who will take the roles of Chair, Vice chair Finance and Admin, and Vice Chair Inclusivity and Promotions.
However, if you are struggling to find other members don’t worry and certainly don’t give up!
You can contact the Student Union (SU), who will help you look for other members that will be interested in setting up the society.
Additionally, it is important to consider that you will need to to recruit 12 members within 6 weeks of the date of approval.
When you have a clear idea about your society you are ready for step 2!
This involves completeing and sending the application form, which can be found on the SU website.
In the application you will be required to outline the aims and purpose of your society.
Additionally, you will need to submit a draft constitution.
This is less complicated than it sounds!
This draft constitution is simply the ‘rule book’ of the society.
It contains the parameters in which the group can operate, and it must always be followed.
After completing the application form, with a detail explanation of your society and your constitution, you are ready to submit the application to the SU.
Now you are one step closer to making your society a reality!
When the SU has received your application, you will be invited for a ‘Start-Up Meeting’.
In this meeting you will be discussing your application, as well as the financial needs of the society.
This meeting is a great opportunity to meet the Student Activities team as well as the Vice President Student Activities (VPSA), and to ask any questions that you might have.
Therefore, you need to show up!
Once the meeting is concluded, your application will be sent to the Executive Committee, where approval will be decided.
When the Executive Committee receives the application, they will approve your society according to certain criteria.
For example, the society must support charitable objectives, promote a diverse student community, and respect diverse views.
Therefore, in your application try to show how your society will represent these values!
There are three possible outcomes regarding your application:
The application is approved therefore the process can advance to the next steps.
The application is approved however there must be some amendments to be made – the Executive Committee will send over the adjustments required to make.
The application is rejected – the Executive Committee will send you all the reasoning.
However, don’t discourage yourself!
If you don’t agree with the decision of the Executive Committee, you have the opportunity to appeal their decision to the Student Council.
Once the society has been approved you can officially start it!
The first thing to do to start your society is that all the committee members need to complete training and familiarise themselves with the committee resource hub, as well as attend an introductory session with the SU.
While you work on your training, the SU will set up your webpage and create memberships.
When this is completed, you will be able to begin promoting your society!
To do this you will need to create your social media as well as keeping the website updated with relevant information about the society.
Now your society is up and running!
Creating your own society is very exciting experience that can teach you many skills!
For example, my friends and I, just created a society and my role on the committee is to be responsible for delivering talks, for people to learn about the topics of our society.
This experience is enhancing a wide range of my practical skills, such as communication skills, which is boosting my confidence as well as making me more employable.
Give it a go!

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/how-to-make-your-university-room-feel-like-home.aspx:
Moving into university accommodation is an exciting part of starting uni life.
It’s the first time many of us get a space that’s completely our own, so naturally, you’ll want to make it feel comfortable and personal.
While there are a few rules about decorating in halls, there are still plenty of simple ways to add your own touch without risking any damage or charges at the end of the year.
Here are a few things that helped me settle in and make my room feel like home.
You don’t need to go overboard with a full design plan, but having a theme in mind can make decorating much easier.
It could be based on your favourite colours, a mood you want to create, or just something you know will help you relax.
I went for soft greens and pinks because they’re my favourite colours, and I wanted to create a calm, cosy vibe.
Sticking to a few shades made it much easier to pick out bedding, cushions and small decorations without it all clashing.
Your bed is where you’ll spend a lot of time, whether you're sleeping, studying, or just relaxing, so making it comfortable is important.
I brought a mattress protector (which made a massive difference), along with my own duvet, a couple of fluffy throws, and extra cushions.
Having a few layers means you can adjust depending on how warm or cold your room gets.
If you have space, a small rug can also make things feel warmer and a bit more homely but just make sure it’s easy to move and won’t damage the flooring.
It’s easy to focus on how your room looks, but scent can make just as much of a difference in helping your space feel like home.
Since candles, incense and wax burners aren’t allowed in halls for fire safety, I found a couple of simple alternatives that worked really well.
Reed diffusers are a great option because they’re safe, don’t need any heat or electricity, and come in loads of different scents.
I also used little scent sachets, which I tucked into drawers, behind cushions or at the bottom of my wardrobe.
Having familiar scents like lavender or fresh linen made my room feel much more comforting, especially in those first few weeks.
One of the biggest things that helped me settle in was bringing a few familiar items from home.
You can’t put anything directly on the walls or doors, but you can still add personality by placing things on your desk, shelves, or window ledge.
I brought framed photos of my family and friends, a few little trinkets from my bedroom at home, and my favourite mug that I always use for teas and coffee.
Even having a familiar blanket or a small piece of home décor can make your room feel much more comforting, especially in those first few weeks.
The pin board provided in your room is the one place where you can fully decorate without worrying about damaging anything.
I used mine for a mix of practical and personal things.
One section had important uni info like my timetable, deadlines and to-do lists.
The rest was filled with photos, postcards, a mini calendar, and even tickets from events I went to during the year.
To make it more fun, I used washi tape to frame some of my photos and arranged battery-powered fairy lights around the board.
I also bought some cute flower-shaped push pins, which added a bit of character and made it feel more like me.
If you like switching things up during the year, an easy hack is to plan your board layout on the floor first.
Or, even better, you can use some old wrapping paper, map everything out to scale, and pin the entire sheet onto the board.
This makes it easy to rearrange without leaving extra pin marks.
The standard ceiling light can feel a bit harsh, especially in the evenings.
I brought a small desk lamp with a warm bulb, and some battery-powered fairy lights that added a cosy glow.
It makes such a difference when you’re winding down after a long day.
I managed to find some battery-operated bee fairy lights that I scattered round my bed which gave my room a cozy vibe for tired nights.
Even one or two small plants (real or artificial) can bring a bit of life to the room.
I started with a fake succulent that came in a little lama pot, and as the years went by, I got into mini building blocks and now have a collection of mini plants made from them.
Uni rooms aren’t huge, so having some extra storage can help keep things tidy.
Foldable boxes, baskets, or under-bed storage are great for keeping things like extra bedding, snacks or toiletries organised.
I ended up buying a hanging foldable shelving unit that hooks onto the rail in the wardrobe to maximize the space provided.
While there’s lots you can do, it’s important to stay within the accommodation rules to avoid any charges at the end of the year.
You aren’t allowed to:
If you’re ever unsure, it’s always best to double check with Accommodation Services first.
They’re really helpful and would rather answer your questions than have you accidentally break the rules.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/how-to-practice-self-care-during-exam-season.aspx:
It can be quite difficult to manage a social life, studying, and personal wellbeing during exam season, but it’s incredibly important to make sure that we’re keeping up with our self-care for our own happiness and motivation.
Here are a few tips on different forms of self-care and how to try and implement them into your daily life.
Instead of taking a break from studying by scrolling on my phone or watching a movie, I set aside a few minutes for some quick journaling or doodling.
I usually write out how my day went and how I felt during it.
It can also be beneficial to include a few ‘habit-trackers’ in your journals or doodles such as tracking how much water you drink a day or how many books you read.
I enjoy a quick session of yoga in the morning, usually I do this by following a YouTube session or with a yoga app.
Taking a few minutes out of the morning to simply let your muscles relax and stretch is incredibly beneficial to your physical health as well as mental, by allowing ourselves to breathe and start off the day in a relaxed state, you can carry the dopamine with you throughout your day.
Humans are social creatures, so it’s incredibly important for our happiness that we try to remain social even when we are busy.
Try finding some space in your day to get lunch with a friend or even have a partner to study with you!
Not everyone will be able to go out for a drink or lunch, so if no one seems available, a quick call-break can also be beneficial.
A great way to wind-down and relax after a long day or difficult study session is with a spa day.
You can choose to do this alone at the end of your day or even invite some friends over by buying a few facemasks, listening to relaxing music or podcasts, and enjoying some snacks.
During exam seasons I can find myself sleeping and waking up at incredibly late hours, not only does this not help the exhaustion but it also causes us to feel more tired and less motivated for work.
A good sleeping pattern of roughly eight hours a night is healthy for us physically and mentally, so it’s important to try and keep a good rhythm even during our busiest times.
I can find myself neglecting my room as I work through my busy days, not prioritizing tidying up and keeping things clean.
However, when working in a negative environment, it can severely impact how productive we are as well as how happy we feel in that environment.
Simple things like making our beds, wiping down counters, and packing away our clothes can keep us feeling motivated and happy as we work.
These are the main tips that I try and stick to as I’m working and studying, but there are many others out there to try that might help you!

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/how-to-prepare-for-placements.aspx:
Placement is a key part of many courses at the University of Worcester.
It’s an opportunity to apply your knowledge in real-world settings, gain valuable experience, and develop as a professional.
But what should you expect before you go?
How do you navigate an unfamiliar setting?
Are you concerned about support and your PPAP form?
Here’s a guide to help you through your placement journey.
Before starting placement, you may come across the PPAP (Practice Placement Adjustment Plan) form .
This is a useful tool if you require additional support or have specific needs, such as caring responsibilities or transport requirements.
You can complete this form with your Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) or the Disability and Dyslexia team if needed.
The PPAP is your document, meaning you can include as much or as little information as you feel comfortable with.
While some may choose to disclose their needs, others may not, and that is entirely your choice.
The PPAP exists to support you, and you decide when and how to share it.
Once you receive your placement allocation , your mind will likely be filled with questions: What will it be like?
What hours will I work?
What should I bring?
To help ease any anxiety, write down your questions and make a list.
While you’ll receive some placement information, additional queries will naturally arise.
A pre-placement visit is highly recommended.
Email your practice educator to arrange a visit or a call to discuss your questions.
This shows initiative and enthusiasm—qualities that leave a great first impression.
It also helps ease first-day nerves by allowing you to familiarise yourself with the location and key contacts.
If an in-person visit isn’t possible, a phone call or Teams meeting can be just as helpful.
This is also an excellent time to bring up your PPAP document if applicable.
First impressions matter, so arrive on time, wear an ironed uniform, and bring a positive attitude.
The professionals you meet during your placement may be your future colleagues!
On the first day, you’ll have an initial interview and orientation.
This is a great opportunity to:
Remember, your practice educator is there to help you succeed, so don’t hesitate to seek guidance.
Placement has been one of the highlights of my course.
It’s given me the chance to apply my knowledge, develop skills, and gain real-world experience in occupational therapy.
Initially, I was nervous about one of my placements, but by approaching it with an open and positive mindset, I ended up having an incredible experience.
I’ve been encouraged to learn from mistakes, apply theory to practice, and explore different areas of the profession.
If you have placement tips, share them with your cohort!
If you’ve completed a placement that someone else is about to start, pass on your insights—it can make a huge difference.
Good luck, and enjoy your placement journey!

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/i-chose-worcester-because….aspx:
Hi everyone, my name is Ellie and I recently finished studying Filmmaking at the University of Worcester.
I’m very passionate about Worcester and want to share some of the reasons I chose to study here.
I studied Art, English Literature and History at A Level and alongside this undertook the Extended Project Qualification for which I decided to make a short film.
I had very little experience but a lot of determination as I have always been very interested in photography and visuals.
I ended up getting an A* for my work, which led me to decide I wanted to study film further.
I came to an Open Day at Worcester and toured the Digital Arts Centre and instantly felt inspired and at home.
A third-year student answered all my questions about the course and the university which was so reassuring.
I really liked the idea of studying practically, which is something most courses at Worcester offer!
Worcester is a stunning city, within reach of the Malvern Hills and idyllic countryside.
I visited Worcestershire frequently whilst growing up as my Nana lives nearby.
It was nice to have a familiar face whilst at University and this partly influenced my decision to come here.
Not only this, but Worcester’s history, its quaint parks and green spaces and cosy cafes all make it a very lovely place to live.
Worcester is also a short train journey from Birmingham, Oxford and Hereford, amongst other major towns in the Midlands.
This is great for if you like a day trip!
As you may know, the University of Worcester has four campuses: St Johns, City, Severn and Lakeside.
I lived in the halls of residence on St John’s Campus in my first year, and most of my lectures took place here too.
It’s also home to the Student’s Union .
I instantly felt at home here as everything is placed nice and close.
It’s also a lovely place to walk around.
There’s plenty of spots to get food and sit outside in, there certainly isn’t a shortage of green space!
So there we have it, why I chose Worcester.
Check out @worcester_uni on Instagram and Tiktok for some beautiful pictures of the city and campuses as well as information on how to apply.
Thanks for reading!

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/is-studying-abroad-right-for-you.aspx:
Hello, Olivia here!
In this blog I will be talking about the study abroad experience quite generally to answer the question- how do you know if studying abroad is for you?
I also give my five top tips for a smooth application process.
Before I begin, I encourage everyone to consider either a semester or 3rd year abroad, if possible on your course, as both are fantastic opportunities, however, I am personally speaking from the perspective of the 3rd year abroad experience, so this may be reflected more in the thoughts that I present.
I posed this question to a couple of my Erasmus friends:
“What qualities do you think are key for anyone who is going to study abroad?”
*This is NOT an exhaustive list, but we thought that these were important*
If you think you see yourself in some of those qualities or would like grow in these areas, maybe an international experience would be great for you.
At this stage, you might have questions about how to apply, which could be answered by visiting our study abroad page or via dropping an email to international-experience@worc.ac.uk if you would like to speak to someone from the team.
Once you have made the decision to submit the initial application, you:
Here are my 5 top tips for completing this process, when you’re still in the decision-making stage, creating the initial application and through to the post-acceptance process:
When deciding which continent you would like to study in; the specific city and university, plus the courses they offer; the average cost of living and the climate are all key things to research.
Additionally, check out what the host university’s exchange programme is like e.g.
visit their social media to see if they are engaged with the student community.
This is my favourite tip (I’m biased, I know).
The reason why I became serious about studying abroad was because I spoke to a friend who was on her experience at the time.
I realised that it could be a reality for me too and I got authentic insights into what it is really like.
Really thinking about the impact this journey could have on both your personal circumstances and academic journey is important.
For example, graduating later than your course peers may be a significant consideration for you.
The whole process is long and occasionally feels like there is too much to complete, especially alongside your studies.
Spending 30 mins/1 hour a day on your application/paperwork is a good way to manage this.
Please don’t leave anything until the last minute, as you may need time in case you encounter delays or need to make corrections later on.
The biggest help for me, has been having regular communication with Cristina and the international team.
They’re experts in sending students abroad- so take advantage of the amazing support they can provide!
Facebook: join our International Experience group
Instagram: @globalworcester
WeChat: @UoW_Int_Experience
WhatsApp: 07766511788

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/is-university-right-for-me.aspx:
After studying at college for the past two and half years, I needed to start thinking about my next steps – Gap year?
University?
Apprenticeship?
Another college course?
This blog will help you navigate the many options in front of you and start processing what can come next.
Thinking about your next steps can be a stressful, anxious time however there are different events and activities which can help narrow your choices down, such as attending university open days, apprenticeship evenings where you can see which apprenticeships you can do and see if any interest you or looking at potential jobs or where you could travel, which you could do in a gap year.
Each idea has many benefits and some disadvantages to them however, only you will know which is the right step for you.
Speaking to tutors and career advisers can help you find your next step.
After I attended my first University open day I still didn’t know if university would be the right path for me although I started looking at potential courses I could go and do with my college course and my grades.
Following on from having an idea of the different courses I could do I started looking at job opportunities – for example, could I work my way up in the business, would I enjoy doing this job, could I see myself in the job and would the degree be needed for the job.
Following on from this I started looking at different cities, which cities I liked and whether they had a university and offered the courses I was interested in.
Which then made me think whether I would stay at home whilst studying and commute or whether I would stay at the accommodation.
I was still unsure about university although I still applied on UCAS where you fill in a form, create a personal statement which gets sent off to all the universities you apply for, shortly after you start getting offers back whether you got into university or not or whether it was a conditional (Only get in if you get the entry requirements) or unconditional (Get in to the university no matter the grade you receive after college).
I am unsure whether university is the right path for me at this moment in time, but it is always there as an option for after college and you can still go to open days/ offer holder days where you can speak to students currently studying at the university, the lecturers who would teach you the course and activities which you would do during the course at university.
This gives you a feeling of the university, the course you would study, and this really helped me narrow down my next steps for after college.
The last idea I had was taking a gap year and working and then potentially go travelling.
However, I knew that once I started to travel, I wouldn’t come back and get the job I wanted to do without having a degree.
Although taking a gap year is a good idea for people who don’t know what they want to do in the future job wise, university, apprenticeships.
Taking a gap year gives people time to think about the future and not to rush into decisions when you’re not sure.
After communicating with different people in different fields, speaking to students, lecturers, apprentice teams, travelling to different cities, see what other people took as there next steps, I have decided to go to university although I am still undecisive of which university to go to as they all have different benefits and I still have time to decide – I realised that the other paths weren’t for me although different paths are more beneficial to others!

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/making-friends-at-university.aspx:
Guest blogger, Mary, talks through a few of the ways to make friends at university.
As a Communications Intern, it’s my job to travel the UK and speak to prospective students about what it’s like to transition into university life.
One of the most common themes I notice during these conversations is an underlying sense of worry about starting over in an unfamiliar environment.
About forming new connections.
Whether it’s said outright or not, people find the idea of making new friends at university daunting.
And I get it, completely.
In fact, I’d be more surprised if you WEREN’T nervous.
Just a few years ago I was feeling the exact same way.
Not only am I unbelievably shy around new people, but I was a transfer student joining a course cohort in its second year.
The idea of walking into a lecture hall full of people who had already built those relationships with one another twisted my stomach into knots.
But take comfort in the fact that I made it through, and so will you.
I’m going to be sharing some top tips for making friends at university – even if you’re shy.
Let’s get started.
The rise of social networking means it’s easier than ever to connect with others, and the good news is that you can get going before you even step foot on campus.
Universities will have dedicated social spaces online for you to interact with prior to the start of the academic year.
Most universities will also have dedicated Facebook groups to help new students find others who will be living in their accommodation or studying the same course as them.
This is such a great way to get to know your new peers before you meet face-to-face, organise meetups during the Welcome Festival, and coordinate who’s bringing what (trust me – no student kitchen has room for 6 kettles).
TOP TIP: beware of fake Facebook groups.
They are typically not run by the university or its students and are likely to lead to spam messages.
Stay safe online!
If you’re living in student accommodation, some of the first people you’ll encounter at university will be your new flatmates.
As a former commuter, I’ve consulted with some of my halls-living friends to get their advice on how to bond with your new neighbours quickly.
By far the most popular suggestion was to invest in a wedge and leave your door open as much as you can.
This will invite others to come in and introduce themselves.
Another frequent recommendation was to explore your new surroundings together.
Go for a tour of the campuses, walk to the local supermarket and shop as a group, check out all the different welcome events happening around the university.
Before you know it, you’ll become a second family to one another.
Never underestimate the usefulness of your course induction.
Not only will you be able to meet your new lecturers and get a feel for what to expect from your modules, but they are a great way to socialise.
My induction was my very first opportunity to interact with other students at Worcester.
In fact, it was where I made my first friend, who is still stuck with me to this very day.
Inductions will be informal and are designed to be as non-awkward as possible.
Plus (at least, in my experience), they almost always involve food, which is never not a bonus.
It can be daunting to put yourself out there and approach people at these events, but there are two very important things to remember:
Your course mates are in the exact same boat as you are and are probably just as eager to make connections.
And even if you’re like me, and they AREN’T in the same boat as you, I’ve rarely met a student not looking to make a new friend
2.
You’ve both decided to study the same course, which gives you at least one thing you already have in common.
I began my first conversation at Worcester by asking someone why they had decided to study literature, and it led to us realising we both loved tons of the same books.
It goes without saying, of course, that one of the best ways to form new friendships is by seeking out people who share your passions.
In fact, most of the friends I made during my time at university were people who I connected with through societies.
There are over 70 sports and societies available for students to get involved with at Worcester, so there’s likely to be something for everyone.
Think something’s missing?
Students are also able to apply to create their own societies.
Most sports and societies offer commitment-free taster sessions you can come along to before signing up, so never be afraid of trying something new.
Societies are super welcoming to beginners, so don’t feel put off if there’s an activity you’re interested in that you have no prior experience with!
Moving to university and ‘starting over’ is undeniably an intimidating experience.
But it’s also a once-in-a-lifetime one.
Opportunities to meet new people and make meaningful connections can be found around every corner.
Despite my initial anxieties, the people that I met during my time at Worcester have become lifelong friends.
And I have a very good feeling that the same is going to happen for you, too.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/making-the-most-of-your-open-day.aspx:
Thinking about whether the University of Worcester is right for you?
An Open Day is the perfect opportunity to explore our campuses and find out more about your course and student life.
In this blog post, we’ll be sharing our top tips on how to make the most of your visit.
Before you arrive, we will send you an Open Day programme which covers directions on how to find us, which campus to arrive at and where to park.
This programme is also filled with information about the timings and locations of everything on offer throughout the day.
Be sure to make a note of where your course will be based, as well as which talks you’d like to attend and where they’ll be taking place.
This will help you work out where to fit in other activities, such as viewing our accommodation or paying a visit to our world-class facilities!
Our Open Days are packed with activities, talks, and tours, but it's important to prioritise what genuinely excites you.
Whether you're passionate about a particular subject, curious about student societies, or keen to explore study abroad opportunities, there's likely a session tailored to your interests.
Thinking about studying abroad?
Wondering how student finance works or what support is available for international students?
There’s probably a talk for that and it could answer questions you didn’t even know you had.
These sessions are often led by experienced staff or current students who can offer real insight and practical advice.
Don’t be afraid to step outside your comfort zone either, sometimes the most unexpected sessions can spark new interests or help you see your future in a different light.
Why not grab a free tea or coffee and listen to some live music?
Or take a moment to chat with our friendly student ambassadors about their experiences at the University of Worcester?
For those who enjoy the outdoors, our top recommendations are a stroll along the University Mile or a visit to our stunning ‘secret garden’!
There is so much to do and see across our stunning campuses.
Your personal statement is an important part of the university application process.
It’s your opportunity to express your enthusiasm for your course and showcase your strengths.
So…no pressure?
We understand that writing about yourself can feel daunting, so our university advisors will be on hand to offer one-to-one feedback and provide guidance on how to improve your personal statement.
Bring along a copy of your first draft and pay us a visit!
Timings can be found in your programme.
Even if you haven’t started writing yet, don’t worry!
These workshops are a great place to get inspired and learn what admissions tutors are really looking for.
You’ll pick up practical tips on structure, tone, and how to make your statement stand out for all the right reasons.
It’s a small investment of time that could make a big difference to your application.
When choosing a university, it’s also vital that you check out the surrounding areas.
After all, you’re signing up to live there for the next three years!
At Worcester, we are very lucky to be situated in a vibrant city with the community spirit of a small town.
Think about all the things you enjoy doing at home and explore what Worcester has to offer you.
Big on shopping?
Take a walk through our bustling high street.
Consider yourself a foodie?
Pop into one of our many independent cafes or restaurants!
All our campuses are in good proximity of the city centre.
We hope this guide helps you prepare for your upcoming visit to the University of Worcester.
We look forward to seeing you soon!

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/narrowing-down-your-choices.aspx:
Hello reader!
It’s Rachel here, a recent graduate from the University of Worcester.
You’ve decided that you want to go to university – great!
You may be wondering, now what?
If you have collected lots of prospectuses from UCAS events, you may feel a bit overwhelmed in starting to decide where you may want to apply for.
But this is completely normal when beginning the application process.
These are some ways which helped me pick out my favourite universities.
There are over 50,000 undergraduate courses available in the UK, so many universities have the same degree name – but this does not always mean that the content of the course is identical.
It may be that one course at a university uses exams, and another focuses on coursework and essays.
So, exploring what each course offers can help you decide what will be right for you.
Also, having a look into what the entry requirements are for each course is a useful way to narrow down your choices.
UCAS tariff points are a system used for the application process and will be equated against any further education qualifications you receive.
The higher the tariff points, the higher the grades needed.
A great way to decide which university suits you is to find out what facilities they have on offer.
Whether they are course specific, such as specialist sport facilities, or looking into what support is available, such facilities can greatly impact your university experience.
For example, many universities will offer different sports and societies; these are great to get involved with if there is something you fancy giving a go, or if you want to continue a hobby you already have, or if you want to meet new people!
Attending an open day is a good opportunity to explore what is offered, and to ask any questions you may have.
Why not attend one of our open days ?
Universities can be based in cities, towns, or rural areas – have a think about where you could picture yourself living or commuting.
Do you want to be living in the hustle and bustle?
Or do you want to be studying in tranquillity?
Worcester was great for me, as it has a vibrant city feel, but also beautiful surrounding countryside where me and my flatmates could go on some lovely walks for some fresh air.
If you attend university open days, explore the surrounding area, and ask yourself questions like ‘do I feel safe here?’, and ‘does it have everything I need?’.
This can really help narrow down your choices on which universities to apply for.
Hopefully these steps may provide more guidance on choosing what to study at university.
Having a chat with your friends and family can be beneficial in helping you decide what you want to study too, especially if they’ve been to/are currently at university.
Good luck with your application journey!

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/preparing-for-university-what-you-need-to-know.aspx:
So, you’ve accepted your place at university — congratulations!
This is an exciting time, but it’s completely normal to feel a whirlwind of emotions.
Starting university is a big step, and if you're moving away from home for the first time, it can feel a little daunting too.
But don’t worry, you’re not alone, and we’re here to help you feel as prepared and confident as possible.
Let’s get the less exciting stuff out of the way first: money matters.
Budgeting might not be glamorous, but it is essential.
Knowing how much you have to spend each month will help you plan your meals, nights out, and everything in between.
One top tip is to divide your student loan into monthly “wages” so you know exactly what you have to work with.
From there, you can pay your bills first and then plan the rest of your spending.
You can even top up your income with part-time work—at the University of Worcester, for example, you can apply to be an events ambassador or student ambassador.
These roles are flexible and designed to fit around your studies.
Creating a simple list of all your expenses (rent, food, social life, travel) can help you stay on track and avoid any surprise end-of-month panic.
If you’re anything like me, lists will become your best friend.
They’re a great way to remember everything you need to do and pack before moving.
The University of Worcester’s social media channels are packed with tips from current students about what to bring, from essential cooking items to often-forgotten things like coat hangers and extension leads.
It’s also worth checking the university website to see what’s already provided in your accommodation.
When packing, think beyond the basics, bring things that make your space feel like home.
Photos, soft toys, your favourite pillow, or even a reed diffuser can make a big difference when you’re settling in.
And don’t forget course supplies!
Most courses will send out specific information closer to the time, but notebooks, pens, and highlighters are always a safe bet.
Whether you’re a total kitchen novice or just want to expand your student meal repertoire, now’s a great time to get practising.
There are loads of simple student recipes online, from jacket potatoes to one-pot pastas.
Everyone starts somewhere, and no one expects you to be a gourmet chef on day one!
Plus, Uni life is full of opportunities to try food from different cultures and backgrounds—cooking (and eating!) can be a fun way to bond with your new flatmates.
If you’re moving to Worcester (or commuting in), take some time to explore the area.
Find out where your local supermarket is, scope out nearby cafes, or see which takeaway spots are popular with students.
There are plenty of independent stores and restaurants to find, so get started soon!
Our website and social media are full of helpful local info too.
If you’re commuting, doing a trial run of your route can help ease any first-day nerves—and who knows, you might meet a fellow student on the same journey!
You can find the quickest route, a scenic option and one that means you can pick up your favourite coffee before a lecture...
It’s perfectly normal to feel a mix of excitement and nerves.
University is a big life change, and your mental wellbeing is just as important as your academic success.
Talk to friends and family about how you’re feeling, and remember, support is available.
The University of Worcester has a fantastic support service called Firstpoint, where you can access help and guidance throughout your time here.
Give yourself time to adjust, be kind to yourself, and know that everyone was new once.
The Welcome Festival, societies, and your course itself are all brilliant ways to meet people and start building those all-important friendships.
Starting university is a huge milestone, and it’s okay to feel all kinds of ways about it.
But with a little preparation—and a few handy lists.
You’ll be ready to take this exciting step with confidence.
You've got this!

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/semester-two-catch-up-from-my-third-year-abroad-in-finland.aspx:
Terve readers, Olivia here!
I have been fortunate to have been able to continue my studies and travels in Finland, as part of Worcester's study abroad scheme.
EVERYTHING about Lapland was breath-taking, it was exactly as I had imagined and more!
Seeing dancing Aurora’s (Northern Lights) and skiing for the first time were my personal highlights.
The husky’s who took us on the safari were so cute too.
The Biathlon World Cup in Kontiolahti illustrated the beauty of East Finland through the snow and the rural quiet, but through the kindness of Finns as well.
I would recommend going to a biathlon race if you have the opportunity to as they are so intense and atmospheric!
Riga, the capital of Latvia, has significant cultural richness, especially in the Old Town.
This trip gave me a unique insight into the turbulent history of Latvia, and I really appreciated how the city remembers its pivotal historical moments through the authenticity of its museums.
After a wonderful two weeks at home over the Christmas holidays, I was ready to enter semester two.
This time I knew that it would be more challenging than my first semester.
Alongside saying goodbye to my family and acknowledging that many of my friends from the first semester had left Turku, I faced the academic challenge of semester two.
I had selected nine exciting subjects that I hadn’t encountered in my previous studies.
From January to May, I would study: Human Rights Law in Europe; Autonomy and Participation; Swedish Language and Migration, Development and Human Rights are only a few examples.
It was a lot to take on and I had coincidently organised one trip per month to make the most out of my remaining time in Finland.
The workload has been intense, so there were occasions when I thought that I would struggle to have time to provide each of my courses with adequate attention alongside balancing other commitments.
Now it feels like I am on the other side of the main intense period.
With great results coming in and only 3 courses remaining in the semester!
The pressure has eased considerably!
I have learned a lot about my work ethic and goals whilst increasing my confidence and understanding of the law and its complexities.
Most significantly, the breadth of subjects that I am studying at Turun Yliopisto and Åbo Akademi has broadened my perspective on legal issues such as the protection of international human rights.
The impact of intelligence systems on modern society.
The global issues relating to minority and indigenous peoples and how the law has a huge part to play in sustainable development internationally.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/the-power-of-extracurricular-activities-at-university.aspx:
So, let’s take a closer look at why taking part in these activities is so important.
Participating in a society or sport provides a healthy outlet for stress, allowing us to cope with our daily difficulties in a safe environment.
Whether it’s joining a sports team or creative club, these activities can act as a mental reset, allowing us to recharge and approach our challenges with a new, refreshed perspective.
Community
Humans have been known to be incredibly social creatures, so it’s not surprising that finding ourselves in a community can be amazing for our mental well-being.
Establishing connections with like-minded people can reduce feelings of isolation and homesickness, it also creates a supportive network which can help promote our mental resilience.
Balancing academic responsibilities with multiple commitments requires being resourceful and managing time effectively.
Learning how to juggle through these different activities can be incredibly difficult but once we’ve gotten the hang of it our organizational skills can help us continue to maintain a work-life balance that we’ll definitely need in the future.
Many social groups and sports will involve some kind of collaboration of a team, which provides us with leadership and teamwork opportunities.
This can range from leading a club or collaborating on a project together.
These experiences can enhance our interpersonal skills, fostering our personal growth and preparing us for the future.
Teamwork can also teach us how to establish strong connections with others and social networking, allowing ourselves to be more open and creating relationships we wouldn’t have otherwise.
Social groups and sports gives us the opportunity to work with people we might not normally interact with.
It provides a safe environment to learn more about other’s histories and stories.
This can broaden our understanding of others, promoting healthy cultural learning and personal development.
From public speaking in debate clubs, to strategizing in DND, social groups and sports provide a platform for developing skills catered to our interests.
These acquired skills enrich our personal portfolios and CVs as well as contributing to a more well-rounded and adaptable personal skill set.
Participating in a sport specifically can be incredibly helpful in making sure that we’re staying active throughout the weeks while we’re busy studying.
Our physical health is crucial for ensuring that we’re happy in our environments as well as allowing us to stay productive.
A social group or sport gives us a structured schedule in our lives, with regular practices, meetings and social events.
The consistent routine will create a discipline in our lives.
The sense of order can also positively affect our academic and personal habits, making it easier for us to become more well-rounded and structured in our learning.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/three-reasons-why-i-decided-to-do-a-masters-degree.aspx:
Hi, I’m Harriet, a postgraduate student currently studying for a MA in Education at the University of Worcester.
I completed my undergraduate degree also here in History and Sociology, graduating with a 2:1 in September 2024.
Although I felt a strong sense of achievement at finishing my undergrad, I decided I wanted to do a masters.
Choosing to pursue a masters was a decision I didn’t take lightly, but it’s one that has already enriched my life in more ways than I expected.
Therefore, in this post, I want to share three key reasons why I decided to return for postgraduate study — reasons that may resonate with others thinking about taking the same step.
During my undergraduate degree, I became particularly interested in how education intersects and relates within social structures.
Studying Sociology and History gave me the tools to think critically about inequality, access, and power.
The more I learned, the more I wanted to explore how these broader issues play out in real-world educational settings.
That curiosity grew into something more focused: a desire to engage with education not just as a topic of academic study, but as a space for practical change.
I wanted to understand how policy is made, how schools function beyond the classroom, and how teachers and leaders can foster meaningful learning environments.
A Master’s in Education has offered me the opportunity to explore these questions in a lot more depth.
I’ve been able to examine the theories that shape educational practice, discuss contemporary challenges with classmates from diverse backgrounds, and think more critically about what kind of educator I want to become.
The second reason is perhaps more pragmatic: career development.
After graduating, I explored different roles and quickly realised that many of the opportunities I was interested in required postgraduate qualifications.
While I am still shaping my long-term career goals, I know I want to work in a field where education and social change intersect.
I want to contribute to systems that make education more inclusive and effective for all learners, specifically to those with SEND and getting the ‘learner voice’ heard.
This is something I am truly passionate about and have been lucky enough to get involved within the university and have partaken in conferences at the university to explain why this is so important and how it really does make a difference for students.
Studying a masters provides a strong foundation for future impact.
Beyond just learning theory, this postgraduate study has also helped me develop further key skills—such as critical thinking, academic writing, and independent research all of which are valuable in any professional setting.
Finally, one of the most personal reasons I decided to pursue a Master’s was to challenge myself.
After finishing my undergraduate degree, I had a feeling that I hadn’t quite reached my full potential.
Postgraduate study is undeniably demanding.
It requires more independence, deeper engagement with theory, and a greater ability to manage your own time and workload.
But that’s also what makes it so rewarding.
I’ve been stretched in ways I didn’t expect, and it’s helped me grow—not just as a student, but as a thinker and as a person.
Starting a masters degree is a big decision.
It requires time, commitment, and sometimes a leap of confidence.
But for me, it’s been a turning point—a chance to specialise, grow, and move closer to the kind of work I want to do in the future.
If you’re considering postgraduate study, I’d encourage you to reflect not just on what you want to do, but on who you want to become.
For me, the decision to return to university wasn’t just about gaining a qualification—it was about investing in myself and my future.
So far, it’s been one of the most fulfilling decisions I’ve made.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/time-management-how-to-tackle-procrastination.aspx:
Amy here, with some of my tips on time management and how to tackle procrastination.
If you don’t already know, or are guilty of it yourself, procrastination is the habit of delaying an important task by focusing on something easier & arguably far more enjoyable.
Like many of you, I often find myself tempted to procrastinate, over the years I have learnt some useful techniques to avoid procrastination.
Here are some tips on how to get yet tasks done effectively and avoid any major distractions.
Implement an anti-procrastination system aka systems theory.
In summary systems theory is all about looking at different processes you do in your daily routine.
This can be things as simple as brushing your teeth & eating breakfast.
Looking at your subconscious habits enables you to assess how you can implement productive habits alongside.
For example, you may have a system where you do your skincare routine after brushing your teeth.
This becomes an automated habit that you consistently carry out every morning.
You may decide to tag onto this looking at some flashcards for 10 minutes before breakfast.
Soon enough these 3 tasks will subliminally become a natural part of your daily routine.
I have applied this theory to my life, and it has really helped me stop procrastinating as I no longer have the option to as the tasks, I’m carrying out doesn’t feel like a chore anymore.
Initially, it can be difficult to create new habits but with perseverance & commitment studies have shown that it only takes 66 days on average to make this behaviour automatic.
A to do lists is my go-to in preventing myself from procrastination whilst reducing stress.
Writing everything down enables me to break down my tasks into more manageable chunks so they don’t seem so daunting to start.
I often find myself juggling lost of things and becoming overwhelmed.
However, as soon as something pops into my head, I make sure I write it down on either a sticky note or on my phone.
This means whenever I find myself tempted to procrastinate, I look at my to-do list and pick something from there to complete, even if It’s something as simple as doing a load of laundry.
This means that I am still being efficient with my time which leaves me feeling more productive.
There are also some great apps on the market such as to do list that can help you keep on top of things.
Having a brilliant asset in your calendar life.
Whether it be on your device or hand-written, a calendar gives you the ability to write down all your upcoming events and schedule things in without questioning whether you’re already busy that day.
As well as a month-to-month calendar I also have a weekly calendar that I write up on my whiteboard each week.
This allows me to have a more detailed plan of what I have going on each week from lecture times & rooms to when I plan on going to the gym or socialising with friends.
I’ve found this has helped my organisation immensely and I honestly think I’d struggle to function without it.
Countdown apps are also a great thing to have on your phone.
You can, not only, input important dates such as university deadlines into it but also holidays & special events you’re looking forward too.
These apps give you a countdown of the number of days until the event, giving you something to work towards.
Hopefully, you’ve found this blog really useful and can start implementing some of these suggestions into your life.
When done correctly, they have the potential to positively impact your time management skills (which is a super great trait to have & looks good on your CV too!)

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/top-3-effective-ways-to-take-notes.aspx:
Everyone knows note-taking is an important part of university!
During lectures and seminars, your notebook or laptop will become loaded with lots of information.
So, how do you write your notes correctly, and most importantly, effectively?
Take a look at our top three methods to maximize your notetaking potential!
Take it from us, your notetaking method doesn’t have to be complicated.
The Outline Method is perfect evidence of this because you get to take notes quickly and efficiently, so you can keep up with your lecturer (guaranteed)!
Simply:
Put the title at the top.
Developed by a University Professor in the 1950s (so you know it’s good) the Cornell Method helps you take notes and remember them!
How?
You have to actively think about what you are going to write, which helps you retain the information.
This notetaking technique also helps you create revision ready content during your lecture!
The Mind Map
Here is one for the creatives out there – you didn’t think we’d forget you, did you?
This may give you flashbacks to school, but they taught you it for a reason!
This is the perfect notetaking method for those who want to add a splash of colour to their notes.
Let your mind (map) go wild!

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/ucas-application-process.aspx:
Hi, my name is Eleanor and I am a recent BSc Geography graduate from the University of Worcester.
Let me talk you through the UCAS application process, as of 2025.
Completing your UCAS Application can be very daunting and overwhelming, but hopefully, this blog will tell you everything you need to know when starting your application.
Firstly, UCAS stands for University and College Admissions Service and this website is where you will make your application.
They are an independent charity that help students get extra advice and information about courses and provide the admissions service for the university applications in the UK.
UCAS provides you with the relevant information about universities and the courses they offer, including a course summary and entry requirements.
So, how do you complete an application?
Once you have created an account, you will start by inputting simple details like your name and address.
Next add up to five of your chosen choices, entering the university name and course title etc.
You will then fill out ‘Your Profile’ this includes:
The next step is to add your personal statement, where you will provide the universities with further details about yourself.
Make sure you take time writing your statement and do not leave it until the last minute, as this is the first piece of writing the university will see of yours.
This is where you want to express your passion for the subject and why you want to study the course.
If you need any help writing your personal statement, be sure to keep an eye on our student blog for more top tips on writing your personal statement.
You will then enter the details of your referee (this could be a teacher from your school or college), and the reference request will then be sent to them directly through UCAS to fill out.
Once you have submitted you can sit back and relax!
Yay!
Shortly after, UCAS will email and post a letter confirming that you have submitted your application.
You will then start to hear back from your chosen universities – UCAS track allows you to keep up to date with your application and any offers you received.
You can then make your decisions and send off your replies.
Just remember, don’t leave it until the last minute!
Good luck with your university application process.
You will have the most amazing experience and make incredible memories and friends for life.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/university-myth-busters.aspx:
Ellie, a film production graduate, takes you through some common university misconceptions!
FALSE!
Most people are entitled to two loans as a student, the tuition fee loan and the maintenance loan.
Your tuition fee cover goes straight to the university from student finance, so you never have to handle this money yourself.
Your maintenance loan, however, gets paid to you in instalments throughout the academic year (usually September, January and April) in line with your Semesters.
This money should cover your rent and other costs for food, etc.
Try and budget when you start so you aren’t left with pennies when the next instalment is due!
Nope, not true!
Whilst your first-year grades do not count towards your final degree, you still need to pass this year in order to progress to the next year.
It’s good to start as you mean to go on.
Enjoy your first year but don’t completely slack off as you’ll pay for it later on!
Not quite!
Whilst clubbing is certainly an activity many students participate in, there is much more to university life than this.
There are plenty of social events and activities running throughout the year and joining a sport or society can be a great way to meet people, before they head out clubbing!
Woah Woah, calm down a minute, you’ve just moved to University, met your flat mates and those studying your course.
Despite what people say, there is no pressure to find a house for second year before Christmas.
There are lots of things to consider before moving into private accommodation, so don’t rush the decision and be stuck somewhere you hate!
Many students choose to live in University Halls of Residence or other managed accommodation to fully immerse themselves in the student experience but this is not essential!
If you prefer to live at home you can easily commute into university and save on living costs.
There are events run at the beginning of the academic year for students to meet fellow commuters so you won’t be alone!
There are lots more myths about University that you find out when you start, so don’t believe everything you see online!
Good luck for starting your University journey!

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/graduation-day-tips-what-I-wish-Id-known.aspx:
Graduation was a huge milestone for me.
After three years of lectures, deadlines, late-night studying, and socials, it felt like everything came together for that one moment.
I finally got to celebrate everything I had achieved with those closest to me.
While the ceremony and occasion were absolutely brilliant, I’d be lying if I said there weren’t a few practicalities I wish I’d thought of before!
But don’t worry, readers, I’m here to make sure you don’t make the hiccups I made, so you can enjoy your graduation without any last-minute stress.
If there is anything you take away from this blog, let it be this: plan your timings on the day!
If you’re reading this blog, congrats, I know you’re already considering the planning process (good for you)!
From traffic, queues or a cute dog on the route, you never know what might set you back a few moments.
Remember, you’ll need to collect your gown, have a photo, meet friends, find your seat and walk between locations (phew!)
It's worth checking the map beforehand and planning your route – our TikTok account shows you a scenic route and a step-free route (for when your mum inevitably decides to wear those stilettos you warned her against)!
I recommend giving yourself an extra 15 minutes for each part of the day, as it could make all the difference.
No rushing, no panicking; you’ll get a chance to breathe and enjoy the moment.
If you’ve decided to have a professional photo taken, try and do it before the ceremony in EGA.
You’ll be fresh, feeling excited and you know your gown will be perfectly in place!
This also means you won’t have to worry about coming back during the day, giving you plenty of time to take natural, more candid photos with your friends and family.
On that note, start thinking about where you want to take those beautiful graduation photos!
Was there a particular section of the river walk you loved?
Part of campus that you feel an affinity with?
A particularly beautiful part of the cathedral?
If you're struggling to think of anywhere, we have a short video showing you some of the most popular spots, where I know you can get a beautiful shot (guaranteed you’ll be taking one on the bridge!)
Yes, I do know those heels look great but trust me when I say, you DO NOT want to be wearing those all day!
With running to see your friends, walking over to the Cathedral and after-graduation celebrations in the University Arena, your feet will feel sore!
Look finesse for the ceremony, wear those heels and walk the stage (you’ve earned it) but keep a pair of flats in your bag (or with your guests) for walking between venues.
Trust me, you’ll thank me later!
It’s easy to worry about everything needing to be perfect and everything running smoothly.
Please don’t worry though, there will be staff everywhere who can support you throughout the day.
If you feel unsure where to go, what you need to do next or need somewhere for a rest, don’t hesitate to ask.
Graduation is a celebration of everything you’ve worked for, soak it all in and enjoy every minute.
Make it your own – you’ve earned it.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/ways-to-cope-with-homesickness-at-university.aspx:
Many students face the feeling of homesickness at university – you’re not alone!
Whether you’ve moved far away or you’re still close by, your feelings are valid and we want to help.
Here are some of our top tips to combat that homesickness, so you can get out and enjoy your university experience!
Your room is your personal space, so make it feel like you .
Decorating with photos of family, friends, or your favourite places can bring a sense of comfort and familiarity.
Add personal touches like your favourite blanket, a scented candle that reminds you of home, or small items that hold special meaning.
These little details can make a big difference in helping you settle in.
Your room should be a place where you feel safe, relaxed, and truly yourself.
Adding home comforts to your bedroom can make the world of difference.
Reduce that feeling of change!
Ringing home can benefit both parties.
If you’re missing home, they’re probably missing you too!
Sometimes a phone call is all it takes to make you feel better.
You might even video chat with your family for the evening so it feels like you’re still there!
One of the best ways to ease homesickness is to get out and explore your new surroundings.
Worcester is a beautiful and welcoming city with so much to discover beyond the university campus.
Take a stroll along the River Severn, visit the stunning Worcester Cathedral, or enjoy a peaceful afternoon at Gheluvelt Park.
If you’re into history, the Tudor House Museum offers a fascinating glimpse into the city’s past.
For something a bit different, why not try the retro arcade Retroids or hop on a river cruise for a unique view of the city?
The more you get to know the city, the more it will start to feel like yours.
When everything around you feels new, building a daily routine can bring a sense of calm and control.
Try setting regular times for meals, study sessions, exercise, and relaxation.
Even something as simple as a morning walk or a weekly call home can give your week structure and help you feel more grounded.
Sometimes the best way to ease homesickness is simply to be around others.
Spending time with your university friends can lift your mood and help you feel more connected.
Remember, many of your peers are likely feeling the same way, especially other international students.
A great way to meet new people and build friendships is by joining a society or club.
Whether you're into sports, music, gaming, volunteering, or cultural groups, there’s something for everyone.
Societies are not only a fun way to pursue your interests, but they also give you a sense of community and belonging.
You might even find a society that reminds you of home, or helps you discover something completely new!
firstpoint ’s ‘ Fancy a Cuppa ’ events are the perfect opportunity to talk away your homesickness.
They can point you to effective support services, help you make friendships, give you a warm drink, and ultimately, find ways to combat your homesickness.
If you are also missing your best friend, we also have Therapy Dogs at some of our ‘Grab a Cuppa’ events if you need a cuddle.
Sometimes all you need is a dog!
We understand that many people face homesickness at university.
The International team at Worcester are here to support you throughout your time with us.
You can also reach out to your Personal Academic Tutors, lecturers, firstpoint and anyone else who you think can help.
You never have to go through homesickness alone.
We are here for you.
Feeling homesick is completely normal, especially when you're adjusting to a new country, culture, and way of life.
But remember, these feelings won’t last forever.
With time, new routines, friendships, and experiences will help you feel more settled and confident.
Be kind to yourself, take each day as it comes, and don’t hesitate to reach out for support.
You're not alone on this journey and there’s a whole community here to help you feel at home.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/what-to-pack-for-university.aspx:
If you’re preparing to move into university accommodation this September, you’re likely spending your summer break frantically trying to figure out what you do and do not need to take with you.
Don’t worry – we’ve got you covered!
Here is our guide to everything you’ll need to bring to university, as well as the items you should leave behind.
Many students choose to share kitchenware with their new flatmates to save on money and storage space, and this is something that can be discussed with them once you’ve settled in.
Trust us – you will not need five woks.
There are some basic items you may want to bring with you for personal use.
These are likely to include plates, bowls, cutlery, drinking glasses and a mug.
We’d recommend bringing only two of each to save on storage space.
Besides your usual toiletries, the only real essential here is supplying your own toilet paper.
Again, this is a responsibility that can eventually be shared with your flatmates.
For those living in ensuite accommodation, you may want to bring along a bath mat and toilet brush.
We’d also suggest investing in some cleaning products – while communal spaces will be regularly cleaned, your room is your responsibility!
Halls of Residence are fully furnished with all the essentials, as well as helpful extras like a noticeboard, desk lamp and bin.
It’ll be up to you to pack the items that will make your new bedroom feel more like home:
There are some miscellaneous items you’ll be glad you packed in your suitcase:
Finally, here are all items you should avoid bringing along:
Remember, as long as you have the essentials, anything else can be bought on campus or in the city centre – so no need to worry if you forget something at home.
Safe travels!

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/student-blog/where-to-sit-and-study-in-worcester.aspx:
University life comes with a lot of down time.
When you’re not in lectures and trying to study, write up notes, and polish your assignments, it’s vital to find a perfect space to get in the zone.
At Worcester, we have a variety of on-campus locations to study, alongside a phenomenal number of city-based spaces.
From 24-hour University dedicated study spaces to quirky independent coffee shops you will never find yourself stuck in your room to study.
With all these options you can find a place to work no matter the vibe you seek.
If you’re in first year and don’t fancy straying too far from the University Campuses, there are plenty of study space options for you.
If you’re up in St Johns, the go-to space would be the Peirson Building.
Located within the same building as FirstPoint, the Peirson Building is open 24-hours of the day and has plenty of computers for you to access.
Pierson is the perfect communal space to spend your time in, no matter the time of day.
An exciting addition to the MyDay page this year was the Find a room to study tab.
You can simply click on the icon on your MyDay homepage and find any available rooms across all the University campuses.
You can refine your search between City and St John’s campus depending on where you are.
This is a fantastic tool to maximise use of the University’s space and to make sure you can find a room no matter when, or where, you need one.
The Hive is a huge asset to the University with a quarter of a million books and 800 study spaces.
When you’re on City campus this is a bright and friendly place to study.
The librarians are there to help you find any texts you need, alongside the Library Services tab on your MyDay page.
They also offer the Nooks that are perfect for privacy when you work on your individual or group work.
Plus, you get student discount at the café where they offer an amazing sausage roll and cup of tea.
We have a wonderful culture of independent businesses throughout Worcester and the coffee shops are a real highlight.
If you want a nice cup of coffee, a delicious cake, or a light bite while you study, then these places can give you the cosy vibes and nice chatter to keep you in the zone.
Plus, I've always found when I'm surrounded by people who can see me working, it empowers me to continue.
Although you’ll have to spend a little on a drink or two, there is the option of investing in a Woo Card which allows you to access discounts on the independent businesses across Worcester.
However, the price for a cup-of-coffee is well worth the warmth and community in the small spaces across the city.
My top three cafés would be:
So, no matter what type of space you’re looking for, there are plenty of places to sit and study around Worcester.
No need to stay in your room, go and explore the city.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/early-career-teacher-podcast.aspx:
This is the ECT podcast from the University of Worcester, dedicated to supporting you as you embark on your teaching journey.
In each episode, we explore the triumphs and challenges faced by new teachers, offering practical advice, inspirational and relatable stories, and expert insights to help you thrive in your classroom.
The University of Worcester is one of the UK's biggest educators of teachers and has been praised as 'exceptional' and rated 'Outstanding' by a large team of Ofsted inspectors, and this is your chance to tap into the expertise of the University's Institute of Education.
In this podcast, we're going to explore a range of topics tailored specifically for early career teachers, looking at classroom management strategies, behaviour, supporting pupils with special educational needs, lesson planning, and so much more.
Find out more about teacher training at the University of Worcester.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/press-office.aspx:
Our team issues regular news releases and commentary on topical issues, ground-breaking research and interesting projects.
To request to join our mailing list and receive news directly from the University of Worcester, please contact press@worc.ac.uk
We can also assist you with facts and figures, photographs, logos and other assets in relation to the University.
The University also offers an out-of-hours media service.
For urgent media enquiries in the evenings or at weekends, please call 07919 293757.
The University of Worcester has a wide field of experts available to comment on a range of issues.
We welcome invitations for our academics and experts to appear on radio, television and podcasts and will always endeavour to help arrange appearances.
Our academics have given expert comment and interviews to many outlets including BBC News 24, BBC Radio 5live, Sky News, BBC Local Radio & Television news, Gardeners' World, Countryfile, Free Radio and the national press including The Times, The Guardian and The Telegraph, as well as many industry specific publications and magazines.
If you’re looking for comment on a specific story you’re working on or planning for the future, call the Press Office to see how we can help.
Our academics frequently write about their research interests and the topics which fascinate them.
The Academic Blog is a place to discover the research, subject knowledge and specialisms of our staff and students.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/job-opportunities:
With more than 1,000 people employed in a range of jobs, the University of Worcester is more a community than a workplace.
You'll join a positive and enthusiastic group of people continually driven to improve the university experience for our students.
We also know that people have commitments outside their job, so we provide a working environment that allows you to achieve the right work-life balance.
At Worcester, diversity is the key to creativity.
Our inclusive culture, friendly university community and dedication to impactful academic endeavour make the University of Worcester an enjoyable and highly rewarding place to work.
Our culture is characterised by the same commitment to diversity and inclusion that underpins our work in all areas of university life.
Worcester is the number one university in the UK for gender pay equality , is consistently outstanding on environmental sustainability and committed to becoming the most inclusive employer we can be.
We are a Stonewall Diversity Champion, a Disability Confident employer, and a signatory to the Mindful Employer charter.
The University of Worcester is a thriving engine of opportunity with a global reputation for inclusion and innovation.
Our maxim, ‘Inspired for Life’ is at the heart of what we're about .
We aim to support students and staff across all our academic schools to succeed in their chosen career - we motivate them to use the skills that they develop to build a better world.
In practice this means an institutional commitment to inclusion, democracy, social benefit, and the transformative power of higher education.
Whilst excellence in learning, teaching and research remain at the centre of everything we do, our strategic plan sets out a vision to combine this with strong principles and the enduring human values of inclusion, community and equality of opportunity.
If you have any questions about working at Worcester or the recruitment process get in touch with our Human Resources team:
01905 855173 jobs@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/job-opportunities/staff-benefits.aspx:
At Worcester we strive to make a difference in the lives of our students and in the wider community.
This ambition, along with our inclusive and welcoming culture, make the University of Worcester an enjoyable and highly rewarding place to work.
All staff have access to a wide range of benefits, from support and advice at work to discounts on shopping and leisure.
These include enhanced maternity, paternity and adoption leave, as well as sickness benefits, increasing with your length of employment.
Every employee of the University has access to a generous occupational pension scheme .
All schemes provide valuable benefits on retirement, as well as life assurance and protection for your family.
The University has partnered with Vivup - a scheme that offers staff exclusive discounts and promotions with hundreds of retailers, from supermarkets to high street brands.
Through Worcester BID , you’ll find monthly offers from a range of city centre shops, cafés and restaurants.
Just show your University staff ID before making a purchase and mention the discount.
The offers change regularly, so do check the latest list each month.
You can also access additional local rewards the University has arranged with regional retailers and service providers – helping your money go further while supporting businesses in the community.
The University of Worcester has partnered with Tusker to offer a range of affordable and low-emission vehicles to colleagues, via a salary sacrifice arrangement.
We provide a varied and interesting array of learning and development opportunities for academic and professional services staff.
You'll also have access to a range of online learning modules and training videos through LinkedIn Learning.
Staff are able to hire rooms and book overnight accomodation at the university for a 10% discount.
For more information see our venue hire web page .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/job-opportunities/our-values.aspx:
Our approach, which is built on the principle of inclusion, allows us to prioritise fairness across our institution.
At the University of Worcester:
The University of Worcester's Strategic Plan - 2019 Edition is now available.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/job-opportunities/living-in-worcester.aspx:
From vibrant city streets to peaceful riverside walks, and from historic charms to top-flight sporting entertainment.
Whatever your interests; Worcester has plenty to offer.
And when you want to take a break, the idyllic Worcestershire countryside is within easy reach.
Worcester has been voted the happiest city in the UK, as well as finishing in the top three for both safety and friendliness making it an ideal city in which to make your home.
There are a range of highly-rated schools in both the state and independent sector.
The cost of living in Worcester is very reasonable with rent, food and many other costs lower than national averages.
House prices are only slightly above the national average, in part due to the large number of highly desirable homes in the area.
With inclusion and community engagement at the heart of the University’s core values, we embrace our role as an engine for opportunity; not just for our students, but for the whole community.
We aim to make a positive and transformational contribution to Worcester and the wider region, and with students making up 1 in 10 of the local population, the University brings a vibrancy and dynamism to city life.
Renowned for its captivating history and colourful culture, the city centre is brimming with riverside cafes, stylish shops and a host of theatres and entertainment venues.
What really sets Worcester apart are the independent businesses in charming locations that you can’t find in every city, from bars in 16 th century Tudor houses to coffee shops under railway arches, and pub gardens on the riverbank.
There’s also a lively street market every Saturday that offers hidden treasures, from artisan foods to vintage goods.
With one of the UK’s fastest growing local economies, a digital infrastructure that places it at the heart of many next-generation industries and game-changing developments across a host of sectors, Worcester is well positioned to play a major role in tomorrow’s world.
Centrally located with excellent road, rail and air links, Worcester is easy to reach from anywhere in the UK.
With Birmingham International Airport less than an hour away, the rest of the world is right on our doorstep.
The Historic Quarter in the city stretches from the Cathedral, through Friar Street, and on in to New Street and the Corn Market.
Here you will find many historic gems, from the tomb of King John to the famous Commandery dating back to 1085, as well as the cobbled Tudor magic of Friar Street.
Today many of these historic buildings serve a modern purpose, housing a vibrant array of bars, restaurants and independent shops.
Breathing new life in to the rich history of our city is a Worcester speciality.
From the top flight to the grass roots, Worcester is a sporting community through and through.
The city is home to the Worcester Warriors RFC, as well as Worcestershire County Cricket Club, whose New Road ground is widely regarded to be the most picturesque in the country.
The University owns the Worcester Wolves BBL basketball club, and co-owns the Severn Stars Netball Super League side, with match-nights at the University Arena forming an integral part of both the social and sporting calendar.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/job-opportunities/salary-grading.aspx:
At Worcester, salaries are set through national agreements for higher education, with clear pay scales and bands for every role.
This page outlines the current and upcoming salary structures.
The majority of employees are appointed to posts where the salary levels are established by means of national agreements reached between the recognised trades unions and the higher education employers.
There are salary scales or points applicable to each post and these are identified in the contract of employment for each employee.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/job-opportunities/pension-schemes-retirement.aspx:
The University operates four pension schemes for new staff and will consider which scheme is most suitable for your role.
Your admittance to the scheme will depend on the rules of the scheme, your contract, earnings and age.
The schemes are:
Local Government Pension Scheme ( LGPS ) – for Professional Services and non-teaching roles.
Teachers Pension Scheme ( TPS ) –  for roles which are predominantly teaching.
National Employment Savings Trust ( NEST ) – is available to UW Worcester Wolves players.
NHS Pension Scheme ( NHS Pensions ) – is available for individuals who are already members of the NHS Pension Scheme and are now employed in an eligible role in our Medical School.
Note: Universities Superannuation Scheme ( USS )  – the University continues to operate USS for a small number of existing staff who are already USS members.
The University does not offer USS to new staff.
Once you are enrolled into a pension scheme your contributions will be automatically deducted from your salary each month.
In addition, the University will also make a contribution to the scheme based on your earnings.
The contribution rates depend on how much you are paid.
Please refer to the scheme website for up to date rates:
LGPS members: See WCC web page
TPS members: See TPS web page
USS members: See USS web page
NEST members: See NEST web page
NHS member: See NHS Pensions web page
Before transferring existing pension funds, you are advised to take independent financial advice so that you fully understand any financial implications.
If you have an existing pension which is eligible for transfer into LGPS or TPS you may request a transfer of previous pension funds within 12 months of joining the University pension scheme.
The rules and process vary so please refer to the relevant website for up to date guidance.
New staff who are existing members of USS will be enrolled in TPS or LGPS as appropriate.
If your pay is reduced during periods of absence your pension contributions may also be reduced, for example during periods of unpaid parental leave, nil-pay sickness absence, authorised unpaid leave or strike action.
You may be able to make additional pension contributions (APCs) to reduce the impact on your pension funds.
Under some circumstances the University may continue to make employer contributions, for example during parental leave.
Please refer to the scheme website for full details, including the time limits for applying to pay APCs.
LGPS members: see LGPS website
TPS members: see TPS website
USS members: See USS webpage
NEST members: see NEST website
NHS Pension members: see NHS Pensions webpage
Yes, you can choose to pay higher contributions if you wish.
The University is not obliged to match the additional payments that you choose to make, and the employer contributions will continue to be based on your pay.
Please refer to the scheme website for full details:
LGPS members: see LGPS webpage
TPS members: see TPS webpage
USS members: see USS webpage
NEST members: see NEST webpage
Before deciding to leave the pension scheme we would encourage you to consider the benefits that the pension scheme offers.
You may also find it helpful to take independent financial advice to help you plan your future finances.
If you still wish to leave the scheme you will need to follow the “opt-out” process for the scheme in which you have been enrolled.
If you wish to receive a refund for any contributions deducted from your salary the opt-out process will need to be completed within the deadline set by the pension scheme provider, please refer to the scheme website as the rules vary for each scheme:
LGPS members: Complete form and send to UW payroll.
TPS members: Opt-out online at MyPensionOnline or download forms from TPS website.
USS: Opt out or withdrawal forms can be found on USS website
NEST: Opt out online on NEST website
NHS: Complete form and send to UW payroll
Each scheme is slightly different, so please check the rules of your pension provider carefully to ensure that you are fully informed about any longer-term financial impact on your pension funds.
If you wish to reduce your hours of work to access a phased or flexible retirement, you could discuss this with your manager in the first instance to see whether your proposal is viable.
If you decide to proceed with a request for a reduction in working hours, you should detail your request in writing to your Head of School / Department for their consideration via the University’s Flexible Working policy.
Your Head of School / Department will need to assess whether the proposed reduction in hours is going to affect service delivery and the work can be reorganised effectively etc.
The University will also need to consider any impact on your duties and your job description will probably be reviewed to reflect the revised arrangements; it may also be necessary to review the type of contract you are employed on depending on the confirmed changes to your duties / role.
Any subsequent reduction in working hours will be a permanent contractual change which will also affect your pay and possibly your annual leave entitlement.
Each scheme will have slightly different rules and you are advised to check the correct order in which you should apply for flexible retirement and make the flexible working request and the timescales required.
If you continue to work beyond your normal pension age your retirement and payment of pension funds will be deferred.
Your pension will then be paid when you leave pensionable service in the future or when you reach age 75.
Your pension fund is likely to increase due to you taking your pension benefits at a later date.
Each scheme is slightly different so please check the rules of your pension scheme for the options available and procedure to follow.
You may also wish to request an up to date estimate of your pension benefits and take independent financial advice before making your decision.
Pension scams are prevalent in the UK and are increasingly sophisticated and difficult to spot.
The Pension Regulator provides helpful advice on how pension scams work, the warning signs and how you can avoid being scammed.
We recommend that you take a few minutes to read the 2 page leaflet for further information.
The HR and Payroll teams are not able to provide financial advice and can only respond to questions about pension administration.
For specific advice in relation to your personal circumstances please contact your pension provider.
You are advised to also take independent financial advice before making any important decisions.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/safeguarding-at-the-university.aspx:
At the University of Worcester, we are committed to safeguarding our students and staff.
We do everything we can to keep them safe and protected from harm in a supportive and inclusive academic community.
We have clear policies and procedures in place to support and address safeguarding and well-being concerns.
We play a role in ensuring that children, young people and vulnerable adults are safeguarded whilst on University premises and in the wider community, taking due regard for government guidance such as Keeping Children Safe in Education , and working closely with Local Authority Designated Officers for Safeguarding (LADO).
Staff at the University have regular updated safeguarding training according to their roles.
Students on many of our professional courses also receive current safeguarding training.
We take all safeguarding concerns seriously.
Part of our safeguarding duty includes the Prevent Duty which protects vulnerable individuals from the risk of radicalisation and extremism.
Our response to the Prevent Duty is set out in our Code of Practice on the Freedom of Speech .
If you have a concern about a member of staff, you are advised to contact:
For concerns related to students, contact:
Alternatively, for matters related to health and well-being of students, you can email:
For Safeguarding matters related to staff and students, email:
If you have a concern about a member of staff or student in the context of Prevent please email:

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/quality-teaching:
In its most recent report into the quality of our teaching, the Quality Assurance Agency praised us for our ‘continuous and systematic improvement of the student experience’ and identified our approach to quality enhancement to be a key factor in our good practice.
Professor David Green, the University's Vice Chancellor and Chief Executive, said: “In recent years the University of Worcester has consolidated its excellent national reputation for academic quality on our biggest programmes, which educate future teachers, nurses and midwives.
This independent audit report studied the entire work of the University at every level and across the range.”
"We are delighted to have received so many commendations...
particularly for the work we do to provide educational opportunities for disabled students and to promote unusually high rates of employability."
Professor David Green, Vice Chancellor & Chief Executive
The 2023 Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) has awarded The University of Worcester a Silver rating.
This means that 'the student experience and outcomes are typically very high quality, and there may be some outstanding features.'
This evaluation is set to last for the next four years.
It is the major assessment of the quality of University education in England.
On the aspect of 'Student experience' the panel summarised that:
“The panel judged there to be compelling evidence in the provider and student submissions and the indicators that the very high quality and outstanding features apply to all the provider’s groups of students including students from under-represented groups...Considering the evidence holistically, the panel considered there to be evidence of very high quality across all groups of students and for all courses and subjects.”
On the aspect of 'Student Outcomes' the panel summarised that:
“The panel...considered the majority of features to be very high quality, with one outstanding quality feature...Considering the features holistically, the panel judged there to be evidence of typically very high quality student outcomes across the aspect as a whole.”
You can read more about what is the TEF?
We embed employability into our curriculum which means that our graduates are some of the most sought after by employers throughout the country.
We have many links with employers through our placement schemes and provide significant support to further boost the employability of our students.
Our comprehensive Student Online Environment is tailored to each individual student to ensure that every student has the level of support and guidance they need throughout their studies.
Through schemes like our Student Academic Representatives (StARS) initiative, we have enhanced student representation throughout the University, ensuring that every student’s voice and opinion can be heard at the highest level.
This, combined with the development of our Link Tutor Forum (to share good practice across the institution) and our inclusive approach in working with collaborative partners, means that all of our students benefit from true academic excellence at the heart of their course.
The University undertakes a number of measures to ensure that our qualifications accurately recognise, demonstrate and celebrate the academic success of our students.
We regularly analyse our data on the proportions of degree classifications we award and review these alongside this range of measures to ensure that all of our students – be they past, present or future – receive qualifications of which they can be proud.
The latest outcome of this analysis and review is contained within our Degree Outcomes Statement .
The University committed to continuous improvement and is an active member of QAA and Advance HE.
About QAA Membership

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/quality-teaching/silver-tef-2023.aspx:
The University of Worcester has been awarded Silver in the 2023 Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF).
An independent panel of assessors singled out several aspects of the University of Worcester as outstanding, including its learning resources, student engagement in improvement, staff professional development and academic practice and intended educational gains.
All other aspects of the University of Worcester, across student experience and student outcomes, were rated as very high quality.
The panel had high praise for the way the University “effectively supports its students to achieve very high-quality student outcomes and educational gains” and how it has “embedded very high-quality teaching, feedback and assessment practices that are effective in supports its students’ learning, progression and attainment”.
Among the University’s outstanding learning resources, the Hive, Europe’s first joint university and public library was particularly praised for the way it “builds a sense of community and social mobility”.
The value of the ‘student voice’ within the University was also rated outstanding, particularly the way the University “embeds engagement with its students, leading to continuous improvement to the experiences and outcomes of its students”.
Worcester students benefit from being taught by academics who enjoy outstanding professional development academic practice.
Of particular note was the fact that “72.4% of teaching staff have fellowship of the Higher Education Academy at some level, compared with a sector average of only 46.1%”.
These factors combined result in outstanding intended educational gains with “excellent graduates outcomes in relation to sustained employment that is ‘meaningful’, ‘relevant’ and ‘fits with future plans’.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/quality-teaching/what-is-the-tef.aspx:
It has been designed and implemented by the Government and measures the following:
The Framework uses scores from the National Student Survey together with information on graduate employment and numbers of students who withdraw from their course to give each institution a rating.
This is supported by a narrative submitted by the University that provides evidence of teaching excellence across the institution.
To be considered for a TEF award, the University first must meet a national set of baseline quality requirements.
The TEF looks at excellence above and beyond these existing high standards.
The TEF awards are decided by an independent panel of experts which consists of students, academics and employer representatives.
Each institution is given one of the following ratings:
The student experience and student outcomes are typically outstanding.
The student experience and student outcomes are typically very high quality.
The student experience and student outcomes are typically high quality, and there are some very high quality features.
Following its submission in 2023, the University was awarded a Silver rating in the TEF.
The TEF review panel said "that the very high quality and outstanding features apply to all the provider’s groups of students including students from under-represented groups" and that there is "evidence of very high quality across all groups of students and for all courses and subjects."
The TEF 2023 ratings dashboard provides a breakdown of the ratings by aspect, by provider characteristics, and by student characteristics.
More information on the TEF is available on the Office for Students website.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/partner-institutions:
We develop formal partnerships where these projects are long term and achieve at least one of the following outcomes:
If you would like to discuss forming a partnership with the University of Worcester, please contact the partnership team:
partners@worc.ac.uk
Institutions seeking a partnership regarding course approval, please note the minimum number of students for undergraduate courses is 15, and the minimum number of students for postgraduate courses is 10.
The collaborative courses register is organised by the Academic Quality Unit .
Courses are included in the register once they have been fully approved by the University.
The register includes all provision which is delivered and/or supported and/or assessed through an arrangement with a partner organisation.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/partner-institutions/our-partners.aspx:
The University of Worcester is proud to work with various partners to support a range of projects.
Here are some of them:
Birmingham Metropolitan College is one of the leading providers of further and higher education in the West Midlands.
BMET offers a wide choice of A Levels, vocational courses, apprenticeships as well as full and part-time courses for adults including Access to HE and university level study.
BMet is comprised of three main colleges and a number of satellite sites in Birmingham: Matthew Boulton College, Sutton Coldfield College and James Watt College in Birmingham.
Courses on offer and location of delivery
Full-Time Courses
Based in the Black Country, Dudley College of Technology is a Further Education College rated Good by OFSTED.
The college offers courses from Entry level and GCSEs through to higher-level level study and apprenticeships in a range of subject areas.
Courses are high quality and affordable and linked to local and regional jobs and skills.
BSc Adult Nursing
FdSc Assistant Practitioner
BSc Sports Therapy
Please note: these courses are delivered by University of Worcester in Dudley.
You need to apply through University of Worcester
Website: https://www.dudleycol.ac.uk
The Dudley University Centre is jointly funded by Dudley College of Technology and the University of Worcester.
The vision is to provide a hub for higher education for those attending Dudley College of Technology and the local community.
This will raise educational aspiration, encouraging increased participation in higher education, particularly by those who may not otherwise have considered it.
It will further raise the profile of Dudley College of Technology and University of Worcester in the Black Country.
The Aims are:
More information about the courses offered by Dudley College of Technology can be found here: https://dudleycol.ac.uk/
For many years, Halesowen College has held a reputation for high standards, an excellent learning environment and a caring, supportive sense of community.
All students are treated as individuals for achieving their potential and gaining a sound foundation for the future.
In association with our long-standing partnership with the University of Worcester we are committed to increasing participation and progression routes to higher education for the local community.
The University Centre Halesowen is jointly funded by Halesowen College and the University of Worcester.
The vision is to provide a hub for higher education for those attending Halesowen College and the local community.
It will further raise the profile of Halesowen College and University of Worcester in the Black Country.
To increase progression to HE within the college and to the University of Worcester.
To further develop additional HE curriculum through partnership and increase student numbers.
To provide enrichment for the learners through the delivery of subject-based master classes by UW staff at HC.
To raise the profile of the courses offered by Halesowen College and their links to the University of Worcester.
To raise the profile of the University of Worcester in the Black Country  to attract more applications from potential students living in the area.
To provide a more visible manifestation of the existing partnership working and educational opportunities that have been developed.
More information about the courses offered by Halesowen College can be found here
Heart of Worcestershire College is a further and higher education college that offers full-time and part-time courses and apprenticeships in a diverse range of specialist subject areas.
Their higher education and professional qualifications are affordable and flexible to suit your lifestyle.
Their group sizes ensure you are supported throughout your time at the College.
The Heart of Worcestershire College University Centre is jointly funded by Heart of Worcestershire College and the University of Worcester.
The vision is to provide a hub for higher education for those attending HoW College and the local community.
It will further raise the profile of Heart of Worcestershire College and University of Worcester in Worcestershire.
To provide enrichment for the learners through the delivery of subject-based master classes by UW staff at HoW.
To raise the profile of the courses offered by Heart of Worcestershire College and their links to the University of Worcester.
To raise the profile of the University of Worcester in Worcestershire to try  to attract more applications from potential students living in the area.
More information about the courses offered by Heart of Worcestershire College can be found here
Email: info@howcollege.ac.uk
Phone: 01905 725555 Website: Higher Education and Professional | Heart of Worcestershire College (howcollege.ac.uk)
Herefordshire, Ludlow and North Shropshire College's emphasis is on the success of every single student.
They have received excellent feedback from Ofsted and, for their university level courses, the Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education, and their students report high levels of satisfaction with their learning and the College.
The Hereford University Centre  is jointly funded by Herefordshire, Ludlow & North Shropshire College and the University of Worcester.
The vision is to provide a hub for higher education for those attending Herefordshire, Ludlow & North Shropshire College and the local community.
It will further raise the profile of Herefordshire, Ludlow & North Shropshire College and University of Worcester in the Herefordshire and Shropshire.
To provide enrichment for the learners through the delivery of subject-based master classes by UW staff at HLNSC.
To raise the profile of the courses offered by HLNSC and their links to the University of Worcester.
To raise the profile of the University of Worcester in Herefordshire and Shropshire  to attract more applications from potential students living in the area.
More information about the courses offered by Herefordshire, Ludlow & North Shropshire College can be found here
Iron Mill College is a leading provider of education and training in mental health and wellbeing based in central Exeter, Devon and Poole, Dorset.
Email: enquiries@ironmill.co.uk Phone: 01392 219200 Website: www.ironmill.co.uk
Millennium Performing Arts was founded as a vocational training centre in Musical Theatre and Dance in 1997.
Today, MPA College provides both validated and internally awarded PROFESSIONAL DEGREES and DIPLOMAs towards achieving a professional standard.
We cover all major Dance and/or Musical Theatre techniques as listed: Jazz Dance • Contemporary Dance • Tap Dance • Ballet • Singing • Acting but also training in Body Management, Vocal Skills/Voice, Musicianship, Workshops and Contextual Studies, all of which are needed to achieve a career in Dance or Musical Theatre.
MPA College devotes time and energy to recognise and meet individual needs and aspirations.
All subject elements are taught by highly experienced industry professionals, who also have expertise for teaching and developing skills in students.
Millennium Performing Arts has always been a friendly but professionally focussed College.
Staff know all students personally and take a deep interest in their progression and development.
At Millennium Performing Arts we continue to uphold an integral commitment to providing professional training for the Performing Arts industry.
We maintain an ethos to fulfil the needs of the profession and provide well prepared, relevant, employable graduate performers.
Email: info@mpacollege.co.uk
Phone: 020 8301 8744
Website: mpacollege.co.uk
NCT is the UK’s leading charity for parents, for the First 1,000 Days - right through pregnancy, birth and beyond.
A new course will be offered to train practitioners to support new families through pregnancy and the early days of parenthood.
NCT are currently developing a new exciting training programme.
Please visit website for further information.
If you have any questions about training with NCT, contact them through their online course enquiry form or call their friendly admissions team on 0208 752 2453
Support Services for Education (SSE) is a traded unit within Somerset County Council that offers a wide variety of support services to all education providers.
As a public sector traded unit it provides the right balance between public sector ethos and commercial practice.
Somerset Centre for Integrated Learning (SCIL) is the training team for SSE.
They are committed to making a difference to children and young people by working in partnership with others.
Email: scil@somerset.gov.uk
Phone: 0300 123 1967
Website: www.sciltraining.co.uk
Walsall College is one of the most successful colleges in the country – a place where more than 14,000 people study vocational technical qualifications, apprenticeships and higher education programmes each year.
Higher education provision is well established in the College and there are plans to expand its Adult and Community provision through its new Vision and Purpose 2025-2030.
The Walsall University Centre is jointly funded by Walsall College and the University of Worcester.
The vision is to provide a hub for higher education for those attending Walsall College and the local community.
It will further raise the profile of Walsall College and University of Worcester in the Black Country.
More information about the courses offered by Walsall College can be found here https://www.walsallcollege.ac.uk/
Phone: 01922 657000
Website: www.walsallcollege.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/partner-institutions/partner-students.aspx:
This page is designed to help you understand what services at University of Worcester are available to support you during your studies and how you can access them.
It applies to all UW students studying with one of our partners.
Any students registered only with a partner institution e.g.
SCITT students should read this page .
We hope to have the opportunity to meet you during the year and hear how you are getting on.
Good luck with your studies!
Ann Jordan , Provost Ronke Akintan , President, Students' Union
Download and read your student guide .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/partner-institutions/partner-staff.aspx:
We have some excellent resources to offer you which you can access remotely.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/community-collaboration:
Residents across the Dudley Borough are invited to find out more about higher education study at a series of library-based roadshows.
Wednesday, 02 July 2025
Visually impaired students from local colleges spent a day at the University of Worcester to find out more about the transition to higher education.
A University of Worcester study has identified incidents of runners being shouted at from cars, chased by dogs, and having items thrown at them while out exercising.
Monday, 02 June 2025
Hundreds of people attended the first ever Children and Families Festival at the University of Worcester over the weekend.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/community-collaboration/venue-hire:
Welcome to the University of Worcester, one of the greenest campuses in the country with a rich history dating back to 1946.
We offer an array of room choices that will meet your requirements regardless of the occasion.
Our accommodation based on St John’s Campus and City Campus caters for all needs and prices and provides accessible rooms.
Our options vary from Traditional to En-Suite Extra rooms available with group discounts during the summer period.
Additionally, we offer accommodation all year round at our Barrington House, a beautiful four storey Georgian property with panoramic views over the River Severn.
Regardless of the chosen site for your stay, we cater for full board bookings provided by the Chartwells Corporation with a hospitality menu available for conferences.
Among the event types that we cater for are day meetings, functions, residential conferences, sporting events, training events, summer schools, celebrations for various occasions with availability to numerous formal rooms flexible in size, PC rooms, open spaces and interactive rooms with set up on request available.
To book a meeting room, conference or accommodation - or to discuss your options
email: conferencing@worc.ac.uk or call: 01905 542121

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/community-collaboration/venue-hire/accommodation-for-hire.aspx:
We have over 1,000 bedrooms and a wide range of choices to suit individual needs, ranging from standard to luxury en-suite rooms.
With rooms available on both our St John's Campus and City Campus.
Our accommodation is suitable for individuals, families and groups.
Both campuses provide the perfect base for exploring the historic town of Worcester and its many attractions.
Barrington House is a beautiful four storey Georgian property situated on the banks of the River Severn.
It boasts a self contained flat, and 8 double bedrooms all of which are available to book throughout the year.
Furnished to an exceptional standard and only a short walk to the University and the stunning city of Worcester, Barrington House makes a perfect place to call home.
To book a meeting room, conference or accommodation - or to discuss your options.
email: conferencing@worc.ac.uk
or call: 01905 542121

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/community-collaboration/venue-hire/meetings-conferences-and-functions:
We offer a range of venues for meetings, conferences, seminars, presentations and celebrations.
Rooms available for external hire include tiered lecture theatres with varying capacities from 95-200 delegates (up to 400 with video-link to adjacent theatre), breakout rooms and spaces, impressive state-of-the-art meeting and seminar rooms, which offer flexible layouts, and seating options with adjacent areas for the service of lunches and/ or refreshments.
We also have a number of specialist facilities to include PC Suites for training sessions.
We are happy to work with you to create bespoke menus and events that match your requirements and can offer you a choice of options to ensure that your event is a success.
The Day Delegate rates include tea/coffee on arrival, morning and afternoon tea/coffee and biscuits, water,working buffet premium or standard lunch option (dependent upon selected package).
Included within the cost is the room hire for your conference suite.
Please contact the Conference Team for prices.
We would welcome the opportunity to meet with you at the University whereupon we would be happy to provide a guided tour of the venues and facilities we have to offer.
We offer a variety of spaces that suits all kinds of different events.
If you are looking for space that would work for a birthday, anniversary, engagement or even a wedding reception then it is worth having a look at what we have to offer.
Our rooms can be set up in a variety of different ways, or you can decorate the outskirts and leave the centre blank for your guests to dance or in a child’s view, just play!
The options are endless when it comes to making the space what you want it to be so if you do have an event that you are planning for then get in touch with our team.
As well as offering rooms and catering for day conferences, during the summer, we can also provide on-campus accommodation for residential conferences .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/community-collaboration/venue-hire/venue-information.aspx:
On arrival, please park in car park M, which is the long stay car park located near the Severn Gate entrance to St John’s Campus .
This is a pay and display car park.
From here, please make your way to Main reception where our dedicated team will be able to help you with your meeting room / conference or accommodation needs.
14:00 onwards (our reception desk is manned 24/7)
10:00am please make sure you return your key to main reception on departure
Guest log in accounts are provided for meetings booked at the University of Worcester where use of our computers for presentations and such like are required.
Wi-Fi is available for guests and will be provided on arrival in the case of room hire.
For those that have booked accommodation with us, Wi-Fi access codes are given out upon collection of keys.
If you require additional equipment i.e flip chart, roving microphone etc for your meeting / conference.
Please let us know in advance so that we can ensure that this equipment is available for you on the day.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/community-collaboration/business-services:
We can help you train and develop your staff, recruit highly motivated students, raise your business's profile and more.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/community-collaboration/business-services/advertise-your-vacancies.aspx:
Our myCareer online portal allows you to add your vacancies directly and free of charge .
The portal is used by all Worcester students and graduates throughout their student journey, starting with searching for part time jobs, through to placement opportunities, and then finding their full time graduate jobs.
You can submit and manage your adverts for:
Visit our careers and employability pages to begin posting your vacancy.
Our Students' Union is keen to work with local community groups and charities to provide volunteering opportunities for students.
You can find out more information on the Students Union volunteering page .
Work placements are a period of employment undertaken by students as part of their studies with Worcester Business School .
The Business School is constantly seeking to generate new placement opportunities for its students, both in the local area and nationally.
They provide support for employers at all stages of the work placement process to ensure that both the employer and the student get the most out of placement experience.
To advertise your business work placement to students, please use our myCareer platform.
Together Universities and Higher Education Institutions in the UK help approximately 300,000 undergraduate and 100,000 postgraduate students obtain qualifications every year.
The development of such highly educated people benefits not only the individuals concerned, but also businesses and the economy more generally.
Research with employers has identified the following ten key benefits of employing graduates:
Email: careers@worc.ac.uk Phone: 01905 855354

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/community-collaboration/business-services/specialist-help.aspx:
Our computing students study Web Development and Design, and have the programming skills needed to build you a new fully functioning website.
They can even include a shopping cart, a form to email customers or build a database that is integrated into your website if that is something you need.
In some instances, your requirements could become part of a class project, in other cases a work placement might be more appropriate where one student comes to you on a regular basis for a short period.
Our students look for actual projects when completing their final independent piece of work.
Alternatively, you might want someone you can just pay part time for a short contract.
See examples of our students' work
If you think that our students could help, please contact Liz Coulter-Smith on e.coulter-smith@worc.ac.uk
Do you need a team to carry out a survey on your behalf?
Do you want to conduct some market research on a new product or service?
Our students could work with you to design questions and methods and can carry out the work.
Please contact Jenny Wei-Chen Ma on j.ma@worc.ac.uk or 01905 855456 or contact Penney Upton p.upton@worc.ac.uk or 01905 542162 to discuss your requirements.
Our students can help you:
The students have all achieved a certain level of English (written and spoken) and are studying for their degree in English.
However, they do not have formal translation qualifications.
Please see the full list of countries our students come from [PDF].
Please contact the University of Worcester on employers@worc.ac.uk regarding the job details.
Supply us with: language, nature and amount of work, and time required to be completed by or date(s) of attendance.
We will circulate it to the relevant students and ask them to contact you.
Within sports, the University of Worcester is able to offer highly motivated and adequately qualified students that have an enthusiasm to learn.
All are equipped with specialist skills and knowledge, whilst having a personal interest in the field.
The University of Worcester is able to provide individuals in all aspects of the industry, with support and guidance from professionals.
These include: sports coaching, event management and performance analysis.
If you are interested in finding out more about what the University of Worcester offer within sports, please contact Michelle Morgan on m.morgan@worc.ac.uk or 01905 855562

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/community-collaboration/business-services/training-and-developing-your-staff.aspx:
Do you need some specific training or development for your employees?
Contact us via employers@worc.ac.uk to see if we can help.
For staff development and training in leadership, management and a range of executive education, try our Worcester Business School .
Professional development for those working with children in schools and nurseries, as well as those educating adults is provided by our School of Education .
Courses for professionals working in the health and care sector are provided by the Schools of Nursing & Midwifery and Health and Wellbeing .
Email: employers@worc.ac.uk
Ring: 01905 855354

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/community-collaboration/business-services/raise-your-profile.aspx:
Look to the University of Worcester and its students for future recruitment.
You can raise your profile at the University in a variety of ways, ensuring your business or organisation is placed at the forefront of a valuable and talented audience of prospective staff.
For a small sum you can raise your profile to thousands of people through sponsoring a prize.
Each year over 2,000 students successfully graduate and attend our annual Graduation Ceremony in Worcester Cathedral in front of around 5,000 guests and VIPs.
Sponsor a prize and gain valuable exposure in the press and in the graduation brochure with an award bearing your name.
Scholarships are a valuable way of raising your company profile and attracting and supporting talented students to enrich your future workforce.
The University can provide a variety of support for your recruitment, including advertising your vacancies to University students and staff and providing you with an interview room for the day.
You can also advertise your vacancies by using our online system.
You may wish to talk to a specific group of students about future opportunities within your organisation and engage them in future developments.
We work in a variety of specialist areas such as health, the environment, the arts, business, sports and education.
If you wish to target a specific audience we may be able to arrange for you to come in and discuss opportunities with the relevant academic staff.
Recent such events have included a talk by West Mercia Police to undergraduate students.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/community-collaboration/local-community:
Our aim is to maximise the benefits of the University of Worcester to our neighbours and the local community.
Our relationship with our local community is very important to us and we maintain close links with local residents' associations, community groups, the police and other agencies.
Campus sports facilities are available for use by our neighbours and we welcome visitors from all over the region to our Hive library , art and drama facilities.
Situated on our City Campus, the McClelland Centre for health and wellbeing offers an exciting and innovative new approach to personal health and fitness for visitors to the University of Worcester.
First-class exercise facilities, nutritional advice, massage and counselling are all catered for in one dedicated centre.
Whatever your health levels, we can help you become fitter, healthier and reach your personal goals faster to ensure you get the best out of life.
A joint venture between the University and Worcestershire County Council, the Hive is an exceptional £60 million facility housing the library and history centre as well as being the first point of contact for most council enquiries.
The Hive increases the learning resources, technology, study and social spaces available to you as a University of Worcester student.
Bus travellers can use the conveniently located number 31 stop, which is right outside the Students’ Union
We encourage our students to be good neighbours, asking them to be aware of their responsibilities as members of the community, not to let themselves down and to avoid causing offence or impacting negatively on the lives of their fellow citizens.
Many students make a significant personal contribution and commitment to the city through their volunteering work while at university and many stay in Worcester after graduation to follow their careers and make their homes here.
£43 Off peak permit.
This permit will only allow parking on University campuses outside the peak hours (8am – 5pm Monday to Friday); anytime at weekends, bank holidays and during the months July and August 2024.
Permits can be collected from 21/08/2023.
You can apply online for your off-peak permit.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information:
Its governance arrangements are set out in the Instrument of Government which is approved by the Privy Council and available on the University website.
We are committed to a comprehensive policy of equal opportunities both in employment and for students.
We seek to treat individuals on the basis of their relevant merits and abilities and to ensure that they are given equal opportunities within the University.
You'll find details about our facts and figures , policies and procedures and our Charitable Status (including details about our Governance) in this section.
You can also read our strategic plan .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/who-we-are/whos-who-at-the-university-of-worcester:
Founding Chancellor
Vice Chancellor and Chief Executive
Pro Vice Chancellor Finance and Resources
Pro Vice Chancellor Communications, Culture and External Affairs
Director of Human Resources
Provost and Deputy Vice Chancellor
Deputy Vice Chancellor Academic
Head of the Vice Chancellor's Office and Secretary to University Executive Board
Registrar and Pro Vice Chancellor Students
Pro Vice Chancellor Digital Transformation
Pro Vice Chancellor Research
Interim Head of Institute of Education
Head of School of Sport & Exercise Science
Head of Worcester Business School

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/who-we-are/history.aspx:
With a history dating back to 1946, Worcester has established a reputation for world-class teaching and practical, purposeful research.
We’re a vibrant, forward-looking university, well known for the quality of our degrees with employers actively seeking out our graduates.
As the only higher education institution in Herefordshire and Worcestershire, we have a strong role to play in the region.
We deliver degree programmes to nearly 10, 000 students and employ 1, 000 staff.
Worcester has undergone significant change and growth over the last few years, expanding into new subject areas, more than doubling student numbers and investing substantially in staff and new facilities.
Milestones in our history

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/who-we-are/university-policies-and-procedures.aspx:
This page contains links to those policies, procedures and associated guidance that apply across the University.
It therefore aims to provide a reference guide to such information housed on departmental webpages.
Queries relating to potentially missing information, or to broken links, etc.
should be addressed to j.newland@worc.ac.uk.
Queries about the policies, procedures or guidance themselves should be addressed directly to the author, where known.
New or revised policies and procedures should align with the Guidance on Developing Policies and Procedures and Guidance on Making a Document Accessible .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/who-we-are/transparency-information.aspx:
The Office for Students (OfS) requires the University to publish data showing attainment data in a prescribed format.
Our data is available below, and shows:
It shows these numbers by reference to:
You can download the data tables showing attainment of 2021-22 qualifiers either in an Excel file.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/who-we-are/student-protection-plan.aspx:
Our Student Protection Plan sets out the measures we have in place to protect you, as a student at the University of Worcester, should the future of your studies be at risk.
It is a document that is approved by the Office for Students (OfS) that every University is required to have.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/who-we-are/schools-and-colleges:
We work with a wide range of schools and colleges across the country sharing knowledge and experience with students, helping them make informed choices about higher education and career opportunities.
Our talks provide a unique perspective on what university is really like and demystify areas such as that application process and student finance, as well as provide support for personal statements and preparing for interviews.
Our team of graduates explore the wider university experience and talk authentically about settling in, campus life, making friends at university and the skills gained.
You can view our wide range of workshops, activities and events offering in our latest schools and colleges leaflet.
In addition, more information can be found below.
Alternatively, if you would like to discuss how we can support the needs of your students, please get in contact with us by emailing schoolsandcolleges@worc.ac.uk or by completing the enquiry form .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/who-we-are/worcester-stories.aspx:
Watch Brooke's amazing journey to become a haematology nurse at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital, the same building where she herself received life-saving treatment.
Sophie is a Psychology graduate and co-captain of the GB women's wheelchair basketball team.
In 2016 Sophie went to the Rio Paralympics!
She was part of a GB team that produced its best ever performance at the Paralympics, making it all the way to the semi-finals.
Marc is now Head of Strength and Conditioning here at the University, working closely with the Worcester Wolves Basketball team.
But it was quite a journey to get to here.
When most of her fellow A-level students were finding it hard enough to combine their studies with a social life, Rowena managed to establish a highly successful online business, selling her self-designed jewellery around the world.
Rowena tells her story and reflects on what a degree has meant for her career.
University was something that for a long time Gemma thought wasn't for her, but which, once she took the plunge, rapidly took her life in a different direction.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/who-we-are/a-compassionate-university.aspx:
Founded as a teacher training college in 1946, the University of Worcester has, from its foundation, had a strong commitment to utilising the power of education for the major benefits both to individuals and society as a whole.
That commitment endures to this day, and we are proud that our graduates are able to work with compassion that stems from confidence in their own competence.
It is our mission to motivate and empower our students, graduates and staff to make a first rate contribution to society.
Worcester courses promote ethical and responsible behaviour, encouraging an understanding of the values of sustainability, inclusion and mutual respect.
Many of our courses equip graduates to make a direct contribution towards the wellbeing and development of others.
We are one of the best, as well as one of the largest, providers of teacher education in the UK, with a longstanding outstanding reputation for initial teacher training, continuing professional development and for educating people to work with children and young people.
Over 500 schools work in partnership with the University, and our graduates work in thousands of schools and colleges all over Britain.
We offer a wide range of degree courses which lead to professional registration in health, including nursing, midwifery, para-medicine, occupational therapy and physiotherapy.
All are highly rated by the Nursing and Midwifery Council and other relevant professional bodies and benefit from our strong network of partnerships with Hospital, Health Trusts and other organisations.
Our constantly reinvigorated strategy for purposeful partnerships with education, business, arts, sports, cultural and public service organisations means that our students and graduates have the opportunity to be involved in the University’s work as a key engine for opportunity, creativity, wealth creation and improved public services for our region and beyond.
Research work at the University includes a high proportion of work with significant beneficial impact for individuals and for society.
The National Pollen and Aerobiology Research Unit, housed in state-of-the-art laboratory facilities at our St John’s Campus, has done invaluable work to improve public health and inform national forecasting policy for many years.
Our Association for Dementia Studies is nationally renowned for the training and research that it undertakes to improve the care of people with dementia and related conditions.
The newly formed Centre for Palliative Care, a joint initiative with St Richard’s Hospice, aims to further improve care and support for the terminally ill and their families.
We aim to make a truly transformative contribution to the lives of our students, our staff and the people of our region and to make a very positive impact in society more broadly.
A higher than average proportion of our graduates progress to employment in the region, and contribute across a broad range of sectors, in health and education, sport and culture, business and voluntary organisations.
Through our work placement schemes and Earn As You Learn programme, many local businesses are able to benefit from the knowledge and skills of our students even before they graduate.
The University of Worcester aims to stand out as a visionary, highly inclusive university that challenges and overcomes barriers to participation in higher education.
Key to this aim is our policy of selecting and admitting students on the basis of their ability to succeed, irrespective of their background.
Through our outreach work, including working in schools and inviting pupils to dedicated events on campus, we aim to raise aspirations and attainment amongst people with great potential who have not previously considered the opportunities created by a higher education.
All universities have a duty to deliver public benefit and to make a positive impact on society.
We aim to be an exemplar of how an institution of higher education can organise its activities to deliver outstanding public benefit, and to maximise opportunities to impact positively on its community, and society generally.
Apart from the extensive benefits that our students, graduates and staff bring, the University has created transformational and inclusive facilities for students and the community.
The Hive, Europe’s first joint university and public library, is symbolic of this inclusive commitment to opportunity.
The Hive includes an inspirational children’s library that encourages younger minds to develop a love of learning.
There is also an extensive local heritage archive, and community information hub, in addition to the sizeable lending library.
Library membership within the region soared by 500% in the first year that The Hive was open.
The University of Worcester Arena, a 2,000 seat indoor sports venue is the first in Britain to be specifically designed to meet the needs of wheelchair athletes.
Opened in 2013 it has already become the home for Great Britain’s men's and women's wheelchair basketball teams, and an exciting new sports and cultural venue with a host of regional, national and international events including many for children.
Originally founded to win the peace through education, the modern University of Worcester has a proud tradition of inclusion and transformative social impact.
This emphasis is present in the development of our new facilities, in the execution of our policies, and most significantly of all, in the actions and attitudes of our staff, students and graduates, both in their academic work and in the many and varied voluntary and additional duties they take up across our region.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/donations:
If you would like to make a contribution to our Student Scholarship Fund or our Access to Learning Fund then you can do so via JustGiving.
A contribution to the University of Worcester scholarship fund is a gift with great impact that will resonate into the future.
Many of our supporters find the ability to help individuals to make the most of their potential is a very rewarding experience.
In addition to the monetary benefit, scholarships and prizes confer a sense of achievement and recognition and are valuable assets to a Graduates future CV.
University scholarships are usually awarded for academic achievement.
Prizes are smaller amounts of money and are awarded on the merit of achievement (academic, sporting or otherwise).
By donating to the University's Access to Learning Fund (also know as the Student Hardship Fund) you will be supporting those students who are in financial hardship and are finding it difficult to support themselves through their studies.
On average each year the University awards in the region of £300K - £350K in hardship payments.
All awards are managed under the University's Hardship Fund Policy.
More details about the Access to Learning Fund are available on this dedicated web page .
For information about how we handle and use your personal data in relation to any donations made please see our privacy notice .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/donations/student-scholarship-and-hardship-funds:
Hardship amongst students has become a real issue in recent years.
Students in England no longer benefit from grants.
The availability of government loan funding for maintenance has fallen well behind the rate of inflation.
Many Worcester students work for up to 20 hours a week to enable them to continue their studies and the University sustains one of the UK’s largest “earn whilst you learn programmes” – but personal circumstances sometimes make participation difficult or insufficient.
Students studying on many health and education courses will spend over 2,000 hours on professional placements, making additional part-time work difficult.
Worcester is currently the best University in the UK for sustained employment 5 years after graduation but students need funds to enable them to earn their qualifications and reach their goal.
Read the stories from some of our scholars below.
“A lot of my loans go onto bills, and I work part-time whenever I can, so to have the money from the fund made a big difference to me.” - Eva Baldwin, student
In 2023/2024, we awarded over 115 scholarships and 65 student prizes, and supported over 440 students through our access to learning fund.
Read below about the impact these awards have made over the years.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/donations/compostela-challenge:
Professor David Green CBE DL, Chief Executive and Vice Chancellor of the University of Worcester, has recently undertaken a 280km walk from Porto in Portugal to Santiago de Compostela in Spain to raise money for the University’s student scholarship and hardship funds , raising nearly £60,000.
David walked the coastal ‘Camino Portugues’, starting on Friday 16 May 2025 and completing the walk on Wednesday 28 May.
All costs of the walk were met personally by David and he completed this trek during a period of annual leave.
All the money raised from David’s challenge will strengthen the scholarship and hardship funds .
You can watch a slideshow with a collection of images from the trek, listen to an interview with him recorded from outside Santiago de Compostela Cathedral moments after he finished the challenge and read his travel log, which is published in full below.
The University undertakes a number of initiatives to support students, including:
With your support, we will strengthen and expand our hardship and scholarship programmes .
A contribution to the fund is a gift with great impact that will resonate into the future.
I’ve crossed the River Minho, the border between Spain and Portugal.
We took a small boat across with two elderly Spanish gentlemen who were having a very serious argument about the difference in the quality of paella between Spain and Portugal.
One of them even joked ‘In Portugal, the paella tastes like plastic!’ It was all very good natured, though.
In fact, all the people have been good natured, and I think that’s because of the traditional nature of the pilgrimage, people walking along the street see you with your backpack on and they wish you ‘Buen Camino’; there’s a lot of goodwill toward the pilgrims.
I’m halfway through my walk, and I’m feeling generally good!
I’ve been feeling tired at the end of my walking days; when I get over 20 kilometres in a day everything aches gently by the last hour or two, but my feet have kept up with it despite a little bit of delayed-onset-muscle-stiffness.
As I reflect on the journey so far, I’ve been thinking about how the people are living here.
We’ve been through some villages which are remote and far away from modern commerce; you see people working in fields here in a way which you don’t really see in Britain, with far less mechanisation.
People do the same very traditional agricultural labour which their great, great grandparents would have been doing, but the country is reasonably prosperous.
There are no signs of significant poverty there.
Walking through Portugal, you cannot fail to be impressed as you walk by the number of little historic chapels that you go past, and there are a lot of rocky coasts and a series of ruined forts all along the way, abandoned now for the best part of 500 years.
It’s also very windy.
You can see a lot of historic windmills which no longer have the sails on but would have been used long ago for threshing grain.
Crossing into Spain, the landscape is significantly wetter.
The vista is a lush green which can only be produced by a lot of rain.
In the sunshine it looks stunning, but this must be a very tough walk in wet weather.
As we walked through the town of A Guarda, a few miles north of the border, I noticed it was a lot less prosperous than anywhere we’d seen in Northern Portugal.
There were shops on the high street which were closed, and it felt as though the population had previously been supported by an industry which is no longer here.
It reminded me how important the Camino is to the people here, and that’s evidenced by the frequency I’ve come across employees of the Galician council tending to the path, repaving it and clipping the grass where it has overgrown; it’s a great cultural and economic treasure and it’s kept in an exemplary state.
Along the way, I’ve met some fascinating fellow pilgrims.
As you walk you tend to recognise people who are following a similar sort of route to you.
We met a lady from Belgium this way when we recognised her in a restaurant that we were having dinner in, and we started chatting.
I’d seen her a couple of times and I learned that she was walking because a close relative was ill, and she had vowed to go on the pilgrimage.
We’ve met walkers from Germany, Mexico, and some Australian ladies who were very feisty!
There was a lady from Quebec who speaks French, English, Portuguese and Spanish, and she was on her second Camino.
She spoke of how she’d been teaching immigrants from Pakistan to speak English for the last few years, and how she was hoping to find love on the Camino.
I’ve also been struck by the ages of the people doing the Camino.
There are a lot of young, fit people in their 20s going long distances, and the two men on the boat were cracking on for 80 and they were on a much longer pilgrimage, and it’s interesting to see.
That’s the fellowship that the Camino brings.
I’m enjoying the food along the way, now that we’re into Galicia, the seafood has become even more delicious, with simple clam dishes on special pilgrim’s menus, which are priced very reasonably.
Logistically, I’m still getting used to how much time every morning is dedicated to getting ready.
You’ve got to be out and walking by a certain time, and so you need your stuff to be all packed up.
It actually takes a long time to ‘strike camp’!
I’m also regretting not bringing an additional power pack for my phone, which has been giving out during the day.
I’d hoped to catch up on some interesting podcasts, but I’ve not been able to because I’ve had to conserve power.
I’m about to start heading north from O Muino as I venture deeper into the Spanish section of the Camino.
In about two days’ time I’m going to be going from Baiona to Vigo, which I’m slightly nervous about because it’s a 25km stage with a lot of up and down.
That evening we’re going to be rendezvousing with our daughters, who I’m looking forward to meeting us at a hotel, and I’m going to be shattered!
There are descriptions in my guidebook, sometimes it says, ‘today’s going to be long, but easy’, and some days it says, ‘today will be short, but steep and hard’, and sometimes those days combine, and it becomes a bigger challenge.
Despite the challenges, every step has been worth it.
The Camino so far has been a journey across some wonderful landscapes, and it has enabled me to hear some incredible stories from people from all over the world.
I’m grateful to be here and to be part of it.
From the top of the hill at O Milladoiro you can see out to Santiago de Compostela, a quiet reminder that the journey is nearly at an end.
You can see the spires of the cathedral, and you know you’re almost there, but as you drop down the hill they vanish from sight and the final stretch winds uphill through the narrow medieval streets of Santiago.
Unlike other cathedrals that you can see from miles around, you just get one glimpse, and then it’s gone.
As I’d neared the end of the walk, I’d been joined by my wife Cathy and our two daughters, Lauren and Alex.
I’d been here before, but I was looking forward to seeing their reaction to seeing the stunning cathedral square for the first time.
I entered Spain from Portugal over the River Minho 10 days ago, and as I’ve walked north along the pilgrim’s trail, it has really hit me how much the country has changed in the course of my lifetime.
I first came here as a 20-year-old hitchhiker during Franco’s reign.
My friend and I travelled to Leon, and I remember being taken by how poor most people were.
Most didn’t have cars, and there was a lot of begging.
Now, people here are living a good life.
People are working, and there’s plenty of signs of industry, and as I walked, I got no sensation that the population is suffering the sort of poverty of fifty years ago.
To me, the eye-opening thing about this walk has been that you get to see the countryside and the lives of the people in a truly different way than if you were on a road trip, or a train, because you can do a hard day’s travelling and only move 15 miles and so you notice a lot more.
You go through small towns and villages, down little lanes past people’s back gardens, you see the small children going happily along to school, people going to work.
The people you meet are truly very friendly to the pilgrims.
A few days ago, we’d walked past a building site, and a great big chap came out carrying something looking heavy.
He took one look at us and said ‘Buen Camino!’
All he saw was a couple of pilgrims going along and he wanted to wish them well, and that’s the overwhelming spirit of the people in this part of the world.
As I walked and took in the country around me, I became more and more appreciative of the team back in Worcester.
I knew how much hard work they’d all been doing to raise money and I had a deep feeling of gratitude that I was part of a team which is close to raising £60,000 for our cause.
The thought gave me a sense of determination and slight trepidation as I looked forward to finishing the walk.
Walking up the hill through the quiet suburbs and into Santiago de Compostela it was hot.
Walking in this part of the world after 1 o’clock can be very difficult, so I knew we were going to have a challenging last section of the walk.
I walked into the cathedral square with its ancient buildings at the height of the afternoon sun, surrounded by my fellow pilgrims, all celebrating the end of their own Caminos as they reached the famous cathedral itself.
I felt a sense of elation, having walked 280 kilometres.
I’d arrived, my family was with me and it had been a fantastic journey.
I’ve learned so much about the lives of people in northern Portugal, and this marvellous region of Spain.
The people have been friendly and welcoming, and there has been kindness, curiosity, and inclusion all along the way.
As I looked around the cathedral square I was also struck by an immense sense of gratitude, to all the people who have followed my journey, wished me well and donated money so that we can help the students of the future.
Thirteen days since I set out from Porto, I’ve walked through varied landscapes, seen beautiful old buildings, looked out over famous historical battle sites, and learned lessons from pilgrims from around the world.
It’s all on the Camino, if you’ve got the eyes to see it.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/governance:
The University's governance and management framework is set out in its Instrument and Articles of Government.
The major statutory bodies through which the University operates are the Board of Governors and Academic Board.
The Board of Governors has responsibility for corporate governance, stewardship and financial sustainability, the University's Strategy and for determining the educational character and mission of the University.
Academic Board is the main academic authority and advises the Board of Governors on matters of academic standards and quality.
Further details of the role of the Academic Board, and the Board it reports to, can be found in its governing instruments.
The Board of Governors seeks to conduct its affairs in accordance with recognised good practice in corporate governance.
In pursuit of that objective, the Board has formally adopted the Committee of University Chairs (CUC) Code of Governance , embraces the Nolan Principles and complies with the Office for Students Public Interest Governance Principles.
The Board of Governors has the following sub-committees:
Information about members of the Board of Governors and a link to Board of Governor minutes are available as follows:
The University of Worcester was granted University title in 2005 and is governed by its Instrument and Articles of Government .
The Instrument and Articles of Government are supported by the Bye-Laws .
The Schedule of Delegation sets out where responsibility rests within the University for particular types of decisions made in the name of or on behalf of the University.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/governance/student-harassment-and-sexual-misconduct.aspx:
This webpage summarises the University's policies and procedures on harassment and sexual misconduct, including intimate personal relationships between staff members and students.
Sexual harassment and sexual misconduct are defined in the University’s Prevention of Sexual Misconduct and Sexual Harassment Policy .
“Sexual Misconduct” relates to all unwanted conduct of a sexual nature.
This includes, but is not limited to:  conduct of a sexual nature which occurred in person or by letter, telephone, text, email, or other electronic and/or social media and includes:
‘Sexual Harassment’ (for the purposes of this Policy) is any unwanted behaviour or conduct of a sexual nature, which has the purpose or effect of violating a person’s dignity or creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment.
See our Report a Concern portal for further information.
Harassment is any behaviour that is unwelcome and affects the dignity of those subjected to it.
It is:
‘Unwanted conduct which has the purpose or effect of:
Harassment can be communicated verbally, expressed in writing (e.g.
via letter, email, text message, on social media, in graffiti or posters/signs etc.) or be physical in nature.
It may be expressed directly to the individual concerned, occur in their presence or be communicated about them to a third party.
Read the University's Harrassment and Bullying Policy
The University provides a Report a Concern portal which students and staff can use to disclose and request support in respect of any incidents of bullying, discrimination, harassment, hate crime, and sexual misconduct, sexual harassment, stalking and domestic abuse.
Should you wish to, you can instead disclose anonymously or ask to speak to a trained adviser to get information on reporting options and support available so that you can make an informed decision on what you want to do next.
The Prevention of Sexual Misconduct and Sexual Harassment Policy and the Bullying and Harassment Policy set out other options which students and staff have for disclosing concerns if they don’t want to use Report a Concern, including asking for action to be taken under the appropriate University policy.
Should the Report a Concern portal not be used for the request for support with next steps, we do ask that any concern reported to a member of staff is reported onto the portal for data collection purposes, even if it is an anonymous report.
Should a member of staff complete a form on the Report a Concern portal for data collection purposes, they will inform you of this first and ask whether you would like you details added or not.
If you want to receive support but do not want to use the Report a Concern yourself, you can contact Student Services via our student hub firstpoint who can signpost you to the correct service.
Students and staff can disclose how they have been affected by harassment and sexual misconduct using the University’s Report a Concern portal .
You can choose to do this anonymously or you can request support from an advisor.
If you choose to speak to an advisor, they will be able to talk through the reporting options and support available to you, in confidence.
A range of support is available within and outside the University for students and staff who have experienced sexual harassment, sexual misconduct and harassment.
Further information about support options is available on our Report a concern portal and in the policies listed:
Individuals facing allegations will be provided with a named staff member who they can contact for support.
Support is also available from Student Services and the Students' Union.
The following policies are relevant to how we investigate allegations of student harassment and sexual misconduct:
The Prevention of Sexual Misconduct and Sexual Harassment Policy defines what sexual harassment and sexual misconduct are and sets out the University’s approach to preventing and addressing sexual harassment and sexual misconduct.
In terms of how incidents are investigated:
These procedures set out how allegations will be investigated, including timescales, stages, penalties and appeal provisions.
Ensuring confidentiality is a key principle in creating a culture where those affected feel safe to make a disclosure.
The University will take all reasonable steps to protect the confidentiality and privacy of those who disclose.
However, there may be circumstances (e.g.
in order to protect an individual at risk) where we are required to share information with other agencies or to share information internally.
Where it is reasonable and practicable to do so in accordance with its duties and obligations under data protection legislation, the University will provide the individual that has raised an allegation  with an outcome of the investigation and/or an explanation of any actions that the University has taken, or not taken.
This includes where the outcome has changed for any reason.
However, it may only be possible for the University to provide limited information depending on the circumstances.
We’re committed to ensuring that students understand what sexual harassment and sexual misconduct is, how to report it, the support available to them, what consent is and how to intervene effectively.
There is a course that all students will be expected to complete when registering each year of their studies.
The course for students is available for relevant staff to view.
There is additional training for staff in the staff learning management system and bespoke workshops if required.
Staff involved in specialist roles receive specialist training appropriate and relevant to their roles.
We are committed to protecting students from any actual or potential conflict of interest and/or abuse of power that may arise from intimate personal relationships with staff.
The University prohibits any sexual or intimate relationship between staff and students where the relationship was not pre-existing.
Pre-existing relationships  must be declared so any conflicts of interest can be managed.
Read the University's Relationships at Work policy .
We are committed to taking steps that will make a significant and credible difference to protecting students from harassment and sexual misconduct.
We do not use non-disclosure agreements (NDAs) in relation to complaints of sexual harassment, abuse, misconduct, or other forms of harassment and bullying.
In addition, since September 2024 the Office for Students has prohibited universities from using NDAs in relation to student allegations of harassment and sexual misconduct.
This webpage is the 'single comprehensive source of information' required by the Office for Students (OfS registration condition E6).

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/governance/access-and-participation-plan.aspx:
Our Access and Participation Plan (APP) sets out how we continue to improve equal opportunities in higher education, and is approved by the Office for Students.
The APP outlines the commitment we make in relation to outreach, student success and progression.
The APP also confirms the fees we will charge and the financial support we will offer to students who progress to the University of Worcester
The Access and Participation Plan is now a 5 year plan, although the fee levels will be confirmed on an annual basis.
We will also publish an annual impact report to demonstrate the effectiveness of the Plan.
Students are covered by the APP which was in place when they commenced their course of studies at the University of Worcester.
Our Access and Participation Plan, impact reports and fee summary are published below:

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/governance/charitable-status.aspx:
The University is regulated by the Office for Students (OfS) which has been the principal regulator for those higher education institutions (HEIs) in England that are exempt charities since 2018.
All HEIs with exempt charity status are required to publish the following information on their websites:
University of Worcester Henwick Grove Worcester WR2 6AJ United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/governance/legal-and-governance-team.aspx:
The Team oversees:
We provide, with support from external legal advisers, pragmatic legal advice and support across the University.
We provide advice on:
We aim to promote an awareness of the legal implications of activities and decisions, ensuring any risks are identified promptly and mitigated effectively.
We can provide training, through our external legal advisers, on legal or regulatory issues.
Please note that HR legal matters are dealt with by the HR Department.
The University Secretary is the Clerk to the Board of Governors and is supported by the Assistant Clerk to the Board.
We ensure that the Board and its Committees are fully supported and the University maintains its reputation for good governance and management.
Information about how the University is governed is accessible here.
We are a small team providing advice and support across the University on all matters relating to data protection and information compliance.
We are responsible for the administration of information requests (FOI and Data Protection) and support the university in meeting its statutory obligations under information legislation.
You can access more detail of the work we do, how to contact us, and relevant policies etc on the Information Assurance webpages

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/governance/modern-slavery-statement.aspx:
Modern slavery is a crime and a violation of fundamental human rights.
It takes various forms, such as slavery, servitude, forced and compulsory labour and human trafficking, all of which have in common the deprivation of a person's liberty by another to exploit them for personal or commercial gain.
The University of Worcester is committed to ensuring that slavery or human trafficking is not taking place in any part of our supply chain or in any part of our own business.
These statements detail The University of Worcester’s response to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and offers an outline of key areas where Slavery and Human Trafficking are deemed a higher risk area for potential prevalence within the University’s supply chain.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/governance/value-for-money-annual-report.aspx:
Our Value for Money annual report is published below.
The report is comprised of a range of key indicators to demonstrate that the University of Worcester is delivering value for money, providing a good experience for its students, with good graduate outcomes, as well as ensuring that it manages its resources efficiently and effectively and to the benefit of its students and the wider community.
View the annual Value for Money Report here

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/governance/profiles-of-governors.aspx:
Sarah works in the NHS as Director of Place Development for the Worcestershire Integrated Care System where she is responsible for the development of new and innovative ways of partnership working and delivery across health and social care, primary and secondary care, and physical and mental health organisations.
Sarah has worked in the NHS since 2012, carrying out roles for Worcestershire Acute Hospitals NHS Trust, NHS England, the NHS National Guardian’s Office, and the Worcestershire Clinical Commissioning Groups.
Sarah trained as a plant biologist and science communicator.
Having transitioned from plant science research to a corporate affairs career, she held a number of public and private sector roles in DEFRA’s Animal and Plant Health Agency, pharmaceutical company Eli Lilly and global agribusiness Syngenta.
She is a member of the Chartered Institute of Public Relations and the Royal Society of Biology.
Sarah is also a Member of Mercian Educational Trust, responsible for the education of more than 1300 school children.
Sarah Joined the Board of the University of Worcester in 2013 and became Chair of the Board in August 2022.
Sarah lives in Malvern with her husband and two sons.
Ronke Akintan is the President of Worcester Students’ Union.
As the lead representative, she strives to empower students by campaigning and speaking up on the issues that are important to them.
Ronke has recently completed her Law degree and is due to graduate September 2025.
Lerverne is Head of the School of Sport and Exercise Science (SSES) and Principal Lecturer.
She has worked in education her whole career and has a wealth of experience in her subject area, having been a Secondary PE teacher, PE adviser and Ofsted Inspector.
She has also worked as an independent PE Consultant leading projects and delivering training for organisations such as the Youth Sport Trust, the Qualification and Curriculum Authority and the Department for Education.
Lerverne has played a key role in developing the School's international profile in countries such as China and Japan, for work in inclusive sport and Adapted Physical Education.
In 2015 she achieved the award of Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy for her leadership of learning and teaching (SFHEA), followed by the award of National Teaching Fellow (NTF) in 2017.
Lerverne is an Academic Staff governor and serves on the Finance & Development Committee.
Diana works at City St George's, University of London as the inaugural Director of the new public-facing policy hub - the Finsbury Institute.
She is also Professor and Assistant Vice-President (Policy and Government Affairs).
Diana holds a PhD in German from the University of Cambridge and has held leadership and policy roles in higher education and within national government, including as Chief Executive of London Higher and Policy Advisor to three consecutive UK Universities and Science Ministers.
Diana was made a Companion of the British Academy of Management in 2022 and received Freedom of the City of London in 2024 in recognition of her work in higher education.
Diana is one of the two Vice-Chairs of the Board of Governors, Chair of the Remuneration Committees and serves on the Finance & Development Committee.
I am the Vice President Education at Worcester Students' Union.
I am the lead representative for students' academic experience at the University.
I am passionate about Equality, Diversity and Inclusion as well as student voice.
I have recently completed my LLB Law Degree at the University.
Sean retired after 44 years in secondary education in 2017.
He enjoyed a career in a variety of schools in Papua New Guinea and England.
His career started as a V.S.O teacher and culminated with 15 years as Principal of Blessed Edward Oldcorne Catholic College in Worcester.
His main teaching subjects were Economics, Politics and Sociology.
He feels fortunate to have had a very satisfying and challenging career.
He is currently a Schools and Parish Volunteer with CAFOD, Vice-Chair of the Board of Governors of Worcester Sixth Form College and Vice-Chair of the St.
Teresa of Calcutta Multi Academy in Birmingham.
Sean is an Independent governor and serves on the People & Culture and Investment committees.
Professor David Green is the Vice Chancellor and Chief Executive of the University of Worcester.
He has been the University’s executive head since 2003 and is accountable to the University’s Board of Governors for the strategic leadership, overall performance and management of the University.
He led Worcester to successful applications for full University title in 2005, and for Research Degree Awarding Powers in 2010.
David is a member of the Board of Universities UK and GuildHE.
Mike has spent most of his professional career in the public sector working primarily within the Criminal Justice System.
Following his training and qualifying as a Probation Officer Mike has worked in the high security custodial estate and led teams working within the community on public protection.
His interest in Substance Misuse - treatment and services - has seen Mike lead national and international policy initiatives to help reduce the harmful effects illicit drugs and alcohol can have.
Mike is now retired from Government.
Mike is a Chartered Manager, holds a MSc in Management and Organisational development and a Social Science Graduate.
He completed a Post Graduate Certificate and Masters degree at Oxford University.
Away from work Mike enjoys sport, the arts and of course helping the University of Worcester to continue to thrive in whatever way he can.
Mike has been associated with the Worcester area for 35 years and is delighted to form part of the Board of Governors.
He is Chair of the Audit Committee.
Claire Jones is a local GP, and has worked in Worcester for 22 yrs.
She has a special interest in medical research, and is a GP Research Champion for the NIHR ( National Institute of Health Research).
She joined the Board in 2020 and is a member of the People & Culture committee.
Nadeem is a District Judge based in Worcester having previously qualified as a solicitor in 1999.
He has a particular focus on civil and family law with a particular specialism in Children Law.
He has previously been a charity trustee for the East Midlands Christian fellowship and was a founding member of the voluntary organisation Indus Project in Derby.
Nadeem joined the Board in 2017/18 and is Chair of the People & Culture Committee.
As the Head of Student Evaluation & Enhancement at the University of Worcester, Carolyn is responsible for managing and coordinating student surveys across the institution, supporting the annual evaluation process for courses, and providing analysis and reporting on key data.
With over 20 years in project and operations management roles she has extensive experience of working to develop new processes, networks, and reporting structures across organisations.
She works with colleagues across the University on a range of quality enhancement projects focused on the student experience and supporting the wider goals of the institution.
Carolyn joined the Board of Governors as a staff member in August 2022 and serves on the Audit Committee.
Sally retired from a successful 37 year career in the financial services industry at the end of 2021.
Initially trained in Corporate Lending at Lloyds Bank she then went on to hold many senior executive/ management roles including at Coventry Building Society and Nationwide (top 5 and top 30 respectively) and did interim roles as COO including two private equity companies; for the last 5 1/2 years Sally worked for the Tipton & Coseley Building Society as Operations Director, where she led significant transformation and digital strategy and served on the Board of Directors.
She has previously been a Charity Trustee for the Arab Horse Society.
Asif co-founded Epiphany Productions to foster creativity and collaboration across the domains of art, science, engineering, and design.
As a seasoned business leader and board level advisor, his portfolio career across Europe and far east Asia, has cultivated inter disciplinary specialisms in behaviour change, imaginative problem solving and compelling storytelling.
As a Digital Democracy Champion for the Speaker's Digital Democracy Commission and author of two Digital Transformation Guides (produced with Wincanton PLC) he regularly speaks about the art of the possible and the mindset needed to embrace this.
Asif is an ambassador for the pioneering charities UK Youth and Action through Enterprise (sub-Saharan Africa).
I serve as the Vice President of Students’ Activities, where I lead and coordinate a wide range of initiatives in Sports clubs, societies and fundraising designed to enhance campus life and support the overall well-being of our student community.
Currently, I am pursuing a second master's degree by research in International Business Management, deepening my understanding of global markets and cross-cultural business dynamics.
By combining academic excellence with real-world insight, I strive to bridge the gap between theory and practice in both student leadership and international business.
Darius Pocha is co-founder of Create/Change, a technology consultancy that advises the Government and education sector on digital transformation.
He graduated from the University of Worcester in 1997 with First Class Honours in Art & Design with Psychology.
Darius has advised Department for Education on FE/HE and adult skills policy, including the design of T-Levels and the National Skills Fund.
He's supported UCL’s CAPE programme on the application of AI in public policy and been a technical advisor to Pearson on the development of new design and technology qualifications.
Darius is a Trustee of the Royal Female School of Art Foundation, a grant-making charity which aims to widen access to the arts and creative professions.
Marc Scriven is currently UW Director of Strength and Conditioning (S&C), and Head of S&C for two professional sport franchises; UW Worcester Wolves Ltd and Severn Stars VNSL Netball.
In addition, Marc is a Governor for Aspire, a secondary age group, AP school in Worcester.
Having been fortunate to enjoy a very successful personal and professional  career in sport, Marc now feels it a privilege to mentor students and young people at the beginning of their working lives.
As a member of staff, Marc joined the University Board of Governors in 2018.
Keith is an Education Consultant and until January 2022 was Chief Executive of Windsor Academy Trust when he retired from the role.
He became full time CEO in 2016 having previously served the dual role of CEO and  Headteacher at Windsor High School and Sixth Form since 2011.
Keith started his teaching career in Staffordshire and Birmingham before being appointed as Headteacher at Windsor High School in 1999.
Keith achieved rapid success at the school, quickly moving it to an Ofsted Outstanding school and launching its highly successful sixth form in 2010.
Windsor High School was one of the first nine trust schools that emerged in 2007 and Keith helped the DfE to further define and improve the academisation process as well as speaking at numerous national events about the benefits of collaboration.
Keith is a National Leader for Education and worked as a secondary headteacher consultant for the Department for Education between 2002 and 2005.
During his consultancy for the DfE, Keith supported the high profile workforce reform agenda and Every Child Matters projects.
Keith also served on the Association of School and College Leaders council for over 10 years.
Keith gained a BEd from Loughborough University in Physical Education and an MA from University of Warwick in research policy and methodology.
Alongside an extensive teaching career, Keith was an International hockey coach.
He was coach to Wales Women from 1986-91, assistant coach to the England Men's team at the 1994 World Cup and the European Championships and was a GB Olympic selector between 1994 and 1996.
He also coached Cannock Hockey Club to national titles and European finals from 1999 to 2002.
Keith is one of the two Vice-Chairs of the Board of Governors and Chair of the Finance & Development Committee.
Lucy worked as a police officer before qualifying as a solicitor in 2002, and worked in family, healthcare, inquests and mental health law in the North East and Midlands.
She has worked in governance within the NHS and in both school and university settings, having most recently worked as Head of Governance and Corporate Affairs at a Multi Academy Trust.
Lucy has experience in complaints mediation and adjudication, and joined the Board in August 2022 as an independent governor.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/governance/fellows-resources.aspx:
Below you will find online versions of certain key documents as well as useful links and information for University of Worcester Fellows.
To request hard copies of any of these resources please email communications@worc.ac.uk or call 01905 855141.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/facts-and-figures:
Worcester is organised into eight academic schools:
See a complete course listing .
Student Population:
The student population for 2023/24 was 9,184, with approximately 74.5% studying on an undergraduate course.
Approximately 24.1% of students are on taught postgraduate programmes and 1.4% are postgraduate research students.
Percentage of Student Body who are mature: 64.9% (over 21), 40.9% (over 25).
The percentage of student body who are female: 70.8%
Percentage of Students who have disabilities: 23.0%
Percentage of Students by Academic School
School of Health and Wellbeing - 23.6%
Institute of Arts and Humanities - 11.9%
Institute of Education - 16.5%
School of Science and the Environment - 5.2%
School of Sport and Exercise Science - 9.6%
Medical School - 1.2%
School of Nursing and Midwifery - 20.8%
Worcester Business School - 11.2%
Percentage of Graduates in Employment:
Worcester is 1st in the UK for sustained employment and/or further study 5 years after graduation (excluding specialist institutions) in the 2024 Government-published Longitudinal Educational Outcomes survey.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/income-and-expenditure.aspx:
The main areas within the 'Other Income' section of the University Income chart above are as follows:
All universities are now encouraged to explain as transparently as possible to students both the sources of their income and how they spend their money.
This is especially important now that a very large proportion of income a University receives comes from tuition fees.
The information above explains where the University of Worcester receives money from and analyses the University’s expenditure.
The figures relate to the 2023/24 financial year (1st August 2023 – 31st July 2024).
Firstly though, we will address some of the frequently asked questions that are posed about the University’s income and expenditure.
The University’s total income in 2023/24 was £96.9m.
Of this, £72m (74%) came in the form of tuition fees & education contracts along with £8.1m (8%) from funding body grants.
The University is not a private or limited company and has no shareholders, only stakeholders, which includes our students.
Universities are expected to make a surplus, sufficient to allow them to invest in improving facilities, new buildings etc.
2021/22 was the first year in many, where the level of surplus (before other gains and losses) reached a substantial deficit position.
Deficit positions continued into 2022/23 and again in 2023/24, albeit slowly reducing.
The deficit in 2023/24, was not unexpected having been previously budgeted and forecast.
The deficit (before other gains and losses) reduced from £(3.2)m in 2022/23 to £(2.2)m in 2023/24.
This was a result of a variety of factors such as: increase in funding body grants and also an increase in investment income.
Income from residences, catering and conferencing, also increased slightly.
Overall tuition fee income was consistent with the previous year, which was disappointing as no growth was seen.
The continuing freezing of the UK tuition fees, that form the majority of the University’s income, combined with ever increasing inflationary cost pressures results in the University’s finances becoming increasingly stretched.
The fluctuations between years is due to elements of non-recurrent income, differences relating to the movement of pension liabilities, and more recently the on-going impacts of the pandemic, and fluctuations in inflation.
Income: £96,860K Expenditure: £99,010K Deficit: £(2,150)K
The University still receives around £8m in the form of funding body grants – to support expenditure on widening access and participation and additional funding for high cost subjects.
Other important sources of income include research grants and contracts and a large sum which the accounts describe as “Other Income” – in 2023/24 this amounted to £13.9m.
Over 40% of this comes from student accommodation, but some of this is offset by operating expenses (see below); any surplus from the leasing of student accommodation is used to fund the on-going programme of improvement and maintenance of halls of residence.
Investing in academic staff and various academic institutes is vitally important but it accounts for only part of the University’s investment.
The University is very much a community, employing around 1,800 individual staff and approx.
600 student employees and teaching more than 10,000 students.
Like any community, the University needs support services – library, laboratories, specialist teaching facilities, computers and IT services, buildings, utilities, and of course a network of people to keep the University going.
Every effort is made to ensure that the University achieves Value for Money in how it uses its income from tuition fees and other sources.
The University of Worcester is recognised by the Office for Students as an efficient and financially well managed institution.
The University spent £99m on running the University with a breakdown below.
Please note the University paid £2.6m in interest in 2023/24 on loans which have been taken out in the last 15 years to fund a large proportion of the costs of the City Campus, the Arena, the Riverside Campus, new Halls of Residence, new Science Laboratories, The Hive etc., all of which have contributed to the overall quality of the student experience.
Very much so.
The University has invested over £45m in capital improvements and new site acquisitions over the last 5 years.
The level of capital investment during the year has decreased from that of the previous year, which was due to the previous year including the new Three Counties Medical School located in the Elizabeth Garrett Anderson building, which is now fully operational.
Work relating to the new Health and Wellbeing Teaching building, at the Severn campus, is progressing well and it should be operational by March 2025.
The University spends approx.
60% of its income on staff costs, the overwhelming majority of which is on academic staff costs and costs relating to staff in services which relate directly to student support – Library, Information and Learning Services, Student Services, and Estates Staff who ensure that the University is a clean and safe environment in which to work and study – cleaning staff, maintenance staff, security staff, etc.
In addition, £0.7m was spent on student bursaries and scholarships along with a grant of £0.6m paid to the Students Union.
We think so.
The University aims to give value for money to its students and to provide an experience which will allow students to flourish and to reach their full potential.
We will continue to invest in the University estate and in staff and facilities.
Visit our Facts and Figures page to download Annual Accounts for recent years.
If you require any further information, please contact communications@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/insurance-information.aspx:
The department arranges cover for the University’s building, contents, equipment and motor vehicles in addition to insuring activities undertaken by staff and students on behalf of the University, including overseas travel.
For more details, please visit the Finance department's Insurance pages .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/gender-pay-gap-reports/gender-pay-gap-report-2024.aspx:
Under the Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017, all public authorities in England with 250 or more employees are required to report their gender pay gap data annually.
The Gender Pay Gap data provides the difference between the average earnings of men and women across an organisation, expressed as a percentage of men’s earnings.
The use of Gender Pay Gap data can help to identify the extent to which men and women undertake different types of roles, at different levels within the organisation, which can also create differences in pay.
It is different to equal pay data which considers rates of pay for the same level of work.
The data provided below relates to the University of Worcester’s Gender Pay Gap report for 2024 taken on the snapshot date of 31 st March 2024.
The quartile data (the split of employees into four groups by hourly rate, to show the balance of men and women in each group), shows that women are in the majority across all four quartiles .
This data is indicative of the University’s inclusive approach in all areas of work and the value it places on female employees at all levels.
The balance within Quartile 1 illustrates the effect of students choosing to undertake paid work within the University as part of the ‘earn as you learn’ scheme.
As 70% of our student population is female, it is inevitable that this gender split will have some impact on the overall data.
The mean is calculated by adding all employees’ hourly rates of pay together and dividing by the total number of employees.
The mean includes the lowest and highest rates of pay.
The average hourly rate paid to women at the University, when looking at hourly rates across all pay bands is 8.12% less than the hourly rate for men – this is the mean gender pay gap.
When students are removed from the calculation, the mean pay gap is 7.09%.
The median is the measurement used to calculate the average pay, by finding the midpoint in all employees’ hourly rates of pay.
Therefore, half of the employees will earn a rate above the midpoint and half will earn a rate below the midpoint.
Slight shifts in the gender balance in Quartiles 4 and 1 have had an impact on the median gender pay gap.
The median for 2024 is 12.27%.
When student employees are removed from the calculation, the median pay gap is 0%.
There were no staff bonuses paid in 2023/24.
The University is committed to inclusion and the promotion of gender equality.
We monitor the employment ‘lifecycle’ of our staff; from initial recruitment ensuring that we have fair and inclusive selection processes; having career development opportunities open for all job roles; clear and consistent promotion and salary processes; and fair and flexible working practices.
Our gender pay gap data confirms we have good foundations in place and that women are well represented at all levels within our organisation.
We continue to keep our HR policies and processes under regular review to ensure we are making steps towards removing any existing gender pay gap and to ensure that there is a balanced representation of different genders within the workforce and across all roles.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/gender-pay-gap-reports/gender-pay-gap-report-2023.aspx:
The University’s long-term commitment to equality and inclusivity is reflected in our Gender Pay Gap data.
Over recent years, we have reported one of the lowest Gender Pay Gaps in the Higher Education Sector.
The data provided below relates to University of Worcester’s Gender Pay Gap report for 2023 taken on the snapshot date of 31 March 2023.
The balance within Quartile 1 illustrates the effect of students choosing to undertake paid work within the University as part of the ‘earn and you learn’ scheme.
The average hourly rate paid to women at the University, when looking at hourly rates across all pay bands is 8.18% less than the hourly rate for men - this is the mean gender pay gap.
When students are removed from the calculation, the mean pay gap is 7.39%.
Small shifts in the gender balance in Quartiles 4 and 1 has had an impact on the median gender pay gap.
The median for 2023 is 11.03%, which is slightly lower than in 2022 when it was 11.10%.
When student employees are removed from the calculation, the median pay gap is 3.06%.
There were no staff bonuses paid in 2022/23.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/gender-pay-gap-reports/gender-pay-gap-report-2022.aspx:
This year, the median pay gap is 0%, when student employees are removed from the Gender Pay Gap calculation (students have the opportunity to undertake work at the University through our ‘earn as you learn’ scheme which has been very successful in preparing students for employment after completing their studies).
The data provided below relates to University of Worcester’s Gender Pay Gap report for 2022 taken on the snapshot date of 31 March 2022.
This year’s report showed a slight decrease in female employees in Quartile 4 (from 60.57% in 2021) which is due to some senior leadership posts held by women becoming vacant.
These were filled after the census date for this report.
There is an increase in female employees in Quartile 1 (from 67.52% in 2021), which is the impact of students choosing to undertake paid work within the University as ‘earn and you learn’ scheme.
The average hourly rate paid to women at the University, when looking at hourly rates across all pay bands is 7.66% less than the hourly rate for men - this is the mean gender pay gap.
As mentioned above, the proportion of women in Quartile 1 increased between 2021 and 2022, due to the change in the gender balance in the students undertaking paid work, with more female students and fewer male students.
This change has led to the small difference in the annual mean figures for 2021 and 2022.
The change in the gender balance in Quartiles 4 and 1 mentioned above has had an impact on the median gender pay gap and has increased the median for 2022 to 11.1%.
When student employees are removed from the calculation, the median pay gap is 0%.
There were no staff bonuses paid in 2021/22.
The balance within Quartile 1 is one area that has been identified as requiring further attention and consideration.
The impact of senior leadership appointments in recent months will address the balance within Quartile 4.
We continue to monitor the employment ‘lifecycle’ of our staff; from initial recruitment ensuring that we have fair and consistent selection processes; having career development opportunities open for all job roles; clear and consistent promotion and salary processes; fair and flexible working practices.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/gender-pay-gap-reports/gender-pay-gap-report-2021.aspx:
This report is based on the snapshot date of 31 March 2021.
Over recent years, we have reported one of the lowest  Gender Pay Gaps in the Higher Education Sector.
For 2021, the median pay gap is 0%.
The data provided below relates to University of Worcester’s Gender Pay Gap report for 2021 taken on the snapshot date of 31 March 2021.
The quartile data (the split of employees into four groups by hourly rate, to show the balance of men and women in each group), shows that women account for 60% of employees across all four quartiles .
It was noted in the report for 2020 that the gender balance in quartile 1 had shifted from that of 2019 with a higher % of females as a result of the number of students choosing to undertake paid work within the University as ‘earn as you learn’ scheme.
The impact of this was that the gender pay gap had increased.
In 2021 the balance in quartile 1 has changed to a higher % of males, a decrease in the % of females and a corresponding decrease in the gender pay gap.
The average hourly rate paid to women at the University, when looking at hourly rates across all pay bands is 5.39% (6.98% in 2020) less than the hourly rate for men - this is the mean gender pay gap.
The median pay gap is 0% in 2021.
There were no staff bonuses paid in 2020/21.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/gender-pay-gap-reports/gender-pay-gap-report-2020.aspx:
Reporting for the year ending 31 March 2020 was deferred due to the pandemic until 5 October 2021.
The data provided below relates to University of Worcester’s Gender Pay Gap report for 2020 taken on the snapshot date of 31 March 2020.
The quartile data (the split of employees into four groups by hourly rate, to show the balance of men and women in each group), shows that women account for 62% of employees across all four quartiles .
This year’s report showed an increase in female employees in Quartile 1, with a greater number of students choosing to undertake paid work within the University as ‘earn and you learn’ scheme.
As 70% of our students are female, it is inevitable that this gender split will have some impact on the overall data.
The average hourly rate paid to women at the University, when looking at hourly rates across all pay bands is 6.98% less than the hourly rate for men - this is the mean gender pay gap.
As mentioned above, the proportion of women in quartile 1 increased between 2019 and 2020, due to an increase in the number of our female students undertaking paid work and a decrease in the number of male students.
This change has led to the small difference in the annual mean figures for 2019 and 2020.
The change in the gender balance in quartile 1 mentioned above has had an impact on the median gender pay gap.
Fewer males has increased the median   for 2020 to 15.52%.
There were no staff bonuses paid in 2019/20.
The balance within quartile 1 is one area that has been identified as requiring further attention and consideration.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/gender-pay-gap-reports/gender-pay-gap-report-2019.aspx:
Over the last two years, we have reported the lowest Gender Pay Gap in the Higher Education Sector.
This year, the median pay gap is -1% , when student employees are removed from the Gender Pay Gap calculation (students have the opportunity to undertake work at the University through our ‘earn as you learn’ scheme which has been very successful in preparing students for employment after completing their studies).
The data provided below relates to University of Worcester’s Gender Pay Gap report for 2019 taken on the snapshot date of 31 March 2019.
The quartile data (the split of employees into four groups by hourly rate, to show the balance of men and women in each group), shows that women account for over 62% of employees across all four quartiles .
This year’s report showed a small increase in female employees in Quartile 1, with a greater number of students choosing to undertake paid work within the University as ‘earn and you learn’ scheme.
As 70% of our students are female, it is inevitable that this gender split will have some impact on the overall data, especially when, during this year, student employees accounted for 9% of the University’s workforce.
An additional report has been compiled to show what our gender pay gap data would be without the effect of this increase.
The average hourly rate paid to women at the University, when looking at hourly rates across all pay bands is 3.8% less than the hourly rate for men - this is the mean gender pay gap.
This is significantly below the HE Sector average of 14.7% and the national mean gender pay gap of 17.3% (ONS Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings 2019) and is likely to be one of the lowest in universities.
As mentioned above, the proportion of women in quartile 1 increased between 2018 and 2019, due to an increase in the number of our female students undertaking paid work.
This change has led to a small difference in the annual mean figures for 2018 and 2019.
The median gender pay gap at the University is 2.8%.
When student employees are removed from this calculation, the median pay gap is -1%.
The HE Sector average is 13%.
There were no staff bonuses paid in 2018/19.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/gender-pay-gap-reports/gender-pay-gap-report-2018.aspx:
The data provided below relates to University of Worcester’s Gender Pay Gap report for 2018 taken on the snapshot date of 31 March 2018.
It is encouraging to see from our quartile data (the split of employees into four groups by hourly rate, to show the balance of men and women in each group) that women make up over 63% of employees across all four quartiles.
The average hourly rate paid to women at the University, when looking at hourly rates across all pay bands, has reduced to 2.09% less than the hourly rate for men - this is the mean gender pay gap.
This is below the national mean gender pay gap of 17.9% (ONS Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings 2018) and is likely to be one of the lowest in universities.
Similar to other organisations, the University employs a higher proportion of women in lower graded roles, for example, our team of cleaners, of whom 85% are women and 15% are men.
Having a high percentage of females in roles where there are large numbers of staff contributes to the pay gap shown in our data.
The average hourly rate of pay for women increased as a result of a decision endorsed by the Board of Governors to apply nationally recommended changes to the salary scales, which enabled progression to higher points and also a salary uplift for the lower grades that was a higher % than for other points on the scale.
These changes were applied to all colleagues in the relevant grades and as there were a greater number of women within these grades, the impact was greater for them.
The median gender pay gap at the University has reduced substantially in the last 12 months and is 2.16%.
This change is a result of restructuring of the salary scales referred to above.
The impact of these changes has meant that the median rate of pay for women increased from £14.34 per hour to £16.38 per hour, an increase of 14%.
The median salary for men also increased as a result of these changes but as there are fewer men in the lower grades the impact of the changes on the median was lower at 4%.
The University operates a staff reward scheme.
This provides an opportunity for staff to apply for an incremental pay increase or a one off payment in recognition of outstanding work which has contributed towards the University’s strategic aims.
Applications are assessed on a fair and equal basis, by an independent panel.
The total spend on these bonus payments is small when compared with the University’s total spend on salaries and the number of staff involved is comparatively small, 69 people in total.
In 2018, women received a higher average bonus payment than men, and the mean gender bonus gap is -3.04%.
The median gender bonus gap for 2018 is 0%.
At the University of Worcester we are committed to inclusion and the promotion of gender equality.
Our gender pay gap data demonstrates that we have good foundations in place and that women are well represented at all levels within our organisation.
Moving forward, we will continue to keep our HR policies and processes under regular review to ensure we are making steps towards removing any existing gender pay gap and ensuring that there is a balanced representation of different genders within the workforce and across all roles.
We will continue to monitor the employment ‘lifecycle’ of our staff; from initial recruitment ensuring that we have fair and consistent selection processes; having career development opportunities open for all job roles; clear and consistent promotion and salary processes; fair and flexible working practices.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/gender-pay-gap-reports/gender-pay-gap-report-2017.aspx:
It is different to Equal Pay data which considers rates of pay for the same level of work.
The data provided below relates to University of Worcester’s Gender Pay Gap report for 2017 taken on the snapshot date of 31 March 2017.
At the University of Worcester 65% of our employees are female , and this level of representation exists throughout the organisation, from the lowest grades to the highest.
It is encouraging to see from our quartile data (the split of employees into four groups by hourly rate, to show the balance of men and women in each group) that women make up over 63% of employees across all four quartiles .
For more than two decades, women have made up more than 50% of the University’s Executive leadership, a philosophy first introduced by former Principal, Dorma Urwin, and one to which the current Vice Chancellor, Professor David Green, who has led the Institution for the past 15 years, remains committed.
The average hourly rate paid to women at the University, when looking at hourly rates across all pay bands, is 3.16% less than the hourly rate for men - this is the mean gender pay gap.
This is amongst the lowest for universities, and well below the national mean gender pay gap of 17.4% (ONS Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings 2017).
The median gender pay gap at the University is 11%, which is lower than the national figure of 18.4% (ONS Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings 2017).
The data relating to bonus pay for the Gender Pay Gap analysis reflects one off bonus payments made through our reward schemes and relates to the 12 months reference period to 31 March 2017.
The total spend on these bonus payments is small when compared with the University’s total spend on salaries and the number of staff involved is comparatively small; 6% of male employees received a bonus in 2017 and 5% of female employees received a bonus.
In 2017, women received a higher average bonus payment than men, and the mean gender bonus gap is -11%.
The median gender bonus gap is 37%, this represents a difference of average amounts received in bonus payments of £300 for women compared to £475 for men.
We will continue to monitor the employment ‘lifecycle’ of our staff;  from initial recruitment ensuring that we have fair and consistent selection processes; having career development opportunities open for all job roles; clear and consistent promotion and salary processes; fair and flexible working practices.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/university-information/trade-union-facility-time.aspx:
The Trade Union (Facility Time Publication Requirements) Regulations require all Higher Education Institutions in England and Scotland to publish certain information on trade union officials and facility time.
Facility Time is the provision of paid or unpaid time off from an employee’s normal role to undertake TU duties and activities as a TU representative.
The information below is for the period 1 April 2024 to 31 March 2025 .
11
9.92
The number of employees who were relevant union officials employed during the relevant period spent the following percentage of their working hours on facility time.
0%
0
1-50%
51%-99%
100%
£14,395.63
£61,488,525
0.023%
31.16%
The information below is for the period 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2024 .
10
8.72
£11,436.52
£58,855,183
0.019%
26.41%
The information below is for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023.
17
16.12
4
13
£14,006.15
£58,591,806
0.024%
24.29%

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability:
“Change Today, Protect Tomorrow”
Agreed in February 2008 and reviewed annually, the University of Worcester sets out how it will promote sustainable communities through our teaching, research, and knowledge exchange activities in a detailed policy.
We will foster a culture that values sustainability in arts and culture and promotes social enterprise in the region.
Download and read our Sustainability Policy 2025.
One of the University’s core values is to promote sustainable development and active engagement with the community and fully accept our broad responsibilities to society.
We are committed to continually improve our environmental performance and we have an environmental management system (ISO14001:2015, EcoCampus and Energy Management System ISO 50001:2018) to achieve this in a structured way.
We have performance indicators (see our Carbon Targets) to help us to assess our current and future level of sustainability performance.
We have signed up to the SDG Accord and are reporting annually our progress on the UN Sustainable Development Goals .
This enables us to benchmark our performance against similar institutions and sector standards.
The University established a Sustainable Development Committee, which includes student, academic and service department representation, in 2005, chaired by the Pro Vice Chancellor Research who is a member of the University Executive Board.
Read the terms of reference and membership of the committee.
Its reporting route is via University Executive Board and the Board of Governors receives an annual report.
See page 53 of the annual report, below, for the structure and steering groups.
The Sustainability Forum serves as a platform to foster a culture of sustainability across the university and its surrounding community .
The Director of Sustainability acts as a focal point for all aspects of sustainability within the University and works to develop local, regional, national and international networks to further the sustainability agenda.
The Director of Sustainability reports to the PVC Research.
Download and read our Sustainability Strategy 2020-2030 .
We produce an annual sustainability report which summarises our activities and performance.
Our Annual Sustainability Report prepared in accordance with the core option of the Global Reporting Initiative and independently verified, has been a Green Gown winner in the Reporting with Influence category in 2020 and highly commended in 2023.
Katy Boom Director of Sustainability Email: k.boom@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/what-we-do:
The Sustainability department acts as a focal point for all aspects of sustainability within the University and works to develop local, regional, national and international networks to further the sustainability agenda.
The Vice Chancellor and Chief Executive is a member of the university executive and sponsor for sustainability.
The University established a Sustainable Development Committee in 2005, which includes student representation, chaired by the Pro Vice Chancellor Research and advises the University Executive Board on all sustainability matters, relating to the campus, community, research and curriculum.
The Academic Lead for Sustainability is Dr Heather Barrett .
Students are key to our sustainability work, and the joint SU and University Student Sustainability Hub attests to this.
The Director of Sustainability acts as a focal point for all aspects of sustainability within the University and is also:
Director of Sustainability Full time
01905 855243 k.boom@worc.ac.uk
Chair of the Sustainable Development Committee and Portfolio Holder for Sustainability
01905 542196 j.wilson@worc.ac.uk
Academic Lead for Sustainability Principal Lecturer
01905 855191 h.barrett@worc.ac.uk
Chair of the Sustainability Forum
Secondary and Post Compulsory Education
01905 542151 e.lengthorn@worc.ac.uk
Waste Supervisor and EcoCampus lead Full time
01905 855317 p.mole@worc.ac.uk
Carbon Reduction and Sustainability Manager Full time
01905 542472 jess.tasney@worc.ac.uk
Pro Vice Chancellor, Finance and Resources
Chair of the Energy Committee and member of the University Executive.
Chair of the Travel and Transport Steering Group
Executive Assistant to the Director of Sustainability Part time
p.kitchener@worc.ac.uk
Chair of the Biodiversity Steering Group
01905 542372 k.ashbrook@worc.ac.uk
Professor of Rural Geography
01905 855187 n.evans@worc.ac.uk
Chair of Sustainable Environments Research Group (SERG)
a.dixon@worc.ac.uk
Head of Procurement Chair of the Procurement Steering Group Full time
01905 855114 k.preece@worc.ac.uk
Please contact Penny Kitchener if you are interested in this role
A range of roles as Sustainability Mentors,  totalling around 35 posts, including:
Green Impact Project Assistants
Digital Creative Assistants
Learning for Responsible Futures Research Assistants
Carbon Literacy Training Assistants
Many colleagues have key roles in supporting sustainability and all must enhance environmental sustainability within their job roles.
All new staff have a mandatory induction into sustainability, which includes, for example, learning about our 10 Golden Rules for living sustainability.
There is a Sway presentation in addition which is promoted to all staff and students.
Residential students get a mandatory induction in sustainability, including details of projects and programmes of support.
All members of the University community can be involved to further embed sustainability by joining the Sustainability Forum .
A video from the Vice Chancellor, Professor David Green, encourages participation.
We have 3 ISO 14001 trained auditors and have begun an ambitious training program, and offer accredited Carbon Literacy Training for all staff and students, co-delivered by our students.
See the staff development pages for the timetable for when the sessions run, both in person and online options are available.
We have full-time sustainability, carbon reduction, and waste manager posts supporting the sustainability department.
All sustainability department posts are full-time, the Director takes the strategic lead, and the Executive Assistant leads on student and staff behaviour change .
The sustainability and carbon reduction manager leads on calculating the University’s carbon data and managing carbon reduction projects – this post has a separate budget.
The department employs 40 student part-time posts, as Carbon Literacy Training Assistants, Digital Creative Assistants, Green Impact Project Assistants and Learning for Responsible Futures Research Assistants.
We work with the Residential Life Team students to implement behavioural change, such as Green Campus Revolution, for first-year students living in Halls or University-managed accommodation.
They induct all new students on how to live and study sustainably.
There’s an annual budget of £50,000 which includes funding for student-led projects.
Priorities or projects are decided by the Sustainability Development Committee , and all students and staff are encouraged to put forward ideas to help embed sustainability throughout the campus, community and curriculum.
Details of current projects can be found within these web pages, many led by students.
See our community involvement .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/what-we-do/biodiversity.aspx:
The Biodiversity Strategy outlines how the University intends to meet its Policy commitment for biodiversity on its campuses.
We have already made great progress in implementing this Policy commitment.
A Strategic Biodiversity Steering Group meets up to four times a year to drive forward action to manage and enhance biodiversity at the University.
This includes staff from the Sustainability Department, Academic Departments, Grounds, students and external organisations.
Annual quantitative and qualitative targets are set and the sustainability budget identifies specific projects to be achieved throughout the year.
Please see our Sustainability Targets 2024-2025 .
The University’s Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP) implements the commitments set out in this Biodiversity Strategy as part of the University’s ISO14001:2015 Environmental Management System.
We have made a pledge to be Nature Positive .
This is a commitment halting and reversing nature loss so that species and ecosystems start to recover.
It means restoring species and ecosystems that have been harmed by the impacts of a university and its activities and enhancing the university’s positive impacts on nature.
It refers to everything we do, from our teaching and research work to the operations and supply chains that keep us running.
It requires collaboration between many parts of the university, such as grounds and estates teams, catering and gardening staff, academic experts, students and our sustainability team.
Read our annual report on Biodiversity to find out what we achieved in 2023-2024, our annual report for 2024-2025, and see our guide to nature on campus.
The Sustainable Environments Research Group (SERG) was launched in 2020 to bring together colleagues from across the University to deliver excellent research that aligns with the theme of “Sustainable Futures” identified in the University’s Research & Knowledge Exchange Strategy 2020-25, as an Area of Challenge.
We are excited to announce the launch of our iNaturalist Biodiversity Project .
This initiative encourages students, staff, and the community to document the diverse species found on and around our campuses using the iNaturalist app .
By participating, you can contribute to a living map of our local biodiversity, helping us to better understand and protect the natural world around us.
Participants can easily upload photos of plants, animals, and fungi, which will then be identified and mapped.
This project not only supports our commitment to enhancing biodiversity but also provides a valuable educational resource for our academic and research efforts.
Join us in exploring and preserving our campus biodiversity.
Download the iNaturalist app and start contributing today!
Read about a project with this app, students and older adults.
The annual report gives more details on current nature based student projects but if you have an idea and want to get involved please get in touch.
For example, in getting involved with the initiative of how to be hedgehog friendly or joining the Campus Conservation Crew.
Biodiversity has also been a central consideration in the establishing the grounds of The Hive Library , History and Customer Centre for students and the public, established in partnership with Worcestershire County Council.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/what-we-do/carbon-emission-targets.aspx:
The University declared a Climate Emergency in July 2019.
In September 2020 the University Executive approved a new Sustainability Strategy 2020 - 2030 which reviewed the carbon journey since 2008/9 baseline – pages 14 &15- and projected based on a 1.5-degree warming scenario the university aims to reduce its direct and indirect GHGe emissions to be net zero by 2030 from a new baseline year 2018/19 , pages 16-19.
The University intends to achieve:
These targets will secure a 50% reduction in emissions from the 2018-19 baseline in a 1.5 degree warming scenario.
To achieve net zero emissions by 2030, the remaining emissions will need to be balanced with carbon removals, such as tree planting in managed woodlands, managing university land for maximum soil health and carbon sequestration.
We will contribute to a sector owned carbon offset scheme.
Watch a short film about our carbon journey so far.
Current projects include the expansion of the University’s BMS to a further 3 buildings and lighting upgrades in our Riverside Building, totalling £57,000 and optimising our St John’s Campus heat network, which supplies heat to 6 buildings with a combined area of over 19,000m2 and contributing to a citywide heat network detailed project development plan.
The university measures the carbon for Scopes 1 and 2 attributes these across all our estate.
27.6% of our carbon is attributed to our residential accommodation, and 72.4% to our academic estate.
Progress against 2023-2024 targets and historical data:
Direct emissions include Scope 1 (gas, fuel in fleet vehicles, refrigerant leaks, and other on-site fuels) and Scope 2 (purchased electricity).
The University prioritizes emissions from gas and electricity for monitoring and reporting.
Scope 3 emissions include purchased goods and services, student travel, and employee commuting.
The University aims for a 5% annual reduction from the 2018/19 baseline.
2018/19: 18,701 tCO2e
Full details are in the above links.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/what-we-do/community-involvement.aspx:
A Communications and Community Engagement plan which helps us to raise awareness on current and planned sustainability initiatives and encourage behavioural change among staff, students and all University stakeholders.
This plan includes baseline information and ways to measure our progress, with names of people responsible as well as a resource allocation.
See our Green Campus Revolution page where we work with students on and off campus and the Student Sustainability Hub , which brings members of our community in to volunteer to work with students, on, for example, regular crafting and sewing activities.
Students are actively encouraged to support this work including part-time digital creative students.
Read our effectiveness and impact report.
Our current targets and some examples of how we are going to achieve them can be found in this document:
Sustainability Targets 2024/25
A website www.susthingsout.com , whose strapline is "change today protect tomorrow", provides a magazine format and commentary space for all University stakeholders.
It links curriculum, campus and community, and students co-create content as part of their studies.
It is used in teaching sustainability and is promoted to all new students and employees.
The magazine was 10 years old in 2024 and has featured in many conference presentations.
Some examples of a whole institution (university and students' union) and the community projects are with the joint work of the Sustainability network  Campus Conservation Crew.
This is one example working with the RSPB, developed since 2021, supporting farmland birds .
Our Student Sustainability Hub is the focal point of all activities.
Students, Staff and many local organisations supported the International Bike Bus conference organised by Bike Worcester highlighting the issues of air quality locally.
Taking carbon literacy training out into Worcestershire’s libraries this interesting student led research work with library staff, took account of very varied demographics and tailored the sessions for adults and families .
Another collaborative project is Go Green Week where students lead awareness raising activities with local businesses and charities and the local community and schools are invited to take part.
The University takes its role within the wider community seriously and is committed to establishing and strengthening partnerships with local businesses, charities, and other organisations.
The University Community Forum tackles issues of mutual concern to local residents, students and the University.
The Forum meets three times annually.
Its membership includes the Pro Vice Chancellor for Partnerships and other senior members of University staff, together with representation from the Students’ Union, Worcestershire County Council and Worcester City Council Councillors, local head teacher and residents.
The West Mercia Police are also regularly represented at meetings.
Regular reports on sustainability are made to the committee, including a review of community issues raised and dealt with throughout the year.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/what-we-do/construction-and-refurbishment.aspx:
We aim to provide spaces that enable health, wellbeing and productivity for all our students and staff and have a development and construction policy developed from UK Green Building Council resources and events to ensure our built environment is at the forefront of sustainability, biodiversity and carbon reduction.
We are involved in the UKGBC’s work, applying a systems change approach to live real estate projects.
We will continue to work with students to help us match their needs to our requirements, utilising projects wherever possible.
A recent example, students identified numerous 'underused' water outlets that require weekly flushing.
This was done by estimating the amount of water used by flushing and identifying outlets that could be removed.
The students also looked at how much water could be saved by the installation of flow restrictors across the university.
The Estates staff are now implementing the report's recommendations.
This won a Gold Green Impact Award.
Other current projects include:
Our latest refurbishment, transforming a drab concrete to iconic gold glad home for our Medical School achieved a RICS SKA Gold award.
The newly built Dukes Building , which is timetabled from September 2025 achieved an EPC A.
Our Energy page has more information on our Heat Decarbonisation Plan.
All tenderers for new projects are made aware of these objectives and the University’s commitment to sustainability.
They are referred to the institution’s Sustainability Construction and Refurbishment Policy and relevant strategies (energy, water, transport waste and biodiversity) and targets.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/what-we-do/education-and-learning.aspx:
The Worcester education for sustainable development model follows several strands and has been developed following the Advance HE Green Academy programme.
The University of Worcester was one of the first universities to follow the Green Academy change programme.
Read the University of Worcester’s evaluation report .
The University Learning and Teaching Strategy includes a commitment to ‘Education for Sustainable Futures’ and progress is reported on regularly to Academic Board via the Learning Teaching and Student Experience Committee.
The expectation to embed ‘Education for Sustainable Futures’ in all courses is part of the University’s Curriculum Design Policy , Course Approval and Departmental Periodic Review processes.
‘Social Responsibility’ is one of the five Graduate Attributes to be embedded in all university courses and curricula.
To support this work from 2021–22 the University wide professional development programme ‘Learning Design for Teaching Excellence’ has offered bookable staff workshops on ‘Embedding Education for Sustainable Development in your course’.
These workshops are available for all School staff or course teams and align with the Learning and Teaching Strategy Implementation Plan.
You can also read a detailed report on Students Sustainability Skills and student research on the continuation of the programme at the University of Worcester conducted by SOS UK annually and the Students’ Union and students reaction to these reports.
The University participates annually in the SOS-UK SDG Teach In campaign which calls on educators to pledge to include the UN Sustainable Development Goals into their teaching, training, learning and assessments.
The eighth Global Goals (SDG) Teach-In, March 2025, showed 30 educators pledged, reaching approximately 2289 students, 25% of the student body, up from the previous year, which reached 17% of the student body.
Run jointly with the Students' Union, this self-access facility offers drop-in and workshops for all students, open every day, including weekends, a range of free activities, information, a place to hang out and also make friends.
This is a lovely new space that also includes its own ‘greenhouse’, or rather cleverly re-purposed entrance lobby.
All students are invited to take the Global Sustainability Awareness Test, Sulitest at each enrolment.
This allows us to track and compare our students internationally .
We also undertake surveys for staff and students to track their attitudes and knowledge of sustainability measures undertaken by the University.
The University’s commitments to sustainability are also evident in its Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy , which identifies ‘Sustainable Futures’ as a key global research challenge and an area of strength and focus for research and knowledge exchange at Worcester.
The Sustainable Development Committee reports regularly to the Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee.
Research deeply informs teaching and learning at the University, with many opportunities for students to engage in sustainability research projects (see some examples below).
Our current targets and some examples of how we are going to achieve them can be accessed through the sustainability targets document .
A bespoke tool for benchmarking sustainability in the curriculum and research was developed in 2019 and you can read about the benchmarking tool and our results .
This mapped the university’s curriculum to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Worcester’s Business School have also mapped courses and modules to the SDGs as part of their PRME accreditation .
A further Student’s as Partners (SAPs) project has sought to build on this work and review different frameworks for mapping University of Worcester courses to the SDGs and our Graduate Attributes.
Further work incorporating GenAI and an ethical human/hybrid model will help us roll this out with curriculum reviews.
Projects to further enhance embedding sustainability in the taught curriculum include the Learning for Responsible Futures program.
This scheme is a joint initiative between The Education Quality Unit and the Sustainability Department and has given over 20 awards of around £2,000 to small teams for collaborative projects working across the organisation and the community to connect sustainability thinking and practice.
Students are co-creators on all projects, and you can see some example student presentations .
Students engage in a range of educational projects around sustainability issues, using the university and the city as a ‘living lab’.
Other examples of some recent projects include,
Lavender Love: healing with nature, responsibly
The University and Students’ Union were delighted to obtain the inaugural National Union of Students Responsible Futures accreditation in 2015 and we were reaccredited fifth time in June 2024.
This demonstrates real action on education for sustainable development and whole institution approach to sustainability and social responsibility.
In our June 2024 Audit Report, one of our student auditors said:
“I think they can communicate more about these massive initiatives and opportunities they put on for us.
I am a commuter which might impact my experience, but didn't see last year, how seriously the university really takes sustainability, I think everyone should understand this."
Following our reaccreditation audit in 2024, we have developed a live action plan to support our progress towards our next reaccreditation in the summer of 2026.
This is a joint action plan owned by both the University and the Students’ Union.
Key areas of focus are: to understand the progress and impact of our RF work, to continue embedding sustainability into teaching and learning across all disciplines and courses, to better communicate our sustainability work to internal and external stakeholders, to widen and deepen existing sustainability collaborations with other institutions.
Progress updates on the plan are reported to the Sustainable Development Committee biannually.
Students can get paid to work alongside university staff teams helping to create bespoke projects and ideas revolving around sustainability themes which fit the work of their departments or services.
For more information on how to get involved or about our projects visit our Green Impact pages .
As one of the country’s major providers of education, training and research for the children’s workforce, the University of Worcester has signed up to the SDG Accord and have mapped our sustainability work to the Global Goals .
You can read more about the SDG Accord .
To support the teaching, research and community the University has developed a unique website, Susthingsout , whose strapline is change today protect tomorrow and links curriculum, campus, and community.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/what-we-do/emissions-and-discharges.aspx:
We have marked up the drains on campus so in the event of a spillage, it's clear from markers if the drain runs into a sewer where it can be treated or into a water course which could cause harm.
Making people aware of the potential harm that can occur from pollution is important.
We promote and encourage all staff who carry radios and could be the first responder to an emergency to watch this short Pollution Prevention Pays video on YouTube, and provide spill kits and training for key staff.
Download our full current qualitative and quantitative targets and progress against targets from Carbon Management & Targets page .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/what-we-do/energy.aspx:
Having declared a climate emergency in July 2019 and adopted net zero carbon targets by 2030 in September 2020 we are now actively working with Midlands Net Zero Hub, Worcestershire Local Enterprise Partnership, Worcestershire County Council and Worcester City Council to develop decarbonisation strategies.
Our Heat Decarbonisation Plan sets out our desire to look at collaborative district heating opportunities and possible heat sources.
A Citywide Heat network study is underway.
Our energy and water strategy sets out our approach and we continue to invest in our buildings with costed energy action plans, some example projects for 2024/25 include improved data quality updating gas and electricity sub meters, data visualisation using Power BI, auto shut down AV screens, £57, 000 integration of energy sub-metering into the Building Management System, and continued investment in solar thermal PV and LED lighting.
We received £23,862 Heat Network Efficiency Scheme funding to deliver an optimisation study of our St John's campus heat network, and this will feed into the city-wide heat network study.
The Dukes building (see construction page) is heated by 3 75.8 kW air source heat pumps and achieved an EPC A rating.
An Energy Committee was established in 2022 to reflect the elevated priority of reducing energy consumption in the face of an energy price crisis.
Chaired by the Pro Vice Chancellor Finance and Resources the Energy Committee provides strategic oversight of energy management at the University, with particular focus on identifying and resourcing opportunities to reduce energy consumption and to generate energy on-site.
This reports directly to the University Executive Board.
View our Display Energy Certificates (DECs)
The University has had an Energy Management System (EnMS) certified to ISO 50001 since 2020.
The EnMS provides a framework for energy management at the University and ensures that actions are taken to reduce energy consumption, and that energy efficiency is considered during our procurement and design processes.
A surveillance audit of our EnMS took place in November 2024.
Our next recertification audit will take place in November 2026.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/what-we-do/environmental-management-system.aspx:
In May 2010, the university became the first in England to achieve the EcoCampus Platinum Award for the whole campus, its highest award.
EcoCampus is specifically designed for Higher Education.
We are also accredited with the international standard ISO 14001:2015 for the entire University on all its sites.
Environmental Management System Certificate of Registration [PDF]
More information about the University’s Environmental Management System can be found in the Management System Index .
The University sees its commitment to society to be much broader than mitigating its negative impacts and focuses its resources on positive societal impacts of its activities.
Higher Education has a unique role to play in this and it is one ‘area of distinction’ for the University.
Therefore, whilst noting and managing any potential harm, equal prominence is given to positive impacts and materiality.
This can be seen in the University’s Aspects Register , where we highlight both the positive and negative impacts we have on the environment.
We have recently analysed the University's key environmental risks and opportunities .
Communicating and articulating about our purpose, activities, and sustainability opportunities with key stakeholders is very important.
The multiple award-winning University and local authority library and history centre The Hive is a BREEAM outstanding building and part of the University's estate.
Learn more about this most impressive sustainable building and the services which operate from it by watching this video about how it was designed and built, and the reactions of the many users of this wonderful facility.
*The Community Hub is no longer located in the Hive

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/what-we-do/fairtrade.aspx:
The University of Worcester has held Fairtrade status since 2008, and is reaccredited until June 2027.
You can view our latest Fairtrade University Award Certificate .
We are delighted to have signed up with the Fairtrade Foundation and SOS-UK to their new programme to give our campus activities renewed vigour.
We are proud to have been awarded 2 Stars in our 2023-25 audit.
You can view our Impact Report for 2023-25 and our Fairtrade Award Report 2023-25.
Fairtrade is an international movement working with more than 1,900 producer organisations, across 68 countries, to improve the living standards of farmers and workers, invest in communities and businesses, and protect our Earth.
They do this by rallying a global community of farmers, workers, supply chain partners, retailers, and schools to pay fair prices.
Please read our Fairtrade policy .
The Fairtrade Foundation recognises both the University’s ongoing commitment to supporting sustainable development in the developing world and the significant progress made by the University since Fairtrade Status was first granted.
We have many exciting plans for promoting and encouraging Fairtrade decisions.
You can view our action plan .
The University and Students’ Union sells a wide variety of Fairtrade products across its cafes, canteen and shop.
We use Fairtrade footballs in Student Societies and Fairtrade suppliers are regularly invited onto campus to sell their products.
Many products, including all drinks are used by catering for hospitality and conferences, are also Fairtrade.
By buying a product with the Fairtrade mark, it guarantees a price that covers the cost of production, a social premium for producer groups to invest in the business or community (including educational) development, long-term trading relationships and advanced payments.
Students and colleagues are regularly invited to speak to students on various modules and run the popular orange trading game.
Fairtrade is about better prices, decent working conditions, local sustainability, and fair terms of trade for farmers and workers in the developing world.
By requiring companies to pay sustainable prices (which must never fall lower than the market price), Fairtrade addresses the injustices of conventional trade, which traditionally discriminates against the poorest, weakest producers.
It enables them to improve their position and have more control over their lives.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/what-we-do/health-and-wellbeing.aspx:
Good health depends on a combination of both physical and mental well-being and therefore it seeks to maintain a healthy and safe working environment by setting policies and procedures that are designed to support the health and well-being of all its employees.
The University is committed to encouraging staff and students to live healthier lifestyles .
We continue to be committed to the University Mental Health Charter.
We have scoped out the activities that support mental health.
We continue to offer staff development and direct support for individuals to enhance their well-being.
We have identified an increase in colleagues sharing their neurodivergent conditions, and we're developing ways to respond to this.
For students, we have established with the Students' Union the Student Sustainability Hub .
Open seven days a week, 7.00 am to 10 pm, this self-access space is calm and relaxing, with a range of free resources including free fairtrade hot drinks, sewing machines, crafting and art materials.
Read a post about bird watching for well-being.
Other initiatives include giving all new residential students a lavender bag when they move in, made by students for students.
Significant additional resources have been put in place to support staff wellness.
For example a new EAP, OH and Counselling provider, Mental Health First Aid training and resources including Five Ways to Wellbeing training.
Why not enjoy the nature trail around St Johns Campus, use the map , and follow what you are likely to see in Spring/Summer and Autumn/Winter .
Since 2007, the University has had a Heating and Comfort Policy.
This was updated in June 2022 and is due for review 2027.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/what-we-do/sustainable-food.aspx:
We will also strive to ensure that local and smaller suppliers are not discriminated against in the procurement process and specifications, within the parameters of our overall purchasing strategy.
We have key performance indicators, see below, that are aligned with our sustainable food strategy in our catering contract.
The University has set several targets and objectives to help us achieve these aims within an annual sustainable food action plan.
Initiatives on food waste include Too Good to Go and Olio.
This year, we introducedd the reusable takeaway Cauli Box system adding to our reuseable cups.
Another important factor in sustainable food is ethical procurement i.e., better prices, decent working conditions, local sustainability and fair terms for farmers and workers in the developing world.
We aim to retain Fairtrade Status as Fairtrade tackles the injustices of conventional trade, which traditionally discriminates against the most vulnerable.
For more information view our Fairtrade page .
We have The Sustainable Restaurants Association 3 Stars accreditation.
This was awarded in August 2024 and is valid for two years.
The Sustainable Restaurants Association’s Food Made Good programme is currently supporting 10,000 plus food service sites across the UK to reduce their food waste, improve energy efficiency, and improve their supply chain.
The holistic accreditation covers 10 key areas of sustainability, under sourcing, society and environment, and makes it an ideal accreditation system for Universities who often provide the infrastructure, utilities etc even in outsourced catering contracts.
We are proud to have achieved 3-star rating in 2019 and continued to be awarded it again in 2022 and 2024, the highest rating possible.
This covers all the food service provisions throughout the university and is valid until August 2026
We continue to promote the Foodbank collections amongst students and staff to help support people struggling to feed themselves.
This is the Foodbank collection unit located in the University's Hines Building.
Worcester Foodbank provides emergency food and support to local people and provided over 231,000 meals last year.
It is part of a nationwide network of foodbanks, supported by The Trussell Trust, working to combat poverty and hunger across the UK.
The cost of living is putting pressure on foodbanks and their users - foodbank networks have reported an increased demandby 10 percent.
With inflation predicted to continue rising, the charity expects a further surge in demand.
Colleagues in the Medical School have organised a second Community Cupboard at Severn Campus.
The Students’ Union are accepting donations for their Community Cupboard.
Donations of toiletries and non-perishable food and drink are warmly welcomed to help provide free food and toiletries to students in need (please ensure that these goods are both unopened and in date).
For further details see cost of living .
Students took part in a really successful three year project called SU Eatable Life One Planet Plate research project with Sustainable Restaurants Association .
Here is our Lebanese stew video from this project .
See our five top tips for sustainable cooking plus over 170 recipes.
An exciting food project saw the creation of a cob 'earth' oven built by design students as part of their Green Design module on the University student and staff allotments.
There have been many pizza parties using the oven and picking food directly from the allotments.
The student Residential Life Team used the oven in their summer training.
Read Klara's story on how chef Julien inspired the day.
The cob oven plinth, generously donated from re-use supplied by Envirotech provides shelter for wood to dry which is collected by the grounds staff from tree management projects, and Ringway kindly donated the new wheelchair access which was installed in 2022.
There are many drinking water fountains throughout all the university sites, including the Students' Union and the main dining room, and these are shown on these maps which cover the three university campuses.
Our current targets and some examples of how we are going to achieve them can be found in our sustainability targets document .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/what-we-do/sustainable-procurement-and-ethical-investment.aspx:
The University has a Procurement Strategy which sets out the procurement guidelines of buying goods, services and works.
Within this strategy, the University acknowledges that its purchasing decisions have major socio-economic and environmental implications, both locally and globally.
A Sustainable Procurement Steering Group of the Sustainability Strategy Committee was created in April 2014 to oversee this important work; membership includes students, academics and procurement professionals.
The main focus of this group is ethical procurement issues, including workers’ rights such as Modern Slavery in the supply chain, factory conditions and reforming supply chains and Social Values Act.
See the terms of reference and membership details .
The group members are invited to guest lecture to students and education is an important remit of the group.
Another example is our procurement of electronic goods.
Poor working conditions and labour rights abuses are commonplace in many parts of the developing world, where the majority of ICT products are made.
The University procures all its ICT equipment through a purchasing consortium which has signed up to Electronics Watch NWUPC Ltd.
An independent organisation that aims to monitor working conditions in the global electronics industry to enable socially responsible public purchasing across Europe.
The Head of Procurement who chairs this group is a member of the Sustainable Development Committee and provides regular reports to the meetings.
The University understands that procurement is one of the most significant contributors to its carbon footprint.
Training in this important area is seen as key, HEPA 6 modules are being trialled in Procurement and then rolled out to all relevant staff.
We are working with NETpositive Futures using their supplier engagement tool and you can view our example report .
The University has also used the tool to establish our own Action Plan .
Please find our ethical Investment policy here.
Specifically, The University will not directly invest in:
•     Fossil fuel companies
•     Arms Companies
•     Border Industry Companies
•     Companies in Violation of International Law
The University is continuing to demonstrate our commitment to sustainable energy by signing the Planet & People Fossil Free Declaration in May 2021.
Please visit the document link to view the declaration.
We are publicly declaring that we do not invest in fossil fuel companies now and in the future.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/what-we-do/transport-and-travel:
Transport-related carbon emissions are one of our largest contributions to the University’s total carbon footprint.
We have a Travel and Transport Steering Group chaired by an academic whose research is in pro-environmental behaviours, Dr Daniel Farrelly .
Many travel carbon savings have already been achieved, and we have one of the largest EV charging car parks in Europe .
Read our latest data from our student and staff travel surveys 2024-25 .
The travel and Transport Steering group is developing workstreams and actions, with our local transport providers, and local authority, to promote active and sustainable transport for campus users, which will inform the updating of the Travel Plan and our Mobility Plan .
Read about an example of a new pedestrian and cycle route .
You can also learn the results of our last year's travel surveys for students and staff.
We are concerned about air quality in our city.
Read about how air quality affects health and learn what you can do to help .
Working with Worcestershire Regulatory Services we have a project tackling traffic-related air pollution in schools.
For further information please see the First Worcestershire website .
As part of the development of Severn Campus, we are pleased our Green Level Modeshift STARs accreditation has been approved

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/what-we-do/waste-management.aspx:
The University works with several local charities to offer its unwanted furniture and equipment for charitable purposes, UniGreenScheme and Project 58.
We also partner British Heart Foundation providing clothing and reuse banks on campus, and end of year 'clear-out' campaigns and vintage pop-up shops on campus throughout the year.
Not sure if something can be recycled?
Read our helpful guides on 'Rubbish, recycling and waste' and 'Recycle, reuse and repair.' There is a map to help you locate where to recycle more obscure items at St John’s Campus.
Our current targets and some examples of how we are going to achieve them can be accessed through the sustainability targets document
A student won the best on-campus engagement idea, voted on by the Green Impact project, with her idea to introduce Vape Recycling bins on campus.
Working with Campus Services, this project has now been implemented across all Worcester campuses.
The new food waste contractor collection bins have blue lids, so students will be invited to  'bling' their food caddies in blue crafting sessions to help raise awareness of food recycling.
Since 2023 we have held Repair Cafés inviting staff, students and members of the community to bring their items for repair.
This helps to reduce waste by helping to get things back in working order.
Repair Cafes are now held every second Saturday of the month, in the Students' Union during the winter, moving off campus over the summer.
Since 2013 Worcester University Students have generated 39.5 tonnes of donations through the ‘Pack for Good’ campaign, that’s £69,562* raised to help support help lifesaving research, driving breakthroughs for heart patients all across the UK.
*based on average value of £14/bag
BHF collection banks are located on St John Campus outside the Students Union and in the Recycling Area near Teme Halls of Residence.
A BHF bank is located at City Campus outside the Chancellors Halls of Residence.
Special arrangements are made for students at the end of the year for on and off campus collections

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/what-we-do/water.aspx:
Our soil type is sandy; therefore, being very free draining, it does not retain much moisture.
Therefore, we have to choose drought-tolerant plants.
We do not carry out any additional watering.
We have a project co-created by students to identify more water-saving initiatives, following the success of previous students' projects to identify which type of water-saving taps and shower heads are preferred by students living in Halls.
This student project analysed how the water usage at the University of Worcester could be reduced.
This was done by estimating the amount of water used by flushing and identifying outlets that could be removed.
The team also looked at how much water could be saved by the installation of flow restrictors across the university.
The reports make practical and convincing suggestions for water savings, which the estates maintenance team are now implementing across all sites.
This won a Gold Green Impact award 2025 .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/sustainability-achievements:
The University of Worcester has been ranked 1st in the UK for Quality Education in the latest rankings announced by the globally respected Times Higher Education, which highlights the contribution made by universities around the world to achieving the internationally agreed Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which the United Nations adopted in 2016.
Worcester has been in the top 5 in the UK for Quality Education every year since the rankings were introduced in 2019.
The University has also been ranked in the top 10 in the UK for Gender Equality in all years of the rankings – this year taking joint 3rd, along with 13 other universities.
The University was shortlisted in the Green Gown Awards 2024, The University’s online sustainability magazine ‘ Sus Things Out ’ was named as a finalist in the Digital Futures category for this year’s Green Gown Awards.
The blog was started 10 years ago by students, lecturers, and expert practitioners to share stories about how University of Worcester students and other contributors work to combat climate change and its impacts.
Sus Things Out showcases internal and external events, student-led projects, talks, and conferences on campus and in the wider community.
The University was Commended in the International Green Apple Environment Awards for its digital publishing project, which celebrated its tenth anniversary in 2024.
The Green Gown Awards, run by the Environmental Association for Universities and Colleges (EAUC) recognise ‘exceptional sustainability initiatives’ in universities and colleges across the UK.
The University won an International Green Apple in the Conservation and Wildlife Project Category for protecting and enhancing biodiversity at the University of Worcester for over a decade.
The ceremony was held at the Houses of Parliament in London.
For further details please visit our news article about the awards .
The University of Worcester has been awarded First Class Honours for environmental sustainability in the latest People & Planet national rankings.
This is the 15th straight year that the University, one of Britain’s most sustainable, has earned First Class Honours.
People & Planet’s University League has placed the University ninth out of 149 UK institutions in its latest 2024/25 table.
The University scored 100% in 3 of the 14 categories and 90% or over in another 3, ranking 6th overall.
The league, compiled annually by the UK student campaigning network People & Planet, ranks universities by environmental and ethical performance.
They look at aspects including environmental policy, carbon management, how sustainably food is produced, and how the University equips students with the knowledge and understanding of sustainability, energy sources, waste and recycling, and carbon and water use reduction.
The University has been accredited with the ISO 50001:2018 Energy Management System covering all activities, products and services across the entire institution
The EnMS scope includes the University’s two major fuels type of natural gas and electricity.
The accreditation is valid until October 2026
We achieved Responsible Futures accreditation from the NUS, in its inaugural year helping to develop the accreditation as one of the pilot institutions.
This accreditation is for our whole institution approach, working jointly with Worcester Students’ Union, to social responsibility and sustainability.
We have been reaccredited four times, every two years, each time increasing our scores.
Our next review will take place in the July 2026.
The University of Worcester has been accredited with Fairtrade status since 2008 and is reaccredited until June 2027.
Read more about Fairtrade.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/how-to-get-involved:
There are a range of opportunities for students:
Contact K.boom@worc.ac.uk at any time in the academic year if you want to take part or have a project idea which needs funding.
Our door and minds are always open to discuss innovative ideas.
Funding is awarded twice a year November and February.
Complete this form to apply .
Further information can be located on the Introduction to Sustainability at the University of Worcester presentation .
Student funded projects include:
Students who want to help deliver this programme please get in touch with k.boom@worc.ac.uk where full training and support will be given.
More targets and actions can be found on our Community Involvement web page .
Student, staff and our communities’ experiences of sustainability at a university is a significant opportunity to support a cultural shift that we need for social and climate justice and to help us achieve our net zero targets by 2030.
To help us measure, track and continually progress this vital aspect of the university we report on how well we are doing by using a variety of methods.
See our Education and Learning page for more information and hear about student research projects.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/how-to-get-involved/green-impact:
Green Impact brings the university community- student volunteers, research programmes, and external organisations to empower individuals and departments to reduce their sustainability impacts by encouraging, rewarding, and celebrating sustainability improvements.
Green Impact is a change and engagement programme that aims to help people to understand sustainability and social responsibility and give them ideas of what they can do to make a difference, as well as supporting them in achieving these actions.
Students help to co-create and run projects throughout the year.
Please see our Green Impact report for 2024-2025.
Please see our Green Impact Report 2023-2024.
Please see our Green Impact Report for 2022-2023 .
Spread awareness on how anyone can make small changes to their lifestyle to become more sustainable so that together, we can combat the climate crisis.
Create a safe learning space for everyone and reiterate it’s not about being perfect but making conscious choices.
This project team created a nature walk around the Lakeside campus, promoting environmental well-being and mindfulness.
This trail has reached an estimated 14,500 people.
All Green Impact team members and student auditors receive a digital badge to showcase their personal and professional development.
​ ​All award-winning Green Impact teams also received a house plant.​
SOS-UK and the University of Worcester offer an exciting opportunity, open to all students, to receive IEMA-approved training on sustainability auditing and then put those newfound skills into practice by conducting Green Impact audits of university departments/ sustainability projects.
The training supports students in developing and practising transferable employability skills, including communication, teamwork, decision-making, time management, and organisation.
Students also better understand sustainability in the workplace and what the University of Worcester is doing to be more sustainable.
Here’s what participants of Green Impact have told us this year:
"Having this training and certification will look very good on my CV, as I am applying for auditing/consultancy jobs and showing I have experience with it will be very helpful.”
Max Browning Green Impact team auditor
“Being a GIPA is an amazing experience that not only has allowed me to help and learn about sustainability on campus but also engage more with the community.”
Elisha Parkes Green Impact Project Assistant
“I gained experience in general auditing skills, evaluation, and talking to strangers— soft skills which are important to a work environment.”
Julia Radtke Green Impact team auditor
Since Green Impact launched at the University of Worcester, in 2011, we’ve seen 181 team awards presented for over 2,300 positive sustainability actions and 86 projects, led by more than 365 people directly involved in Green Impact teams.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/how-to-get-involved/go-green-week.aspx:
Go Green Weeks are organised by the University to encourage people to adopt 10 simple ways of living more sustainably .
Go Green Weeks are held the second week of February every year.
Go Green Week offers students the opportunity to organise a range of fun and engaging activities to raise awareness of sustainable living and takes place in the second week of February.
Go Green Week brings together a range of fun activities to transform campus life for one week in February and is designed and delivered by the first-year environmental management and sustainability and geography students, but anyone can join in and help.
It’s the perfect opportunity to learn event organisation skills first-hand.
Read more about Go Green Week and see all the online and in-person activities available in Go Green Week 2025 .
Thank you to all our numerous community partners.
To get involved with Go Green Week please contact Katy Boom .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/how-to-get-involved/university-allotment.aspx:
The University has its very own allotment, where you can get involved and learn about planting different seeds, weeding, transplanting, find out how to make the best compost, dig beds, as well as gain additional knowledge about different plants, beetles and the eco system.
Our busiest season is spring, though we are always looking for people to come along and help us out.
Working in the Allotment provides a great distraction from your glaring PC screen and you can enjoy some nice fresh air, while being active at the same time.
So if you would like to grow your very own, completely free (the university provides all the seeds as well as the equipment) organic, healthy food with no carbon footprint, then get involved!
For further information about the allotment please email Katy Boom on k.boom@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/how-to-get-involved/campus-conservation-crew.aspx:
Love nature?
Want to help wildlife and spend more time outdoors?
The Campus Conservation Crew is for you!
This friendly group is open to students, staff and local residents, and it's all about getting hands-on with nature, learning new skills, and doing something positive for the environment.
From planting wildflowers and building insect hotels, to spotting birds and running wildlife surveys - there's loads to get involved with.
The Crew runs seasonal activities throughout the year, reflecting what's happening in nature.
Some events are led by university staff, others by expert guests from conservation organisations - but all are relaxed, beginner-friendly and a great way to meet like-minded people.
Whether you're after fresh air and headspace, want to learn more about conservation, or just fancy doing something different with your time, you're welcome to join us.
Check out our upcoming events and sign up here: https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/cc/campus-conservation-crew-4155143

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/how-to-get-involved/green-campus-revolution.aspx:
‘Welcome to the University of Worcester Student Switch Off campaign – live sustainably and win prizes!’
SOS-UK provides advice to help you live sustainably , with regular competitions , free training and online resources .
As well as taking personal action to reduce your carbon footprint, you will also be helping your residence win the overall Green Campus Revolution competition, with the most sustainable residence getting a prize at the end of the year!
The overall winners will be based on energy-saving and competition engagement.
There is further information on what our students have achieved this year in the Worcester Green Campus Revolution Campaign Report 2024-25 .
If you’re living in halls, you're automatically signed up, so all you need to do is start saving energy!
SOS-UK are running free online training in October, November and February.
Register now to guarantee your place, learn how to raise awareness of sustainability, and gain valuable green employability skills and experience.
The latest competitions and details are on the Green Campus Revolution Website.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/discover-our-research/human-health-and-wellbeing.aspx:
With an ageing population and increasing numbers of people living with long-term conditions, traditional health and social care models in the UK are facing increasing pressure.
This has provided opportunities to innovate and develop new ways of working across the lifespan.
Individuals are being afforded more control over their own health, and demand for personalised, often digitally enhanced, care is increasing.
Initiatives to reduce health inequalities are essential to help people live well for longer, regardless of their age, location, or diagnosis.
Action to reduce rates of smoking, obesity, alcohol use, air pollution and antimicrobial resistance is vital.
There will be further attention placed on care quality and outcomes, including services for children and young people, as well as better care for those living with major health conditions such as adult mental ill-health, dementia, cancer, cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, diabetes, and strokes.
Trauma is a major contributor to mental and physical illness in both the general ageing population as well as among the health and social care workforce.
As such, action is required to better understand these pathways so preventative approaches can be developed, and to ensure our health and social care workforce are equipped with the skills and support needed to meet these increasing demands.
Research has a key role to play in meeting the health and social care challenges of the 21st century.
Collaboration is key, bringing together academics, clinicians, patients, and the general public, to design, conduct and disseminate research with the potential to make a difference.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/discover-our-research/sustainable-futures.aspx:
In the global drive to reverse our impact on the environment, Research and Knowledge Exchange can offer solutions to some seemingly intractable problems and aid organisational and public understanding.
Sustainability is a major issue in agricultural production.
How do we ensure food security in developing countries whilst protecting the environment?
How do we limit the use of pesticides in crop protection without impacting profitability?
This challenge extends beyond food systems into broader issues of sustainability and resilience within organisations and across the general population.
How do we understand, limit and reverse the impact of climate change on the environment?
How do we develop sustainable businesses and business processes to drive forward environmentally conscious policies whilst enabling business growth and maintaining profitability?
How do we increase public understanding of climate change?
Meeting these challenges requires basic research, examining, for example, the genetics and molecular biology of plant-pathogen interactions.
It requires applied Research and Knowledge Exchange that engages directly with farmers and leads to the development of on-the-ground strategies for conservation management.
It also requires multi- and cross-disciplinary approaches that bring together plant scientists, ecologists, atmospheric scientists, geographers, psychologists, sociologists, business and management researchers and educators to address the overarching challenge of securing our own and the planet’s future.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/discover-our-research/digital-innovation.aspx:
This includes solutions in the spheres of health and well-being, business growth and development, criminal justice, and education.
Digital technologies are also key to the continuing successes of the creative and media industries in the UK.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) technology, through harnessing big data sets, may offer opportunities for earlier detection of health conditions.
Digital initiatives can provide new ways to connect people with health and social care professionals.
Assistive technologies and devices can enable people to live independent and dignified lives, reducing their need for long-term care.
Technology can shape the future of production across all sectors, whilst AI offers a range of solutions to enable businesses to prioritise strategic work.
Technology can be harnessed to monitor those at risk of offending, or victimisation, and can play a key role in public protection and supporting desistance from crime.
AI further offers a range of solutions to enable businesses to prioritise strategic work.
Technology can also provide new ways to share and develop knowledge both through traditional and new contexts for education.
Research and Knowledge Exchange can enable the development of new technologies and find the best ways for new and old technologies to be tested, developed, and implemented in a wide variety of settings whilst working closely with businesses that might have created or co-created the tech, and with the end users of this technology.
Such technologies, however, also bring with them significant ethical issues and moral dilemmas.
Researchers will be key in identifying and addressing such issues both in the development and use of technology.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/discover-our-research/culture-identity-and-social-exclusion.aspx:
This shifting is a product of specific geo-political events (such as Brexit), fundamental cultural shifts, global conflict, and the development of technologies and new media which challenge notions of self.
The importance of knowledge of the past, of our heritage, in understanding our identity cannot be underestimated.
However, equally important is finding ways to shape the culture of the future: how do we reflect, express, and safeguard our identities in our ever-changing world?
Yet, there remains a fundamental lack of diversity in many walks of life, nationally and globally, as old and new identities remain marginalised.
The challenge to increase diversity is significant and requires a thorough understanding of the intrinsic problems and the development of inclusive practices that can begin to address them.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/discover-our-research/professional-education.aspx:
Nationally, we are facing shortages in key professions – most notably doctors, nurses and other professions allied to health – but also by rapid attrition in other areas such as teaching and social work, where people who have spent years qualifying for these jobs quickly leave the profession, unhappy and disillusioned.
In other areas, such as business and management and sports coaching, there are calls to increase knowledge and understanding of workplace issues, such as sustainability and social exclusion.
Research and Knowledge Exchange can inform curriculum development for these key professions, attracting more students and creating work-ready graduates who understand the challenges of their chosen profession and are ready to meet them.
Research and Knowledge Exchange can also support the continued development of these professionals and shine a light on the challenges they face in their roles, offering solutions that limit attrition.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/discover-our-research/research-in-focus.aspx:
Please visit the links below to view the project specific websites for a number of our researchers.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/discover-our-research/latest-publications.aspx:
You can find out more about publications and other outputs produced by staff and research students at Worcester by visiting our publications repository, Worcester Research & Publications (WRaP) .
News on the latest uploads to our repository can also be found on WRaP.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/discover-our-research/research-news.aspx:
For our latest publications visit Worcester Research & Publications ( WRaP ) an online catalogue of outputs from research and scholarship produced by staff and students at the University.
At the start of 2024, colleagues from the Doctoral School launched a ‘live brief’ with University of Worcester second year BA (Hons) Graphic Design students to create infographics that show key elements of research carried out by University of Worcester researchers.
The infographic posters that best communicated the work of the researchers were displayed in the Hive.
All the students’ posters are accessible to view below:
Friday, 04 July 2025
Worcester Business Improvement District (BID) has launched a new partnership with the University of Worcester Business School to support local businesses in their journey toward Net Zero.
Thursday, 26 June 2025
A University of Worcester academic has helped bring to the stage the world premiere of a Ukrainian play based on Shakespeare’s Othello, that explores aspects of the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war.
Friday, 06 June 2025
A University of Worcester academic has played a key role in new sustainability-themed walking routes around Worcestershire that incorporate transport by train.
Two writing experts will be sharing their insights on how to turn historical facts into fiction at a special event this week.
Friday, 07 February 2025
City residents have jumped at the chance to hear more about one of the County’s most significant artefacts, Shakespeare's Marriage Bond.
Monday, 25 November 2024
Researchers at the University of Worcester are launching a survey to uncover the experiences of harassment and abuse of runners in the County.
Friday, 08 November 2024
Soil washed away on farmland by rainfall can have dire consequences for farmers and for the environment.
Thursday, 07 November 2024
A senior psychologist at the University of Worcester is leading a new national research project aiming to improve support for UK Armed Forces families.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/applying-for-a-phd:
Our PhD programmes aim to equip students with the skills to design, research and write a PhD to the standard expected by the University of Worcester.
A PhD normally requires 3 years of full-time or 5 years of part-time study.
Your work must make an original contribution to knowledge in your field of study.
You will be expected to show evidence of systematic study; and of independent, critical and original thinking; while your thesis should be worthy of publication in whole or part.
Please start your search by reviewing our supervisor led self-funded PhD opportunities.
These can be found here .
These are PhD project ideas that have been put forward by members of our research groups, units and centre, and reflect areas of doctoral study that academic staff within these groups are interested to supervise.
If you are interested in any of the self-funded PhD opportunities, please email the supervisors listed with any questions or your Research Overview (see below).
If you cannot find a project that you’d like to apply for amongst these opportunities, you can apply with a proposal that you have developed yourself.
To do this, please use the MPhil and PhD course pages which can be found here and select ‘Research Areas’ to find potential supervisors or use the search bar on the University of Worcester home page.
Your Research Overview is a short summary of your proposed PhD project.
All applicants must submit a Research Overview.
If you are applying for a supervisor led self-funded PhD opportunity, please use the Research Overview to summarise how you would approach this research project, based on your understanding of the information provided in the proposal, as published.
If there is no research proposal, or if you are coming with your own research ideas, please use the overview to summarise these.
The Research Overview should be no longer than 500 words and utilise the following headers:
Once you have prepared your Research Overview, please email this to the potential supervisors, copying in research@worc.ac.uk.
The potential supervisor(s) will give you feedback on the Research Overview.
If you are coming with your own project idea, this feedback will either support you to go forward to develop a research proposal, or not.
If you are applying for one of the supervisor led self-funded PhD opportunities advertised, this feedback will either support you to go forward and submit an on-line application form, or not.
If you are applying for one of the supervisor led self-funded PhD opportunities, then a research proposal may already exist for this project.
In this case, if you have shared the Research Overview with the supervisor(s) and they have asked you to go forward and apply, you do not need to develop your own research proposal.
You can now go on to complete the online application form without an accompanying research proposal attached (see ‘Submitting your Application’ below).
For applicants coming with their own project idea, or a supervisor led self-funded PhD opportunity without a proposal, and if feedback from one or more potential supervisors about your Research Overview supports you to go forward to develop a research proposal , you will now be in a position to develop this which you will submit alongside your on-line application form.
For applications coming with their own project idea, applications will only be considered when accompanied by a Research Proposal.
Please use the Research Proposal template.
Before you submit your application on the on-line application portal please do the following:
Supporting Documents All students
International students only
Please note, once an offer is made to an international applicant, the offer will be dependent on receipt of a tuition fee deposit.
All of our MPhil and PhD Programme pages have a tab called ‘How to Apply’.
Please click on the relevant application link in the light blue box, depending on whether you are applying for an MPhil or a PhD, the mode of study and when you want to start your programme.
This will then take you to the online application form which you must complete and attach the supporting documents.
If your application and research proposal ( if required ) meet our entry requirements then you will be invited to interview.
Typically, the interview is online and takes no longer than 1 hour.
Your potential supervisors will be the interview panel and one of the Doctoral Programme Leaders will act as the Chair.
In the first part of the interview, you will be asked to give a 10-minute presentation where you will be asked to present your research ideas to a non-specialist audience, including the key contributions you expect to make to new knowledge, followed by 10-minutes for questions on this.
We use the main part of the interview to discuss your skills, experiences and competencies important to programme you are applying to using questions based on the EDEPI Postgraduate Researcher Competency-Based Admissions Framework.
These questions focus on some of the skills, experiences and competencies important for successful postgraduate research study ( comprehension and evaluation, socio-emotional and delivering results ).
You can read more about the EDEPI Framework using this link.
The Doctoral School aims to inform applicants of the outcome no later than one week after the interview has taken place.
We have two entry points throughout the year; these can be found on the course pages but are usually September and January each academic year.
We encourage applicants to apply as early as possible to allow time for your application to be processed.
Our application and interview deadlines for September 2025 applications are as follows:
Application deadline S1 25/26 (all)
27th June 2025
Interview deadline International
11th July 2025
Interview deadline Home/EU
1st August 2025
Research Student Induction
15th September 2025
Teaching starts PG Cert Research methods
w/c 22nd September 2025
Our application and interview deadlines for January 2026 applications are as follows:
Application deadline for S2 25/26 International
18th October 2025
Application deadline for S2 25/26 Home / EU
4th December 2025
3rd November 2025
Interview deadline Home / EU
19th December 2026
Induction
19th January 2026
w/c 26th January 2026
Applications received after this date will automatically be considered for the following intake.
Please contact research@worc.ac.uk if you have any questions.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/applying-for-a-phd/entry-qualifications-for-mphil-and-phd.aspx:
The normal requirements to enable an applicant to be considered for admission onto a University higher degree programme of study are as follows:
An applicant holding qualifications other than those specified above shall be considered on their merits.
Evidence of ability and background knowledge must be provided regarding the proposed topic and research degree.
Any applicants whose first language is not English or who have not been educated wholly or mainly in the medium of English must reach a minimum IELTS score of 6.5 with a score of no less than 6.0 in any component (or equivalent in an approved test in English) or otherwise demonstrate that they have an adequate command of both written and spoken English before starting a programme.
If an applicant does not meet this standard they may be required to attend a pre-sessional English course or any other requirement laid down by the University.
Entry qualifications for international students are guided by the National Academic Recognition Information Centre’s (NARIC) advice on international qualifications.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/phd-opportunities:
PhD Studentships We offer a number of funded research studentships each year, these are usually three-year, full-time doctoral research studentships.
All studentships are advertised in the national press and are available on a competitive basis.
As we receive a high volume of applications for our funded PhD studentships we will only contact candidates that we shortlist for interview
PhD Projects Many of our self-funded doctoral students come to Worcester with their own project ideas ( Applying for a PhD / Applying for an MPhil ).
However, our Research Groups and Centres have put together some ideas for potential PhD projects that that would be interested to supervise around their particular areas of expertise.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/phd-opportunities/phd-studentships.aspx:
We offer a number of funded research studentships each year, these are usually three-year, full-time doctoral research studentships.
As we receive a high volume of applications for our funded PhD studentships we will only contact candidates that we shortlist for interview.
There are no PhD studentships open for applications at this time.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/phd-opportunities/phd-projects.aspx:
Many of our self-funded doctoral students come to Worcester with their own project ideas.
However, our Research Groups and Centres have put together some ideas for potential PhD projects that they would be interested to supervise around their particular areas of expertise.
If you are interested in one of these projects, please contact the lead supervisor to have a chat about your interests and the project idea.
If you then wish to the apply for this particular project, please go to our Course Search and select the relevant research degree programme area.
An application link can then be found towards the bottom of each programme page.
In your application, please remember to clearly highlight that you are applying for one of our un-funded MPhil / PhD project ideas so we can be sure to remove this from the website, should your application be successful.
Addressing the Psycho-Emotional Impact of Climate Anxiety on Children and Young People through Illustration
Arts-led Approaches to Trauma and Healing
Reframing Critical and Socially Engaged Arts Practices from a Creative Health / Health Humanities Perspective Therapeutic Landscapes: Creative Placemaking, Folklore and Wellbeing
Adoption of Proprietary Home and Community Automation Technologies in Support of Ageing-in-Place .
Exploring the Challenges to Dementia Diagnosis in Rural Areas.
Intergenerational Programmes in Community-Based Support Initiatives for People Living with Dementia – Understanding the Impacts and Outcomes .
Measuring the Effectiveness and Cost-Effectiveness of Meeting Centres .
Pain Management for People Living with Dementia in Extra Care Housing.
What Role can Leisure Play in Enabling People to Sustain their Chosen Lifestyle Post Diagnosis with Dementia?
Working with Farming Families to Build Resilience when Living with Dementia .
Bridging the Gap: Investigating the Professional Landscape of Applied Performance Analysts in Sports Performance Analysis .
Sport Coaching, Positive Youth Development and Vulnerable Young People .
Detecting Hostile Behaviour Through Real-time Voice Analysis .
Determining and Understanding Digital Exclusion .
Determining Cyber Attacks by Using Machine Learning to Detect Message Anomalies .
Disabled People as Foster Carers – Equality of Opportunity?
Foster Care in Gypsy, Roma and Traveller Communities: An Anglo-Irish Comparative Study .
The Impact of Maternity Unit Culture on Student Midwives’ Learning Experience .
The Role of Student Social Capital in Opportunity Gaps and Awarding Gaps in Healthcare Education .
What are the Perceptions and Experiences of Participants Involved in Tripartite Progress Reviews in Healthcare Apprenticeships?
An Exploration of Responders and Non-Responders to New Zealand Blackcurrant Intake on Metabolic and Cardiovascular Responses .
Analysis of the Effective Development of Women’s Football Players (Goalkeepers or Outfield Players) Using LTAD as a Framework .
Basketball Footwear; Is it a Case of Style Over Substance .
Effect of New Zealand Blackcurrant on Cardiovascular Responses To Prolonged Inactivity and Exercise .
Identification or Risk Factors and Preventative Strategies for Knee Injuries in Females .
Musculoskeletal Health in the Workplace: Prevention and Intervention .
Heat Mitigation and Management for Females .
Application of Universal Design for Learning (UDL) and Artificial Intelligence (AI) in Post Compulsory Education .
Exploring the Application of Universal Design in Social, Digital, and Architectural Learning Spaces .
Men’s Lives: The Consequences of Living with High Levels of Drive for Muscularity .
Nationalism, Populist Politics and Sport Migrations: Heroes or Villains?
Pro-Environmental Behaviour and Life History Theory
Responsible virtual assistant for effective marketing communication
Training emotional competency in the workplace: Does ‘one size’ really ‘fit all’?
Clinical Significance and Diagnostic Accuracy of Special Tests in Rotator Cuff Related Shoulder Pain .
Investigating the Impact of Different Flooring Surfaces on EMG Muscle Activation of the Knee and Hip Muscles During Squatting and Stair Descending in Patients with Patellofemoral Pain .
A Longitudinal Investigation of Symptom Burden in Patients with Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) [The CKD-INSIGHT study] .
Living with Allergy During the Transition to Secondary School .
Routine Monitoring of Depression and Anxiety in Patients with Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) .
The Impact of Extended Waiting Times for Treatment and Investigation in People with Long-Term Conditions .
Bidirectional Mobile sRNA Signalling in Pea-Downy Mildew Interactions .
Developing Synthetic Microbial Communities for the Control of Pea Downy Mildew .
Examining Adaptations in Case Study Development to Enhance Participant Centred Learning in Management Education .
Home Automation and Dementia Care .
A Good Teacher Listens: Why Knowing Your Students and Teaching Your Students Go Hand in Hand .
What Drives Social Pedagogy?
Exploring the Pupil-Teacher Relationship in Policy, Popular Discourse and Teacher Conceptualisations .
School Leaders' Decision-Making in Complex Organisations .
Building Social-Ecological Resilience to Human-Wildlife Conflict in Western Ethiopia .
Using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) for Mapping Hydromorphology and Hydraulic Habitat .
The BCAT1 CXXC Motif and Oncogenesis in Acute Myeloid Leukaemia.
The INDICO-II Study – Effects of Body Composition and Dietary Improvement on Cell Membrane Dynamics and their Relationship with the Development of Type II Diabetes .
Prognostic Markers in Bladder Cancer.
The Potential of Artificial Intelligence to Predict Heart Disease: Exploring AI to Link Electrocardiographic and Metabolic Biomarkers in Individuals at Risk of Heart Disease .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/applying-for-an-mphil.aspx:
An MPhil normally requires 2 years of full-time or 4 years of part-time study.
Your MPhil should demonstrate your ability to undertake an appropriate research programme and to produce a critical analysis of existing knowledge in your field of study.
The Application Process
All applicants wishing to study towards an MPhil with no intention to progress to PhD will need to apply with a proposal that you have developed yourself.
If you are applying for one of the PhD opportunities advertised, this feedback will either support you to go forward and submit an on-line application form, or not.
If feedback from one or more potential supervisors about your Research Overview supports you to go forward to develop a research proposal , you will now be in a position to develop this which you will submit alongside your on-line application form.
Applications for an MPhil will only be considered when accompanied by a Research Proposal.
Supporting Documents
All students
If your application and research proposal meet our entry requirements then you will be invited to interview.
These questions focus on some of the skills, experiences and competencies important for successful postgraduate research study (comprehension and evaluation, socio-emotional and delivering results).
Read more about the EDEPI Framework .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/applying-for-masters-by-research:
It differs from a taught MA or MSc course by placing particular emphasis on a large research thesis and fewer taught modules.
To apply for an MRes, please select the link below.
This will take you to the courses we currently run.
An application link can be found towards the bottom of each course page.
We have one entry point in the year for the MRes programme, this is usually in September.
Interview deadline – International Applicants
Interview deadline – Home and EU Applicants
1 st August 2025
Teaching starts PG Cert Research Methods

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/applying-for-masters-by-research/entry-qualifications-for-mres.aspx:
Applicants are normally expected to hold a First or Second Class Honours Degree or equivalent award in an appropriate discipline or have appropriate research or professional experience which has resulted in appropriate evidence of achievement.
Evidence of ability and background knowledge must be provided in relation to the proposed topic and research degree.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/funding-your-research-degree.aspx:
Eligible students (PG taught, MRes and MPhil) can apply for a postgraduate loan to contribute to the overall costs of their study.
Eligible students can apply for a doctoral loan to contribute to the overall costs of their study.
The Research Student Conference Support Scheme seeks to support self-funding research students to disseminate their doctoral research at a conference when they have significant findings to present.
Depending on your academic achievement, international doctoral students are automatically awarded a scholarship on full-time programmes.
For more information: Fees, Scho larships and Loans

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/doctoral-graduate-stories.aspx:
Read about a selection of our former Research Degree students.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/visiting-phd-students.aspx:
Visiting PhD students will be able to spend up to a maximum of 12 months with us taking advantage of our excellent academic and library facilities, as well as receiving supervision from our experienced members of staff.
You must first identify a potential supervisor who is willing to host your visit.
Please make contact with the supervisor by email to discuss the research you would like to do as a visiting student at Worcester.
You can use the University website to search for ‘Academic Schools’.
This will then give you the full list of our Schools along with staff profiles and their research areas.
When you have found a suitable supervisor, please click on the following link to apply: Visiting PhD Students Application Form
In the personal statement section of the application form, please include:
Upon receiving your application, we will confirm receipt and will then forward your paperwork to the relevant admissions tutor and supervisor who will assess your application carefully.
We will contact you with any questions which we may have and may ask you for an interview, which will be conducted by Microsoft Teams.
If we agree in principle to support your application, we will issue you with a conditional offer letter which will allow you to apply for funding.
If you receive funding, then we will make you an unconditional offer.
Before an unconditional offer can be made, all applicants will be asked to provide a series of supporting documents as follows:
We strongly advise you to plan your visit either by the beginning of September/October or January/February to coincide with the beginning of our academic semesters.
However, we can be flexible with the starting time if you have specific needs.
Please note that the University does not guarantee accommodation for International Visiting PhD Students, and you may need to make your own arrangements for accommodation for your time in the UK.
For information about current fees please contact research@worc.ac.uk .
If you are visiting for up to 6 months and wish to apply for a Student Visa or you are visiting for over 6 months up to 12 months and will require a Student Visa, you must meet the minimum English Language requirement of 6.5 with a minimum score of 6 in every component, prior to your visit.
We will send you information about how to apply for a CAS for your visa, once your offer is unconditional and, where applicable, ATAS clearance has been obtained.
If you do not require a visa to study in the UK OR you are visiting for up to 6 months and will require a standard Visitor Visa, English competency is assessed on a case-by-case basis based on the information that you supply in your application.
If it is determined that you are required to demonstrate your level of English proficiency, you must meet the minimum English Language requirement of 6.5 with a minimum score of 6 in every component, prior to your visit.
For more information about visas please visit out Visas and Immigration page.
If you have any further questions, please do not hesitate to contact us for further information on research@worc.ac.uk .
Visiting Ph.D.
student at the Association for Dementia Studies, University of Worcester
In Denmark, post-grad students are encouraged to go abroad as part of their study.
The purpose is to gain knowledge that is not accessible in Denmark, broaden the student’s professional network and learn about post-grad educations in other countries.
In relation to my research, it was an obvious choice to contact Professor Dawn Brooker and ask if it was possible to stay at the Association for Dementia Studies for 3 month.
The reply was swift and welcoming, and right from the first contact Dawn made sure I was introduced to relevant people in her organization to ease my preparation and travel to Worcester.
The enrolment as a visiting Ph.D.
student and introduction to the team was well prepared, so right from the beginning I felt at home.
In terms of timing, my visit started in September, so there was a lot of team meetings that I was invited to participate in.
That gave an incredible insight into how they work, and what knowledge to access during my stay.
It is therefore advisable to have a dialogue with the university early on in terms of optimal timing of your visit.
During the stay it will probably be possible to get involved in some project and it advisable as much as your own Ph.D.
plan allows.
Also, do not hold back on sharing your view and knowledge with your colleagues.
Remember as much as you learn for visiting them - they also benefit from having fresh thoughts brought into their work life.
In terms of living in Worcester the university was helpful in arranging for me to stay in Barrington House.
There you’ll have the opportunity to meet other post-grad students visiting Worcester and socialize with them.
This gives some interesting insight into other research fields, which always helps to develop your knowledge about science.
Worcester in itself is a beautiful English city with a good array of shopping and restaurants available.
The travel to Worcester is easy with train from Birmingham International Airport and only 3 hours from London if you will take the opportunity to visit other parts of the country whilst here.
It is with no doubt in my mind that I encourage others to visit University of Worcester.
While you are here, remember to think of yourself more as a colleague then a guest, and you will gain friends for life.
I am a PhD student from the University of Padua, Italy.
My field of research concerns the assessment of mood disorders.
My university gave me this fantastic opportunity to spend a period of study abroad.
It took me a while to choose the right place for my adventure as I wanted to make sure I made the right decision.
Working and studying abroad is not always how you would imagine it: expectations could not be met, the experience could be disappointing and, most of the time, staying away from home can be very difficult, especially if you are not satisfied with the work you are doing.
I chose the University of Worcester, and in particular Professor Lisa Jones (Prof of Psychological Medicine), because her research group’s work on mood disorders seemed the most interesting and complete in the various fields of research on bipolar disorder.
There was another reason that convinced me to choose Lisa: it was her friendliness and her commitment demonstrated by the emails we exchanged before my arrival.
I was very excited but scared at the same time when I arrived in Worcester as I did not know what to expect from this experience.
I would, therefore, like to thank the organization of the University of Worcester for the warm welcome (a lovely student helped me to settle in my accommodation and in the campus on my first day).
The beautiful surroundings contributed to changing my mood during those stressful days.
I refer to this green campus I’m staying in: the trees, the grass, the animals and the smell of nature everywhere!
I was able to book excellent accommodation in Barrington House (owned by the University of Worcester).
I would like to thank my flatmates of Barrington House, especially Anders Moeller Jensen (another visiting PhD student, from Denmark) for becoming a friend to whom I could confide and have fun with every day!
The most important thanks goes to the Mood Disorders Research Group for making me feel like home since the first day and for being lovely people outside of work, for trusting me and making me feel like a good fit in the team.
I am grateful to be investigating agitated depression in a big sample of bipolar disorder, and mood disorders in relation to menopause.
Thanks to Prof Lisa Jones for being such a strong and capable guide for me in the work as well in the life; Dr Kath Gordon-Smith for her unique and daily patience and sweetness; Amy Perry and Sarah Knott for their smile and friendship; Lizzie Ludlow for her kindness.
I have already been here for three months, and I can certainly say that I could have not made a better choice.
I find myself surrounded by competent and esteemed people in the research as well as humble and sensitive at appreciating and listening to my ideas.
I believe this experience is really important to my professional and personal growth, and I think I still have much to learn from the Worcester group of mood disorders researchers.
The city of Worcester is small and friendly.
There is much green space, and the river and bridges are beautiful.
There are good shops, good English pubs and I even found a good Italian restaurant.
There are many differences to Italian cities, especially all the different sports.
This is my experience in Worcester, newer and richer every day, and it will continue until February!
I just wanted to give an advice to anyone who might take the same path: choose the right place and go for it with a confident attitude.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/research-school.aspx:
The University of Worcester’s Doctoral School is the focal point for all our research degree students.
Head - Doctoral School
Research and Knowledge Exchange Facilitator: People and Culture
Lecturer in Researcher Development
Research Degree Programme Officer
Research Degree Programme Officer and Associate Lecturer in Sociology
If you wish to learn more about the Doctoral School please email research@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/postgraduate-research-conference.aspx:
An opportunity to IGNITE your research creativity and ingenuity, CONNECT with fellow researchers and ENGAGE in meaningful research discussions.
We look forward to welcoming Research students to present at our FREE two-day event held, in person, at the City Campus of the University of Worcester.
Under the theme of ICE – IGNITE.CONNECT.ENGAGE - the conference aims to bring together postgraduate researchers from all disciplines, stages of research, and backgrounds.
This is a great opportunity for all postgraduate research students to present and discuss your research in front of a supportive audience and to develop and enhance your skills in sharing your work.
We invite postgraduate research students from all disciplines to submit an abstract for a range of presentation formats.
"Attending the PGR Conference not only offered an opportunity to disseminate my research but it also gave me space to connect with other PGR students at Worcester and further afield.
We all shared research experiences which were both validating and supportive.
I’ve come away feeling motivated and energised for the next stage of my research."
PGR Conference 2024 Attendee and Presenter
Pro Vice Chancellor Research Prof John-Paul Wilson: “A Short History of Doctoral Education in the UK”
This presentation will explore the origins of doctoral education in the UK in the early 20 th century and track its subsequent development, drawing on my own experiences of undertaking a PhD in the early 1990s and of 30 years thereafter of being a “doctoral educator”.
In tracing this history, I will explore what has changed for doctoral students and what has fundamentally remained the same, highlighting the eternal challenges of successfully completing a doctorate.
Prof.
John-Paul Wilson completed his PhD on the socio-economic history of the Greek world c.800-500 BCE in the Department of History at UCL in 1994.
Subsequently he held a British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship from 1996-1999 and a one-year research fellowship on the AHRC-funded Celtic Inscribed Stones project (1999-2000) both also at UCL.
During his PhD and postdoctoral employment, he taught at UCL, KCL, St Mary’s University and Cardiff University.
In 2000, he took up a Lecturer post in the Department of Classics at University of Wales, Lampeter, becoming Head of Department in 2004.
He moved to Worcester in 2007 to take up a management role in the Doctoral School and has subsequently held a series of research leadership and management roles, focused on doctoral education, researcher development, research governance and research strategy, culminating in being appointed Pro Vice Chancellor Research in 2023.
Conference registration is now open!
Friday 11th April 2025
Friday 16th May 2025
Monday 23rd–Tuesday 24th June 2025
Monday 23rd June 2025
For mid to late stage PGRs: Presentations should be 15 minutes with up to 15 minutes for questions.
Abstracts should be a maximum of 200 words and should include: context/aims of the research, methodology/approach, findings, and implications (research/practice as applicable).
Presentations should not focus on an overview of your research project.
For early stage PGRs, an opportunity to share your thinking to date, or a work in progress.
If you are pre-data collection or at the design stage of your research and would like to present your work for early feedback, this could be the option for you.
Abstracts for Ignite Presentations should be a maximum of 200 words and include the context/aims of your project and a brief insight into the intended purposes of your presentation.
Each presenter will be given 5 minutes to present an aspect of their research, with 10 minutes for questions.
This is a free event but we ask all presenters and attending staff to book a place on the event.
Booking has now closed for this event, however if you still wish to attend / present and have not yet booked a place then please contact research@worc.ac.uk as soon as possible.
University of Worcester students - please upload your abstract on the link below:
abstract submission form
External students - please submit your abstract to research@worc.ac.uk .
Please submit your abstract in a PDF format.
This year we will be holding the conference at the university's City Campus in the heart of Worcester and close to Foregate Street railway station.
Details of the venue, including directions, maps and AccessAble guides, can be found on our City Campus page .
We are not able to offer university accommodation this year, however there are numerous options for accommodation in Worcester.
You may find the following list of hotels useful for finding accommodation, with many more in the City and surrounding area:
Diglis House Hotel
Premier Inn (Worcester City Centre)
Travel Lodge
Worcester Whitehouse
Ye Olde Talbot Hotel
Further information about Worcester is available at Visit Worcester .
Contact us
If you have any queries, please contact research@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/postgraduate-research-experience-survey.aspx:
What is the PRES?
The PRES is a national survey run by Advance HE designed to explore postgraduate research students’ (PGRs) experiences of their programme, and their professional development as a researcher.
The PRES is for any PGR student at the University of Worcester, including distance learning students.
The survey helps us to know what is working well, and areas where we can improve the student experience for our PGRs.
The survey asks questions about:
supervision
resources
research culture
community
progression
responsibilities
support
research skills
professional development
PRES 2023 Results
University of Worcester was one of 105 institutions taking part in the survey.
The PRES runs every other year.
The next survey period will be March - May 2025.
What happens to the results?
The results are used by the Doctoral School, academic schools, and institutionally to identify areas where we perform well, and where we can make improvements to the PGR experience.
The results are also benchmarked against the Higher Education Sector and Universities with a similar PGR population to Worcester.
Useful Links

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/research-degree-faqs.aspx:
Here are some frequently asked questions (FAQs) about our MRes and MPhil/PhD programmes.
Please note, however, that the University is unable to sponsor a student visa for part-time study.
We have two intakes each year in September and January.
The Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) requires your work to make an original contribution to knowledge in your field of study.
A PhD thesis is up to 80,000 words in length and is the culmination of 3 years full-time or 5 / 6 years part-time study.
The Master of Philosophy (MPhil) requires a shorter period of study than the PhD, approximately 2 years full-time or 4 years part-time and conclude with a thesis of up to 40,000 words.
The thesis should demonstrate your ability to undertake an appropriate research programme and to produce a critical analysis of existing knowledge in your field of study.
The need for originality in the MPhil is less than what is required for the PhD.
The Masters by Research (MRes) is an advanced postgraduate degree which can either be taken as a stand-alone qualification or as progression route into doctoral research.
Unlike the MPhil, it has a taught component (60 credits of research methods modules), followed by a 120 credit thesis.
The MRes also differs from a taught MA or MSc course by placing particular emphasis on the large research thesis and fewer taught modules.
Information on how to apply is listed in the ‘How to Apply’ section on each research degree programme page.
For MRes and MPhil/PhD study, applications are made through an online application form located on each research degree programme page.
We have two entry points throughout the year; these are always in late September (Semester 1) and late January / early February (Semester 2).
If you would like your application to be considered for a September start date, we encourage you to apply as early as possible but we ask that you apply no later than 1 month before your start date.
Applications for a January intake need to be received by the beginning of December.
In exceptional circumstances, we may be able to consider late applications, please contact research@worc.ac.uk .
International applicants are requested to apply no later than 3 months before their start date.
MRes: First or Second Class Honours Degree or equivalent award in an appropriate discipline or The applicant has appropriate research or professional experience which has resulted in appropriate evidence of achievement.
MPhil/PhD: A Postgraduate Masters Degree in a discipline which is appropriate to the proposed programme of study or First or Upper Second Class Honours Degree or equivalent award in an appropriate discipline or The applicant has appropriate research or professional experience at postgraduate level which has resulted in published work, written reports or other appropriate evidence of achievement.
As part of its mission statement the University is committed to widening participation for its higher degrees.
Although most candidates will have an undergraduate and/or a Masters degree, the University is happy to accept applications from candidates with relevant professional qualifications and work related experience.
The University of Worcester offer a number of fully-funded PhD studentships each year.
These include a fee waiver and tax-free bursary for 3 years and are linked to a particular project, subject or supervisor.
If you are studying for an MRes or MPhil, you can borrow up to £10,000.
Please visit Postgraduate loans to find out more.
If your intended award is a PhD then you can apply for a Doctoral loans .
You can also make use of the Alternative Guide to Postgraduate Funding .
Please contact the Doctoral School to obtain access.
Yes, we recommend that you discuss your proposed research project with a member of staff before applying.
Please go to the Research Areas of the relevant research degree programme page.
Alternatively, each research degree programme page lists the MPhil/PhD or MRes Course Leader for the appropriate academic School /  Institute who will be able to confirm the availability of appropriate supervision.
We have create some guidance notes to help you prepare your research outline.
Applications are initially processed by the Doctoral School and then passed to the Course Leader for the appropriate academic School / Institute who in conjunction with other academic staff, will carefully consider your application.
Candidates will be selected for interview based on the extent to which the following criteria are met:
Applicants residing outside of the UK can be interviewed via Microsoft Teams.
Prior to interview, candidates will be asked to submit a piece of written work.
All successful applicants are provided with an individual letter of acceptance and a contract which sets out the terms of the offer.
The terms of the contract are binding on the institution and, upon acceptance, on the student.
Students with special needs are referred to the University’s student support services.
All international students will also receive contact from the International Centre about becoming an international student at the University of Worcester.
Please note that the whole process may take several months.
We have a virtual open day that is accessible all year round.
Please go to https://www.worc.ac.uk/study/open-days/research-degree-open-day.aspx and register.
You can then access all the open day materials.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-excellence-framework-ref.aspx:
This assessment is designed:
The next Research Excellence Framework, REF2029 , will assess the period from 2021 to 2028 with outcomes published in 2029.
The University is currently preparing its submission for REF2029.
In the last assessment, REF2021, the University built on its achievements in REF2014 (which showed the University to be most improved in the UK on the measure of research power).
The University submitted 162 staff to 12 Units of Assessment, a 46% increase on staff submitted to REF2014.
The outcomes also showed an overall increase in the quality of our research with a 12% increase in our Grade Point Average and an increase in the proportion of world-leading and internationally excellent research from 33% to 42%.
There were particular successes in Allied Health, Nursing and Midwifery where almost a quarter of submitted outputs were deemed world-leading; in Psychology where nearly three quarters of outputs were identified as world-leading or internationally excellent; and in History where over 80% of the submission was recognised as world leading or internationally excellent.
The results also highlighted outstanding impacts in Art and Design and very significant impacts, for example, in community-based support for people living with dementia and for the development of measures to enhance cyber security for businesses.
For more details, see our full REF2021 results .
It was a requirement that each institution submitting to REF2021 developed a Code of Practice in consultation with academic.
This Code sets out the institutional approach to ensuring equality of opportunity in REF 2021 decision-making processes.
Our Code of Practice for Research Excellence Framework 2021 was approved by Research England.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-integrity-and-ethics.aspx:
It expects its researchers, staff and students, always to act with honesty and openness in all aspects of their research, to ensure that risk to participants, collaborators and themselves is minimal, and to have sensitivity to the cultures and environments in which they are operating.
Annual Research Integrity Reports
All research involving human participants, their tissue or data is subject to ethical review.
Our ethical review procedures, as well as our principles for ethical research, are set out in our Research Ethics Policy .
Researchers are expected to be fully conversant with this policy and of any relevant professional body guidance on ethics and research practice.
We provide our researchers with a variety of training opportunities relating to research integrity and ethics.
The University’s Research Integrity Champion is Dr John-Paul Wilson, Chair of the Research Integrity and Governance Committee.
He is the first point of contact for anyone wanting more information on matters of research integrity at the University.
He can be contacted as follows:
Dr John-Paul Wilson University of Worcester, Henwick Grove, Worcester, WR2 6AJ.
Tel: 01905 542611.
Email: j.wilson@worc.ac.uk .
The University takes very seriously any allegation of research misconduct made by its own staff or students or by anyone external to the University.
It has in place clear procedures for dealing with any such allegation set out in its procedures for dealing with allegations of research misconduct .
If you have a concern about any aspect of a research project you should ask to speak to the researcher(s) in the first instance who should do their best to address any questions.
If any concerns are not addressed through this route or if you feel this route is not appropriate, you should approach the named contact:
Professor Eleanor Bradley Director of RKE - Health and Science University of Worcester Henwick Grove Worcester WR2 6AJ Tel: 01905 542616.
Email: e.bradley@worc.ac.uk .
In their absence (or where there is a conflict of interest with the named contact), the alternate contact may be approached, contact details as follows:
Professor Lynn Nichol Director of RKE - Education, Culture and Society University of Worcester Henwick Grove Worcester WR2 6AJ Email: l.nichol@worc.ac.uk
Any initial contact may be made informally and will always be treated in complete confidence.
It may be that any issues can be addressed at this stage through informal discussion or by some form of arbitration rather than through a formal investigation.
If, however, you wish to make a formal complaint about research conduct, you should submit the complaint in writing accompanied by any supporting evidence to the contact.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/hr-excellence-in-research.aspx:
The University is fully committed to meeting the principles of the Concordat to support the Career Development of Researchers and thus to supporting its researchers at all stages of their careers.
This Concordat is an agreement between stakeholders to improve the employment and support for researchers and researcher careers in higher education in the UK.
It sets out three clear principles of environment and culture, employment, and professional and career development.
The principles are underpinned by obligations for the four key stakeholder groups, funders, institutions, researchers, and managers of researchers, to realise the aims of the concordat.
The secretariat responsibility for the concordat is held by Universities UK.
Further details and resources to support implementation can be found on the Research Development Concordat webpages .
The University’s commitment to the Concordat is reflected in two ways:
The University made its formal commitment to the Concordat on 7 th February 2023.
In so doing, the University has committed to: conduct a gap analysis; produce an action plan to identify the steps to meet the concordat’s obligations; publish an action plan publicly within a year of signing the concordat; and produce an annual report in each subsequent year to report on progress implementing their action plan.
Annual Report for the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
In June 2016, the University of Worcester was awarded the European Commission's HR Excellence in Research Award.
The award recognises our progress towards providing a high-quality research environment for research staff and postgraduate researchers at the University.
In order to gain the award, we engaged in an analysis of our practice against the principles set out in the Concordat to support the Career Development of Researchers and developed an action plan to address gaps that emerged in this analysis.
As part of the required review process for the Award, at the 2-year stage, the University completed a self-assessment of its original action plan (2016-18), wrote an overarching progress report, and produced a new action plan that built on and extended the initial one (2018-20):
The award was renewed in June 2018.
Subsequently, at the 4-year stage, the University was subject to external review of its 2018-20 action plan and a new action plan for 2021-23 based on an updated Researcher Development Concordat:
The award was renewed in April 2022.
The University has now completed the documentation for its 6-year review as follows:

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/academic-visitors:
Our Academic Visitor Scheme is open to members of staff from all overseas institutions who are currently employed by their home institution.
If you are interested in coming to the University of Worcester as an academic visitor, please read the information carefully to ensure that you meet the requirements.
As an academic visitor at the University of Worcester you will receive:
Unfortunately, we are unable to guarantee the provision of a personal office space, personal computer and telephone.
Who qualifies as an academic visitor?
An academic visitor must also provide evidence they have been working as an academic in an institution of higher education overseas, or in the field of their academic expertise immediately before applying for a place on our Academic Visitors Scheme.
You will not qualify for the Academic Visitor Scheme if you are:
Please note that Academic Visitors are not able to:
Academic visitors are responsible for applying and paying for all visas and other permissions required by the UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) for the express purpose of carrying out the proposed academic activity.
You can check if you need a UK visa using an online service available on the UKVI website.
Please note that the maximum period of stay on the Academic Visitor Scheme is 12 months.
If aiming to stay for longer you should contact us to discuss your circumstances.
In some countries it may be possible to apply for a visa online, but you should check with your own immigration authority or embassy for details of how to apply and their average processing times.
The link below provides some more details of the documents required to apply for a visa for your visit with us:
Academic Visitor Visa https://www.gov.uk/standard-visitor
To apply for a place on the Academic Visitor Scheme, please complete the online form Academic Visitors Application Form .
Your application will then be passed to the relevant School and Research Group within the University.
Upon receiving your application, we will assess your application carefully.
We will contact you with any questions which we may have.
We strongly advise you to plan your academic visit either by the beginning of September / October or January / February to coincide with the beginning of our academic semesters.
However, if you are doing joint research with a member of our staff, the starting times may be more flexible.
Please note that the University does not provide accommodation for Academic Visitors, and you will need to make your own arrangements for accommodation for your time in the UK.
If you have any further questions, please do not hesitate to contact us for further information, via academicvisitors@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/academic-visitors/academic-visitors-application-form.aspx:
We welcome applications to take part in our Academic Visitors Scheme from overseas institutions in the following categories: research, teaching practice/pedagogy or professional services.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-for-business-and-community:
We are always looking to work collaboratively with business and community in the production of research as we believe that our research should be informed and shaped by the people who will benefit from that research.
We work with businesses, public sector organisations, charities and community groups to provide research-driven solutions to their issues and problems, to test and evaluate their products, processes, policies or services, to develop new ways of working and to provide expert advice.
If you are interested in working with us or want to find out more about our research and expertise email us at Research Office: researchoffice@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-for-business-and-community/knowledge-transfer-partnerships.aspx:
For almost 50 years, Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) have been helping businesses and other organisations deliver innovation projects.
They do this by addressing a specific challenge through the transfer of knowledge, technology and expertise from an academic partner.
In practice, partnerships take the form of a three-way collaboration between:
There are different types of KTPs that address specific needs:
Organisations of any size and in any sector can apply for a KTP.
*Note that public sector organisations can only apply for a Management KTP.
If you have a strategic innovation idea but do not have all the in-house expertise needed to develop it, KTPs are proven to be an ideal solution:
From scoping and planning through to applying for funding and recruiting a talented graduate, the University of Worcester will support you at every stage.
Planning : Tell us about the challenges you are facing or your ideas to drive innovation so that our academic experts can help shape a KTP project around your desired outcomes, supported and guided by an Innovate UK Knowledge Transfer Adviser.
Funding : Work with us to apply for funding from Innovate UK, who will fund a substantial part of the costs.
For small and medium-sized enterprises the grant rate is 67% of the project cost, for large companies 50%, and for charity organisations the grant rate is 75% (the grant is awarded to the University to administer, therefore a KTP does not count as state aid and your business contribution towards the KTP may be eligible for R&D tax credits).
Recruitment : Together we will recruit your KTP Associate who will work within your organisation and manage the project.
Support : Our academic experts will mentor and guide your KTP Associate for the project lifespan, ensuring it delivers the agreed tangible benefits.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-for-business-and-community/consultancy-and-contract-research-services.aspx:
As a centre of knowledge and innovation, the University of Worcester recognises and supports public, private and third sector organisations looking for expert consultancy or to undertake targeted research projects.
Partnering with us can in turn drive innovation, reduce costs and create a lasting impact culminating in competitive strategic advantage.
We therefore encourage you to engage with our academics to help you gain new knowledge and insight or apply existing knowledge to specific challenges or objectives faced by your business or organisation.
Consultancy draws on the existing knowledge, expertise, experience, or skills of university staff.
Examples include:
If the activity in question will lead to the creation of new knowledge, the service provided is defined as contract research .
In practice, this involves commissioning university staff to conduct a research project driven by specific, practical goals.
For example, a company could commission research to develop a new sustainable product or way of working.
Evaluations are also typically defined as contract research.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/research-for-business-and-community/co-funded-phd-studentships.aspx:
Co-funded PhD studentships enable students to receive high-quality research training in a mutually beneficial collaboration with a business or organisation.
By working with the University of Worcester in supporting a PhD student, your organisation will be at the forefront of research and support an independent and original contribution to knowledge.
Co-funded studentships are supported by a contribution by your business or organisation, which is added to by the University of Worcester.
The University will fund the fees and possibly contribute to other research related expenses.
The student will have access to the full range of support offered by the University of Worcester, including the Researcher Development Programme.
A PhD is a globally recognized postgraduate academic degree awarded by universities and higher education institutions to a candidate who has submitted a thesis or dissertation, based on extensive and original research in their chosen field.
The duration of a PhD at the University of Worcester is usually 3 years and is structured as follows:
Research being carried out at the University of Worcester has been judged to be world-leading or internationally excellent.
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2014 revealed Worcester to be the most improved university in the UK on the measure of research power.
In the 2021 assessment, Worcester improved further with almost half the research submitted judged to be world-leading or internationally excellent, reflecting the University’s progress in fostering a collaborative, interdisciplinary culture and commitment to creating a powerful research environment.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research/ukri-future-leaders-fellowships.aspx:
UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) has announced round 10 of this scheme with a deadline for submission on 18 June 2025.
The Future Leaders Fellowship Scheme is a scheme that supports early career researchers in any subject area, with outstanding potential, to tackle challenging research questions and develop their own careers.
Funding is available for up to seven years allowing long term flexible funding to support adventurous and ambitious programmes.
There are no eligibility rules based on years since PhD or whether the applicant currently holds an open-ended academic position.
The Fellowship will provide salary support, allowing successful applicants protected time to concentrate fully on their research (up to six hours per week may be spent on other commitments or related activities, provided they enhance career development).
The UKRI’s Scheme Guidance for Future Leaders Fellowships can be found here.
Further information can be found on the UKRI's website.
Worcester can submit two applications to this call.
We will therefore be inviting Expressions of Interest from eligible internal and external researchers and will run a selection process to select the two applications to be put forward.
We welcome Expressions of Interest from current employees or from researchers outside of the University.
Researchers from outside of the University who are not current employees of the University will only receive an offer of employment from the University if researcher’s application to UKRI’s Future Leaders Fellowship Scheme is successful.
If you are interested in submitting an Expression of Interest (EoI), please get in touch to explore further by contacting Charlotte Wasilewski in the Research, Innovation & Impact Office c.wasilewski@worc.ac.uk .
We will be running information sessions for potential applicants on the following dates:
Please read about our recent success in securing funding for a Future Leader’s Fellowship:
£1M Study into how heat impacts females and ways to manage it
Research Will Explore Women Drawn into Politics Through Motherhood

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/contact/campus/st-johns-campus.aspx:
University of Worcester St John's Campus Henwick Grove St John's Worcester WR2 6AJ
Please note that the only dogs allowed on any University campus are assistance dogs.
The St John’s campus is easily reached by local and national cycle routes and has many cycle parking facilities on campus.
Use the Cycle Route Journey Planner to help work out your route.
There are nearly 1000 locations throughout the university where you can secure your bike.
The vast majority are Sheffield-type hoops and many are located under cover.
A large bike-shed is located by the Halls on St John's campus.
To have your card activated so you can use this facility please refer to the information below.
Showers and lockers are available at all campuses.
The bike repair stand on the St Johns campus is free to use with tools including, a bike stand and bike pump.
For information about the University's bike storage, facilities for cyclists and locations on campus please see the following pdf .
The cycle to work scheme is open to all University employees, on one year or longer contracts, providing a tax exemption to staff for the hire of cycles and cyclist safety equipment, up to the value of £2,000 and includes electric bikes (e-bikes).
For further details please see the Cycle2Work Guidance or contact HR@worc.ac.uk .
Please read our electric scooters and bikes document for more information.
St John’s Campus at Google Maps
Sat Nav: St John’s Campus: WR2 6AJ
There are several car parks around the St John’s Campus.
To find each car park please view the St John’s campus map .
A car displaying a Registered Disabled badge will not be charged a car park charge.
Student car parking permits are available, for pricing and information please visit the Student car parking information page.
Worcester is served by two train stations:
For discounts of up to 50% savings on train travel per term please visit the West Midlands Railway website.
First Bus services 31, 31A, and U1 connect the St John’s Campus to the City Centre Bus Station and City Campus.
On the St John’s Campus, the bus stops are located outside the Students’ Union building and near the Severn gate entrance.
More information about tickets, timetables, and student discounts can be found on the First Bus website .
Network West Midlands helps you plan your journey and find out when the next bus service will be arriving at the University of Worcester.
National Express Coaches serve the city of Worcester, arriving into Worcester Bus Station which is situated in the Crowngate Shopping Centre in the City Centre.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/contact/campus/city-campus.aspx:
The University of Worcester City Campus Castle Street Worcester WR1 3AS
The Jenny Lind Building can be located on Farrier Street close to the main City Campus buildings.
The full address for the Jenny Lind Building is:
University of Worcester The Jenny Lind Building Farrier St Worcester WR1 3BZ
If arriving by train the walk from Worcester Foregate Street station to the City Campus takes approximately 5 minutes.
When exiting the station turn right along Foregate Street, after 200m turn left down Castle Street.
The City Campus will be on your left after 200m.
To help find your way you can download a directional map.
The City Campus is easily reached by local and national cycle routes and has many cycle parking facilities on campus.
Use the cycle route journey planner to help work out your route.
There are Sheffield-type hoop cycle parking facilities to lock your bike to on campus.
Please see our Facilities for Cyclists campus map to see all cycle parking locations.
On this map the location and opening hours of the bike shop can also be found.
Students and staff can apply for secure cycle storage.
Under normal traffic conditions all University campuses can be reached in 15-20 minutes from Junction 7.
Sat Nav: City Campus: WR1 3AS
The City Campus does not have a car park of its own but is surrounded by several council run car parks ranging from 60p-90p per hour depending on which car park you use.
The Moors car park (WR1 3ED) is a short walk from the City Campus, there is also limited parking at the Jenny Lind building.
To help find your way have a look at the City Campus Map.
First Bus services 31, 31A, and U1 connect City Campus to St John’s Campus via the City Centre Bus Station, which is very close to the City Campus.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/contact/campus/severn-campus.aspx:
Situated between the St John's Campus and the City Campus, the Severn Campus is home to the University Arena , the Riverside building, the Elizabeth Garrett Anderson Building and the Elizabeth Casson Building.
University of Worcester Severn Campus Hylton Road Worcester WR2 5JN
The Severn Campus is easily reached by local and national cycle routes and has many cycle parking facilities on campus.
Please see our Facilities for Cyclists campus map to see all cycle parking locations.
Severn Campus at Google Maps
Sat Nav: Severn Campus: WR2 5JN
There is a drop off zone and disabled parking spaces on site, there are limited parking spaces for visitors.
The Severn Campus is also very close to several council run car parks ranging from 60p-90p per hour depending on which car park you use.
For events in the evening, weekends and vacations there is good parking available at St John’s Campus but in semester time these can be congested.
Car Park charges apply on a Pay & Display basis.
If you have pre-bought parking tickets, please proceed directly to the Arena (postcode for sat-navs is WR2 5JN) - the car park is located directly behind the arena (please do not follow the AA Road Signs for parking in city centre car parks).
First Bus service U1 connects the Severn Campus to the St John’s Campus, City Centre Bus Station and City Campus during term time.
Outside of term time, services 31 and 31A can be caught from the St John’s Campus.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/contact/campus/lakeside-campus.aspx:
University of Worcester Lakeside Campus Holt Heath Worcester WR6 6NH
Lakeside Campus is just 10 minutes drive from our St Johns Campus.
Leave Worcester along the Hallow Road (A443), after 4 miles turn right, following signs for Top Barn Farm.
Follow the road for a short distance, until you see signs for Lakeside.
Lakeside Campus on Google Maps
The Lakeside Campus can be reached by local and national cycle routes and has cycle parking facilities.
Cycle to Work Scheme
A number of regular bus services connect Lakeside Campus with the city of Worcester.
For more information see the Network West Midlands journey planner .
Phone:  01905 54 30 40 Email: lakeside@worc.ac.uk what3words ///snowballs.yappy.undivided

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/contact/adverse-weather-conditions.aspx:
Last updated: 27 January 2025
During times of bad weather or flooding, information will be published on this page.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/events/open-day-copy-2:
Open Day / Evening
September 2025
You'll be able to:
We hope to see you there!

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/events/open-day-copy-3:
October 2025

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/events/open-day-copy-4:
Saturday, 29 November 2025
10am - 3pm
St John's Campus/City Campus/Severn Campus

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/events/big-worcester-welcome:
Saturday, 13 September 2025
9:00am - 4:00pm
Students' Union and The Quad

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/2025-university-a-finalist-in-national-sustainability-awards:
It has been named a finalist in the Nature Positive category of the Green Gown Awards for improving natural habitats and increasing the variety of animals and plants across its campuses, work which spans the past 15 years.
Dr Kate Ashbrook , Senior Lecturer in Biological Sciences at the University of Worcester and chair of the University’s Biodiversity Steering Group, said: “As a university, we are always striving to make a difference both in our teaching and research, but also in other ways, particularly our commitment to sustainability .
Whether that’s by equipping students with the knowledge to make a positive impact or leading by example through our own sustainability initiatives, this work matters.
“Our biodiversity programme has transformed University land into green infrastructure.
Today, over 10 per cent of our campus grounds are managed for conservation, supporting air quality and providing vital habitats for declining species, such as invertebrates and birds.
It’s great to see these efforts recognised.”
The Green Gown Awards recognise exceptional sustainability initiatives by universities and colleges.
The Nature Positive category recognises institutions actively promoting nature through their operations, teaching, research and in partnership with local communities.
Winners will be announced in November.
Biodiversity has been a strategic priority at the University of Worcester since 2009.
Initiatives include sowing wildflower meadows and planting woodland flora on campus.
The University was an inaugural signatory to the global Nature Positive Universities Alliance, pledging in 2022 to promote nature on its campuses, in its supply chains and within its cities and communities, with actions including setting targets and monitoring progress.
A key project saw the University working with the RSPB Worcester & Malvern group in 2021 to transform three hectares of former sports fields at the University’s Lakeside Campus into a rich habitat for farmland birds, by rewilding grassland and sowing winter birdseed crops.
This site now supports red-listed farmland birds such as linnets, with monthly surveys showing increased abundance.
Earlier this year, volunteers planted a further 450 metres of hedgerow, incorporating traditional fruit tree species, to enhance the site and provide shelter for the birds.
Numerous bird and bat boxes have been installed, most recently a series of swift nest boxes at the City Campus halls of residence in March this year.
The University also launched the Campus Conservation Crew, a volunteer group made up of students, staff and members of the local community working together on practical conservation tasks across the campuses.
In 2024, it introduced an iNaturalist biodiversity recording project, which has improved biological monitoring and increased awareness of campus biodiversity.
The University has a long-standing record on sustainability and was awarded Sustainability Institution of the Year at the 2019 Green Gown Awards, going on to be Globally Highly Commended at the International Green Gown Awards, at the United Nations in New York.
The University has been consistently ranked among the most sustainable institutions in the Country for more than a decade by the People and Planet League.
In 2018, it became one of the first universities to sign the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Accord, pledging to work towards a more sustainable future.
The University was also among the first to declare a climate emergency, and to commit to a net-zero carbon target by 2030 for both direct and indirect carbon emissions.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/contact/accessibility.aspx:
This accessibility statement applies to https://www.worcester.ac.uk
This website is run by the University of Worcester.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website, and find, access and understand our content.
For example, that means you should be able to
We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
AbilityNet is a UK charity that exists to change the lives of disabled people by helping them to use digital technology at work, at home or in education.
We were 28 th in the July 2025 Silktide Index of 156 UK university websites with a score of 90%.
The monthly index is based on automated tests carried out on a random selection of 125 of our 4,000 pages for accessibility against Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) version 2.1.
When this statement was last updated (15 July 2025), our overall Silktide accessibility score for the full site was 92%, scoring at 93.3% for level A, 91.3% for AA and 91.3% for AAA.
Our Disability and Dyslexia Service offer a wide range of support and advice to students with disabilities, and also to parents, staff and external agencies supporting students.
The support available includes:
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille:
We’ll consider your request and get back to you in five working days.
If you cannot view the maps on our campus locations pages, please contact us for directions.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, please contact our Digital Communications team:
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
The University of Worcester is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
While text can be zoomed or magnified, it is not possible for users to modify text spacing or line height.
This doesn’t meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.4.12 (text spacing).
We are working with our digital agency to explore potential resolutions to this issue.
Some of our videos do not currently have accurate edited captions, transcripts or audio descriptions.
This doesn’t meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.2.1 (audio-only and video-only pre-recorded), 1.2.2 (captions pre-recorded), 1.2.3 (audio description or media alternative pre-recorded) and 1.2.5 (audio description pre-recorded).
We intend to resolve this issue by the end of October 2025.
Some of our PDFs and other documents published after 23 September 2018 - or published before that date but essential for administrative processes - don't fully meet accessibility requirements, including WCAG 2.1 success criteria 1.1.1 (non-text content), 1.3.1 (info and relationships), 1.3.2 (meaningful sequence), 1.4.3 (contrast (minimum)), 2.4.2 (page titled), 2.4.5 (multiple ways), and 3.1.1 (language of page).
We are working through these documents to ensure their content will be accessible or that an accessible alternative is available.
Our third-party online chat system may not meet several WCAG 2.1 success criteria.
We are liaising with the supplier regarding their timeline to create a more accessible version.
Some of our 360-degree virtual tours of facilities do not display sufficient colour contrast  and may not be fully accessible to people navigating the site via just a keyboard.
This doesn’t meet several WCAG 2.1 success criteria, including 1.4.3 (contrast (minimum).
We are working with our supplier to investigate potential a potential resolution to this issue.
Some of our forms do not identify the purpose of fields programmatically, meaning that browsers will not autocomplete those fields.
This doesn’t meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.3.5 (input purpose).
We are working to resolve this issue.
The numbered pagination links on our news pages do not combine adjacent links with the same destination.
This doesn’t meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.1.1 (non-text content).
We are working with our digital agency to resolve this issue.
Some of our campaign pages have an empty heading if a particular piece of content has not been populated.
This doesn’t meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.3.1 (info and relationships).
The ‘block’ element that appears on some of our campaign pages has a missing ARIA description ID.
The ‘please select an option’ text on some of our forms has insufficient contrast when the dropdown is open for users to select their option.
This doesn’t meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.4.3 (contrast (minimum)).
A small number of forms, and a field on some campaign pages, have one or more form controls without labels.
We are working with our digital agency to resolve these issues.
Some pages have two or more links to different destinations with the same link text.
This doesn’t meet WCAG success criterion 2.4.4 (link purpose (in context)).
We are working through pages to resolve this issue where possible.
The University of Worcester is not claiming disproportionate burden for any issues on www.worcester.ac.uk
Many of our older PDFs and Word documents don't meet accessibility standards.
For example, they may not be marked up so they are accessible to a screen reader.
This doesn’t meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 4.1.2 (name, role, value).
The accessibility regulations don’t require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential for active administrative processes.
We are working to ensure that as many newly published PDFs or Word documents as possible meet accessibility standards.
Live video streams do not have captions.
This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.2.4 (captions - live).
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
The colour contrast of the text on the Discover Uni statistics panels does not have sufficient colour contrast for visually impaired users.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.4.3 (contrast (minimum)).
Also there is no way to control the animation within the Discover Uni panels.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 2.2.2 (pause, stop, hide).
The Discover Uni panels are exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations.
This is third-party content that is neither funded nor developed by us, nor under our control.
Some of our older videos don't have accurate edited captions or transcripts.
The regulations do not apply to recorded videos published before 23 September 2020.
However, while these videos are not subject to the legislation, it is our intention to carry out an audit of all our videos by December 2025, and then begin a process of updating captions and adding transcripts.
Some of our online maps are not fully accessible for keyboard-only users.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 2.1.1 (keyboard).
Some of our maps do not provide sufficient contrast for visually impaired users.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.4.11 (non-text contrast).
Our online maps are exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations.
Essential information, such as an address, will always be available alongside a map.
Some of our maps and 360-degree images are embedded from third party sources, such as Google Maps, and are not fully accessible.
This doesn’t meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 4.1.1 (parsing).
Please let us know what information you require and we will try to provide the information in an alternative format.
There is an iframe on our ‘Pollen Calendars by Area page that does not have a title.
This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 2.4.1 (bypass blocks).
This iframe is part of a ‘widget’ from a third party that is neither funded nor developed by us, nor under our control.
It is therefore exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations
This website was last reviewed in July 2025.
The review was carried out by our Digital Communications team using accessibility review tools within the Silktide platform.
We used Silktide tools to test all pages on this site.
We also manually reviewed the most commonly visited pages, and spot-checked pages using the Axe Chrome browser extension.
We tested:
All of our pages are tested each week by the Silktide platform, which makes automated checks of 4,000 pages against the W3C (World Wide Web Consortium) WCAG 2.1 accessibility standards using automated techniques.
We have a rolling programme of updating content in accordance with the guidelines set out by the WCAG.
This statement was originally prepared in September 2019.
It was last updated in July 2025.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life:
We combine excellent teaching with a whole range of additional opportunities – from professional placements to studying abroad.
Our facilities, including The Hive Library and the Arena, have won some of the country’s most prestigious awards.
And all in the beautiful city of Worcester, recently named by The Times newspaper as one of their top places to live.
Our location in a historic city means that you benefit from beautiful, safe surroundings, as well as reasonable living costs.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/life/accommodation/living-in-halls/what-is-provided-in-your-accommodation.aspx:
Not sure what to pack for uni?
At Worcester, our Residential Life Team ensures your accommodation has all the essentials waiting for you, so all you need to bring is your personal touch.
To help you prepare, here’s a quick guide to what’s provided.
Further information can be found in your licence agreement .
For more information on the different types of accomodation we have, detailed information on bills and how to apply, see our Accommodation guide .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/2025-event-helps-students-with-transition-to-university:
The two-day event was a chance for the students to explore the campus while it was quieter, learn more about life in accommodation, meet key people from student services and the Students’ Union, and have the chance to learn more about the support available to them.
The participants were joined by current students from the University as they took part in a range of activities across the University’s campuses.
Incoming student Zoe said: “I’m enjoying the event, it’s a nice opportunity to meet people.
I was nervous about welcome week and who I would know so it’s great to meet people beforehand.”
Rosie, who also attended, said: “It has given me a lot of peace of mind, being able to learn about the campus, and where I’ll be staying, and where everything is.”
Karen Webb, Disability Adviser at the University, said: “The aim of the transition event is to reduce the anxiety around aspects of university life which could prove challenging to some students.”
She continued: “We had 24 students attend this year, many of them experienced staying overnight in our accommodation.
The feedback from this year’s event has been extremely positive and encouraging.”
She added: “Students really valued the opportunity to attend and told us that they now feel far more confident and informed about where things are, and how to access relevant services.
Significantly, some great bonds were also formed amongst our participants, so they have a strong base to start their student journey from.”

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/2025-helping-your-teen-navigate-university-applications-free-online-talk:
The session, held by the University of Worcester on Tuesday, September 2, will offer practical advice on researching universities, making the most of campus visits and understanding each step of the journey.
Sian Gould, a colleague at the University, will be taking part.
She said: “Over the next year, students face big decisions on UCAS applications, Open Days, university choices and more, and it can be a lot to navigate.”
She continued: “I supported my stepdaughter through this process last year and I know how overwhelming it can feel, especially if you haven’t been to university yourself.
This event is about giving parents and carers the confidence and practical tools they need to support their young person wherever they’re applying.”
The event welcomes parents and carers of all students, not just those considering the University of Worcester.
Kelly Price, a recent graduate of the University will also be taking part.
She said: “It makes a huge difference when parents and supporters understand that transition to university life.
My parents were able to ask the right questions, support me throughout, and help me make informed decisions and that made me feel like we were navigating it together.”
Kelly added: “In this talk we’ll give a reassuring glimpse into university life, and you’ll be able to hear how you can best support your student and you’ll be able to get your questions answered by people who’ve been in your position, as well as experts from the University of Worcester who are able to explain the processes clearly.”
The free event takes place between 18:15 and 19:15 on Tuesday, September 2.
Register for your place

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/youll-miss-the-mess-what-no-one-tells-you-about-uni-goodbyes:
If you’re preparing to watch your loved one head off to university this autumn, congratulations!
It’s a time for celebration, but it’s absolutely normal to feel anxious about this big adjustment for you and your young person.
Marianne Tay is a Principal Lecturer at the University of Worcester’s School of Health and Wellbeing, and she is the Course Lead for Mental Health and Wellbeing Practitioner Training.
She has advice and guidance for parents worried they might struggle with empty nest syndrome as their young person goes off to uni.
"You can spend years complaining about how they don’t do the washing up, they don’t pick up after themselves and they’re too noisy at night.
So, when they go to university there’s a feeling that life gets cheaper, and there’s no mess anymore; but there’s a deeper side to this where there’s a genuine sense of loss for parents, which is rarely acknowledged.
This is an exciting time, as your young person breaks free, but once they go off to university and the excitement continues for them; for you it just stops and that can leave you feeling like you’ve lost something.
Even if you have other children at home, it’s a time when you don’t have that particular person in your life in the same way, so here are my five tips for helping your child or young person through a time of life which is transitional for both of you.
Be supportive, but don’t take over.
You want to support, but you don’t want to take over, and knowing where the line between these two sits is so hard.
Always give them the opportunity to take the lead, and then you can come in as support, Your job as a parent is to not be the leader, but to be the secondary.
For example, when you arrive on campus and you need to figure out where you’re going, where to park, where to get the keys, let them do the talking.
If you notice they’re struggling, you can offer that back-up and fill in any gaps.
Maintain contact without hassling.
You want to call to chat and catch up, but they might be getting ready to go out, or in the middle of a social event where they’re making friends, and it’s not an ideal time.
My best advice is to try and get a regular contact time going.
Try booking in a Sunday evening catch up so it doesn’t feel like an imposition.
Once you’ve established that, if you feel like they’re struggling you can suggest a Wednesday call as well, and if you feel like it’s a bit much, you can make it fortnightly.
Just make sure it’s regular.
3.
The teary phone call home
However much they’re enjoying it, there’s a chance you’ll have a phone call with a few tears.
Firstly, see it as a positive.
They miss you because you’ve got a strong connection which you’ve created.
It’s a safe, loving, and comfortable environment that they’re missing, so there’s a positive to be taken from that.
Next, you need to find the middle ground.
We don’t want to say ‘Right, come home’, because that can teach them that they can’t cope without you.
There’s also a risk that if they do come home, they might not want to go back, and they can feel like they’ve failed.
It’s important to teach them that homesickness is normal.
4.
You might not be the only one missing them
When my older sister went to university, I remember feeling suddenly outnumbered by my parents.
There’s a real dynamic shift when someone leaves, and it’s important to acknowledge that with your other children.
Tell them you know it might be tough for them and ask if there’s anything you can do to make it easier.
You might find that siblings want to spend more time out of the house with their friends when their older brother or sister goes to university.
This is entirely normal, as they’re probably filling a void.
If you can, give them a bit more leeway with their friends and how much freedom they have.
They’re dealing with an adjustment too, so don’t assume they’re fine.
5.
If you’re worried.
Up until now, schools might contact you to discuss things to do with your child, but universities don’t do this except in very exceptional circumstances.
Remember, just because you feel anxious, it doesn’t mean that anxiety is true.
That sense of dread is a terrible trick of our brains.
Ask yourself; are my worries based on evidence?
Are they really suffering?
Or am I just not used to not being able to ask how their day was?
Trust them.
Watching the young person you’ve nurtured and mentored move onto the next stage of their lives can be a confusing time of life, with many mixed emotions.
Letting go is never easy but watching them learn as they grow is one of the most rewarding parts of parenting."
For further support as a parent or carer of a student studying at the University of Worcester, you can read our Guide for Parents.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/2025-leading-poverty-expert-praises-work-to-tackle-social-mobility-and-inclusion:
Joanna Mack is the pioneering author behind the groundbreaking ‘Breadline Britain’ series and has spent more than four decades transforming public understanding of inequality through award-winning documentaries, research and publications.
During a recent visit to the University, she commended its work to break down barriers to opportunity and to raise aspirations from the earliest age.
She described The Hive, Europe’s first university and public library, which the University developed with Worcestershire County Council, as “potentially life changing for lots of children”, commenting on the value of libraries in improving life chances.
“If you can find a way to improve people’s access to educational opportunities, you can transform people’s lives,” she said.
She also praised the University’s work to ensure all its facilities are accessible for those with a physical disability.
“The University is changing attitudes and thinking towards inclusion,” Joanna said: “Here, there is no debate about whether facilities will be accessible for people, it is a given, and that’s what we need to see more of.”
Joanna produced and directed the first of the Breadline Britain series in 1983 and was the series editor for the second series Breadline Britain in the 1990s .
She subsequently published a book of the same title in 2015 after setting up the website www.poverty.ac.uk , which has become an important source of information on poverty and social exclusion in the UK and is now extensively used by researchers, educators, students and the general public.
Talking about the current cost of living crisis, Joanna said the Government needed to do more to help lift people out of poverty, including investing the benefits system, education and workers’ rights.
“Some of the things we are seeing from Government, like the Best Start Family Hubs are a step in the right direction, but they need to be thinking more imaginatively,” she said.
“There are lots of good examples of work to tackle poverty at local levels, with organisations working together, such as the Preston Model, where they have used collective buying power to invest in local businesses, which can be built on further.
And universities have a really big role to play in this.
“Universities are among the largest employers in local regions, and in working together, just as Worcester has done through the creation of The Hive, can make a huge difference to people’s lives for the better.”
Her latest book, Impoverished: Fixing Britain and its poverty problem, will be published by Policy Press in March 2026.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/government-backed-help-to-grow-programme-helps-spark-50-retail-growth-for-local-business:
The part-government-funded initiative is designed for senior leaders to boost business performance and leadership skills.
Run by Worcester Business School at the University of Worcester, the 12-week course gives participants tools to strengthen areas such as brand development, high-performance workplace culture, and strategic growth planning.
One standout success story is Richard Sadler, Managing Director of CJC Aggregates & Landscaping Supplies in Upton Snodsbury.
“We started our business during Covid, and it grew very quickly,” said Richard.
“I’d spent my life selling to big businesses but never run my own business and that’s why Help to Grow appealed to me.”
Richard said: “The course enabled me to identify a weakness in the business, which was that we’ve got great data on our customers, but we had no customer relationship management systems in place.”
He continued: “We’ve now addressed that, and coupled with other changes we’ve made, our retail business is up 50% in the last quarter on the same time last year, and our B2B (Business to Business) is up 20%, which is brilliant.
I’m really pleased at how we continue to grow.”
Based on the outskirts of Worcester, CJC is fast becoming a big name in selling hard landscaping products to trade and non-trade customers.
Richard said: “Someone who was on the course at the same time as me has now actually become a really great customer, we’ve been able to put a load of work each other’s way and we’ve got a great trading relationship.”
Dr Scott Andrews, Head of Worcester Business School (pictured below), said: “This is the only Help to Grow Management Programme in the Herefordshire and Worcestershire area, and it has already helped businesspeople across the region take a fresh look at their day-to-day operations and ask ‘what could we do better’?”
Dr Andrews added: “I’m delighted to hear that the Help to Grow course has had such a positive impact on Richard and the team at CJC Aggregates & Landscaping Supplies, and as with all our participants on the course we look forward to seeing them continue to grow.”
An introductory networking event will be held on the 4 th September at the University’s City Campus, offering the chance to meet other business leaders and find out more about the programme.
The University is currently recruiting small business leaders and managers to its next Help to Grow cohort, which begins on the 2 nd October 2025.
If you’d like to book onto the introductory event, please follow this link
For more information on the Help to Grow course, visit the University of Worcester website.
For information on courses at University of Worcester visit www.worcester.ac.uk or for application enquiries telephone 01905 855111 or email admissions@worc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/2025-students-film-shortlisted-for-festival-award:
Ben Monk and Joshua Prior’s film Celestial Intersect , created as part of their studies, is a finalist in the Best Feature category.
Winners will be announced at the two-day Festival on Saturday, August 16.
Ben and Joshua are hoping this could be an important step in their ambition to get the film in front of producers to take the project to the next level and expand on the concept.
Ben, 22, of Dudley, said “It’s nice that it’s been nominated, that they have got the idea.
It’s nice to see we’re on the right track.
This film and project we believe is exciting and new, and something that not many other film makers, especially in the local area, are doing right now and is on the cusp of becoming really popular.”
“It would be fantastic to have advice on where to go next, but even just getting the judges’ feedback is great,” added Joshua, 23, of Hereford.
The mockumentary film features fictional character Richard De’Vaughn, a ghost hunter exploring various ghost stories around Worcester, and often involves unsuspecting members of the public who interact with Richard in devised scenarios, mixed with behind-the-scenes footage.
The documentary style gives it a realistic feel.
“What gives us that extra edge is always shooting with the real people and going out into real situations,” added Ben.
“This means that the interviews are only able to be shot once.”
It took the pair, who are graduates in Film Production and have just finished their PGCE in Further Education also at Worcester, nine months to devise, film and edit the piece.
Joshua plays the central character.
The pair were inspired by shows like The Office and the character Ali G, created by comedian Sacha Baron Cohen.
The film is set across several locations in Worcester, including the Tudor House Museum, Worcester Cathedral, St Swithun’s Church and the Guildhall.
They explore a number of ghost stories or historical tales all based on folklore, myths or stories about Worcester that they have uncovered through research or hearsay.
Ben says interest in their work is growing online, with their Tik Tok shorts in particular garnering many viewers in recent weeks.
The pair will graduate in September.
Ben has got a job at a TV station in Redditch filming and editing adverts and other promotional material, while Joshua starts a teaching role at Kidderminster College in September.
They plan to continue to pursue the Richard De’Vaughn project and take it further.
“We know how much we loved it,” Joshua added.
“I have always liked how people I know who are from different walks of life, different ages, find it funny, that has been the nice thing about it.”
To find out more and see clips of the duo’s work, including extra clips of Richard De’Vaughn in action and the film trailer, visit the YouTube channel ‘Richard De'Vaughn’.
To find out more about the Festival visit the website: www.stratford-upon-avon-filmfestival.com/

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/high-sheriff-visits-university-to-share-big-plans-for-year-in-office:
The High Sheriff of Worcestershire has visited the City’s University, where he toured facilities and spoke about his hopes for his term in office.
Ian Smith was appointed to his office at a ceremony in April.
The High Sheriff is the King’s representative for law and order in the county, supporting the police, judiciary, prisons, and probation services.
Although the role lasts just one year, it carries significant civic responsibility and offers the opportunity to champion causes which make a lasting impact.
During his visit, he spoke about his flagship initiative, Getting Court, which is a powerful educational programme designed to give young people a sobering and inspiring insight into the judicial system.
“We take groups of schoolchildren once a month to a live court session,” he explained.
“They have an introductory chat from me, they’ll hear from the judge about the cases and the Court’s work generally, and watch various sentencing sessions and they’ll hear from an ex-offender about how he has turned his life around.”
Getting Court is aimed at a diverse range of young people.
Ian said: “It’s a great way to reinforce what they’ve learned in school about the rule of law, but it also makes them think ‘Blimey!
I’d never like to be in here!’”
The initiative also included the creation of a Teachers Day, so the teachers of these students could get an idea of what their pupils were going to see while taking part in Getting Court.
“We arranged for University of Worcester staff to come along and present on that day, so that teachers in the area could become more aware of the Law School, of the policing courses and much more,” he said.
He added: “There are young people studying criminology, but did they know they’ve got an amazing Law School that does so well right on their doorstep?
We want to make sure we can link everyone up.”
Ian is also continuing the tradition of the High Sheriff’s Lecture and Forum, which bring together charities and civic leaders to share ideas, collaborate and explore ways to better serve the community.
“I’ll be holding the lecture at the University for law students, and also local law firms and some well-known civic leaders.
It’ll be on a topic which is relevant and of interest to the people,” he said.
He continued: “The High Sheriff’s Forum is a quarterly meeting where we get lots of charities together from around the county to talk.
We have speakers on a particular topic which is important to those charities, and it’s great to see them working together.”
He added: “Could they collaborate to get rid of an overhead somewhere?
Is there anything they could link up on?
That’s what I really like to see.”
To find out more about the High Sheriff and the role Ian Smith is playing in Worcestershire, visit his webpage.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/worcester-ready-for-clearing:
Clearing at universities is the process where students are matched with available places on courses.
Last year was a record breaker at Worcester, with the team taking more than a thousand calls in a single day.
Kristine Mendoza is about to graduate from the University of Worcester after finding her place through Clearing in 2022.
“I’d already spoken to the lecturers at Worcester, and I’d decided I wanted to come,” said Kristine.
“I called the University’s Clearing number on the day and it was really easy, after our conversation I just had to wait for an email and then I was on the course!”
Official data shows one of the main reasons why people use Clearing services is because they’ve changed their mind about the course of study.
Many people coming to the University of Worcester do so after changing their mind on the size or location of the university they want to attend.
Kristine had begun a foundation degree in health and social care at her local university but decided during her time there that a career in healthcare wasn’t for her and she wanted to go into teaching.
She also decided she wanted to immerse herself in university life and move into accommodation away from home.
She chose to come to Worcester to study a three-year degree in Education Studies.
She said: “I’d always been inspired by my teachers in the past, and I’m actually still in contact with a lot of them.
Education Studies is about the whole education system, not just primary, secondary or early years.”
She continued: “It’s not just learning about schools, we look at different educational settings, we look at policies, we look at teaching in other perspectives, and it has given me the chance to think about lots of different careers.”
The decision to change universities also meant she was able to immerse herself more fully in campus life.
She said: “I wanted a uni-life!
I wanted to be a fresher, to meet new friends, to live on my own, to be independent, and coming here meant I got all of that.”
She continued: “If I didn’t come here, I wouldn’t be who I am today.
It has made me so confident, I’m now a cheerleader, I’ve been a course representative, a department representative, I’ve started societies, I’ve done so much here.”
As she grew her confidence and expanded her network, Kristine said she was able to explore different career options while at university: “I thought about teaching in the army, and I went on a placement to a primary school, and I was around the children which I loved,” she said.
“This year I finished a placement at a secondary school, and I’ve had so much fun there.
I have loved observing different classes and subjects, I’ve been able to observe art lessons, music lessons, drama, and it really confirmed in my mind that I want to teach art because I’ve always loved being creative.”
Kristine is now preparing to study her Postgraduate Certificate in Education so she can teach art at secondary school.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/2025-university-experts-talk-explores-history-of-witchcraft:
Professor of Early Modern History , Darren Oldridge , will speak on ‘Witchcraft and Religion in Elizabethan England’ at the Cathedral’s Undercroft on Friday, August 15 at 1pm.
The talk is inspired by two key Elizabethan demonological books housed in the Cathedral library, with the chance to see these works up close during the event.
They are Reginald’s Scot’s The Discoverie of Witchcraft (1584) and William Perkins’ A Discourse of the Damned Art of Witchcraft , first published in 1608.
“I’m so lucky that the Cathedral library has copies of these books,” he said.
“Otherwise, if you wanted to see them you would have to go to London or Oxford.
These are rare texts, so it’s a wonderful opportunity for people to look at them and find out a bit about witchcraft in the age of Elizabeth I.
“It’s true that some people took a very aggressive and scary approach to the treatment of those accused of witchcraft, but it’s also true that there was a diversity of opinion in England.
Scot and Perkins represent the two extremes.”
Scot’s work was, Professor Oldridge says, the first learned book on witchcraft by an English writer, and it was exceptionally sceptical.
Scot dismissed the belief in witchcraft and put it down to foolishness, mistakes or trickery, so he condemned prosecutions for the crime.
“It’s very likely that Scot was spurred into writing the book by real life cases of people accused and even executed for causing death by witchcraft, and he was appalled by this as well as believing it was an intellectual mistake,” Professor Oldridge added.
He says that Scot believed, like most of his fellow scholars, that witchcraft involved the Devil, but he argued that the Devil could not interact with the physical world.
In contrast, Perkins believed that the prince of darkness made pacts with people that led to real effects, and he argued that all witches should be executed.
“I think these books show the importance of Elizabethan ideas about the Devil.
Interestingly, both Scot and Perkins believed that the Devil exerted his power mainly in the mind,” added Professor Oldridge.
“They both believed that the Devil could influence people, but they had different views about his power over material things.
It’s good for people to know that these early writers on witchcraft had a range of opinions, and by no means all of them wanted to prosecute people for the crime.”
The talk costs £10.
After the talk there is a rare opportunity to see the Cathedral’s Medieval Library with an alternative ‘Talk+Tour’ ticket, costing £18.
For more information visit the Worcester Cathedral website .

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/major-london-exhibition-for-worcester-based-artist:
Amber Sparrey, Technical Manager and Associate Lecturer at the University of Worcester’s Institute of Arts and Humanities, has been selected as the winner of arebyte* Gallery’s Hotel Generation 2025; a national award supporting digital artists.
The award is highly regarded in the UK digital arts community, attracting more than 100 applications.
Amber was successful with her proposal: Soft Bodies, Cold Machines .
She said: “It’s a multidisciplinary installation, merging sculpture, film and interactive technology.
It examines how nostalgia and technology shape the way we perceive ourselves and our bodies online.”
“The show will blur the line between physical and virtual space,” she said.
“Inviting viewers into a strange, nostalgic dreamworld.”
Amber will spend the next few months finalising, making, filming, and building her exhibition, which will be open to the public from February until April 2026 at arebyte Gallery’s Camden location.
It will offer an immersive, multisensory experience spanning two rooms, and visitors will encounter sculptures, film and interactive artworks.
Amber said: “I’m incredibly excited.
After months of research and developing the proposal, being selected out of such a competitive field felt surreal.
It’s such a privilege to be recognised by arebyte, and such a prestigious judging panel.”
She continued: “I’m really looking forward to seeing how the work comes to life and transforms in the gallery space.”
Amber added: “I’m hoping my exhibition will show students that you don’t have to compromise what you want to do to succeed.
It’s a reminder that taking risks, thinking critically and being unapologetically yourself can lead to opportunities.”
For more information, visit www.arebyte.com/hotel-generation
*arebyte is Intentionally stylised as lowercase.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/news/worcesters-new-play-spaces-praised-by-child-development-expert-ahead-of-national-playday:
Dr Emma Laurence, lecturer at the University of Worcester in the Department for Children and Families and a specialist in child development, has been looking at recent expenditure in play equipment in Worcester and assessing social returns on the investment.
“These facilities show that we value these people in our society,” said Dr Laurence.
“It gives children and young people a sense of belonging while encouraging pro-social behaviour.”
She was speaking after the recent completion of a new pump track at Battenhall, the opening of the new Play On the Way area in Warndon, and the announcement of plans for a ‘destination facility’ pump track at Perdiswell.
Dr Laurence said: “One thing I’ve seen with the pump track at Battenhall in particular, is that it’s created a play opportunity for slightly older children.
We know that play spaces have dwindled dramatically in recent years, but where we do see them, we tend to see lots of swing sets and slides and things aimed at younger children, but there can often be little provision for teenagers to use for free.”
She continued: “When we create these facilities for young people it creates social capital, improves their ties to the community and quite often, people are much more likely to look after that place if it has been created for them.”
She added: “For teenagers and young people there can be a lack of provision in terms of space where they can just exist.
A place where there’s light and maybe shelter which isn’t their bedroom.
A key aspect of their development is about peer relationships, so they’ve got to be able to exercise that outside of school.”
Dr Laurence said: “Play gives children the ability to regulate themselves emotionally,” said Dr Laurence.
“It allows them to exercise critical thinking skills and nurture their social relationships.”
“We all know some of our best memories were in play when we were younger,” she said.
“When I speak to people, often their most memorable play experiences were unsupervised, and they were child led and often outdoors.”
She added: “Opportunities for this for today’s children are vanishingly small, so I’m delighted to see this being an area that Worcester is investing in.”
Wednesday 6 th August is the UK’s National Playday, the annual day for play, highlighting the importance of play for children’s health, happiness and development.
To mark the occasion, the play advocacy group Play Worcester are holding a Den Building day in Gheluvelt Park.
Kate Collier, from Play Worcester, said: “We’ll be there with big foam blocks, milk crates, tarps, everything you need to let your young people’s imaginations run wild.”
She added: “Den building is free, and it’s for everyone from toddlers upwards; I think the grown-ups enjoy it just as much as the children and young people.”
She added: “The theme of this years play day is ‘spaces to play’, and we want this to be a community event.
We’re hoping it’ll be a good prompt for people to play together as families at home.”
The den building activities are free and take place from 11-3 on Wednesday 6 August near the Kyndfolk Café in Gheluvelt Park.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/research:
We believe that Higher Education should have a transformative impact on individuals and on society as a whole and our Research and Knowledge Exchange is at the heart of this belief.
We will be recognised for delivering excellent Research which extends the boundaries of human knowledge, but which also fundamentally improves people’s lives and makes the world in which we live a better place.
And for high-quality Knowledge Exchange which meets the needs of our clients, partners and communities and adds value to their organisation.
We will be particularly recognised for our Research and Knowledge Exchange in identified Areas of Challenge.
Our Areas of Challenge reflect many of the fundamental problems and issues facing the world today.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/about/sustainability/what-we-do/transport-and-travel/bike-share.aspx:
The city-wide bike-sharing scheme Beryl Bikes has now arrived on campus.
Students can borrow and return bikes from eight new bays across the University’s City, Severn and St John’s campuses.
Plus, we have negotiated a 25% discount for students on the scheme until the end of the academic year.
To take advantage, you must sign up using your university email address.
The discount entitles you to 25% off all Minute Bundles and Rider Passes until 31 July 2025.
For more information on Beryl, visit beryl.cc
Cycling is a convenient low-cost way to get healthier and happier.
Riding an e-bike is great fun.
Cycling 2 miles takes about 15 minutes, making it one of the quickest ways to get between University of Worcester campuses and through the city.
There are free bike repair facilities to help you easily maintain your own bike which are located on St John's Campus opposite the Thomas Telford Building.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/study:
The last decade at Worcester has been marked by a period of dynamic improvements, as exceptional, inclusive facilities and imaginative, highly professional courses have opened new horizons for students.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/courses/accounting-and-finance-ba-hons:
BA (Hons)
Our professional accreditations and connections with leading companies put you a step ahead in your career from the very beginning.
UCAS Code: N402 or N403
Our accountancy accreditations give you significant exemptions from essential exams.
This means a faster route to professional qualifications, because you graduate already part-qualified – and you could start on a higher salary.
of our business and management graduates are in work or further study after 15 months
say the course challenges me to achieve my best work
01/05
If you already have some qualifications, you may not have to
take all the exams required by the professional accounting bodies.
These are
called exemptions and mean that you have a head start on your professional
qualifications.
We have a close working relationship with all the professional
accounting bodies and the BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance degree has been
awarded the maximum number of exemptions available.
Read more in our Exemption Handbook .
This course will introduce you to the principles and practice of Accounting and Finance.
You will develop numerical skills as well as high-level abilities to interpret data, analyse issues and problem solve.
You will gain a thorough understanding of accounting concepts, which is ideal if you want to become a professional accountant.
Having accounting and finance knowledge is also an advantage in any profession today, from being a stockbroker to an economist.
So even if you do not want to become a professional accountant, this degree is springboard for a wide range of careers.
As well as our three-year degree, you can choose our four-year course option with either a built-in placement year or a year studying abroad.
Whichever route you choose, live client projects, internships, paid work opportunities, networking and mentoring are all part of our real-life approach to teaching.
There are different ways to gain valuable work experience on this course.
You’ll have the opportunity to do a short, paid placement, a year-long internship or part-time work with a local business.
Our dedicated placement team offer one-to-one support - helping you find internships, make your application and prepare for interview.
You could choose to do your placement locally, making the most of connections with employers in the region, or you could choose to move another city or country.
Recent students have worked at a range of organisations, including Bishop Fleming, a large accountancy firm located next to our campus.
Each year you will study a mix of mandatory and optional modules.
This flexible course lets you explore different subjects and career paths in business management before choosing to specialise in your final year.
Optional modules will run if enough students choose to study them.
It is not guaranteed that all modules will be offered every year.
Introduction to Management Accounting
Introduction to Financial Accounting
Law for Accounting & Finance
Introduction to Business Management
Fundamentals of Personal Effectiveness
You'll have the chance to work with accountants and finance specialists who have worked in organisations such as KPMG, PwC and HM Treasury, as part of your degree.
These professionals have experience of management, consultancy or running their own business across sectors including banking and manufacturing.
Many of our students aim to become chartered accountants but there are a whole range of employment opportunities open to you.
Recent graduates have gone on to successful careers in:
Throughout your course, you will receive career coaching to help you develop your CV and interview technique.
We teach in small classes so we get to know you by name and can give individual attention, including in highly technical sessions.
Our course has been designed by academics and industry specialists to prepare you for a career in business.
You’ll be taught through a combination of practical activities, seminars, lectures and one-to-one tutoring.
Our highly practical assessment methods include presentations, portfolios and consultancy projects - preparing you for the work you’ll be doing when you graduate.
You are taught through a combination of interactive workshops, lectures, seminars, laboratory practical sessions, fieldwork, practical activities, etc.
Interactive workshops take a variety of formats and are intended to enable the application of learning through discussion and small group activities.
Seminars enable the discussion and development of understanding of topics covered in lectures, and laboratory practical sessions are focused on developing subject-specific skills and applied for individual and group project work.
In addition, meetings (both individual and group) with personal academic tutors are scheduled throughout the academic year.
There is an opportunity to undertake a year-long placement in the third year of the course, supervised by a work-based mentor and a University tutor.
Depending upon the course, there may be an opportunity to study abroad at one of our exchange partner universities.
Get to know a few of the Worcester Business School lecturers you'll be learning with.
Rachel has been working in higher education since 2006.
Before working in education, Rachel spent several years working as a management accountant in the aerospace industry with a focus on cost management, project planning and performance reporting.
Jamie's areas of teaching expertise are financial management and auditing.
She also has a particular interest in accounting education research, developing research on the use of simulations in the teaching of auditing.
Before working at Worcester, Jamie spent three years in practice for a large professional services firm specialising in forensic accounting and assurance.
She also spent time working for HM Treasury within the Welfare to Work Team.
Simon trained with a large firm of Chartered Accountants in the areas of audit, accounts preparation, taxation and insolvency.
Working in industry, his roles ranged from Group accountant, Project accountant and Treasury.
Since the move to lecturing, Simon has taught on a range of provisions, including ACCA, CIMA CIPD, AAT, HND as well as undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
UCAS tariff points required: 112
We do accept Access to HE Diplomas and other qualifications which may not exactly match the combinations above.
Work out your estimated points with the UCAS tariff calculator .
Additional entry requirements for this course
Mature students
The Government has announced that it will increase tuition fees and maintenance loans by 3.1% from the 2025/26 academic cycle.
This means that from September 2025 the standard fee for full-time home and EU undergraduate students on BA/BSc/LLB degrees and FdA/FdSc degrees will be £9,535 per year for new and continuing students.
For more details on course fees, please visit our course fees page .
£9,535
The standard tuition fee for full-time international students enrolling on BA/BSc/LLB degrees and FdA/FdSc degrees in the 2025/26 academic year is £16,700 per year .
£16,700
Some recent students let you know what they thought of the course.
Kristina, who decided to change careers by taking up an Accounting and Finance degree, cared for her mother after she was diagnosed with cancer during her second year.
She praised the support she had had in her learning journey.
“I had a wonderful and very supportive course leader, who was the best tutor and course leader at that time,” she added.
“She provided all the support and help I needed at the beginning of my course, as it was all very new to me and, being a much older student and a foreigner, I was worried I wouldn't fit in or be good.”
Kristina, who did a 14-month work placement in a firm’s accountancy department as part of her degree, has started working in an accounting firm in Bromsgrove as an Associate Assistant and plans to get experience and complete the necessary courses to become a fully qualified accountant.
Read Kristina's full case study here.
“I’m delighted and excited for what the future holds now that the hard work has paid off,' he said.
“I am currently working at a leading accountancy practice in the West Midlands with clients spanning across the whole of the United Kingdom,” he added.
“I am studying towards my ACCA qualification and due to the exemptions gained from the University of Worcester, I only have to take four exams to become qualified.”
“In the long term I aim to be running my own accountancy practice which has been an ambition of mine since I began studying Accounting at the University of Worcester.”
UCAS is the central
organisation through which applications are processed for full-time
undergraduate courses in the UK.
Read our how to apply pages for more information on the application process, or if you’d
like to apply for part-time study.
Develop your skills in finance, accounting, business sustainability, and more studying our Accounting and Finance diploma.
Set yourself up for a future career in the financial sector by developing competence in business finance.
Find out more about Business and Finance at Worcester.
A business management degree opens career options in corporate management, marketing, finance, consulting, and project management.
You could also set up your own business.
Learn how to stay ahead of an increasingly competitive market from creating compelling campaigns to analysing consumer insights with this degree in Business and Marketing.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/courses/accounting-and-finance-diphe:
The course will be delivered by Birmingham Metropolitan College (BMet) at their Matthew Boulton site .
Our diploma in accounting and finance aims to build your skills portfolio for a rewarding career in business, in the field of accountancy or finance.
You'll actively engage with employers and the leading professional bodies during your time with us, as you position yourself to enter this highly influential sector.
With its strong focus on business sustainability, including environmental, social and governance issues, this course will show you're a highly analytical, numerate and commercially driven graduate.
Throughout the course you'll be able to develop the knowledge and skills that employers value.
On successful completion of the course, you will have the opportunity for entry to year 3 (L6) of the BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance at the University of Worcester.
This offers you an optional work placement year as well as shorter-term internships opportunities.
In addition, if you continue onto the final year at Worcester, on successful completion of the BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance degree programme we expect that you will be eligible for exemptions with all professional bodies, ACCA, ICAEW, CIMA, CIPFA and IFA.
(This is pending approval from professional bodies.)
If you continue with your studies at L6 at the University of Worcester and graduate with a BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance, we expect that you will be eligible to apply for exemptions from all the main accounting professional bodies: ACCA, ICAEW, CIMA, CIPFA, and IFA.
(This is pending approval from professional bodies).
112 UCAS tariff points - including GCSE English and Maths at Grade C/4 or above.
Applicants with no formal qualifications may be considered for Mature Student Entry Routes.
T Levels may be used to meet the entry tariff requirements for this course.
If you have any questions about entry requirements, please contact the Admissions Office on 01905 855111 or email admissions@worc.ac.uk for advice.
Further information about the UCAS Tariff can be obtained from the UCAS website .
All modules are mandatory.
This enables you to acquire the core knowledge and skills that you need for the rest of your degree, maximise the potential for professional body accreditation and identify specialist topics which interest you and may wish to select in Year 3.
The University places emphasis on enabling you to develop the independent learning capabilities that will equip you for lifelong learning and future employment, as well as academic achievement.
A mixture of independent study, teaching, academic support through integrated coaching and the personal academic tutoring system enables you to reflect on progress and build up a profile of skills, achievements and experiences that will enable you to flourish and be successful.
You are taught through a combination of interactive workshops, lectures, seminars, practical activities etc.
Seminars enable the discussion and development of understanding of topics covered in lectures and practical sessions are focused on developing subject specific skills.
In addition, meetings (both individual and group) with personal tutors are scheduled throughout the academic year.
If you are accepted for progression onto the BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance course there is a possible opportunity to undertake a year-long placement, which would be supervised by a work-based mentor and a university tutor.
If progressing to the BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance, there may be an alternative opportunity to study abroad at one of our exchange partner universities for a year.
BMet College and the University of Worcester place emphasis on enabling students to develop the independent learning capabilities that will equip them for lifelong learning and future employment, as well as academic achievement.
A mixture of independent study, teaching and academic support from Student Services and Library Services, and also the personal academic tutoring system enables you to reflect on progress and build up a profile of skills, achievements and experiences that will help you to flourish and be successful.
In a typical week there will be at least 12 hours of timetabled teaching in lectures, seminars and small-group work.
Typically, class contact time will be structured around:
In addition to the contact time, full-time students are expected to undertake around 24 hours of personal self-study per week, plus additional preparation for assessments and examinations.
Typically, this will involve meeting with individual tutors to discuss progress and feedback, completing online activities, reading journal articles and books, working on individual and group projects, undertaking research in the library and online.
In addition to this, students will spend time sharing ideas with fellow students, taking part in extra-curricular learning activities and engaging with external employers.
Independent learning is supported by a range of excellent learning facilities, both at BMet, where there are library and learning resource centre facilities, and at the University of Worcester at the Hive, where there are library resources and study spaces.
In addition, the virtual learning environment, and extensive electronic learning resources as well as our network of employers and entrepreneurs will support students
You will be taught by a teaching team whose expertise and knowledge are closely matched to the content of the modules on the course.
The team includes senior academics, professional practitioners with industry experience, demonstrators and technical officers.
Teaching is informed by research and consultancy, and many lecturers are members of the Accounting professional bodies.
Teaching is informed by research and consultancy work carried out by staff both at BMet and at the University of Worcester.
The assessment strategy has been designed so that:
You will receive feedback on practice assessments and on formal assessments Feedback is intended to support learning and you are encouraged to discuss it with personal academic tutors and module tutors as appropriate.
We will provide you with feedback on formal course work assessments within 20 working days of hand-in.
If you would like to see a full programme specification for this course, please email AcademicQualityTeam@worc.ac.uk
Studying accounting and finance will prepare you for a range of business careers including in accountancy or financial services, for example:
On our accounting and finance course, you'll also give you the chance to get access to work with professional accountants and finance specialists.
This means that from September 2025 the tuition fees for part-time UK and EU students on BA/BSc/LLB degrees and FdA/FdSc degrees will be £1,190.83 per 15-credit module, £1,587.77 per 20-credit module, £2,381.66 per 30-credit module, £3,175.55 per 40-credit module, £3,572.50 per 45-credit module and £4,763.32 per 60 credit module for new and continuing students.
For more details on course pages, please visit our course fees page .
Every course has day-to-day costs for basic books, stationery, printing and photocopying.
The amounts vary between courses.
If your course offers a placement opportunity, you may need to pay for an Enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service (DBS) check.
BMet does not offer any accommodation, but if you wish to progress to Level 6 at the University of Worcester you would be able to apply for university accommodation.
Please make your application via our online application forms.
If you have any questions, please contact the Admissions office on 01905 855111 or admissions@worc.ac.uk
Join the Accounting and Finance BSc course at University of Worcester.
Gain essential skills and practical experience for a successful career in finance.
Our Artificial Intelligence course prepares you for careers in the Data Scientist, Data Analyst and Administrator, and Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning fields.
Prepare to move into a career in business human resources, recruitment and selection, or management.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/courses/advanced-clinical-practice-msc:
The MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (ACP) supports registered healthcare practitioners in their continued professional development to Masters Level, focusing on their role, sector and specialist area in line with the NHSE (2025) Multi-professional Advanced Clinical Practice framework .
At the beginning of the course, students will identify their own learning needs in collaboration with their Clinical Supervisor, Manager and Personal Academic Tutor to create an individualised route through the programme that builds on their existing knowledge, skills and experience, whilst enabling achievement of competence and capability at the level of an Advanced Clinical Practitioner.
Students can choose to develop more specialist competencies (e.g.
College of Emergency Medicine ACP competencies) through the Negotiated Learning Module; or can apply to transfer existing Level 7 credits from modules congruent with their clinical specialism, through the Recognition of Prior Learning route in place of the Negotiated Learning module.
Students completing this course will be able to lead and support advanced clinical practice, facilitating change in patient and service outcomes.
The MSc Advanced Clinical Practitioner Apprenticeship (ACPA) has been designed to meet both the National Masters Degree Apprenticeship Standard and the Multi-professional Framework for Advanced Clinical Practice in England (NHSE 2025).
It offers an opportunity for health and social care employers to identify and develop expertise and talent throughout their organisations equipping practitioners with the skills, values and behaviours to develop their advanced role or innovate services.
For more information regarding the MSc ACPA Apprenticeship route, download the ACPA programme .
If you have any further enquires about the course, including the entry requirements, employer support and job requirements, please make contact via the ‘Get in Touch’ details at the bottom of this page.
Find out more about our apprenticeships at Worcester .
The objective of the programme is summarised in the West Midlands Advanced Clinical Practice (Health Education England 2015, p.15) definition and in line with the Multi-Professional framework for ACP (NHS England 2017) to develop:
‘A registered practitioner with an expert knowledge base, complex decision-making skills and clinical competencies for expanded autonomous scope of practice, the characteristics of which are shaped by the context in which the individual practices.
Demonstrable at masters’ level and meets the education, training and CPD requirements for Advanced Clinical Practice as identified within the framework’.
A virtual information session is a great opportunity to learn more about the course you are interested in, speak with lecturers, and find out what it’s really like to be a student at Worcester from the comfort of your own home.
This programme is accredited by the Centre for Advancing Practice .
After graduating from this course, you will be eligible to be listed on the Centre's Advanced Practice Directory.
"The University of Worcester understand how important Allied Healthcare Professionals are to the new NHS and have developed and delivered enjoyable, integrated and holistic learning experiences"
Marian Tucker-Martin, Lead Clinical Pharmacist
Applicants must hold professional registration with NMC/HCPC/GPhC
Applications are welcomed from nurses, midwives, pharmacists, paramedics, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, podiatrists and other allied health professionals who:
Where applicants do not hold a first degree, applications will be considered on an individual basis.
However you will be required to submit evidence of relevant experience and continued professional development.
In order to apply you will need support from your employer and to have secured funding.
Individual modules within the programme may have additional entry criteria due to the aims and learning outcomes of the module and/or due to professional body regulations.
For example the Independent and Supplementary Prescribing module has specific entry criteria.
Applicants whose first language is not English should have an IELTS of 7 overall, with no component lower than 5.5.
Students registering for the PG Cert.
or PG Diploma can request a Transfer of Studies onto the PG Diploma or MSc through Academic Registry; this must be actioned before the final Exam Board at the end of Semester 2.
If this transfer is not requested before the PG Cert or PG Diploma is awarded, students will need to reapply and will RPeL the credits into the PG Diploma or MSc.
This will affect the classification of the subsequent award as grades are not transferred, only the credits.
Optional modules (30 credits) f or those that cannot prescribe in their ACP role, from those below.
Students can only take one Negotiated Learning Module in either Semester 1 or 2
We also offer a wide selection of workshops and conferences, which are under constant review to reflect the changes in health care.
See our Professional Development Workshops & Conferences Calendar.
As a university we place great emphasis on enabling students to develop the independent learning capabilities that will equip you for lifelong learning and future employment, as well as academic achievement.
A mixture of independent study, teaching and academic support from Student Services and Library Services, and the personal academic tutoring system enables you to reflect on progress and build up a profile of skills, achievements and experiences that will help you to flourish and be successful.
Learning and teaching methods include:
You will undertake learning in your workplace and utilise specialist resources such as the clinical skills laboratory for simulated practice.
You will commence the course with a mandatory first module (MACP4001), which introduces you to Level 7 study through an exploration of Advanced Clinical Practice.
At the beginning of the programme, you will be allocated a Personal Academic Tutor who you will meet with to discuss academic progress at least once a semester.
The University places emphasis on enabling students to develop independent learning capabilities that will equip them for lifelong learning and future employment, as well as academic achievement.
A mixture of independent study, teaching and academic support from Student Services and Library Services, and also the Personal Academic Tutoring system enables students to reflect on progress and build up a profile of skills, achievements and experiences that will help them to flourish and be successful.
Part-time students can expect to have 6 hours contact time each week, however precise contact time will be dictated by the modules studied each semester.
For example:
In the final year, there is normally less contact time to allow for more independent study.
In addition to the contact time, students are expected to undertake around 6-10 hours of personal self-directed study per week.
Typically, this will involve searching for evidence, reading, making notes, practising academic writing in preparation for assessments, reflecting on development.
Independent learning is supported by a range of excellent learning facilities, including the Hive and library resources, the virtual learning environment, and extensive electronic learning resources.
Part-time over 3-6 years
Timetables are normally available one month before registration.
The course provides opportunities to test understanding and learning informally through the completion of practice or ‘formative’ assignments.
Each module has one or more formal or ‘summative’ assessment which is graded and counts towards the overall module grade.
Assessment methods include essays, assessed problem-based learning, seminars, research proposal, portfolio, research project, e-presentation, Objective Structured Clinical Examinations (OSCE), assessment of clinical competence, poster and oral presentations, exams.
The summative assessment pattern for each year of the course is typically:
If taking the Prescribing module
The team includes senior academics, and professional practitioners with clinical experience.
Postgraduate research students who have undertaken teacher training may also contribute to the teaching of seminars under the supervision of the module leader.
Teaching is informed by the research and consultancy, and nearly 85% of Nursing and Midwifery and Allied Health and Community  lecturers have a higher education teaching qualification or are Fellows of the Higher Education Academy.
You can learn more about the staff by visiting our staff profiles .
Postgraduate study will mark you out in today's competitive job market, showing that you have enhanced knowledge in this subject area, as well as highlighting your ability to analyse, communicate and apply theory - all skills which are sought after by employers.
This programme is developed in partnership with local employers and as such is closely mapped to both the needs of the student and the needs of the employer.
This ensures that you'll complete the course with specific, focused skills that are desirable to local employers and the wider health and social care community.
All of our students join the programme from practice, develop their skills and understanding through the programme and return to practice with these developed qualities and attributes tailor made to the Advanced Clinical Practitioner role and role trajectory.
As part of the journey of professional and role development we encourage students to continue on their academic journey through access to a range of higher degrees including PhD, clinical doctorate and other taught doctorates.
“Since studying the MSc Advancing Practice (Advanced Clinical Practice) at the University of Worcester, I have transitioned from an Emergency Department Sister, to an independent Advanced Nurse Practitioner in Emergency Medicine.
“This course has furthered my career, and changed my outlook towards clinical practice and research.
I have developed the skills to initiate a new service, and develop clinical pathways, and am now mentoring future Advanced Nurse Practitioners.”
Louise Buckle, Advanced Nurse Practitioner
“I did the MSc not only to improve my knowledge and skills but also to improve patient care.
“Completing the Masters has had a huge impact upon my practice at work.
The non-medical prescribing and advanced health assessment skills have added to the wealth of clinical experience gained in the past.
As a result more nursing-led clinics have been developed locally.
Historically patients had to travel 140 mile round trip for some services which are now provided locally at Redditch.”
Lynn Dale, Respiratory Specialist Practitioner
Amy Turton works as a learning disability (RNLD) nurse with Herefordshire and Worcestershire Health and Care NHS Trust.
She has completed a Masters in Advanced Clinical Practice at the University.
“I have been supported and pushed massively outside of my comfort zone and this has enabled me to advance my skills and practice as a learning disability nurse in ways that I never imagined possible.
I am proud of the new skills I have developed and how much I have learnt.
Amy said she now hopes to continue to learn and grow within advanced practice and will be exploring a more active role in research, particularly linked to the population of people who have a learning disability.
Read Amy’s full case study here.
The standard tuition fees for part-time home and EU students enrolling on MA/MSc/MBA/MRes/PGCert/PGDip courses in the academic year 2025/26 are £788 per 15-credit module, £1,575 per 30-credit module, £2,363 per 45-credit module, and £3,150 per 60 credit module.
The standard tuition fees for part-time international students enrolling on MA/MSc/MBA/MRes courses in the academic year 2025/26 are £1,492 per 15-credit module, £2,983 per 30-credit module, £4,475 per 45-credit module, and £5,967 per 60 credit module.
The Government will provide a loan of up to £12,471 if your course starts on or after 1 August 2024 per eligible student for postgraduate Masters study.
It will be at your own discretion whether the loan is used towards fees, maintenance or other costs.
For more details visit our postgraduate loans page .
Please make your application via our online application forms below.
As part of the application you will need upload the following as supporting evidence:
Before completing the application form please read our Advancing Practice application guidance .
Individual modules
There are 3 exit points within the course if you are unsure of committing to the full MSc:
The PGCert Enhanced Clinical Practitioner is designed for experienced health and care professionals looking to advance their critical thinking, clinical reasoning, and leadership skills.
We welcome applications to undertake research towards Midwifery MPhil and Midwifery PhD degrees.
This shorted Midwifery MSc programme enables Registered Nurses (Adult) to complete a shortened curriculum leading to registration as an NMC registered midwife.
We welcome applications to undertake research towards Nursing MPhil and Nursing PhD degrees.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/courses/allied-health-studies-mphilphd:
Research at Worcester has grown significantly in the last 10 years as the University itself has expanded.
As a research student you will join a vibrant student community in our Research School and become part of our dynamic research environment.
The School of Health and Wellbeing has a strong mix of academics with a high degree of professional and personal experience, enabling you to get the most out of your programme.
Our staff cover a broad range of Allied Health Disciplines including Occupational Therapy, Physiotherapy, Nutritional Therapy, Paramedics, Physicians Associates, Social Work, Mental Health Health and Social Care.
There are three research centres within the School that have specific interest in supporting research programmes in 1) Mental Health and mood disorders, 2) Dementia Studies and 3) Wellbeing and Activity.
First or Upper Second Class Honours Degree or an approved equivalent award
Postgraduate Masters Degree in a discipline which is appropriate to the proposed programme of study
International applicants will be required to demonstrate that they have the appropriate level of written and spoken English.
For MPhil/PhD this is an IELTS score of 6.5 with a minimum score of 6.0 in every component.
After receiving your application, we try to establish if we have the necessary expertise to supervise your project and we begin to form a supervisory team for you.
This will normally consist of a Director of Studies (DoS), who will be your lead supervisor, and at least one other supervisor, who will offer you additional support and guidance throughout your studies.
If, following a successful interview, you are offered a place as a full-time student, your programme of study will look something like this:
You will have submitted a draft research outline with your application.
In your first year, you will be working towards submitting a more complete research proposal.
You will be aided in your research by meeting with your supervisory team to discuss your progress.
You will also be supported through your first year by engaging with a series of three modules as part of our Researcher Development Programme:
At the end of each year, beginning with your first year, you will reflect on and formally review your progress with your supervisory team and MPhil/PhD Course Leader.
We call this annual meeting an Annual Progress Review (APR).
In your second year, you will be collecting data and working on your research project under the supervision of your supervisors through regular meetings.
You may at this point have research papers ready to publish and you may wish to attend conferences to present your research to other experts in your field.
You will be able to apply to our Research Student Support Scheme for some funding for this purpose.
Students normally undergo Transfer from MPhil to PhD towards the end of their second year.
This will be part of your Annual Progress Review for this year.
In your third and fourth year, you will be writing up your thesis and preparing for your viva voce examination.
This is an oral exam with two examiners and a chair.
You can also request that your supervisor be present at the exam.
The exam will take place after you have submitted your final thesis.
After the exam, it is not unusual for the examiners to ask that some amendments be made to your thesis before the final award is confirmed and you will have additional time to do this.
It is possible to complete the course in three years, but we have found that the majority of students do take four years to complete the course.
At the end of each year of your registration, you will go through an Annual Progress Review.
Access to the University of Worcester’s virtual resources and its state-of-the-art library facilities.
The Allied Health Studies team at Worcester have an excellent range of resources available to support your learning and your research project, including Ability House, which includes state-of-the-art assistive technology equipment, McClelland Wellbeing Centre, Simulation Suites and excellent partnerships with local Trusts, Health Services and Social Care Services.
Part time students follow the same structure as full-time students but normally complete the PhD over a period of five to six years.
Part-time students take two modules in each of their first two years, and will normally transfer to PhD in their fourth year.
Professor Eleanor Bradley Expertise: adult mental health; medicines conversations (information-exchange, concordance); family input and support (shared decision making, coproduction); non-medical prescribing; qualitative research; health psychology.
Dr Helen Frank Expertise: student experience, disability, practice education and pedagogy; qualitative methodologies.
Dr Katherine Gordon-Smith Expertise: comorbidities (physical and psychiatric) of major mood disorders; quantitative methods, longitudinal mood measures in bipolar disorder.
Professor Lisa Jones Expertise: aetiology of major mood disorders (including bipolar disorder and postpartum psychosis); quantitative methods, longitudinal measures in major mood disorders.
Dr Dez Kyte Expertise: physiotherapy: musculoskeletal conditions of the upper and lower limb, Patient-Reported Outcomes (PROMs): development, validation, routine symptom monitoring, clinical trials.
Dr Kostas Papadopoulos Expertise: Musculoskeletal Conditions of Upper and Lower Limb; Validation and Cultural adaption of Patient-Reported Outcome Measures; Sports Injuries.
All students engage with our Researcher Development Programme (RDP).
The RDP aims to develop and enhance the skills, both generic and specific, that you will need to complete your research degree but also to become an effective researcher.
The RDP is organised around thematic clusters, consisting of modules, and workshops, delivered face-to-face by subject specialists from across the University and the dedicated Researcher Development Team, or online through our virtual learning environment.
As part of the RDP, you will complete a Postgraduate Certificate in Research Methods (PG Cert).
All students must complete the PG Cert in order to progress on their MPhil/PhD Programme.
The PG Cert is strongly focused on developing your programme of research, starting from establishing your development needs, and preparing you for the planning and subsequent delivery of your programme of research.
Full-time students will complete the PG Cert in 12 months and part-time students in 24 months.
The current fees can be found within the tuition fees document on our figure out finances page .
Finding the right accommodation is paramount to your university experience.
Our halls of residence are home to friendly student communities, making them great places to live and study.
We have over 1,000 rooms across our range of student halls.
With rooms to suit every budget and need, from our 'Traditional Halls' at £131 per week to 'Ensuite Premium Halls' at £228 per week (2025/26 prices).
For full details visit our accommodation page .
Please make your application via our online application form.
If you have any questions, please contact the Doctoral School on 01905 542182 or research@worc.ac.uk
Please see guidance on Applying for an MPhil or Applying for a PhD to include application and interview deadlines.
If your research involves working with vulnerable adults and/or children then you may be required to obtain an Enhanced DBS check.
There will be a small charge for this.
For more information please contact research@worc.ac.uk .
We are committed to making reasonable adjustment.
If you require an alternative format for making your application due to a disability, please contact us to discuss your needs on 01905 542182 or research@worc.ac.uk .
Our Criminology Masters degree enables you to develop knowledge on your chosen topic.
Learn from internationally recognised experts on international modern history.
This Masters course is perfect for managers and HR professionals who want to apply different psychological approaches to their work and take their career to the next level.
This MSc is open to those who have an interest in counselling, for further development towards professional training in counselling or clinical psychology.
We welcome applications to undertake research towards MPhil and PhD degrees in Dementia Studies.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/courses/animal-biology-mphilphd:
The Animal Biology team at Worcester have an excellent range of resources available to support your learning and your research project, including a number of laboratories equipped with a range of analytical equipment, a wildlife and conservation area and a greenhouse, access to a Motion Research Laboratory, access to a horse livery yard, a pool of eminent visiting lecturers, and a selection of skeletons.
Dr Kate Ashbrook Expertise: behavioural ecology; ecological modelling; population monitoring and conservation management.
Dr Chris Brown Expertise: animal biology (especially birds); animal behaviour, animal physiology, ostrich biology
Dr Susanne Prankel Expertise: veterinary medicine, animal behaviour, animal welfare , ethics in the veterinary field; canine hydrotherapy and animal movement; cadmium in the environment and the human food chain; use of drama in science education.
We welcome applications to undertake research towards MPhil and PhD degrees.
We welcome applications to undertake research towards MPhil and PhD degrees in Ecology.
We welcome applications to undertake research towards MPhil and PhD degrees in Environmental Sciences/Studies.
We welcome applications to undertake research towards MPhil and PhD degrees in Human Biology.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/courses/animation-joint-honours:
Animation at university breathes life into the once static form; a sequence of drawings, a computer mesh, or even sand on a lightbox.
The possibilities are only limited by your imagination.
At Worcester you can set your animated spirit free.
Enjoy three years of specialist training and personal creative development, with a dedicated course for the independent animator, tailored to individual aims.
104 UCAS tariff points (for example, BCC at A Level).
The normal minimum entry requirement for undergraduate degree courses is the possession of 4 GCSEs (Grade C/4 or above) and a minimum of 2 A Levels (or equivalent Level 3 qualifications).
Find out more about T levels as UCAS tariff points here.
Further information about the UCAS Tariff can be obtained from http://www.ucas.com
Want to know why so many students love living and studying in Worcester?
Our Open Days are the perfect way to find out.
The modules for this course are currently being reviewed and updated for 2026 entry.
Full details will be available on this page soon.
"The course at Worcester expanded my understanding of animation, helped me realise my potential, gave me creativity, purpose and focus, and helped me define my career."
Richard Smith, 3rd year Animation, Intern at Aardman
Animation at Worcester encompasses 2D traditional and digital animation as well as 3D CGI for animation and film.
Students also gain skills in editing, sound, compositing, concept art and creative concept generation.
The course thus aims to offer you the realistic prospect of graduating as a competent practitioner in all areas of this still developing discipline.
Alongside placing strong emphasis on nurturing your practice as an animator, it supports you to gain solid, foundational understanding of relevant history and theory.
It integrates live projects into year-long modules of study to enable you to experience real, studio-based production in support of your preparation for professional work.
You are taught through a combination of interactive workshops, lectures, and Studio practices.
Studio practices focus on developing subject specific skills that is applied to individual and group project work.
A range of tutor-directed tasks and further reading will serve to structure your independent study and prepare you to undertake the major project that is to be assessed.
Structured individual tutorial support will be available to all students in order to provide feedback on the set tasks and to assist with planning and organisation of the main project.
In addition, meetings with personal academic tutors are scheduled on at least 4 occasions in the first year and three occasions in each of the other years of a course.
You have an opportunity to undertake a semester long placement in the second year of the course, supervised for agreed projects by a work-based mentor and a University tutor.
You use industry-standard design software and have access to computer suits as well as animation studios facilities throughout the course.
In addition to this specialist hardware such as lightboxes, Wacom tablets and cameras are available to you through the stores and our in house booking system.
In a typical week you will have around four teaching sessions adding up to 15-16 contact hours of teaching.
The precise contact hours will depend on the optional modules selected and in the final year you will normally have slightly less contact time in order to do more independent study.
Typically contact time will be structured around:
In year two 4 days per week will be spent in placement for one semester
In addition to the contact time, you are expected to undertake around 22 hours of personal self-study per week.
Typically, this will translate into time practicing, researching and preparing for sessions; this will help develop your understanding and engagement with the module.
Guidance on readings, lecture notes and video tutorial will be provided on Virtual learning environment as appropriate.
Animation studios and specialist resources are also available through advance booking to aid independent learning.
The course provides opportunities to test understanding and learning informally through the completion of practice or 'formative' assignments.
Each module has one or more formal or 'summative' assessments which are graded and count towards the overall module grade.
Assessment methods include a range of coursework assessments such as reports, portfolios, presentations and a final year production project.
The precise assessment requirements for an individual student in an academic year will vary according to the mandatory and optional modules taken.
You will receive feedback on practice assessments and on formal assessments undertaken by coursework.
Feedback is intended to support learning and you are encouraged to discuss it with personal academic tutors and module tutors as appropriate.
We aim to provide feedback on formal course work assessments within 20 working days of hand-in.
Teaching is informed by the research and consultancy, and all of the course lecturers have a higher education teaching qualification or are Fellows of the Higher Education Academy.
Animation Course Leader Omid became a university lecturer after working as a freelance illustrator.
Omid's research activity is diverse, ranging from heritage visualisation to participation in the making of independent films.
His interest centres on the question of character, with character design and animation having informed the bulk of his work.
Sam Moore’s An Eyeful of Sound , the latest film on which he has worked, adopts a non character-based approach in an emotive attempt to engage audiences with the condition of synaesthesia.
Jaime Pardo is an animator, director and educator with over 15 years’ professional animation experience.
During this time, he produced a wide variety of projects including children’s television series, commercials, pop promos, natural history series and short films.
Over the years he has won many awards including the BBC Talent New Animation Award and his short films have been screened at renowned international festivals including Annecy, Stuttgart and Encounters.
In addition to developing your capabilities as an animator, our animation course will enable you to develop a wide range of transferable skills, from research and critical thinking, to problem-solving, to communication and negotiation.
You will find career opportunities not only in production, but also in the games industry, television motion graphics, compositing, visual effects and independent filmmaking.
Our graduates have gone on to be employed in Bristol (Aardman, Off The Fence), London (Salmagundi Films, ILM), Leeds (MADE television) and Edinburgh (Rockstar Games), as well as games and post production companies in Europe.
Our Graduates pursue exciting and diverse careers in a wide variety of employment sectors.
Please visit the individual joint honours course pages for links to UCAS:
Train with world-renowned contemporary artists and explore your creativity in contemporary circus practice through physical theatre.
Study Creative Writing at Worcester and explore a wide range of dynamic and stimulating modes of writing and creative expression.
Dance and Performance is a unique course in which you explore new ways of working with the creative arts.
Accredited by the College of Policing, our Professional Policing degree prepares you for rewarding roles in the police and in the criminal justice system

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/courses/applied-criminology-ma:
Criminology is a thriving subject at the University of Worcester, with academics drawing from a range of disciplines including Sociology, Law and Psychology.
You will be joining a welcoming community of peers and colleagues who will support and encourage you to succeed in your endeavours.
The MA in Applied Criminology dynamically integrates theory and practice embracing both learning in the classroom and in placement settings.
The course encompasses a range of service user groups, and every effort is made to involve service users, carers, practitioners, and managers from across the criminal justice arena in the learning experience.
This course will provide you with opportunities to develop your specialist interests with the variety of assessments, unique work placements and the opportunity to conduct an extended research project on a relevant topic that you are passionate about.
This course has been designed for those who are ready to apply their current knowledge to a practical field, and to increase their knowledge and skills further so they can take the next step in their career.
This course is also desirable for those who currently work in the criminal justice sector who would like to gain an MA in their field.
My name is Liam, and after having done 3 years of an undergraduate degree in Single (hons) Criminology, I thought that the MA Applied Criminology was the logical next step!
With an interest in rehabilitation and a chance to work directly with vulnerable clients, this master's degree allows me to work with Change Grow Live in a probation setting, which will allow me gain crucial experience I need to thrive in the future that I could not get anywhere else.
Following this masters, I aim to use the experience to work in a rehabilitation setting or probation.
I’d previously studied undergraduate Criminology at the University of Worcester and thoroughly enjoyed the course.
The support that I’d received from the department team made it a pleasurable learning experience.
I wanted to continue studying Criminology at a higher level and also develop my professional skills alongside this which is why I decided to apply for the masters.
I’m looking forward to developing myself as a professional individual and to further my criminological knowledge with support from the department team and my internship provider which is with the police as this will expose me to the career I want to follow.
I recently graduated from my degree in Criminology and went on to apply for the probation service which is my dream job.
Even though I have valid qualifications and knowledge I am lacking experience, so I was not recruited.
Completing the MA in Applied Criminology will help me apply everything I have learned over the last three years in a real life setting and support my professional skills.
I am looking forward to the risk management module on this course and with Amy Johnson’s (course leader) advice and support I have landed myself a role at HMP Birmingham for my internship.
HMP Birmingham is mainly a remand prison so it will be different people I see on a regular basis and my job is to work with small numbers of the prisoners delivering workshops with them to keep their engagement but also teach them skills that they will need upon release.
I recently graduated from the University of Worcester where I studied Criminology with Policing and achieved a 1:1 degree.
I chose the MA Applied Criminology at Worcester because the staff are organised and very good at helping me with any queries or problems I have.
Furthermore, I wanted to gain experience within the CJS field.
I felt this wasn't going to be possible without completing a masters where they give me this experience.
I am currently stationed at West Mercia Police at Hindlip Hall as part of the Crime Analyst team.
Prospective students will normally be required to have:
A first degree gained at a 2:1 or above (or equivalent) in a similar subject discipline e.g., Criminology, Law, Psychology, Sociology or policing
Any first degree gained at 2:2 or above with a relevant professional qualification and experience, including but not exclusively, Social Work, Police, Probation, Health and Education
Significant experience of working within a criminal justice sector (i.e., substance use, youth support, courts etc.)
Applicants who have obtained a 2:2 are encouraged to talk to the course leader as decisions will be made on an individual basis and contextual offers can be made.
Those with significant experience of working within the criminal justice area, but without a first degree or professional qualification, will need to evidence through Recognition of Prior Learning procedures how their knowledge and experience demonstrates their potential to meet the programme requirements, which includes meeting the academic requirements of the programme, the ability to communicate effectively and an appropriate understanding of the criminal justice system in the UK.
The Admissions team will provide further guidance.
You will also be required to provide and pay for an Enhanced DBS check prior to placements on this course, which we advise you apply for as soon as possible, to avoid placement delays and to ensure this is transferable between organisations.
It is the student's responsibility to ensure this is in place before commencing on placement.
Successful candidates will be required to complete the University's suitability documentation and an occupational health check as well as obtain an enhanced DBS statement.
Applicants will be required to attend an interview as part of the application process.
Interviews will be in person, unless otherwise specified.
The Lucy Faithfull Foundation is a UK-wide child protection charity that works to stop child sexual abuse.
They protect children by working with people who pose a sexual risk and diverting them from causing harm.
They support individuals and families who have been affected by abuse, and help professionals who work with families to create safer environments for children.
Maggs Day Centre operates through two open-door day centres in Worcester and Malvern alongside an outreach team that aims to ‘engage the unengaged’.
Working with the most complex individuals who might not be aware of, or confident enough to access our services.
There is also an Accommodation Project and Clothing Project, both of which are an integral stepping stones in the journey of those who are sleeping rough or are building confidence to re-enter society.
An organisation that supports practitioners from all sectors, navigate the ever evolving and complex safeguarding landscape.
At Safer Together they recognise that children, families and adults are presenting with multi-faceted risks and vulnerabilities – something which can be both overwhelming for practitioners to respond to at both strategic and operational levels.
Safer Together provides expert consultancy, training and support, as well as seeking to be a voice for the voiceless.
Anawim brings people together from a range of communities and backgrounds to help women understand the impact of their trauma, and to begin the healing process by overcoming obstacles and learning how to move forward to a brighter future for themselves and their families.
Not only do they provide a tailored package of support for women through a variety of interventions, but their caseworkers also understand how to deal with the complexities involved in helping women find work, improve their wellbeing, resolve health issues or access the services they need.
West Mercia Police provides policing services to the areas of Herefordshire, Shropshire, Telford and the Wrekin and Worcestershire.
The police force area covers 2,860 square miles in the west of England.
The role of the Police and Crime Commissioner (PCC) is to be the voice of the people and hold the police to account.
They are responsible for the totality of policing.
PCCs aim to cut crime and deliver an effective and efficient police service within their police force area.
Change, Grow, Live help with challenges including drugs or alcohol, trouble with housing, domestic abuse, or your mental and physical wellbeing.
Our services are free and confidential.
1 in 4 women in the UK will experience domestic abuse at some point in their lives.
WMWA works for a world that is free from domestic abuse and violence against women and girls, where everyone can live without the fear and reality of all forms of violence, abuse and discrimination.
YSS stands for “Your Support Services (YSS)”.
They are committed to helping young people and adults overcome adversity, and enabling them to achieve independence.
The Drive Project is an innovative domestic abuse intervention that aims to reduce the number of child and adult victims by disrupting and changing perpetrator behaviour.
The project focuses on high-risk, high-harm and/or serial perpetrators, as this group carries the greatest risk of serious harm, and engagement with available services is low.
Drive implements a whole-system approach using intensive case management alongside a coordinated multi-agency response, working closely with victim services, the police, probation, children’s social services, housing, substance misuse and mental health teams.
CRMN4700 - 60 credits at Level 7 (Mandatory)
The dissertation module provides students with the opportunity to work on a suitable subject of their own choice and to utilise the techniques developed in the applied research module.
An MA dissertation is designed to assess a student's ability to define a researchable thesis in the light of past and current academic research, that is underpinned by a theoretical lens.
Students need to demonstrate a capacity for independent thought and to use their critical and analytical abilities, including the use of appropriate research methods, in the interpretation of a substantial quantity of relevant material (empirical and theoretical).
The dissertation will follow a primary data approach, where students must collect their own data.
It is expected the write up of the dissertation will meet publication standards, and students will present their work at a postgraduate conference.
Students will carefully select data collection methods based on ethical processes and a structured research proposal consideration all ethical considerations and challenges that may rise.
CRMN4701 - 30 credits at Level 7 (Mandatory)
This module aims to enable students to contextualise the theories, principles and concepts learnt during the master’s programme and apply these in a real-world setting.
Students will spend 2 days a week throughout their masters study with an organisation in the criminal justice field.
Through completion of this module, students will demonstrate qualities and transferable skills necessary for employment including the ability to exercise initiative and personal responsibility, to engage in decision making in dynamic contexts and to critically evaluate and synthesise complex information.
Students will also demonstrate the learning ability needed to undertake appropriate further training of a professional or equivalent nature.
CRMN4702 - 15 credits at Level 7 (Mandatory)
This module aims to consolidate undergraduate research abilities, and equip the student with the skills necessary to undertake Masters level research.
It is one of the core modules in the course and underpins the dissertation module.
Within this overall context the course has three specific objectives:
CRMN4703 - 15 credits at Level 7 (Mandatory)
This module is designed to provide students with a thorough grounding in the underpinning theory and methods of risk assessment and risk management utilised within criminal justice settings.
This module includes the holistic (physical, psychological and social) assessment and management of people with personality disorder and/or challenging behaviour in settings where offenders will be present (i.e., police custody/ prison service/ psychiatric wards etc.).
The concepts of risk will be explored in this module, including risk to self, others and vulnerability; risk of suicide and self-harm will be a particular area of focus.
Several different risk assessment tools and strategies to assess people will be explored.
The skills necessary to assess problems including offenders’ motivation for change and understanding of intervention will be practised.
CRMN4704 - 15 credits at Level 7 (Mandatory)
This module allows students to explore contemporary debates surrounding crime and criminal justice.
Students will connect with the academic and practical implications of broader justice issues to formulate their own understanding of the impact of social, political, and cultural contexts.
Through the focus of current affairs and public narratives (both academic and societal), this module offers a flexible approach to debating central topics within the wider discipline of Criminology.
CRMN4705 - 15 credits at Level 7 (Mandatory)
This module will explore, in depth, the challenges which arise when investigating complex crime and how these challenges can sometimes de-rail an investigation, for example, case investigative failings, accusations of bias and discrimination in aspects of investigations, challenges to poor practice and/or effectiveness in specific types of investigations (i.e., rape, domestic abuse, volume crime).
This module seeks to enhance students understanding of modern complexities and challenges within criminal investigations and offers flexibility to encompass issues that arise in a constantly changing landscape.
The module will consider aspects of case investigations of child abuse, child death investigation, and sexual offences in relation to children, vulnerable adults and others.
CRMN4706 - 15 credits at Level 7 (Mandatory)
It is important to amplify the voices of those with lived experience and as such, a diversity of individuals with lived experience as ‘experts by experience’ will support the delivery of this module.
The university has its own lived experience group (IMPACT) and will provide their input across the module, encouraging students to consider what’s important to service-users, helping in the development of project service-user facing materials, data analysis, synthesis and framework development, report writing, and dissemination.
Sharing lived experiences and knowledge, the guest speakers and students explore the pillars of welfare education, housing, employment, health and social security in relation to crime and criminal justice.
CRMN4707 - 15 credits at Level 7 (Mandatory)
This module is designed to assist students in the development of their leadership and interpersonal skills to support with both their practical placement and future employment endeavours.
Students are supported through structured lectures to build a foundational and theoretical understanding of the importance of leadership and interpersonal skills in the context of Criminological practice.
This learning will then be transferred into practical weekly workshops.
The University places emphasis on enabling students to develop the independent learning capabilities that will equip you for lifelong learning and future employment, as well as academic achievement.
You are taught through a combination of interactive workshops, lectures, and seminars.
Seminars enable the discussion and development of understanding of topics covered in lectures and are focused on developing subject specific skills and applied individual and group project work.
Practice-based learning across the  provides direct experience of working with individuals associated with the criminal justice sector and within professional teams.
In addition, meetings with personal academic tutors are scheduled on at least four occasions throughout your course.
You will also receive monthly supervision as part of your placement module, with regular supervision from your host organisation (this will differ between organisations).
Your programme comprises seven taught modules with teaching and learning activities running across three semesters, and a dissertation.
Full time students (starting in September) complete all seven taught modules across two semesters, plus the dissertation within a third semester in one academic year (12 months).
In addition to this, you will be engaged in independent learning (assessment preparation for taught modules and dissertation planning/supervision sessions).
It is expected you will undertake around 12 hours of personal self-study per week if you are a full-time student.
Part time students are expected to undertake around 6 hours of personal self-study per week.
In total, it is expected that as a full-time student you will be spending 37 hours per week engaged in study and placement.
As a part time student, you will select which modules and how many you want to complete in each year, with your dissertation in the final year.
Alongside the taught component of this course, you will be required to engage with a placement that is 72 days in length.
Broken down, this equates to you attending placement twice a week across all three semesters.
In addition to the contact time, you are expected to undertake around 12 hours of personal self-study per week if you are a full-time student.
Typically, this will involve completing online activities, reading journal articles and books, working on individual and group projects, undertaking research in the library and online, preparing coursework assignments and presentations, and preparing for examinations.
Independent learning is supported by a range of excellent learning facilities, including The Hive and library resources, the virtual learning environment, and extensive electronic learning resources.
Please note that whilst we try to be as student-friendly as possible, scheduled teaching can take place on any day of the week; and some classes can be scheduled in the evenings.
Each module has one formal or ‘summative’ assessments which are graded and count towards the overall module grade.
Assessment methods include written examinations and a range of coursework assessments such as essays, reports, portfolios, performance, presentations and a final year independent studies project.
The precise assessment requirements for an individual student in an academic year will vary according to the modules taken, but some examples of assessments include:
Feedback on examination performance is available upon request from the module leader.
We aim to provide you with feedback on formal course work assessments within 20 working days of hand-in.
You will be taught by a highly qualified and experienced teaching team whose expertise and knowledge are closely matched to the content of the modules on the course.
Most teaching is directly related to the research and publications of the lecturers and 66 per cent of course lecturers have a higher education teaching qualification or are Fellows of the Higher Education Academy.
Amy is a Senior Lecturer in Criminology at the University of Worcester, where she manages and oversees all undergraduate and postgraduate criminology programmes.
Amy has worked with a wide range of client groups across criminal justice and support services, bringing a person-centred, empathetic approach to both practice and pedagogy.
Courtney is a Lecturer in Criminology having joined the University of Worcester in 2021 as an Associate Lecturer.
She obtained her LLB (Hons) in Law (2017), followed by an MA in Criminology (2019), both from The University of Nottingham.
Courtney also completed a Post Graduate Certificate in Learning and Teaching in Higher Education in 2024.
Courtney is currently studying for her PhD in Criminology at The University of Nottingham, researching environmental harm and regulation.
Isabel has a background in the heritage sector and has specialised in the relationship between interpretations of history and racism in contemporary society.
She brings her knowledge of societal inequality, social justice, symbolism, politics and ideology, and the influence of popular culture to the subject of Criminology.
Isabel enjoys researching cultural conflict, social justice movements, reactionary politics and legacies of colonialism.
Dr Mikahil Sulaiman Azad is a Lecturer in Criminology, where he has taught since September 2023, leading several undergraduate and postgraduate modules.
Mikahil’s primary research area is Islamophobia and understanding the experiences of British Muslim communities using a multi-disciplinary approach.
His other research interests include honour-based abuse, structural inequalities and experiences in higher education.
Mikahil’s doctoral thesis centred on understanding mosque safety which involved applying ethnographic methodologies.
Outside of the classroom, he works closely with the community, stakeholders, and wider academic spaces informing them of prominent criminological issues and recommending strategies/safeguards.
Mikahil is open to doctoral supervision for the following topics, which aligns with his research areas –
Matthew is Programme Director MSc Occupational Psychology (BPS Accredited), MSc Business Psychology.
His research interests include the influence of psychopathic traits on career development; personnel selection assessment and training; and police use of firearms.
Michael worked as a Probation Officer for almost ten years, in prison and community settings, including hostels, ‘Unpaid Work’, Divorce Court Welfare, group work, supervision, and pre-sentence report writing.
He received the Butler Trust Award for my prison based work with male victims of sexual abuse.
Felix is a HCPC registered health and occupational psychologist.
His research interests are personality and individual differences in health and occupational outcomes and interventions in behavioural change.
He teaches in the undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in research methods and statistics, personality, health, and occupational psychology.
You will develop a range of skills on this course that should have an immediate and positive impact on your professional role.
For those who would like to start working in the areas of criminal justice, your increased knowledge and skill set should prepare you for future job applications in the arena.
For those already working in this sector, you will enhance your ability to critically reflect on your professional practice and make valuable contributions to service improvement.
The standard tuition fee for full-time home and EU students enrolling on MA/MSc/MBA/MRes courses in the academic year 2025/26 is £9,450 per year.
Every course has day-to-day costs for essential books, stationery, printing and photocopying.
As part of the course you will need to travel to placements and will therefore need to pay any associated costs.
You may be able to reclaim these travel expenses depending on your individual circumstances.
If you are interested in applying for this course please begin by making an application below:
We welcome applications to undertake research towards an MPhil in Psychology or PhD in Psychology.
This is a unique opportunity for you to work with national and international experts in Sociology, and to develop yourself as an expert in the field.
We welcome applications to undertake research towards MPhil and PhD degrees in Allied Health Studies.

New sentences found on https://worcester.ac.uk/courses/applied-health-social-care-ba-hons-top-up-degree:
Designed for those working in health and social care with a foundation degree, diploma or equivalent; this dynamic and multi-disciplinary course will help progress your career and become ‘agents of change’ for the future.
UCAS Code: 5L28
At Worcester you’ll learn from our team of experts across a broad range of disciplines.
This accredited course will also provide you with a Chartered Management Institute (CMI) Award in Equality, Diversity and Inclusion and a CMI Certificate in Management and Leadership, which will help you progress your career.
for graduate prospects in health studies
for student satisfaction in health studies
This course has been mapped for dual accreditation with the Chartered Management Institute (CMI).
You will be awarded a CMI Level 5 Certificate in Management and Leadership , in addition to your degree, upon the successful completion of the entire degree.
During your studies, you will also benefit from associate membership to the CMI (at no extra cost), inclusive of an interactive induction session hosted by the CMI, as well as access to the CMI's digital library, resources, and employability skills audit.
This course provides students practising at all levels, including existing and aspiring managers, with a developmental route such as Registered Manager in social care.
This course will enhance your existing qualifications by gaining the knowledge and skills to critique and engage with current developments within the sector.
Building on your knowledge of person-centred care, you will explore issues of inclusion and diversity; community empowerment, substance misuse; mental health and the management of change.
You’ll explore fairness, health and social issues, ethics and cultural, political and economic issues, and how these impact care provision.
With support from your lecturers, you'll learn how to critically investigate opportunities to provide support or intervention in improving health and/or welfare outcomes, and advocate for the person-centred approach, where the patient is at the centre of all care related decisions.
The course is designed to set you up for lifelong learning and continuous career development.
Over the years, our graduates represent a broad range of practice settings and have commitment to the promotion and maintenance of human dignity, as well as the ability to thrive in an increasingly dynamic and challenging workplace.
Throughout the course you’ll also develop your academic and transferable skills, increasing your confidence and professional growth.
By the time you graduate, you’ll be an adaptable, forward-thinking practitioner who can make an increasingly positive impact on the communities you serve.
Through timetabled lectures, seminars and independent study; you’ll explore the depths of person-centred care throughout the life course before developing your own research through your dissertation.
Optional modules and projects will help you focus on your specialist interests throughout the course.
Reflective practice will be encouraged and built into personal development as you progress through the course.
You’ll be able to track your progress, and craft strategies for progressing your career and practice.
Dissertation
Person Centred Care for Practice
Empowering Diverse Communities for Change
​​Managing Change in Health and Social Care Practice
Understanding Domestic Abuse
Substance Misuse
Contemporary Issues in Mental Health
Promoting Child and Adolescent Mental Health in Universal Settings
Empowering and Involving Children & Young People; Children and Young People’s Rights
This top-up degree will support your career progression and enable you to stay up to date with current practice.
Once you’ve completed the course, you’ll have the confidence and relevant research knowledge to advocate for others and progress into leadership roles and implement policy.
You could also progress onto post-graduate study, such as professional courses like MA Social Work , PG Cert Mental Health Practitioner and MSc Nutrition and Lifestyle Medicine .
Examples of areas graduates have progressed into after completing a top-up degree are:
"Thank you to you all for your help and encouragement over the past academic year.
I feel I have gained a great deal from my time at university both academically and personally."
This course requires just one day on campus each week, making it easy to balance study with your work and personal commitments.
When off campus, you can access tutor support and library services online, ensuring you have the support and resources you need, wherever you are.
Through a combination of independent study, engaging teaching, and personalised support from our academics, you’ll have the opportunity to reflect on your progress and develop a strong portfolio of skills, achievements, and experiences that will empower you to thrive and develop your career within health and social care.
Teaching is tailored to support your development of knowledge, skills and attitudes through a mix of lectures, seminars, group work, case studies and practical based working.
Your personal reflection will play a key role in supporting your progress, and deepening your understanding of how to critically analyse research and evidence.
We will also consider applicants from non-standard entry routes.
We encourage applications from candidates who can provide evidence of their ability to work at Level 6 and substantial experience of working within health, care or social welfare.
If your qualification is not listed, please contact our Admissions team for advice.
If English is not your first language you will need to show that you have language skills at IELTS level 6.0 (with no skill below 5.5) or equivalent.
For country specific
information see our international student pages .
If you will be over the age of 21 at the beginning of your undergraduate study, you are considered a mature student .
At Worcester this means our offer may be different, taking into account any work or life experiences you have, alongside any qualifications you hold.
If you’re unsure whether you meet certain requirements you can email our admission team admissions@worc.ac.uk or contact the course Admissions Tutor.
I chose the Applied Health and Social Care Top-up course as I thoroughly enjoyed completing the Health and Social Care FdSc.
I wasn’t entirely sure which area in Health and Social Care I wanted to specify in, however, I knew my passion was to support and help others.
Choosing this course was perfect for studying contemporary issues within Health and Social Care.
It is an interesting course with a variety of teaching, visitors and study time which was a good balance for my work, study and home life.
The course was supportive and interesting throughout and perfect for my current role as a Wellbeing Coach for Worcester Primary Care Network.
This role involves supporting people with low-level mental health conditions using a variety of self-help, healing strategies and techniques, many learnt from this course.
Completing this course has branched my career and future options to continue studying in many different avenues.
In the future, I hope to return to studying to complete a Diploma in Counselling to become a qualified Counsellor.
This strengthens my ability to support people in healing and overcoming trauma.
I chose the Applied Health and Social Care Top-up course following enjoying my time studying with Worcester for my Mental Health FdSc.
I knew I was passionate about helping people, but didn’t yet know the specific branch of Health and Social Care that I wanted to work in, as it is such a diverse sector.
The course was supportive, friendly and most importantly interesting, with modules reflecting what is important in current practice.
I am now working as a Wellbeing Coach, a branch of Social Prescribing, through a local Worcester based charity.
This role involves helping people with low-level mental ill health via psycho education and evidence-based self-help techniques.
I have the lecturers on this course to thank for this, as they arranged guest speakers from different organisations, helping to inspire and raise awareness of roles I had never heard of- including the role I am now practicing as!
In the future I hope to return to Worcester to enrol on the Psychology MSc, in order to aid my practice and further enrich my understanding of mental health.
I chose this course because, at the time, I was working as a family support worker and wanted to finish my degree and study something that would be relevant and complement the job I was doing.
The way the course ran was flexible and allowed me work and study at the same time.
I absolutely loved the course.
The modules were interesting and interactive, and I enjoyed having in-depth conversations during our lectures.
My tutors were so helpful and available whenever I needed guidance.
I am now working for Birmingham and Solihull Women’s Aid as a Specialist Domestic Abuse Family Support Worker and studying the course definitely helped to inform my current practice.
I am also studying for my Masters in Psychology.
What is a top up degree?
Why should I do a top up degree?
What is applied health and social care?
From child protection to mental health services, social workers advocate for the most vulnerable in our society, keeping them from harm and improving their quality of life.
Clinical psychologists assess and treat individuals with a range of physical and mental health issues.
Our Mental Health Nursing degree will give you the clinical skills and experience needed to be a confident and compassionate mental health nurse.
A Nursing Associate foundation degree prepares you for working in a variety of healthcare settings and supporting registered nurses and healthcare workers in providing care to a range of people.