# Site: https://www.wrexham.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 500
# --------

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk:
Explore Wrexham University at an on-campus or online event.
Find out about life at Wrexham University.
Information for international applicants about studying at Wrexham University.
We work with organisations of all sizes to provide excellent business support.
Connect with us at an event.
Discover the research at Wrexham University and its focus on economic, social and cultural development.
Find out more about who we are and what we do.
and Joint 3rd in the UK for Student Satisfaction (Complete University Guide, 2026)
Places are available for September 2025!
Get in touch with our friendly clearing team now on 01978 293439 or make an enquiry.
Experience life at Wrexham University
Discover all that Wrexham University has to offer postgraduates.
“You are cared and supported for every step of the way, from the beginning of your course to the very last day, there is always someone there to help.” - Chelsea, Criminology Student
Complete University Guide, 2026
Guardian University Guide, 2025
The Times Good University Guide, 2025
Want to know more about a course or student life at Wrexham University?
Chat to one of our online student ambassadors.
Wrexham University, Mold Road, Wrexham, LL11 2AW 01978 290666
We welcome calls in Welsh or English.
Rydym yn croesawu galwadau yn Gymraeg neu Saesneg.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy:
Archwiliwch Brifysgol Wrecsam Glyndwr mewn digwyddiad ar y campws neu ar-lein.
Darganfyddwch fwy am fywyd ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam Glyndwr.
Gwybodaeth i ymgeiswyr rhyngwladol am astudio ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam Glyndwr.
Rydym yn gweithio gyda sefydliadau o bob maint i ddarparu cefnogaeth fusnes o ansawdd uchel.
Cysylltu â ni mewn digwyddiad.
Darganfyddwch ymchwil Prifysgol Wrecsam Glyndŵr, gan ganolbwyntio ar effeithio ar ddatblygiad economaidd, cymdeithasol a diwylliannol.
Darganfyddwch mwy am bwy ydym ni a beth rydym yn gwneud.
ac yn gydradd 3ydd yn y DU o ran Boddhad Myfyrwyr (Complete University Guide, 2026)
Mae lleoedd ar gael ar gyfer Medi 2025!
Cysylltwch â'n tîm Clirio cyfeillgar nawr ar 01978 293439
Profi bywyd ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam ar y campws ac ar-lein
Archebwch le ar Diwrnod Agored Ôl-raddedig.
“Rydych chi'n cael gofal a chefnogaeth ar gyfer pob cam o'r ffordd, o ddechrau eich cwrs i'r diwrnod olaf un, mae rhywun yno bob amser i helpu.” - Chelsea, Myfyriwr Troseddeg
Canllaw Prifysgol Gwarcheidwad, 2025
Nghanllaw Prifysgolion Da The Times, 2025
Mae campws Prifysgol Wrecsam yn adlewyrchu ein harbenigeddau yn ogystal â chynnal ystod o gyfadrannau i gyd-fynd ag anghenion ein myfyrwyr.
Am wybod mwy am gwrs neu bywyd myfyriwr ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam?
Sgwrsiwch ag un o'n llysgenhadon myfyrwyr ar-lein.
Pentref Myfyrwyr Wrecsam yw eich porth i brofiad myfyriwr eithriadol sy’n cyfuno cysur, cymuned, a chyfleustra, i gyd mewn un lle!
Prifysgol Wrecsam Ffordd yr Wyddgrug, Wrecsam, LL11 2AW 01978 290666

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses:
Our career-focused degree courses are built around helping you fulfil your potential.
Be part of a University ranked:
1st in Wales and joint 3rd in the UK for Student Satisfaction (Complete University Guide 2026)
Through strong links with industry, we ensure that each of our courses is designed to ensure you get the key skills needed for your chosen career.
Gain an insight into studying and student life at Wrexham University at one of our events.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses:
Showing all results.
Clear filters?
In this 10-week course, you will develop core digital competencies that enhance your effectiveness in academic study, personal projects, and professional life.
This Short course delivered in partnership with the Wrexham Academy of Screen Actors and Wrexham University provides an introduction to screen acting, focusing on both the artistic and technical aspects.
Gain an essential introduction to the science behind elite football performance.
This flexible, online module is tailored for students and practitioners eager to understand the physical, tactical, technical, and psychological demands of the modern game.
The Anaesthetic Care in Practice module is designed for Registered Nurses who have an ambition to work as an Anaesthetic Practitioner.
A fun and informative short course designed to teach students about the Avid Pro Tools sound-editing software.
Understanding what the barriers to great communication are and exploring some of the communication practices that are essential to effective business leadership is a key skill in an era where organisations are undergoing big, complex changes.
Whether you’re leading and growing your own business or operating within an established business, supporting innovation is crucial to driving growth, productivity and prosperity.
The Business Operations Management course will offer students a structured approach to support individuals as they and their organisations manage activities within the production of goods and services, utilizing human and material resources.
This course is aimed at professionals within industry who may have been redundant as a result of COVID or may be looking to transfer their skills into another profession.
From sculpture to chandeliers, decorative tiles to figurative work.
Our 3 day class introduces you to the world of handmade ceramics.
Have you ever wanted to have a go on a potters wheel?
This course takes you through the basics of preparing and centring the clay though to how to throw your own bowls and vessels.
The Change Management and Organisational Change course offers students a structured approach to support individuals and their organisations traverse the changes required to create momentum in a chaotic business environment.
CISCO Networking Academy provides students with the opportunity to participate in a powerful and consistent learning experience that is supported by high quality, online curricula and assessments with instructor training.
This course will cover cyber threats and security, what rights someone has in relation to their data, the legal basis an organisation will use to process personal data, Data Protection Impact Assessments, special category data and privacy.
This course is designed to enable you to increase your confidence as you take the next step in undergraduate education.
Whether you are returning to study, just about to start at university or thinking about taking a professional course.
This course is designed to enable you to increase your confidence in using maths.
Are you considering a career in nursing but do not think you have the right qualifications?
This could be the module for you.
Numeracy is one of the fundamental skills within nursing today.
This course will introduce you to range of creative methods that can help to promote wellbeing for individuals and groups.
This module aims to offer an introduction to digital youth work; providing the underpinning theory and some of the key concepts to its development and delivery.
This course combines the technical aspects of drawing with theoretical aspects of Fine Art practice.
Students will be introduced to a range of technical principles, mediums and critical analysis of their work and others to inform their practice.
This course aims to develop and deepen learners’ knowledge and understanding of the nature and purpose of compassion, and how to work compassionately in a way that is empowered and promotes wellbeing.
Develop your French language skills with this beginner/lower intermediate level short course.
Whether you’re just starting out in your professional career or looking to take the next step up the career ladder, this course will help you build your confidence through a greater understanding of what’s needed from a leader in today’s workplace.
This short course is perfect for anyone who is interested in learning about how to create concept art for games.
Develop your German language skills with this beginner level short course.
This interactive and practice-focused course will bring together both social prescribers and those providing ‘green’, nature based activities.
This course is designed to support those involved in business management and leadership.
You will benefit from peer networking with fellow professionals and collective learning.
This module aims to provide students with the skills and knowledge to practice independent advocacy and to employ the principles and practices of independent advocacy in a variety of settings.
This Introduction to Business Management short course is for those who are looking to broaden their leadership and management skills or for anyone looking for a taster course before joining one of business programmes.
This online short course is ideal for anyone who is interested in learning about the use of art in healthcare settings.
This module aims to give students an introduction to the process of identifying sources of funding.
This short course is aimed at anyone who is interested in learning about branding and how to creative an effective brand strategy for businesses.
Explore why Britain has the range of species it does and understand how this has changed over time with the introduction and extinction of many species.
The course will focus on the theory and practice of building, growing and operating businesses with ways which are ethical, sustainable, and show a consideration for the balance of profit and purpose.
This short course aims to provide a basic overview of the problems surrounding climate change, the causes and impact on the planet on which we live.
This online short course introduces composite materials, their applications in engineering and the benefits and challenges and will provide an overview of the technology and enable participants to develop their knowledge in this area.
This short course introduces you to counselling, offering the opportunity to develop listening skills beneficial and applicable to a wide range of work and social settings.
This short course will help students to define coworking and the principles associated with the development of coworking communities, exploring a variety of approaches and examples associated with each principle.
Learn the fundamental knowledge concerning computer security, basic cyber threats and the corresponding detection and defence techniques.
Core security concepts, terminology, technologies and professional cyber security skills will be introduced via case studies and experiments.
Learn best practice around how to expand your business online, understanding the e-consumer, approaches to digital selling/marketing, e-commerce strategy and various digital tools such as search engine optimisation (SEO), pay-per-click advertising (PPC) and content marketing.
Do you have practical experience in handling and caring for dogs and a keen interest in behaviour and training?
If so our Introduction to Dog Behaviour and Training short course may be just what you’re looking for!
This short course is perfect for anyone who is interested in learning about the basics of graphic design and how to use the Adobe Creative Suite software.
Perhaps now more than ever we need to be thinking about what keeps us mentally well.
This course will explore how mental health problems impact on people, and what we can do to help individuals and communities to feel better.
An affordable and enjoyable introduction to digital photography and post-production processes.
This course is useful if you have a good digital camera and are looking to explore the creative potential of its functions and recognise the benefits of this piece of equipment.
This evening class offers an affordable and enjoyable introduction to some of the principal techniques of studio printmaking.
Gain an introduction to professional social work education and practice.
Study the principles of social work values and explore the key knowledge, qualities and skills required by social workers.
Public speaking is a key skill professionally amidst all sectors and personally, to enable raised confidence and awareness.
This course will give you the skills you need to approach public speaking effectively.
This course is aimed at those considering studying, or who have an interest in expanding their knowledge of speech and language therapy.
Attendees will be provided with an insight into the values and scope of the speech and language therapy profession as part of a wider healthcare team.
Are you looking to enhance your career prospects, improve your skills, or considering a move into teaching?
Consider enrolling on our Introduction to Teaching and Training.
This short course looks to provide individuals with further guidance with regards to facilitating walking football sessions for various social groups.
This module aims to demonstrate an introduction to website design.
Learners will be taught best practice around how to create a website, from choosing a domain, considerations around hosting, site design, branding and search engine optimisation.
This course will introduce you to range of topics that can help to promote wellbeing for individuals and groups.
This course will introduce you to the various stages of the design thinking process around what makes a good picture book for children.
Explore your creativity and experimentation with a range of media and techniques.
Develop your Italian language skills with this beginner/lower intermediate level short course.
Develop your Japanese language skills with this beginner level short course.
This class will guide you through the craft of designing, and producing beautiful bespoke pieces from cutting and forming metal, adding textures and decorative features.
Are you a student or a recent graduate with a burning passion for business innovation?
Look no further!
Wrexham University proudly presents our dynamic short course, "Launching a Start-Up Business."
The aim of the course is to engage with our local and wider community on succeeding in times of crises.
Develop competency and critical application of strategies that address the complexity of caring for the person with diabetes through the use of current theory, evidence-based practice and technological advances.
Gain a real insight into the world of Human Resource Management and its relevance in today’s business.
Develop your Mandarin language skills with this beginner level short course.
Develop an understanding of the key concepts associated with effective mentoring, consider the skills and attributes of effective mentors, and evaluate the outcomes of positive mentoring relationships.
This module enables practitioners to function effectively and efficiently within the constraints of contemporary healthcare provision in the management of minor illness, to enhance practitioners’ expertise in the assessment and management of minor illness.
This module is useful for practitioners who wish to increase confidence in the assessment and management of minor injury conditions but also those who want to aspire towards a practitioner level role.
Engagement is key in 21st century people management.
Discover how to motivate employees whilst increasing productivity, and apply effective employee engagement within your business.
Are you facinated by some of the biggest crimes and criminal cases we've seen in the media?
Join this short course to look at how these notorious cases have framed debates about criminal justice.
In occupational therapy, occupations refer to the everyday activities that people do to bring meaning and purpose to life.This short course enables you to understand how what we do as human beings impacts upon our health and wellbeing.
Master the basics of oil painting and develop your creativity using the medium.
This course will offer students a structured approach to support individuals as they and their organisations traverse the current challenges to enable an organisation to unleash its power and performance by unleashing the full potential of its individual employees.
Prepare to undertake level 6 and 7 studies with this short course.
Develop critical thinking skills and boost your confidence in your ability to study.
This stand-alone module is accessed by students who wish to develop their knowledge and practice of clinical wound care provision.
It offers an interprofessional approach to the delivery of wound care in many clinical settings.
Are you interested in trying a new craft at home and exploring your creative side?
Why not try your hand at printmaking and get a head start on designing your own cards and prints for fabric.
This is approved course facilitates you to re-register to the Nursing Midwifery Council within the field of Adult Nursing.
Discover how to utilise a range of digital marketing tools, social media planning and analytics and measurement with this digital marketing essentials short course.
Develop your Spanish language skills with this beginner/lower intermediate level short course.
Understanding how to facilitate behaviour change by using training experiences to promote and improve employee effectiveness is a key skill and knowledge area in an era where organisations are undergoing big, complex and interdependent changes.
Gain knowledge to integrate performance analysis within your teams.
Develop skills that will provide invaluable within organisations but is also transferable to alternative sporting environments through the use of industry standard software applications and processes.
This course has been developed to raise professional awareness of working with vulnerable adults and young people.
The MA Photography course offers a specialised, medium-specific curriculum tailored to students wanting to continue to explore their already developed photography practice.
MA Film Making equips you with both practical and theoretical knowledge essential for the film industry.
You’ll gain hands-on experience in screenwriting, directing, cinematography, and editing, which are crucial for creating a professional portfolio.
Join an innovative Master's programme focused on enabling painters to evolve as self-reflective, critical artists engaging with current and emergent issues.
The MSc Applied Psychology course allows you to further your knowledge of psychological theory, research, and professional practice.
Extend your knowledge and skills to advanced levels within your specialist area of practice, through a selection of modules designed to enhance your ability to take on roles in advanced practice.
Pursue a research-based career in academic biomedicine with a programme that focuses on laboratory-based clinical research and leads to a professionally recognised qualification.
This research degree focuses on human health and disease and equips graduates with the skills and subject-specific knowledge needed to pursue a research-based career in clinical medicine and healthcare.
This programme has been developed to respond to the changing face of art, the creative industries and incorporates the collaborative interdisciplinary practice from WGU researchers into socially engaged practice.
Co-produced with Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board, this course is amongst only a handful of courses offered nationally and offers a distinctly art-based MA.
Developed in collaboration with Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board (BCUHB), this programme will develop your research skills and allow you to explore specialist areas.
Broaden your understanding and develop a critical awareness of the role and responsibility of key aspects of district nursing, including the coherent an detailed knowledge at the forefront of care.
The rapid emergence of composites has revealed a difficulty in supplying the industry with Engineers that have the requisite knowledge of the materials.
This MSc in Composite Material Engineering has been developed with that in mind.
Building on the strong foundation of our successful BSc programme, this course is designed to take technical development, management and entrepreneurial skills to the next level.
This course is intended for graduates from computing disciplines who wish to update or focus their computing skills and competencies for effective work within the computing industry.‌
This postgraduate degree will give you the training and expertise to work within one of the many exciting areas of the media industry.
With extensive work experience opportunities available on this course, you will be ready for a variety of careers in Sound, Music or Screen.
Delivered 100% online, this programme builds on expertise and specialist interests across the fields of Criminology and Social Work and offers an opportunity for Continuing Professional Development.
Deepen your understanding of network security, penetration testing, information security management and computer forensics and develop important professional skills.
Help to meet the increasing demand for data scientists - regardless of your previous subject of study - with this specially designed conversion Masters.
We have developed this course to equip you with a balance of research, analytical and innovative skills ready for employment within your chosen area of practice.
The educational landscape in Wales is changing rapidly.
The National MA Education (Wales) is a truly transformative and sector leading programme for educational professionals in Wales, from early career teachers to senior leaders.
This course covers the essential aspects of the automotive engineering field, providing a solid background for a career in the automotive engineering and motorsport sector.
Electrical & Electronic engineering is now an important part of many cutting-edge industries.
Prepare yourself for one of these fast-paced roles with this comprehensive course.
The MSc Engineering (Mechanical Manufacture) comprises fit-for-purpose teaching and research experience to provide a solid background for a career in the engineering and manufacturing industry sector.
Access the exciting, dynamic and highly innovative field of renewable & sustainable energy, as countries transition from traditional fossil fuel energy sources in order to combat climate change.
This new and contemporary course at Wrexham Glyndŵr University aims to enhance students' art and design skills in the area of game art, as well as develop their practice and entrepeneurial skills to help them progress in careers within the modern games and digital media industries.
The Postgraduate Certificate in Learning and Teaching in Higher Education is ideal for newly-appointed lecturers in higher education and researchers with teaching responsibilities.
Our MBA suite offers of a number of routes, all of which encompass three core topics which provide the foundation for a successful business, namely strategy, finance and leadership.
This course is specially designed for healthcare professionals for them to learn how to prescribe and administer medicines correctly.
Become an outstanding primary school teacher, benefitting from close links with many leading primary schools in the Wrexham area and a team of passionate and experienced tutors.
This course will enable you to take your practice-based skills as a designer and maker to the next level as you establish your career.
This course is designed for students who are interested in training to become a teacher in the post-compulsory education sector.
This masters programme is designed for students who wish to advance their specialist knowledge in health-related disciplines.
Already have a non-psychology degree, but want to study psychology without having to do a three-year traditional undergraduate degree again?
This programme could be the answer.
At the heart of this unique programme is the aim to enable students to help individuals, communities and nations live happier and healthier lives.
Made up of theory and practice-based learning and grounded in public health practice, this course allows registered nurses and midwives to enhance their professional skills to a specialist level.
Develop further academic skills and enquiry in the field of youth and community work with this flexible post-qualifying masters course, delivered through blended learning.
This programme provides a unique opportunity to obtain a JNC professional youth work qualification for those who may already hold a degree in another subject.
This Accounting and Finance Management degree concentrates on the practical applications of accounting and finance theories, boosting your employability by developing you as a business-ready graduate.
Train to become a registered nurse on a course which prides itself on small cohort sizes and the personal & professional development of its students
This Aeronautical Engineering Degree with Foundation Year will develop intellectual and application skills through knowledge acquisition, problem solving, deductive skills, synthesis, analysis, and evaluation.
This Aeronautical Engineering Degree will develop intellectual and application skills through knowledge acquisition, problem solving, deductive skills, synthesis, analysis, and evaluation.
Gain insight into the animal care industry while developing your skills and knowledge of animal behaviour, husbandry, and training.
Further develop high level knowledge of animal behaviour, training, welfare, and conservation with our top-up degree.
This animal behaviour, welfare and conservation science course will equip you with the knowledge and skills to enter a variety of professions within the animal sector.
This Animation programme helps you transform you and your passion for bringing characters to life and storytelling, into a versatile creative in the art of the moving image.
This Animation programme with foundation helps you transform you and your passion for bringing characters to life and storytelling, into a versatile creative in the art of the moving image.
Develop your material and design skills through Ceramics, Metal, Jewellery and mixed media with this Applied Arts programme.
Work on live projects, exhibitions and commissions giving you confidence for your future career.
This unique work-based qualification is designed for the working professional who is looking to develop the business knowledge and management skills to progress further in their career or take a new direction.
Our Architectural Design Technology degree explores how design and technology work together, giving you practical working knowledge of both areas.
Developed in response to the shortfall of mechanical engineers in the automotive industry, this course fully explores the engineering, design, analysis and development of modern cars.
The BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science course has been designed to provide a rich and dynamic student experience, achieved through a partnership between Wrexham University and Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board (BCUHB), North Wales Clinical Research Centre (NWCRC).
The BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science course has been designed to provide a rich and dynamic student experience, achieved through partnership between Wrexham University and the Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board (BCUHB) North Wales Clinical Research Centre (NWCRC).
This course will focus on a wide range of key industry areas equipping you with the skills required to working in one of the largest employment sectors in the United Kingdom.
For today’s fast-paced, challenging business environments, successful management of organisations and their people is key.
This Human Resource Management course will give you the skills you need to become a highly effective HR professional.
Gain a broad insight into the world of business and management and develop the skills required to meet employer's needs in the contemporary business world.
Gain a broad insight into the world of business and management and develop the skills required to meets employers needs in the contemporary business world.
This unique Canine Training and Performance degree offers you an exciting opportunity to gain the latest scientific knowledge and practical skill set to become a specialist in canine behaviour, training and performance.
Children’s nursing is a rewarding profession caring for children, young people and their family from birth to young adulthood.
At Wrexham University we will prepare you with the knowledge and skills to become a graduate and NMC registered children’s nurse.
Our Coaching: Sport and Fitness top-up degree has been designed to offer our students a hands-on approach to learning coaching skills and approaches whilst incorporating our outstanding geographical location within North Wales.
This course provides students with all the necessary skills and insight required to work within the sports and fitness industry.
This Comics programme introduces a broad range of creative skills, from idea generation to their technical production through traditional and digital media, with an emphasis on the development of a unique personal style.
This Comics programme with foundation year introduces a broad range of creative skills, from idea generation to their technical production through traditional and digital media, with an emphasis on the development of a unique personal style.
Join this computer game design and enterprise course designed to develop strong technical game design, business and production skills so you can be a future industry leader.
This course is designed to develop strong technical game development and project management skills to enhance your employability.
Working closely with industry organisations, you will have access to cutting-edge industry related training and knowledge.
Start your career in the exciting, challenging, and dynamic field of computer Science.
This programme will equip you with the knowledge, understanding and skills required to analyse, design, develop, test and maintain systems for the future.
If you are motivated by seeing their hard work rewarded and their expertise recognised within a vibrant and challenging construction industry, this Construction Management course could be for you.
The Higher National Certificate (HNC) in Construction Technology is an ideal qualification for those who are currently employed within the industry and are motivated by seeing their hard work rewarded and expertise recognised within a challenging industrial sector.
Help to satisfy the increasing demand for professional counsellors with this specialist course, which leads to a general professional qualification in counselling
If you’re fascinated by questions like why people commit crime and how it affects society and want to study high-profile criminal cases which had a ground-breaking impact on the legal arena, this Criminology and Criminal Justice course is for you.
Address the advances in cyber security by developing an in-depth understanding of IT security, hacking, forensics, and the future and emerging technologies with this Cyber Security degree programme.
Unlock your potential and be part of a workforce which can truly shape the lives of young children and families.
This dynamic and forward-thinking programme is your gateway to a rewarding career dedicated to the holistic development of children from birth to eight years.
Unlock your potential and make a difference in the fields of formal and informal education with the BA (Hons) Education Studies programme.
This dynamic and forward-thinking programme is your gateway to a rewarding career dedicated to shaping the lives of children aged three to eleven years.
Studying electrical and electronic engineering will prepare you for a vast range of exciting careers, equipping you with technical engineering skills as well as technology, communication and design expertise.
Explore drawing, painting, sculpture, installation, video and lens-based media and printmaking with this Fine Art programme.
Enjoy high-quality studio space set within a traditional Art School environment.
Explore drawing, painting, sculpture, installation, video and lens-based media and printmaking with this Fine Art programme with foundation year.
Designed in partnership with the Football Association of Wales (FAW), this innovative programme combines practical coaching skills & awards with sports science theory
From sharp force trauma to spectra, from bones to bugs...
Wrexham University will prepare you for an exciting career in science.
Wrexham Glyndŵr University will prepare you for an exciting career in science.
Ready to take a deep dive into the scientific principles that underpin forensic investigations?
Our programme equips you to examine crime scenes, analyse evidence, and present results in court as an expert witness.
Be part of a degree with innovation, creativity and employability at its heart as you bring concept to reality.
Develop your skills in concept art, 3D Modelling, character development and level creation on this Game Art programme.
This idea-driven and skills-based course covers everything from concept art to 3D modeling, character development, 3D sculpting and creating levels and also includes an industrial placement year.
Gain experience and knowledge of a broad range of graphic design skills.
Work with real clients and briefs to build your confidence, presentation skills and abilities to pursue a career in the design industry.
Develop the skills required to support a wide range of health, wellbeing and social care services, making a positive difference in the community.
This degree in Illustration covers the practical, professional and artistic sides of working as an illustrator with an individual artistic voice, equipping you for a successful career in the creative industries.
This degree in Illustration with foundation year covers the practical, professional and artistic sides of working as an Illustrator with an individual artistic voice, equipping you for a successful career in the creative industries.
This flexible part-time course is delivered on a day-release basis, allowing you to fit your studies around your employment as you follow one of five specialist routes
Continue your study of industrial engineering by topping up to a full degree, all delivered on a part-time, flexible basis to allow you to keep working.
Become a highly-skilled industry professional with both academic qualifications and real-world practical experience with an Industrial Engineering Degree Apprenticeship
This degree takes a closer look at international business practices from around the world and focuses on how globalisation has brought about an increasing 'connectedness' of businesses, markets, people and information across countries.
Develop your base for a career in Law with our LLB (Hons) Law programme, focussing on the academic and professional foundations for sitting the Solicitors Qualifying Examination (SQE) 1 and 2 and the Bar Training Course.
Developed to meet the needs of local industry in this critical field, the programme covers the key aspects of how to create systems, products and services that are sustainable and to limit adverse effects on the environment.
If you are interested in why we buy the things we buy and how knowledge of this human behaviour can influence people, then this marketing degree is perfect for you.
Learn and work in a real production environment – this Media Production course is developed in close collaboration with leading industry experts.
This course is ideal for those wishing to work in the field of mental health and wellbeing, or who already work in the area but want to develop their knowledge and understanding to ensure that their practice is current and evidence based.
This course is brand new to North Wales and has a fresh design that incorporates the latest digital technologies and platforms to deliver state of the art simulated and real-world learning experiences.
Join a well-respected programme which will help you to develop into being a reflective, autonomous occupational therapist with a wide range of skills.
Prepare for a professional career in Operating department Practice with our BSc Hons programme - the only one of its kind in North Wales and is one of only two programmes in all of Wales.
If you want a career on the front line of emergency clinical care, making a difference to people's lives when they need it most, this Paramedic Science degree course is for you.
Developed for students with a passion for independent photography, this innovative multi-genre Photography  programme combines practice, theory and professionalism.
Developed for students with a passion for independent photography, film and cinema, this innovative multi-genre Photography & Film programme with foundation year combines practice, theory and professionalism.
Would you like to play a key role in enabling people to improve their health, wellbeing and quality of life?
Our BSc (Hons) Physiotherapy programme may be the perfect course for you.
Study to become a qualified Primary teacher with this broad-based courses, covering both the Welsh and English curriculums to maximise your employment potential
Gain the skills and experience needed to become a police officer while building strong and sustainable links with public service and third sector organisations and developing your knowledge of the broader criminal justice system.
If you are fascinated with behaviour and wonder why people do what they do, then our psychology course will be ideal for your questioning mind
If you are fascinated with behaviour and wonder why people do what they do, then our psychology course with foundation year will be ideal for your questioning mind
Become a quantity surveyor in the construction industry which is one of the largest employment sectors in the United Kingdom.
Tackle some of the biggest challenges facing mankind today - affordable energy, climate change, global warming and pollution control - on this specialist degree.
Combining practical experience with relevant theory, this degree leads to a professionally recognised qualification in Social Work
A degree in Speech and Language Therapy is brand new to North Wales.
This course at Wrexham University is the first to be designed in the wake of the pandemic making it not only specialised in its content but also unique in its locality.
Study Sport & Exercise Science from both a participation and performance perspective - then put those skills into practice in the real world in this hands-on degree programme
Study sports & exercise sciences from both a participation and performance perspective - then put those skills into practice in the real world in this hands-on degree programme
Learn about managing sporting injuries from prevention to rehabilitation with this practical degree that leads to a professionally recognised qualification
Learn the fundamental skills in the field of Sports Injury Rehabilitation and how to be a successful student at Wrexham University.
This dedicated degree, with strong links to the North Wales tourism industry, will give you the practical skills and the vital knowledge you need for a career in the hospitality, tourism and event management industry.
This Veterinary Nursing programme allows you to put theory into practice in our clinical suite and develop your skills in a veterinary training practice for careers in animal care.
This exciting course is specially designed for those wanting to work positively with children, young people, marginalised groups and communities
This 100% online MA Education degree enables you to reinforce your practical work experience with the theory, tools and techniques that will help you to achieve career success as an educational practitioner.
This 100% online MA Education with Early Childhood degree enables you to reinforce your practical work experience with the education and early childhood theory, tools and techniques that will help you to achieve career success as a practitioner in early childhood education.
This 100% online MA Education with Leadership degree enables you to reinforce your practical work experience with the education and leadership theory, tools and techniques that will help you to achieve career success as an educational leader.
Attain your online MBA with North Wales Management School.
Our unique Master of Business Administration degree is designed for ambitious, self-starting professionals who are looking to fast-track their career with a deeper understanding of business and leadership skills.
The 100% online MBA Big Data Analytics is designed for ambitious individuals who want to gain a broad base of business skills in addition to invaluable specialist knowledge and capabilities in the application of data analytics in a business context.
The 100% online MBA Cyber Security has been created for professionals who want to enhance their prospects by developing sought-after cyber security knowledge and capabilities in addition to a comprehensive suite of skills in key areas of business and is open to everyone.
This 100% online MBA Entrepreneurship is designed to prepare aspiring entrepreneurs and ambitious, bold and creative professionals for a wide range of exciting career opportunities.
The 100% online MBA Finance is designed for ambitious finance professionals who would like to upskill, achieve promotions quickly and become a finance leader, as well as for highly-motivated individuals who want to launch a new career in finance or accounting.
This 100% online MBA in Healthcare Management programme is designed for ambitious healthcare professionals and emerging leaders in healthcare who want to progress further and faster by developing their understanding and application of management and leadership.
This 100% online MBA Human Resource Management degree provides the opportunity to fast-track your career by developing key business skills and gaining a deeper understanding of the human resource management discipline.
Achieve your online MBA Marketing .
Our unique degree gives busy working professionals the opportunity to transform their career prospects by developing a robust set of business skills and a deeper understanding of national and international marketing.
This 100% online MBA in Project Management equips you with a robust set of analytical skills for planning and managing any project and teaches the critical project management competencies of forecasting risk and economic data analytics.
The 100% online MBA Psychology is designed for ambitious working professionals who want to combine a broad base of key business skills and knowledge with an in-depth understanding of human behaviour.
100% online.
The MPA (Master of Public Administration) has been created for progressive and ambitious professionals, team leaders, managers and executives in the public sector who want to advance into higher level and more strategic roles.
The 100% online MSc Computer Science is designed to provide a new way for busy working professionals to gain a qualification in this high-demand and lucrative field.
It is an entirely flexible master’s course and can be studied anytime, anywhere.
The 100% online MSc Computer Science with Big Data Analytics is designed to provide a new way for busy working professionals to gain in-demand skills and a qualification in this sought-after field.
It is completely flexible and can be studied anytime, anywhere.
The 100% online MSc Computer Science with Cyber Security is designed to provide a new way for busy working professionals to gain a qualification in this high-demand and well-remunerated field.
It is entirely flexible and can be studied anytime, anywhere.
The 100% online MSc Computer Science with Networking is designed to provide a new way for busy working professionals to gain a qualification in this high-demand and well-rewarded field.
The 100% online MSc Computer Science with Software Engineering is designed to provide a new way for busy working professionals to gain in-demand skills and a qualification in this sought-after field.
The 100% online MSc Educational Psychology has been created to equip educational professionals with a comprehensive understanding of the role of educational psychologists, and the core psychological concepts that underpin practice in the psychology of education.
The 100% online MSc Forensic Psychology has been created for individuals in fields associated with the criminal justice system.
Develop a greater understanding of psychological science and its application to criminal behavior.
The 100% online MSc Psychology has been designed to equip you with this psychological advantage and help you to move your career to the next level.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/visit/undergraduate-events:
Get a feel for life at Wrexham University.
Our open days and events give you the opportunity to speak to staff and students.
Join us to find out more about our courses, discover our facilities and support services, and see why Wrexham University should be your top choice to study at.
Already know what area you'd like to study and want to delve a little deeper?
Take a look at our subject events .
Be part of a University ranked 2nd in the UK for Student Support (Daily Mail University League Table, 2024) and Top 5 in the UK for Teaching Quality (The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide, 2025) and Teaching Satisfaction (Guardian University Guide, 2025)
Get a feel for Student Life
“One of the main reasons I joined Wrexham University was because I got such a good impression of it given to me at the Open Day.”
Explore our Wrexham campus and facilities - see where you will study and get a feel for student life.
Further details of tours at other campuses will be included in your emails ahead of the day !
Watch presentations including studying at Wrexham University, applying, funding your degree and scholarships, and accommodation.
Discover more about our courses and chat with our staff and students.
As a Wrexham student, you will have the opportunity to forge lifelong friendships, create valuable connections and be part of a vibrant community.
Find out more about student life at the University by speaking to our current staff and students.
At Wrexham you're not just a number, and we know that being supported is crucial to your success.
Our student support services are here to help you every step of the way.
Want to know more?
Check out our blog on what you can expect from an open day, before or after you book your place.
Don’t worry, you can still explore our Wrexham campus by booking a guided tour, led by a current student or applicant support team member.
This is a great opportunity to get a feel for student life and find out more from those who know best.
Book a tour
Find out more
We're investing in our future with smart campuses equipped with state-of-the-art technology and contemporary spaces that inspire and support modern day learning.
Want to see where you'll be living when you move to Wrexham?
Take a look at our accommodation.
Got a question about uni life or just want to chat to someone before an event?
Our student ambassadors are here to help.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/fees-and-funding:
Information on how much your degree will cost and financial support to fund your studies.
Information on how much your postgraduate course will cost and financial support to fund your studies.
Find out more information about fees for studying with us as an international student.
Find a place to stay.
Explore student life at Wrexham.
Get a feel for Wrexham University.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/chat-to-a-student:
Our ambassadors are all current students from a range of courses from across the University.
They're here to answer your questions and tell you all you need to know about being a student here.
Search by area of study if you have a particular question, or take a look at our ambassador profiles to see their hometowns, languages, hobbies and more.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/study/why-wu/information-for-parents:
We recognise the role you will play in helping to choose the best university for your child.
Making the transition from school or college is not only challenging for many students, but for parents as well.
In most cases they will be standing on their own two feet for the first time, so it’s important you know we will support them from the moment they arrive until graduation and beyond, as they enter the world of work and follow their chosen career.
Our campus is known for its friendly family atmosphere where your child will be a name, not a number.
Wrexham and the local area has something for everyone, whether that be sport, nightlife, culture or the great outdoors.
In the Discover More section below, you can find out about the University's award-winning student support services, as well as read all the latest blogs written for parents/guardians or carers.
You can also sign up to receive information via email so we can keep you updated with useful information to support your child, and you'll receive our exclusive Parent and Carer Guide.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/study/apply:
For the majority of undergraduate courses, you'll need to apply through UCAS.
Once you’ve decided on which courses you wish to apply for, then you’ll need to register at UCAS.com to start your application .
If you are currently at school or college, you may be given a ‘buzzword’ to use when you register – this will help distinguish where you are applying from.
Those who wish to apply independently will not need a buzzword, but will still need to use the UCAS system to apply.
If you’re applying directly to us via our paper-based Direct Application for Admission or our online application form, you should aim to fill in every section of the form as fully as possible, so that we have enough information from you to enable us to make a decision.
If we need further information from you after we receive the form, we will get in touch with you directly.
However, please bear in mind that this may delay your decision a little.
UCAS Extra is for applicants who are already in the UCAS system and who have not received any offer from their original choices, or have declined any offers they have had.
UCAS Extra is available online from February 26 to July 4.
If we have vacancies on your chosen course, then we will consider your application and hopefully make you an offer so that you can add us as your Extra choice.
We will advise on your individual circumstances when you contact us, but in order for us to consider a decision as soon as possible, we ask that within your UCAS Track you go to the 'view your application' section, copy it and send us a copy of your application via email .
For more information on UCAS Extra, visit the UCAS website.
If you apply through UCAS after June 30, your application will not be sent to us.
Instead, you will receive details about Clearing.
Clearing is a process that is available between July and September for those who are applying late, have already applied and haven’t received a place, or have declined all of their offers.
For more information please visit our Clearing section .
The online application system opens in September for entry to the University in the following year.
You do not have to complete your application all in one go – the system will allow you to complete it in stages.
Your application will need to include the following information:
There is no definitive way of writing a personal statement which will guarantee acceptance onto your chosen course, however there are guidelines that will help you to focus on what you should and shouldn’t include.
Why not read our blog on how to write the Perfect Personal Statement before you get started?
Original certificates will need to be provided prior to enrolment via your Applicant Portal.
These need to be clear scanned, photographed or electronic certificates.
Please provide proof of your completed qualifications by uploading them to your Applicant Portal.
If you have difficulties doing this, please send them to admissions@wrexham.ac.uk , clearly stating your full name, the course you have applied for and your UCAS PID or Wrexham Student ID.
Tips on taking a clear photo
Place the document on a flat surface, hold your camera above the document, line it up in the viewfinder and take a photo.
Check the photo is clear and not blurry and that the whole document is visible.
Also, make sure that there are no (or minimal) shadows or reflections – you may need to turn a light on or off to get the best image!
Repeat for each of your qualifications and then upload them to the Portal, ideally as a combined PDF.
For the majority of courses at Wrexham University, you should submit your application by the equal consideration deadline (the last Wednesday in January).
Following this date, the University can close any courses that are already full.
If the deadline has passed, the good news is your chosen course may still be open.
Get in touch with our admissions team at admissions@wrexham.ac.uk for more information and to find out what courses are currently available.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses:
Go further in your career with a postgraduate degree.
Develop advanced skills and knowledge to help you reach your potential.
Taking the next step to study at a postgraduate level is an exciting but daunting prospect.
Wrexham University has the established support system, research expertise, and the facilities for you to succeed.
We’re hosting a series of events designed to answer your questions and give you an insight into studying at Wrexham University.
"Wrexham University’s commitment to student support, academic success, and inclusivity makes it the ideal place to grow and succeed." – Ashish, MSc International Business Management student

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/visit/postgraduate-events:
Our open evenings and online events give you the opportunity to speak to staff and students, discover our postgraduate courses and facilities, and see why Wrexham University should be your top choice to study at.
Take a tour of our campus and facilities with one of our friendly student ambassadors.
At Wrexham University you're not just a number.
You'll forge life-long friendships, create valuable connections and be part of a vibrant community.
Thinking about studying a research degree?
Find out more about how we can help.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/study/apply/apply-direct:
We aim to make the process of applying to study at Wrexham University as streamlined and simple as possible.
For all full-time undergraduate courses beginning in September, UK students should apply through UCAS.
Applications should be submitted via our direct application form if you are:
In the qualifications section of your application, please list all of your qualifications, clearly indicating the full title, level, awarding body and result for each qualification (as shown on your certificate) to prevent any delay in processing and considering your application.
Should you have any questions or require assistance filling out the form, please contact a member of our admissions team on 01978 293439 or email enquiries@wrexham.ac.uk
However you apply, you will need to provide a personal statement.
Your personal statement should be a maximum of 4000 characters (roughly 500 words), with a minimum of 1000 characters (around 150 words).
Take a look at the Admissions Manager’s tips and guidance here: Writing the Perfect Personal Statement .
Links to the online application form will be available on our individual course pages when direct applications are open.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/visit:
If you're stepping foot on campus or virtually taking a tour, visiting us is one of the best ways to get a feel for the University and s ee why we were ranked:
At our events, you can chat to our lecturers and support staff, and find out about accommodation, finance, careers and inclusion, as well as watch a host of experiential videos.
Discover our undergraduate courses at an open day or online event.
Find out more about our postgraduate courses at an open evening or online event.
Subject-specific events for students and schools.
We host a range of subject-specific events, whether that's online or campus visits.
Can't visit us on campus?
Take a virtual tour.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses:
We're hosting a series of online and on-campus events designed to answer your questions and give you an insight into studying and living at Wrexham University.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/visit/subject-events:
Delve deeper at a subject event.
If you want to know more about a particular course or subject, our online and on-campus subject events are a great opportunity to speak to lecturers and learn more about studying at Wrexham.
Are you a student or a school?
Make sure to check out our Discovery Days to d iscover more at Wrexham University by gaining some hands-on experience of what it’s like to be a university student.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/visit/virtual-tours:
Explore Wrexham University - wherever you are!
See what it's like on campus and what facilities are available.
Ideal for group work, relaxing or catching up with friends, The Study is stylish and practical, with state-of-the-art technology, comfortable seating and plenty of three-point and USB charging sockets.
Wrexham Village offers purpose built, on-campus accommodation for Wrexham University students.
All flats comprise of 6-8 bedrooms and share fully furnished, modern kitchen and living areas.
Our Student Centered Active Learning Environment (SCALE-UP) room uses cutting-edge technology and design to improve the student experience.
From your first day of learning to your graduation and beyond, our main reception is a focal point to our campus.
The Gallery is a modern and welcoming social learning space, equipped with state-of-the-art technology, comfortable seating booths and lots of charging sockets.
Our United Kitchen canteen serves fresh food daily, with changing menus, a salad bar and plenty of refreshments available.
It's a great place to grab a bite to eat.
Striking and innovative, the Creative Industries Building plays host to technology and facilities for TV, music, journalism, film, art and more.
It’s also home to the BBC in North East Wales.
Featuring two top quality grass pitches, a FIFA quality 3G pitch plus off-pitch support facilities, our state-of-the-art education facility is purpose-built for Sports Science and Football Coaching students.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/study/why-wu:
There are lots of great reasons to choose Wrexham University as your university.
From our community feel, to our practice-informed teaching and personalised support, we are committed to fostering a warm, welcoming environment where everyone feels heard and valued.
This commitment is reflected in our rankings as 1st in Wales and joint 3rd in the UK for Student Satisfaction (Complete University Guide, 2026)
Diversity and inclusion are at our heart.
This is why Wrexham University remains 1st in England and Wales for Social Inclusion, for the 7th year running (The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide, 2025)
We ranked 2nd in the UK and 1st in Wales for Student Support in the Daily Mail University League Table, 2024.
"The great support received within the University really made me feel I was making the correct decision and has really helped me develop my confidence within my area of study and the academic skills required to do well."
Chris Wallace - BSc Sport and Exercise Science
Our dedicated Careers and Employability service , hands-on courses , and placement opportunities are designed to develop your knowledge, skills, and real-world experiences, preparing you for life after graduation.
Y ou could be entitled to a full NHS Wales bursary , including tuition fees and a non-repayable bursary for living.
We're investing in our and your future.
C onveniently situated on the Wales-England border, providing the best of both worlds.
Choosing where to come to university is a big decision, so why not come and experience Wrexham for yourself?
Our Open Events are the best way to explore our facilities, chat with current students and meet the academics who will be guiding you through your degree.
With Wrexham General Train Station only a five-minute walk from Plas Coch campus and Wrexham Student Village, plus great transport links to Holyhead, Manchester and Liverpool, wherever your journey begins, getting here is a breeze.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/campuses-and-facilities:
Wrexham University’s campuses reflect our specialisms, as well as host a range of facilities to meet the needs of students.
Each campus has its own distinct character, identity and purpose, and is an asset to not only our student population but also its community and the businesses in the region.
Campus 2025 is our £80m strategy to enhance our local region and all of our campuses to ensure that our students have the best facilities and learning environment.
Our biggest campus and where Wrexham University began in 2008….or 1887, if you trace back through our history.
The university’s rural home for animal sciences education; a dedicated centre for animal and human interaction and wellbeing.
Bringing together academia and industry, activities at St Asaph are centred around high-level opto-electronics technology.
Explore all we have to offer virtually, or on a campus tour.
Our Sports Centre, one of the premier sporting venues in North Wales, has hosted several major sporting events and is open to both the university and the wider community.
There is a range of catering outlets across our campuses where students can eat, drink, relax and socialise.
Our student bar, Glyns, forms the hub for student entertainment and is a great place to hang out.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/accommodation:
Are you ready to embark on your next chapter and embrace your university life?
Look no further, w hether you’re a student looking to stay on or off campus, already a resident with us, or in need of summer accommodation, Wrexham Student Village is your gateway to an extraordinary student experience that combines comfort, community, and convenience, all in one place!

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/discover-wrexham:
Wrexham is steeped in heritage, with beautiful scenery and numerous historical sites, as well as a bustling city centre with great shopping, a thriving culture and entertainment scene, as well as a buzzing nightlife.
So, whether you enjoy scenic walks and exploring historical sites, going shopping and trying out local cafés and restaurants, or attending entertainment venues and having a night-out, there really is something for everyone.
You'll find Wrexham conveniently situated on the Wales-England border, perfectly placed for easy access to the nearby cities of Chester, Liverpool and Manchester to the East, the rugged beauty of Snowdonia to the West, and great beaches along the stunning coastline to the North.
Located just off the A483, we have excellent links to all major road routes in the North West, as well as an extensive bus network across North Wales, North West England and the Midlands, making it an easily accessible location.
Wrexham also has great railway connections, with two main stations that run direct services to Chester, Holyhead and the North Wales Coast, Shrewsbury, Birmingham and Cardiff.
You can also be in London in just over two and a half hours, Edinburgh in just over four, and Dublin in under six.
Conveniently, Wrexham General Train Station is situated just beside our main campus, making it perfect for a spontaneous day out.
You might too have seen Wrexham featured in the news and on Disney+ recently, thanks to the successful takeover of Wrexham A.F.C.
by Hollywood celebrities, Ryan Reynolds and Rob McElhenney.
The Club also happens to be close by the University's main campus, so you never know, you might spot a famous face or two around!
With so much going on and so much to see and do, there really is no better time to be here
“One benefit to Wrexham University is that you have the best of both worlds - you have the countryside nearby and you also have the city itself.”
Watching, playing, cheering from the sidelines - there's a wealth of sport for you to get involved with locally.
There's loads to explore, whether you're staying in Wrexham or venturing further afield.
From vibrant nightlife to live music and theatre, there's plenty to keep you entertained.
Want to know just how close we are?
“I chose to study in Wrexham because here, it’s a little bit more lively than where I’m from – more shopping, more places to go out.
But I am still close to home, so when I want a change of scenery, I can just hop on a train and go walking in the mountains.”
If you want more insight into what Wrexham offers, check out some our useful blogs:
11 Things Every New Student Should Do in Wrexham
Our chosen hidden gems of Wrexham, on and off campus
How to spend 48-hours in Wrexham

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-support:
A support network for you, whenever you might need it.
At Wrexham University, help is always available to you if you need it.
From our dedicated learning skills teams to our wellbeing advisors and specialist support, we're all here to help you reach your full potential.
ASK is the student support team that can help with queries relating to Inclusion, Counselling and Mental Health, Student Wellbeing, Funding and Money Advice, and Careers and Employability.
“People really took their time with me and the University also provided me with a support worker - he was there to help and that really made a difference.
”

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/blog:
Find insights of the university, see life from a students prospective and get useful hints and tips from our collection of blogs.
As we prepare to launch the next season of the Wrexham Talks Research Public Lecture Series, it’s the perfect moment to reflect on the rich tapestry of ideas, stories, and discoveries shared ove...
Wrexham University recently hosted an inspiring Psychology of Religion Research Day, bringing together leading international scholars and our own academic community to explore how belief systems shape...
We’re delighted to share that Dr Liz Cade has been awarded a Pump Primer Research Grant from the Elizabeth Casson Trust.
The funding will support a qualitative study titled Volunteering with Mar...
We are pleased to announce that Professor Anne Nortcliffe, Dean of Faculty, has successfully secured a grant under the Royal Academy of Engineering Visiting Professor scheme.
Graduate Employabi...
I always knew that I wanted to pursue a profession that aligned with my values and my passion for equity and social justice.
It was this aim that led me to discover the Social Work course at Wrexham U...
August 2025 
Dr Mobayode Akinsolu, Senior Lecturer in Electronic and Communication Engineering, continues his research in the design and optimization of wireless communication devices, in particu...
Challenging Stigma through Story: How a Film Co-Created by People with Dementia Shifted Perceptions
Dr Ian Davies-Abbott and colleagues recently published an article in the Journal of Health Equity.
T...
From her beginnings in Connah’s Quay to leading major design projects in New York, Sam Wilkes’ creative journey has been anything but ordinary.
Recently named one of GDUSA’s 2025 Peo...
Wrexham University’s membership of the Guild HE Research consortium enabled two of our current postgraduate research students to attend Guild HE’s Doctoral Research Festival which was held...
The final Open House of the academic year was Chaired by Professor Wulf Livingston who started with a couple of announcements about opportunities to present at Open House for Research next academic ye...

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/term-dates:
Semester One
Monday 23 September 2024 to Friday 24 January 2025
Semester Two
Monday 27 January 2025 to Friday 16 May 2025
Summer Period
Monday 19 May 2025 to Friday 22 August 2025
Holidays
Monday 16 December 2024 to Friday 3 January 2025 - students will have a winter break
Monday 14 April 2025 to Friday 25 April 2025 - students will have a spring break

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/cost-of-living:
We've created this page to bring together the financial and wellbeing support that is currently available both online and on campus at Wrexham.
*This page will be continually updated as more information, support and advice is provided.
The Welsh Government has introduced a support package to address the increasing living costs faced by students during university, which allows them to focus on their studies rather than worry about how to make ends meet.
Life at University can be exciting, however during these difficult times, anyone at any time can feel overwhelmed with problems and experience difficulties with their mental health.
Sometimes it can feel easier to talk to an impartial person.
Wrexham Careers and Employability Service provides expertise, resources and opportunities for potential students, current students, and graduates, accessible 24/7 through WGUconnect .
This includes the Student Ambassador scheme.
Reading and its benefits for our mental health and wellbeing
Health & Wellbeing
Arts for Wellbeing: Making to Feel Good
Self-esteem and how to take care of your mental health
Wellbeing in worrying times
Tips for Reducing Stress
Finance FAQs
Undergraduate fees
Postgraduate fees
Scholarships and Bursaries
How much does it cost to live in Wrexham?
University costs for parents
How to stretch your student loan
Wrexham Village
Accommodation FAQs
Living off campus
How to apply
International accommodation offer
Support - Accommodation support
Postgraduate funding
Alternative funding
Career changes
Postgraduate events
Wrexham SU prices:
The SU bar, Glyn’s has the cheapest coffee on campus!

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life:
University is more than a degree.
It's where you'll work, play and live during your studies.
So it's important that you're able to make the most of your time inside and outside of classes, whatever your goal.
Whether you're moving to Wrexham for the first time or just want to know what to expect, we've got you covered.
From study support to looking after your wellbeing, we're here to help.
Whether you're looking to join our team of ambassadors or you'd like to ask them a question, they're here and ready to help.
Discover your new home - from the town centre to attractions and beautiful green spaces.
Want to see things for yourself?
Visit us at an event.
Take a look at our on campus accommodation - nestled between the University and Wrexham FC stadium.
From state-of-the-art labs to entertainment.
Our Students' Union is here to make your student experience the best it can be - from SU elections and advice to clubs and societies.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/international-students:
Here at Wrexham University, we offer more than a degree.
We give you the change to transform yourself, develop marketable skills, enhance your career prospects and build lasting relationships.
We pride ourselves on our dedication to student support, welfare and affordability in course fees and cost of living.
International students looking for study programmes in the UK will always find a warm welcome here at Wrexham University.
Make an enquiry
Wrexham University are committed to transparent and clear communication, and we commit ourselves to keeping all applicants informed regarding future changes, either directly or through their agent.
View our wide range of career-focused courses.
Our International Intakes
Courses
International Foundation Years
Summer School
Pre-Masters
Advanced Practice Module
All you need to know about applying to study at Wrexham University.
Apply Now
How to Apply
Fees & Scholarships
Applying for a student visa
Find out more about moving to the UK and living in Wrexham.
Your guide to everything you might need while you're studying.
CAS Policy
Student Pregnancy, Maternity, Adoption and Secondary Carer Policy 2021-22
If you would like to study at Wrexham University, please apply using the course page of the subject you wish to study (a full list of courses available to international students can be found by clicking here ) application process to select your course and start your application.
Once you have applied, the international admissions team will assess your application.
If you need to send additional documents, or your circumstances change, please contact them as follows:
Our office is open Monday to Thursday from 08:30 to 17:00 GMT (08:30 to 16:30 GMT on a Friday).
Please consider the time difference between the UK and your own country when contacting us.
For enquiries about immigration contact:
For enquiries about welfare issues contact:
For Mobility/Student Exchange enquiries contact:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/international-students/how-to-apply:
You can check if you meet the academic entry requirements for your chosen course by visiting your country page .
If your country is not listed, please contact us at international@wrexham.ac.uk and we will be happy to help.
In most cases you will require a visa to study in the UK.
We advise international students to apply as early as possible to allow us sufficient time to process your application and to give you plenty of time to apply for your visa and make your travel and accommodation arrangements.
Students who require a Student visa should be aware of the following important dates:
If you are an international student who requires a Student visa, your application should be made via the course page of the subject you wish to study (a full list of courses available for international students can be found by clicking here ).
You will need to fill in your details, upload any documents relevant to your application and confirm your student declaration.
If you are applying for a research degree, such as MPhil or PhD, you should click here .
The documents that need to be uploaded are:
If you have previously studied in the UK, you are also required to provide the extra documents listed below:
For more information about the UKVI requirements, please read the Student visa guidance on UK Government website here .
Once you have submitted your application:
Have you applied through an Educational Agent?
If yes, don’t worry there is nothing else you need to do for the time being, leave the rest up to your agent.
We will get in touch when we need something from you.
If you wish, you can track your application process you should have received an email to your personal email from admissions@wrexham.ac.uk (please check your junk email folder as sometimes the email is filed there).
If you can't find this email, please feel free to reach out to the International Office.
Please note the following information: 1.
If you are applying directly to the University or through an agent, Wrexham University or its agents do not charge application fees for any of its programmes.
2.
Accommodation offerings are a separate application process and are not a condition of acceptance of a place at the University.
Should you have any concerns regarding your application or if you wish to submit any concerns please email complaints@wrexham.ac.uk in the first instance.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/international-students/summer-school:
Year of entry
2025
Duration
4 weeks
Institution Code
G53
Location
Wrexham
Download our comprehensive STEM Summer School digital brochure
“The experience of studying in a different country with English as a main language offers us so many possibilities for jobs later on.
The combination of Aeronautical AND Mechanical Engineering gives us a good understanding of flow behaviors, fluid dynamics and mechanical engineering skills.
This raises our job market value to another level.”
Our Summer School allows you to experience academic study either as a continuation of your current studies or as preparation courses for joining the final year of our degree programmes.
You will study a mixture of academic lectures, engaging study sessions, and English language classes.
The STEM Summer School is a great way to continue studying a subject you enjoy, gain new subject knowledge and as preparation for further study.
The Summer School take place in August, and we offer the opportunity to experience a mixture of academic lectures and engaging study opportunities.
The programme offers university credits and top-up pathways leading to full undergraduate qualifications.
The programme has students from multidisciplinary backgrounds, such as Aeronautical, Automotive Engineering, Computing, and Industrial Mechatronics.
This course has collaboration in mind and is aimed at students from all parts of Europe, such as Germany, Austria, France, and Switzerland.
The Summer School offers an intensive programme of learning with a range of teaching.
You will study 3 modules covering a range of topics relating to Science, Technology, Engineering, & Mathematics (STEM).
This course also includes an English language module specifically designed to address the needs of non-native English speakers studying or working in the STEM field.
ENG5B9 Analytical Techniques : The module aims to further develop knowledge of functions suitable for solving a range of mathematical problems.
To demonstrate a repertoire of problem-solving skills and an ability to generalise and transfer ideas appropriate to various STEM applications of mathematical concepts.
ENG5B7 Research Methodologies : This module aims to build up skills in research and development related to engineering, computing, science, and technology in students.
This module will enable the students to effectively study and propose solutions to various engineering, computing, science, and technical problems.
ENG5B8 Emerging Technologies : This module allows students to identify and examine a range of current and future technical and social issues in computing, engineering, and technology and, in so doing, develop an awareness of the impact of current and emerging research and development.
In a general sense, the module will introduce students to the field of ‘Futurology’.
LAN474 English for STEM : This module will focus on developing productive and receptive language skills to enable participants to engage more effectively in processing, creating, analysing, and sharing scientific information within the STEM community.
There will also be a strong emphasis on expanding participants’ mental lexicon of core STEM vocabulary through exercises and activities to increase retention and recall.
Our courses are open to international students over the age of 18, whatever their background or country of residence.
Our Summer School is designed for students with at least one year of study at the Higher Education level in a STEM-related subject.
If you are an international student, you must also demonstrate B2 level (or equivalent) in English to join the Programme.
If you would like to apply for this course, please click here .
For further support you can follow our STEM Summer School Application Guide .
Assessment methods for this programme include a 2500 Word Research Proposal, Online Quiz, In-Class Test and Portfolio assessment.
ENG5B9 Analytical Techniques - In-Class Test.
ENG5B7 Research Methodologies - Assessment: 2500 Word Research Proposal ENG5B8 Emerging Technologies - Assessment: Portfolio LAN474 English for STEM - Assessment: In-Class Test
This course will run for 4 weeks from Monday 18th August – Friday 12th September 2025
Over the 4 weeks you will partake in:
The following top-up programmes are available for academic year 2025-2026 in the Faculty of Arts, Computing & Engineering (FACE).
Engineering:
Computing:
On completing the top-up course, you can go onto the final year of an Honours Bachelor’s degree programme and complete the degree in one year.
After completing the bachelor’s degree final year, you will then have the opportunity to complete a master’s degree in one year.
For further information regarding fees for our Bachelor top up courses, please contact international@wrexham.ac.uk .
To apply for the top-up course view our Top-Up Programme Application Guide .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/academic-partners:
Wrexham University is proud to work with a range of partnerships with universities, colleges and private education providers from the UK and further afield.
These partners offer specific Wrexham University courses at their premises to provide students from all over the world with extra flexibility in their choice of where to study.
Barking & Dagenham College (BDC)
Bloomsbury Institute London
Coleg Cambria
Inchbald School of Design
NPTC Group of Colleges
Accra Business School
Capital College
Chonquing Vocational Business College
CICRA
Dalian Polytechnic University (DPU)
Despark College
Hong Kong Management Association (HKMA)
Hong Kong Institute of Technology (HKIT)
Independent Studies of Science and Technology (IST)
Londontec City Campus, Sri Lanka
MBS College of Crete
New Era University College (NEUC)
Princeton Management College (PMC)
Reliance College
SHRM College
Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing (SLIM)
WCDI of Shanghai University
Academic Partnerships Register
Rebecca Wilcock – Partnerships Development & Liaison Manager +44 (0)1978 293026
Teresa Cox – Senior Partnerships Officer +44 (0)1978 293006
Joanne Whitehouse – Senior Partnership Liaison & Student Voice Officer +44 (0)1978 294489
Jo Corless – Partnerships Quality Manager +44 (0)1978 293074
For further information, email partnershipsoffice@wrexham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/business:
Wrexham University’s Enterprise Team is here to support your business in achieving growth and success.
Whether you need assistance with innovation, funding, training and development, placements, or graduate and student recruitment, the Enterprise team is your one stop shop for all business needs.
Our experienced and dynamic team are dedicated to helping you and your business thrive.
About the Enterprise Team
Subscribe for updates and events

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/business/innovation-and-commercialisation:
Supporting the transformation of innovative ideas into real-world applications.
The Innovation and Commercialisation (I&C) team is part of Wrexham University’s wider Enterprise team , and its primary role is to assist with the commercialisation journey of university innovators.
Our university's vision and civic mission of "research that transforms" is integral to our innovation and commercialisation efforts.
By prioritising originality, significance, and rigour in our research, we lay the foundations for ground-breaking innovations that drive learning and economic growth.
About Innovation & Commercialisation
Book resources for commercial use
Book academic consultancy

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/business/innovation-and-commercialisation/resources-for-businesses:
If your business is facing a challenge or exploring an innovative idea that would benefit from university collaboration, we are here to support you.
Whether you need academic expertise, access to specialist resources and equipment, or assistance in jointly petitioning for funding and grants, our team is here to help you.
Our extensive experience across a variety of fields allows us to provide tailored solutions to meet your needs.
Book resources for commercial use (form)
Book academic consultation (form)
Equipment details and how to book
At Wrexham University we have a range of specialist equipment across our faculties which can be made available for commercial use.
Our equipment covers a range of fields including;
Book an Academic Consultation (form)
Our Knowledge Transfer Initiatives can directly support businesses and provide funding opportunities through the means of KTPs, Mini-KTPs and SMART Partnerships.
Eligible organisations based in Wrexham, Denbighshire and Flintshire can also access enhanced funding via Skills Vouchers, which are enabled through the Shared Prosperity Fund (SPF).
SMART Flexible Innovation Support (FIS) is a unique Welsh Government Scheme with the single aim of helping Welsh organisations achieve “Innovation Excellence”.
Typical value of funding £100k per year for 2 years with Intervention rate – 50% (as of July 2024)
As part of the Wales Innovation Network , Wrexham University is a partner and an active member in the following themes:
•    Digital Transformation •    Net Zero and Decarbonisation •    Agri-tech and Rural Economy •    Creative Industries and Media •    Population Health and Biotech •    Materials and Manufacturing (including semiconductors)
If your business could benefit from pan-university support, we can utilise our network as a potential medium for discussions.
Contact us for more information at enterprise@wrexham.ac.uk
We have established robust Spinout and Licensing Guidelines designed to foster investment in our research and innovation.
Our policies ensure mutually beneficial arrangements for both the University and our partners.
For spinouts, the University adopts a venture-friendly approach by taking industry standard equity in the newly formed company.
Our equity stake includes dilution provisions in single digits when and where appropriate, allowing for greater flexibility and attractiveness to venture capital investors.
Our goal is to support the growth and success of spinout companies while maintaining a beneficial partnership.
Our licensing deals are structured to provide significant advantages through royalty-based incentives on net sales.
This model ensures that both the University and the licensee benefit from the commercial success of the licensed technology.
We strive to create agreements that are fair, transparent, and geared towards long-term collaboration and profitability.
Enquire about our early research
Wrexham University warmly welcomes sponsorship opportunities, and we are open to a variety of pathways for collaboration:
Whether your organisation is an Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM), Software Company, or a service provider, you are invited to sponsor your organisational resources for use in our academic and student teaching programmes.
We look forward to discussions about how your equipment, software or services can be integrated into our teaching activities to enhance both practical and theoretical learning experiences.
Organisations with resources designed to enhance skills, improve efficiency, or support academic research are encouraged to sponsor educational workshops for our academics and students.
We are also open to extending invitations to external audiences where appropriate, ensuring broader community engagement and impact.
If your company’s goals align with our research and innovation priorities, we welcome the opportunity to collaborate on specific projects.
Sponsorship of our operational initiatives can help drive forward cutting-edge research and meaningful outcomes.
We are open to exploring tailored sponsorship opportunities that align with your organisation’s objectives.
Whether through collaborative research, academic engagement, or unique initiatives, we are eager to discuss how we can work together to achieve mutual goals.
Contact us at enterprise@wrexham.ac.uk to learn more about sponsorship opportunities.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/business/innovation-and-commercialisation/knowledge-transfer-initiatives:
“Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) aim to help businesses to improve their competitiveness and productivity through the better use of knowledge, technology and skills that reside within the UK knowledge base"
KTPs are a well-established and well-regarded national innovation support programme, managed by Innovate UK funded by Innovate and co-funders including Welsh Government in Wales, that enables businesses to transfer and embed expertise from academia into their business to develop capability, new products and processes, to improve their competitiveness, productivity and performance.
Since the programme started KTPs have transformed over 12,000 businesses big and small, across every sector and region of the UK.
The essential structure of a KTP is that an Associate (high calibre, minimum graduate educated individual) is employed to work at the business developing and embedding new capabilities, mentored and supported by an academic team and with access to the academic institution facilities.
The average age of Associates is 31, many have PhDs and are typically in their first or second job before coming to KTP.
KTPs are possible across all areas and disciplines with a focus on projects that embed new technologies & processes and those that develop management & staff capability.
From manufacturing to design, sustainability to marketing; any business sector, including the third sector and public sector organisations such as the NHS, can take part.
Businesses of all sizes can take part too, from micro-businesses to large enterprises.
Partnerships typically run for around 2 yrs and in around 75% of cases, the Associates are retained by the company post KTP and are part grant funded.
Looking for increased productivity?
Strategies to build resilience?
Deeper management expertise or improved business processes?
Management Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (mKTPs) are designed to help deliver this kind of transformation for your business.
By linking with Wrexham University, mKTPs enable you to adopt and adapt expertise to bring about people-focused, strategic change to help your business succeed.
Spanning all key business functions - from marketing to IT, creativity to strategic management; HR to employment relations; finance to logistics, the mKTP programme creates a highly skilled collaborative partnership that borrows from the success of the Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) programme which has been helping businesses innovate for growth for 45 years.
mKTPs seek to support strategic management projects across core activities including:
Wrexham University has a long-standing and highly regarded reputation for delivering quality KTP projects.
Since making the transition to University status in 2008, we have supported more than 40 companies across the region to achieve their goals through a KTP project.
Our University has expertise in a wide range of areas and to date has collaborated in projects relating to IT Development, Chemistry, Materials Science, Engineering, Marketing, Creative Industries and a host of other disciplines.
We have also created a comprehensive package of support in the form of our newly launched Ladder of Innovation ; a flexible, “stepped” approach to academic collaboration, providing a range of solutions depending on the business and allowing businesses to progress more gradually towards a full KTP.
The ladder offers businesses the following initiatives, all of which can be explored as part of a longer-term collaboration, or businesses can take advantage of just one or two steps, depending on their business need;
The first rung on our Ladder of Innovation builds on a highly successful knowledge transfer project we ran from 2018 -2020, giving local businesses access to our academic experts for between a day and a week to work on very specific short-term projects, via Knowledge Transfer vouchers.
Vouchers of up to £2,500 are available for businesses to work with Wrexham University academic staff and will cover up to a week of an academic’s time, or access to University facilities for testing, analysis or prototyping.
A Mini KTP allows businesses to take on a recent graduate to undertake a specific project for between 3- 6 months, with the additional benefit of accessing an academic member of staff to work with and mentoring the graduate throughout the project for half a day per week.
While the business will employ the graduate throughout the project period, the mini KTP initiative provides funding towards the academic’s time spent on the project and up to £1000 towards project consumables.
Mini KTPs are an excellent way to gain new knowledge into a business through a structured and managed framework with academic support and guidance to ensure project success.
SMART Partnerships are funded by Welsh Government and are aimed at increasing the capacity and capabilities of Welsh businesses, whilst offering financial support to innovative collaboration projects.
A SMART Partnership like a KTP is a three-way partnership between a business, an associate (recent graduate) and a university.
However SMART partnerships are only available to businesses based in Wales.
SMART partnerships are between 6 – 12 months in duration and are part-funded up to 50% with the business paying a 50% contribution.
Contact our Enterprise team enterprise@glyndwr.ac.uk
For more info on how to apply specifically for a KTP, take a look at the gov.uk website for more information or visit the Welsh Government page.
“The KTP scheme provided an excellent platform for developing our branding strategy.
The collaborative approach was highly effective in blending the creativity offered by the Associate and Knowledge Base with our own industry expertise.
Our improved online profile and increased brand awareness will support our growth strategies within new and existing market sectors.”

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/business/professional-development:
We believe in equipping people and businesses with the skills and knowledge they need to achieve their true potential.
Our courses use practical scenarios and real-life lessons to prepare students, employees and organisations for the challenges they'll face throughout their professional journey.
In these challenging economic times, it’s vital for organisations and their employees to stay ahead of the competition.
Staff who are well trained will be better equipped to make a valuable contribution to the success of the business.
At Wrexham University, we run several courses which are designed specifically for professionals, enabling individuals to gain new qualifications and outshine the competition.
View our current programme of professional courses
We also offer short courses that can fit around your working life, which are excellent options for professional upskilling with focused sessions running over a shorter time-period.
We also offer a wide variety of postgraduate courses.
Choosing to study at this level can bring many benefits to your professional career - a postgraduate qualification can further your skills in your chosen field and enhance your prospects, taking your career to the next level.
View our postgraduate degrees
Many courses are available to study part-time, allowing you to continue your current employment whilst studying.
If you are looking to bridge the skills gap in your organisation without the time commitment of longer courses, our flexible professional workshops offer targeted solutions for a variety of business needs.
Boost your staff’s skills with our range of readily available workshops, or create bespoke training sessions with us, tailored specifically to your business.
View more about our professional workshops
Unable to find a course or workshop to fit the needs of your organisation?
Speak to us about the possibilities of bespoke training, contact enterprise@wrexham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/business/degree-apprenticeships:
Degree Apprenticeships (DA’s) are a fantastic way to get employees in Wales a university level qualification whilst they remain in employment.
DA’s allow you to gain a highly skilled employee with both the academic qualifications and the relevant practical skills that will enhance your workforce.
You can utilise a DA to upskill an existing employee or recruit new talent to your business.
Whilst working for your company a Degree Apprentice will develop an in-depth understanding of your business and its sector.
By studying one day per week with us, they’ll bring fresh perspectives and up-to-date knowledge back to their workplace.
Similar to a traditional apprenticeship, a Degree Apprenticeship combines work-related learning with Higher Education study.
The “apprentice” must be in a job role appropriate to the programme they are studying and work 51% of their time in Wales.
There is no upper age limit to these programmes.
At Wrexham University we have decades of experience in work-based learning and educating industrial students.
We have a successful track record in securing funding for 8 Fully Funded Degree Apprenticeship programmes.
•    Mechanical Engineering •    Electrical Engineering •    Low Carbon Energy, Efficiency and Sustainability
The following programmes are provided in partnership with Coleg Cambria:
•    BSc (Hons) Building Surveying •    BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering •    BSc (Hons) Construction Management •    BSc (Hons) Quantity Surveying
Enquiries regarding the below programmes and their starting dates can be made by contacting enterprise@wrexham.ac.uk
•    Cyber Security •    Software Engineering
To be eligible for a Fully Funded Degree Apprenticeship with Wrexham University, the employee must;
•    Work in Wales at least 51% of the time.
•    Be in full-time employment .
•    Be able to attend Wrexham University one day a week for studies.
•    Meet the respective entry requirements of the chosen course.
•    Have not previously studied a similar subject at this level or higher.
For further details on our upcoming Degree Apprenticeship programmes please contact enterprise@wrexham.ac.uk
Do you want to find out more about how you could access fully funded courses whilst working full time?
You no longer have to choose between a Degree or an Apprenticeship!
A growing number of companies are offering degree-level apprenticeships, so you can study for a degree debt-free whilst gaining hands-on commercial experience.
Degree Apprenticeships are great if:
•    You have a focused career path in mind.
•    Want to get stuck into working whilst studying towards a degree.
•    You want to earn as you learn.
•    You are studying at a later stage in your career.
A Degree Apprenticeship gives you real work experience, alongside the knowledge and theory you'll get from studying for a degree.
By allowing you to develop the skills and knowledge for specific jobs, it could kick-start your career and give you a strong CV tailored to the field you want to work in.
You don’t need to be a new workplace recruit to start a Degree Apprenticeship programme, you and your current employer can look at developing your existing skills whilst in-post.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/business/advanced-practice-placements:
The Advanced Practice Placement module (ADP) is an opportunity for us to raise awareness among employers of how contributions from our placement students can lead to mutually beneficial engagements.
Placements can also open a dialogue for further industry-university collaboration.
One of the great advantages to our students being placed within your organisation is that they are given an opportunity to experience real business environments and demonstrate their practical skills and knowledge by contributing to, and learning from, your business.
Whether it is by attending meetings, gathering market research, developing real-world business solutions or analysing recent figures – contributing to an active organisation and communicating with staff will enrichen their experiences beyond the classroom.
We welcome placements that predominantly involve students being physically present at the workplace however, we are aware that many companies have adopted hybrid working practices which may involve some remote working.
Our students actively work with online communication technology and will therefore adapt easily to hybrid working.
Module: ADP701: Advanced Practice: Work-based Learning
Should you require any further information, or if you would like to express your interest in providing a placement, please do not hesitate to get in touch via adp701@wrexham.ac.uk
Business Programmes:
Engineering Programmes:
Computing Programmes:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/business/professional-workshops:
Designed to empower organisations, our workshops offer cutting-edge insights, actionable strategies, and invaluable tools to support professional development in the ever-evolving landscape of modern enterprise.
If you would like to explore a specific area of training for your business, we can create bespoke workshops tailored to your needs.
Bespoke workshops are fully customisable from content to duration, and we work closely with you to ensure the training provision aligns with your business objectives.
Examples of tailored workshops include:
If you are interested in exploring the possibilities of bespoke training for your organisation, contact enterprise@wrexham.ac.uk
All workshops cost £150 per person, per day , and are available to all businesses.
This intensive two-day workshop is designed for trainers and learning providers who want to elevate their skills in facilitating behaviour change and promoting employee effectiveness through innovative training experiences.
Participants will gain hands-on experience with cutting-edge accelerated learning techniques and brain-friendly strategies to create engaging, impactful training interventions.
Wednesday, October 1 and Thursday, October 2, 2025.
9:30am – 4:00pm
Book Now
Enhance your impact.
Master your message.
In today’s fast-paced, media-driven world, the ability to communicate clearly, confidently, and with credibility is more important than ever—especially for professionals representing their organisations in public or press-facing roles.
This dynamic, in-person workshop is designed for industry professionals who want to sharpen their communication skills and gain valuable insight into the media landscape.
Whether you're preparing for interviews, public speaking, or stakeholder engagement, this session will equip you with the tools to deliver your message with clarity and confidence.
Led by Sian Lloyd, a broadcast professional with over 25 years of experience across national and Welsh media, including television, radio, and online platforms.
Thursday, October 23, 2025.
10:00am – 4:00pm
Speak with confidence.
Present with impact.
Whether you're delivering a keynote, pitching to clients, or contributing to a panel discussion, strong public speaking skills can elevate your professional presence and influence.
This interactive workshop is designed for industry professionals who want to build confidence, refine their presentation style, and communicate with clarity and authority in front of any audience.
Led by Sian Lloyd, a broadcast and communications expert with over 25 years of experience presenting on national TV, radio, and digital platforms, this workshop offers practical tools and techniques to help you become a more compelling and confident speaker.
Wednesday, February 18, 2026.10:00am – 4:00pm.
Find your voice.
Share your message.
Inspire your audience.
Podcasting is one of the fastest-growing platforms for thought leadership, brand storytelling, and audience engagement.
Combined with strong presentation skills, it offers professionals a powerful way to connect, influence, and lead.
This hands-on workshop is designed for industry professionals who want to explore the world of podcasting while sharpening their communication and presentation skills.
Whether you're looking to launch a podcast, contribute to one, or simply improve how you present yourself and your ideas, this session will give you the tools and confidence to do it well.
Led by Sian Lloyd, a broadcast and communications specialist with over 25 years of experience across national TV, radio, and digital media.
Friday, March 13, 2026.10:00am – 4:00pm.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/business/facilities:
With a number of sites across North Wales, Wrexham Glyndŵr University has a wide range of facilities on offer with which to help support your business.
The Centre for the Creative Industries is a modern, innovative building which opened its doors in 2011, set-up to support our creative suite of courses including art, music, journalism, broadcasting, film, and theatre.
The centre houses state-of-the-art TV and radio studios, 3D workshops, IT suites (including Apple training suites) and post-production audio and visual facilities, and is also the North East Wales base for BBC Cymru Wales.
We also have a purpose-built conference centre on-site, the Catrin Finch Centre , which is ideal for hosting conferences, meetings, events, training courses and exhibitions.
For something a little different, we have Xplore!
in Wrexham town centre – a fascinating science discovery centre with a whole host of thought-provoking exhibits for hands-on learning.
At our campus in St Asaph , you’ll discover our cutting-edge research centre, bringing together experts from industry and academia.
We have an array of specialist laboratories and workshops fitted with a wide range of the latest technical equipment and focused on world-leading research projects.
To find out more about the facilities on offer at Wrexham Glyndŵr University, please contact enterprise@glyndwr.ac.uk or call 01978 293997 .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/contact-us:
Stay connected to Wrexham University.
Whether you want to make an enquiry, talk to current students or connect with classmates through our Alumni Association, you'll find the details you need below.
Want to speak to us right away?
Click our ' Chat with us ' button in the bottom right corner of any page to chat with a member of our team.
Make an enquiry about the University.
Email: reception@wrexham.ac.uk
Call: 01978290666
Make an enquiry about one of our courses.
Ask a question
Call: 01978293439
Connect with us on social media.
Keep in touch with us after you graduate - join our alumni association.
See what our current students are up to on Instagram with our Wrexham University insiders.
Join the team as a student ambassador.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/how-to-find-us:
Wrexham University has campuses located across North Wales in Wrexham, Northop and St Asaph.
All are easily accessible from the M53/A55 and by public transport.
Our main Plas Coch campus is located just on the edge of Wrexham town centre on Mold Road (postcode LL11 2AW).
We’re easily accessed by public transport, with Wrexham bus station a 10-minute walk away.
Some bus routes stop directly outside the campus.
The nearest train station is Wrexham General, which is a few minutes walk to the main campus.
There are plenty of car parking spaces available on the site.
Our art school is located on Regent Street (postcode LL11 1PF), just a few minutes walk from our Plas Coch campus and public transport stations.
Our state-of-the-art National Football Development Centre at Colliers Park is located just outside of Wrexham town centre in Gresford (LL12 8PW).
Download a campus map .
Address:
Wrexham University, Mold Rd, Wrexham, LL11 2AW
Our Northop campus (postcode CH7 6AA) is situated in the Flintshire countryside and can be accessed via the A55/B5126.
The nearest railway station to our Northop campus is Flint, which is approximately ten minutes away by car.
Wrexham University Northop Campus, Holywell Rd, Northop, Mold, CH7 6AA
From the A55, exit at junction 26 to St Asaph Business Park (Parc Busnes Llanelwy).
At the first roundabout, take the 3rd exit.
Wrexham University - St Asaph is on your left.
(Postcode LL17 0JD).
The nearest railway station is Rhyl, which is approximately 10 minutes away.
From here there are regular direct high-speed trains into London Euston taking only 2½ hours.
The OpTIC Centre St.
Asaph Business Park, Ffordd William Morgan, LL17 0JD

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/media-contacts:
Wrexham University’s press office brings together information about the University from a number of different sources.
In this press section, you’ll find the latest press releases, which will keep you in the picture about what’s happening at the University, archive news to find any of our past stories, image galleries and videos as well as our main social media channels.
The University also maintains an experts directory to help you gain access to experts who can provide informed comment or briefings on a variety of issues, in areas ranging from IT to renewable technologies and art to psychology.
Our experts are available for comment on the latest issues in the news.
Journalists wishing to contact the press office should get in touch with:
Naomi Penrose, Communications and Public Relations Officer
Tel: 01978 293484
E-mail: Naomi.Penrose@wrexham.ac.uk
For any other media enquiries, contact the University Press Office.
Email press@wrexham.ac.uk .
The above contact information is for media enquiries only.
Please direct all other queries to: enquiries@wrexham.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/alumni:
Graduating from Wrexham University is not the end of your journey with us, we hope it’s only the beginning.
Our alumni community are living and working all over the world and we are very proud of them all.
So, no matter when or what you studied with us, we have developed a way for you to still be part of it, with our alumni association.
Stay connected after you graduate.
Find out about the many benefits offered to our alumni
Information and support on getting/replacing your award certificate.
Read our alumni and student stories from across the university.
Prizes and awards for our outstanding graduating students.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges:
It’s never too early to start thinking about your future.
We work closely with students of all ages, teachers, parents/guardians and careers advisors, to offer a range of events and activities to raise awareness and encourage aspirations of higher education, encouraging young people to consider the opportunities available to them.
We recognise the importance of working closely with teachers and careers advisers, and the crucial role they play in ensuring students have access to the most up-to-date information about higher education.
Being a smaller university works in our favour, as at Wrexham Glyndŵr University we blend the importance of academia with a strong sense of community.
We are student-centred, market-led and open to all.
Whether it's a virtual visit or in-person, we're here to help you find out a bit more about us and what we can do for you.
Whatever your background, age, gender or disability, we offer support and advice to help you succeed here.
View our info for teachers and advisers.
See our upcoming events.
Contact the recruitment team.
Find out more about our Media Production degree.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/research/our-research:
In line with our Research Strategy, our research contributes positively to the economic, social, and cultural development of North Wales and beyond.
Our Vision and Strategy outlines our commitment to excellence, inclusion, collaboration, transformation, and sustainability with our Civic Mission, encouraging close links with the local community
Wrexham University is an up-and-coming research hub that continues to develop our researchers and research culture.
We’re signatories of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers , indicating our commitment to helping our researchers become the best they can be, and increasing our capacity for making a real-world impact with the wealth of expertise here.
“Wrexham University has a long history of research which predates our university status and addresses the needs of society both regionally and internationally.
The Research Excellence Framework exercise shows that the university produces World leading, excellent research”

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/research/research-degrees:
There are a number of options when it comes to studying for a postgraduate research degree here at Wrexham University.
*Please note that our awarding body for MPhil/ PhD degrees is the University of Chester
*Please note that the awarding body for the MRes is Wrexham University
Research topics are varied, often influenced by factors such as a student's academic strengths, personal interests and the research specialities of the university.
Find out more about Routes into Research and How to Apply
We have a number of Research Centres across our two faculties: Faculty of Social and Life Sciences (FSLS) and Faculty of Art, Computing and Engineering (FACE).
To find out more about research specialisms within the faculties, current research projects and upcoming events, please visit Our Research .
When you join Wrexham University as a postgraduate research (PGR) student, you will become part of our vibrant and supportive research community, where we will help to nurture your interests and develop skills and insights essential to your future progress.
The Research Office coordinate central research community activities that are inclusive of our PGR students, examples include:
The Researcher Development Programme creates a learning environment that allows researchers from all disciplines across the University to enhance their skills for a successful research experience and career.
Based upon Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework , we offer a comprehensive training and development opportunities throughout the academic year including the Confident Researcher.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/research/wrexham-talks:
We’re excited to share our 2025/2026 programme of Wrexham Talks Research — a series of free public lectures showcasing the rich variety of research happening at Wrexham University.
The public lectures are on-campus evening lectures run by the Research Office and are open to all.
Take a moment to enjoy some complimentary food and refreshments whilst networking with attendees and speakers beforehand, then sit back and enjoy the talks delivered by our researchers, introduced by a Chair, and followed by audience questions.
The purpose of the lectures is to invite discussion and debate in a variety of thought-provoking subject areas.
We pride ourselves on applied research, Research that transforms, research that impacts the local community and the wider world, and we want to share this with you in an accessible way.
Public Lectures are nothing without an audience, so we look forward to welcoming your fresh perspectives on our research.
Look at our schedule and book your place on Eventbrite using the links or QR codes.
And if you can’t make a talk, we will be recording the session for you to watch online shortly after the event.
Please note that whilst the lectures are free to attend, tickets must be booked in advance.
Please see each event listing for full details, including location, timings and how to book your place.
Watch back our past lectures .
Olivia Neen, Welsh Language Skills and Academic Tutor
Dr Grace Thomas, Senior Research Fellow in Arts Engagement
Dr Tegan Brierley-Sollis, Lecturer in Policing, Criminology, and Trauma-Informed Approaches
Dr Chris White, Lecturer in Health, Mental Health, and Wellbeing
Sara Hilton, Senior Lecturer in Football and Coaching Science
Professor Wulf Livingston, Professor of Alcohol Studies
Professor Alec Shepley, Professor of Arts and Society

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/research/research-excellence-framework:
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) assesses the quality of research in UK universities.
It is jointly run by Research England, the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales (HEFCW), the Scottish Funding Council (SFC), and the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland.
The four funding bodies use the REF to inform the allocation of around £2 billion of research funding per year.
The exercise is designed to provide accountability for public investment in research, assess the quality of research, demonstrate outputs, and showcase its benefits and impact on our society.
Glyndwr was one of 157 UK universities that took part in REF 2021.
Our results convey the fantastic progress and ambitious direction of Glyndwr research since the previous REF grades received in 2014.
“It is fantastic to see part of our submissions graded as world-leading and of an international standard.
I’m grateful to all staff who helped with the submissions but I am particularly pleased for those in Social Work and Social Policy, as those grades are outstanding considering we did not enter research in this area last time.”
Unit of Assessment B11: Computer Science & Informatics
Unit of Assessment B12: Engineering
Unit of Assessment C20: Social Work & Social Policy

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/research/visualising-research-competition:
Wrexham University’s Visualising Research Competition celebrates its research, highlights its diversity, and rewards the individuals and research teams that make it happen.
The competition invites all research-active staff and research students to take part.
It’s well-known that humans prefer to attend to images than lots of dense writing, and our competition challenges researchers to capture the story of their project in a single image.
It’s no easy feat, especially if your subject area is hard science and visual representation of concepts is not a traditional way of showcasing your work… but that’s all part of the fun!
Images can help to engage and capture the attention of your target audience.
This method of dissemination can help to reach people who would not ordinarily be interested in your work or understand the academic jargon.
They say a picture paints a thousand words.
Approaching public engagement more creatively can also help you to express yourself as a researcher and may even bring wellbeing benefits.
One study has found that taking a photograph and sharing it every day has numerous benefits, with participants stating how good it was to be able to take time out for self-care, which could include five minutes to snap a phone photo or encouragement to get out of the house to find a photogenic location.
Since the inception of the competition, we’ve had some brilliant entries from Wrexham staff and research students from across a variety of subject areas.
Some people chose to submit a traditional photograph, others staged a scene, and some even used photo editing software to add extra layers to their submission.
The possibilities are endless, so get creative today!
All current researchers (including MPhil, PhD, MRes, EdD and Professional Doctorate).
All current staff of Wrexham University (including Research Assistants), provided they are a) working toward a research degree, b) hold a research degree and are actively involved in research or c) are currently conducting research as an academic member of staff.
Images must be generated as a result of research carried out as per the above.
To enter, simply create a photograph that will invite interest and intrigue in your research.
The image should inform and engage a non-specialist academic audience and offer a visual perspective on research.
The image should be accompanied by a summary text no less than 100 words and no more than 200 words that explains what your image shows and how it relates to your research in language that is accessible to a non-specialist audience.
VR Competition Guidelines and entry form 2024-2025
An image that is a direct result of your research or that represents an aspect of it could attract new interest in your work.
The image may be useful for numerous outputs, for instance, social media, press releases or even the cover of a book.
Your image may be displayed in and around Wrexham University, on the university website and possibly at other venues locally and nationally, crediting you and your ideas.
The winner chosen by the Judging Panel will receive an award of £250, and two runners-up will receive £50.
The People’s Choice winner will receive £50.
All the entrants from past Wrexham University Visualising Research competitions can be found at Previous winners and entries .
Not at all !
Please see Previous winners and entries for testimonies .
We are here to help!
Take a look at Approaches to Photography or contact Karen Heald karen.heald@wrexham.ac.uk or the Research Office researchoffice@wrexham.ac.uk and we’ll be happy to answer any questions.
See previous winners and entries for inspiration.
Summaries to accompany the images are available from the Research Office.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/research/our-research/research-centres/cyfiawnder-the-social-inclusion-research-institute:
Cyfiawnder: The Social Inclusion Research Institute was established at Wrexham University in early 2022.
It is a research community in the Faculty of Social and Life Sciences that aims to foster collaboration between academics, service providers, and service users (interdisciplinary, local, national and international) to undertake high quality research, respond to funding opportunities, and develop grant applications to promote social inclusion.
The institute welcomes contact from individuals wishing to undertake study at PhD level in the fields of criminal justice, social care or social policy.
It also welcomes contact from agencies and groups embarking on new projects who wish to scope existing knowledge in advance of funding applications or who wish to work in partnership and explore how Institute staff may help with funding applications and/or project evaluations.
“Staff at WU have been involved in high quality research over a number of years.
Cyfiawnder: The Social Inclusion Research Institute, will build on this platform to become a resource for University staff to launch or extend their research profiles and for stakeholders in the criminal justice, social care, or social policy arena to work in partnership to help identify, promote, and research good practice to address social inclusion.”
Take a look at the Social Inclusion Research Institute's current and previous projects in the fields of criminology, social policy, social work, and more...
Take a look at the upcoming events hosted by Cyfiawnder.
The Co-Directors, Institute, Associate, and Student Members.
A list of current and past partners who have worked with members of Cyfiawnder.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/research:
Wrexham University’s research is focused on impacting economic, social and cultural development.
Whether local or international, small scale or large, the emphasis is always on problem-solving and making a contribution to real needs.
Published outputs from our research are available online.
“To understand what training needs artists working in healthcare require, firstly we must understand how their practice functions within this setting.
To do this, my research has adopted qualitative research methods, through semi-structured interviews and ethnographic observations with artists working in the field, subsequently analysing the data through grounded theory and thematic analysis.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/faculty-of-arts-science-and-technology:
Wrexham University's academic structure is divided into two faculties, each home to a wealth of expertise, teaching and learning across a range of disiplines.
The Faculty of Arts, Science and Technology at Wrexham University has a rich history of innovation in the Arts and Science dating back to 1887.
Our student-centred approach to teaching and learning is tailored to the student’s needs, and our lecturers foster a culture of collaboration and endeavour to help students with their ambitions.
We encourage positive and innovative approaches to learning and use small teaching groups, so you can achieve your best and go on to enjoy a successful career.
We welcome applicants whatever your experience or background to come and join us.
The Faculty hosts a welcoming and vibrant environment, designed to develop student knowledge and skills within the creative and technological industries through staff expertise and teaching excellence.
This learning incorporates contemporary facilities, industry visits and much more to enhance your employability after your study with us.
The Faculty is entrepreneurial and ambitious in its mission to contribute to the economic growth of the region through strong industrial partnerships and creative thinking.
Explore STEAM - a digital catalogue showcasing a selection of the work of our Arts, Science and Technology graduating students and researchers.
Subject areas within the faculty include art & design, built environment, computing, engineering, humanities, media and science.
Our Art & Design students are proud to present their 2022 Degree Show, Unjammed .
Search our career-focused undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
The latest news and events from the faculty.
We’d love to hear from you, so if you would like more information about what it’s like to study with us or have any questions, please call 01978 293439 or email enquiries@glyndwr.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/faculty-of-social-and-life-science:
The Faculty of Social and Life Sciences is passionate about the needs of society, whether that be education, health, social care, the environment or the justice system.
Our aim is to create an inspiring learning environment and a true centre of excellence for teaching and research, helping to transform student lives, our community and organisations in the wider region.
The Faculty team works as one to create a culture of openness, accessible learning and support, respect, innovation and ambition in our students’ aspirations.
Excellent links with industry and public services in the region give the Faculty the opportunity to secure a wide variety of work placements for students, allowing for invaluable experience to be gained as part of their studies.
These industry partnerships are essential in ensuring programmes provide the highest employment opportunities and career progression.
Utilising a mix of approaches to teaching and learning and a variety of delivery styles, we tailor our teaching to suit differing student needs (including online/distant learning for some courses).
Subject areas within the faculty include business, education, health, psychology, social care, society and sport.
The latest news and events from the Faculty.
We’d love to hear from you, so if you would like more information about what it’s like to study with us, or have any questions, please call 01978 293439 or email enquiries@glyndwr.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/staff-profiles:
Browse our professors, lecturers and researchers.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/news:
Discover what's happening at Wrexham University.
If you're looking for updates on what's happening on campus or within the local community then explore the articles below.
Wrexham University School of Art’s Masters students are inviting members of the community to come along and view their final exhibition as part of their studies.
Showcasing an array of visual ar...
A Psychology graduate who was made redundant turned a career setback into a life-changing redirect by deciding to study at university and go onto set up his own counselling business.
Nigel Skinner, 59...
A Wrexham University academic’s research paper on reducing the environmental impacts associated with building demolition waste for a leading supermarket has been awarded the prestigious Tel...
Wrexham University nursing students came together with their lecturers for a special celebration to mark the completion of their studies – and prepare for their next steps of joining the region&...
Wrexham University’s Head of Welsh Development, Elen Mai Nefydd has been formally honoured by the Gorsedd of Bards at this year’s Wrecsam National Eisteddfod, recognising her outstand...
FOUR leading educational institutions have united to form the North Wales Tertiary Alliance (NWTA) - a landmark partnership to strengthen education and skills development, fuel economic growth, and im...
Children and young people attending this year’s National Eisteddfod in Wrecsam will have the chance to explore the iconic Welsh cultural festival in a whole new way – inside the world of M...
Wrexham University and ClwydAlyn Housing have been awarded a Welsh Government-funded SMART Partnership to drive innovation in sustainable housing.
The collaboration will create innovative and sustaina...
A Social Work student who is weeks away from completing her degree has spoken of her ambition to “be the social worker that changes a young person’s outlook of the care system”.
Alis...
Prifysgol Wrecsam/Wrexham University’s vibrant Welsh language offer will be showcased and celebrated at the upcoming Wrecsam National Eisteddfod.
Staff and students from the Universi...

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/sustainability:
Wrexham University aims to promote sustainable communities, services and use of physical resources.
Our Sustainability Action Forum (SAF), a small army of Green Champions, consisting of students and staff, including Students Union and Unison representatives and Sustainability, has been given an annual budget of £20,000 ring fenced for special projects.
We've used 100% renewable electricity since 2018.
Carbon emissions have reduced by 51% since 2009/10
We recycled 40% of our waste in 2022/23 - our next target is 50%.
Learn more about our commitment to sustainable resources, teaching and services.
186 tonnes of waste collected 40% recycled
18% hot drinks sales in reusable cups - 11,069 disposables avoided.
23% gas & electricity reduction since 2009/10
From our staff and committees to local community groups, find out about the people helping our sustainability commitment.
Learn about how Wrexham University is managing its energy consumption and carbon reduction.
Find out about our commitment to ensuring that staff and students understand, and are concerned about, global issues of sustainable development.
Wrexham University has been placed among the top third of British universities for its performance in the People and Planet University League.
The People and Planet team measure everything from a university’s carbon reduction policies to its water reduction measures, with 153 universities in the UK ranked accordingly.
Wrexham University is ranked 43 and in the top 10 for ethical careers and recruitment and Ethical Investment
The University has also signed up to the Welsh Governments Code of Practice on Ethical Employment in the Supply Chain and Modern Slavery Act, which is the world's largest open data register committed to ending modern slavery and supply chain labour abuses.
The University was presented with a Wrexham Area Civic Society award for sustainability.
The society described the Centre for Creative Industries building as "a striking and successful piece of modern architecture".
At the heart of the building, from day one of its design has been its sustainable features, from its ‘green’ sedum roof to all toilets being supplied from recycled rainwater collected from the roof, air-to-air source heat pumps providing heating and the green roof providing a high thermal mass, reducing the demand for quick response energy.
Green Impact empowers individuals and departments to reduce their environmental impact, challenging the University to implement a number of easy, practical actions that will help the environment.
WU Students Union work in collaboration with Wrexham University on the Green Impact Award annually.
This year, a score of 305 was achieved and an EXCELLENT award.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/about:
Vibrant, friendly and inclusive.
Wrexham University is a learning community focused on inspiring its students to aim higher and achieve more.
Our past, present and future.
How we're growing as a university and our vision for what's next.
Our Active Learning Framework combines making the best use of our on-campus learning spaces, with accessible student-focused digital learning content.
ALF embodies ways of teaching and learning that create and support a sense of belonging for students.
Information about how we work as a university, our leadership and structure.
We're working with partners and communities to make a positive difference for the public good across North Wales.
We're committed to supporting, developing and promoting equality and diversity in our practices and activities.
We aim to promote sustainable communities, services and use of physical resources.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges/widening-access:
Here at Wrexham University, we’re open to all.
We are committed to ensuring that everyone who has the potential to achieve in higher education is given the chance to do so.
This means that, whatever your background, age, gender or disability, we offer support and advice to help you succeed here.
Wrexham University appreciates the diversity of the communities it serves, and the students we teach.
We provide specific support to break down barriers including language, cultural and faith differences, in order to create a sense of equality and cohesion for all.
At Wrexham University, it’s important to us that people from lower income households can not only aspire to, but also access a university education.
A quarter of our graduates come from what are known as low participation neighbourhoods.
Put simply, these are people who never thought they could go to university but did.
Our success helps level the playing field and address key issues such as child poverty and inequity.
That’s why we’ve taken the lead in Wales, setting best practice and establishing benchmarks on improving access to higher education.
Wrexham University is committed to supporting its students in their journey from leaving care into higher education.
We are here every step of the way and can support you throughout your entire university journey.
As a Welsh university, we are also part of CLASS Cymru , which aims to provide the best possible experience of further and higher education for vulnerable young adults, including children and young people in care, kin-care, care leavers and those who are estranged from their families.
Find out more about the support we offer here .
If you are thinking about coming to university and you are a care leaver or an estranged student, please contact the W idening A ccess C oordinator amber.percy@wrexham.ac.uk or call us on 01978 293342 to discuss your next steps and support.
Our Widening Participation department has strong links with the local community in areas such as Caia/Hightown and the Urban Villages, as well as in East and West Flintshire, Rhyl SW and Upper Denbigh.
Our work is extended across other priority postcode areas both in Wales and across the border in England.
Our aim is to engage with the hardest to reach members of our community in our quest to support both children and adults in recognising the vast benefits of education.
Our staff work extensively with community groups to provide adult learning and outreach promoting higher education to schools and groups.
To encourage them to appreciate the university experience, we deliver a full schedule of events and seminars to raise awareness, inspire and engage the local community.
In collaboration with local partners, Wrexham University has been a key player in promoting and developing a range of different Reaching Wider activities to raise awareness of higher education.
The Reaching Wider initiative is a Wales-wide, Higher Education Funding Council for Wales (HEFCW) strategy established in 2002, to widen participation and access to higher education, supporting social inclusion and upskilling.
The Reaching Wider initiative focuses on four main groups of people who are currently under-represented in Higher Education.
These groups are those living in areas where people attending higher education is lower, people from ethnic minority communities, those who wish to study through the medium of Welsh and people who have a disability.
At Wrexham University, we work closely with Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol to develop Welsh language medium opportunities for students.
We also provide Welsh medium talks for 6th form students who are thinking about higher education.
As part of the World of Work programme, we also offer career talks for year 6 pupils through the medium of Welsh.
These Reaching Wider projects are only a small example of the outreach work Wrexham University does with schools, organisations and community groups.
If you would like further information on any of our projects or would like to get involved with the University, please contact amber.percy@wrexham.ac.uk or call 01978 293342.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/about/quality-assurance-agency:
The Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education (QAA) is an independent charity working to benefit students and higher education.
They work with government, agencies and institutions globally in a variety of ways.
In Wales they work closely with Medr and The Commission for Tertiary Education and Research as examples.
In relation to Wrexham University we are members of the QAA and are able to benefit from their membership activities and have the QAA undertake independent reviews of our higher education provision.
The Quality Enhancement Review (QER) process combines quality assurance and quality enhancement.
The last QER took place during the 2024/25 academic year.
The review determined that Wrexham University meets the requirements of the European Standards and Guidelines (ESG) Part 1 for internal quality assurance, and that it meets the relevant baseline regulatory requirements of the Quality Assurance Framework for Wales.
The full report can be found here .
The action plan can be found here: Wrexham University 2025 Quality Enhancement Review Action Plan

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/news/articles/wrexham-university-ranks-top-in-wales-for-student-satisfaction-for-second-year-running:
Date: Wednesday, June 11, 2025
Student satisfaction at Wrexham University has been ranked top in Wales for the second year running in the Complete University Guide 2026.
The Guide has also ranked the University joint third in the UK for levels of student satisfaction – out of 130 higher education institutions.
The institution has also performed strongly in a number of subject areas – in particular, Sociology subjects – in which the University offers a course in Criminology and Criminal Justice (BA Hons) – which ranked first in the UK for student satisfaction for the third year in a row.
The University has also ranked top in the UK for student satisfaction in Health Studies subjects – in which the institution offers courses in BSc (Hons) Mental Health and Wellbeing , Dip HE Health and Social Wellbeing and BSc (Hons) Sports Injury Rehabilitation .
At subject level across all UK institutions, the University is ranked:
At subject level out of Welsh universities, Wrexham University is ranked:
Professor Joe Yates, Vice-Chancellor of Wrexham University, said: “We are delighted to have ranked top in Wales for student satisfaction for the second year in succession, as well as joint third in the UK for that same metric.
“What our students have to say really matters to us, and our consistent high rankings relating to how satisfied they are with the quality of the teaching that they receive is a huge reason to be proud – and truly demonstrates how hard our academic staff work to provide high quality levels of teaching.”
The Complete University Guide releases UK university and subject league tables each year to support prospective students in making informed decisions about their future.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/clearing:
At Wrexham University, we believe that your journey should be about more than just earning a degree.
It’s about discovering your passions, forming lifelong friendships, and teaching that inspires you every step of the way.
Enjoy peace of mind with 24/7 security, free Wi-Fi, and on-site parking.
Our student accommodation also features convenient on-site laundry facilities.
Located within walking distance of shops and the city centre, you’ll have everything you need right on your doorstep.
Plus, with train links to Chester, Liverpool, and Manchester just a 5-minute walk away, exploring the region couldn’t be easier.
Welcome to comfort, convenience, and community, all in one place.
Don’t let financial concerns hold you back, we’ve gathered everything you need to navigate the clearing process with confidence.
If you’re applying for one of our Nursing or Allied Health degrees, you may be entitled to a full NHS bursary to fund this course ( T&Cs Apply)
“Studying my degree here at Wrexham University is one of the best choices of my life.”
Clearing can feel overwhelming, but you’re not alone.
Read Maham’s blog to hear how she made her decision, what the process was really like, and how she found the right path for her.
Thinking about studying in the UK as an international student?
From choosing your course and understanding entry requirements to visas, fees and settling in, we break down everything you need to know to make your journey as smooth as possible.
Our expert Admissions team has compiled answers to the most frequently asked Clearing questions, helping you find the right course and make a positive decision that suits your path.
Our Clearing hotline is open Monday to Friday, 9am until 5pm.
Extended Hours :
Join us at an upcoming open day to meet your lecturers, find out more about our courses, discover our facilities and get a taste of student life.
Browse all of our open days & events .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/blog/posts/why-study-nursing-at-wrexham-university:
So, you want to study Nursing but you’re not sure which university to study Nursing at?
We’re here to help!
Nursing is both a dynamic and rewarding career, and it’s important to study at a university that is committed to providing you with the knowledge and skills to excel in this field.
Five questions to keep in mind when choosing where to study Nursing are:
Within this blog, we will outline just some of the reasons why students choose Wrexham University as their first choice when it comes to studying a Nursing degree.
We understand that every student has their own specific interests and career goals.
Hence, we offer several different Nursing pathways that you can choose from.
Whether you’re interested in Adult Nursing , Children’s Nursing or Mental Health Nursing , we have the expertise and facilities to provide you with a deep understanding of your chosen field.
We also have a wide range of Allied Health courses, giving you the flexibility to explore different aspects of the healthcare field.
Another huge benefit of studying at Wrexham University is the opportunity to take advantage of the NHS Wales bursary scheme .
This scheme covers tuition fees and provides a non-repayable bursary to help with living costs for students who are eligible and commit to working in Wales for two years upon graduation.
This financial support means that you will be able to focus on your studies without worrying about excessive debt and repayments.
As part of our ongoing campus developments , Wrexham University has built a cutting-edge Healthcare Simulation Centre that mimics real-world clinical environments.
The centre features advanced technology and equipment such as two ward spaces, a simulation side bay, advanced audio/visual technology, and an observation room where trained professionals can monitor and assess your progress.
This innovative facility ensures that you’re well prepared for the practical challenges you’ll face in real healthcare settings.
Wrexham University’s commitment to excellent teaching and student experience is recognised nationally.
Our Nursing courses recently ranked 1 st in the UK for Teaching Quality and Student Experience, and joint 1st in the UK for Graduate Prospects in the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide, 2025.
At Wrexham University, we believe that hands-on experience is key to preparing our students for successful careers.
We work closely with several local healthcare providers to ensure that you get a mix of community and ward/clinical environments.
Nursing students are expected to complete 2300 hours of practical work throughout the duration of their course; completing 4 placements in year one and two, and three placements in their final year.
These placements provide invaluable experience, helping you apply the skills learned in the classroom to actual clinical settings under the guidance of experienced healthcare professionals.
Additionally, these placements provide an opportunity to build professional connections that can enhance your employability after graduation.
Read a blog written by one of our Mental Health Nursing students to learn more about the placement process at Wrexham University.
Overall, choosing the right university for your Nursing studies is essential, as it will shape your skills, career readiness, and overall experience in this fulfilling field.
Why not attend one of our upcoming open days to learn more about why Wrexham University should be your first choice when it comes to embarking on your Nursing journey.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/news/articles/enterprise-engineering-and-optics-centre-build-nears-completion:
Date: Thursday, June 5, 2025
Industry partners, academics and those involved in the build of the North Wales Growth Deal’s first construction project have come together to celebrate its successful progress as a sustainable development.
Now near completion, the Enterprise Engineering and Optics Centre (EEOC) at Wrexham University is a trail-blazing development, which will become a specialist centre for industry engagement, research, and innovation.
Work officially began on the centre in February 2024, and today (Thursday, June 5), colleagues from the University, Wynne Construction – the main contractor for the build, and Ambition North Wales – which delivers the North Wales Growth Deal – of which the EEOC is one of its projects, came together to mark the milestone.
The EEOC will provide North Wales with a centre for collaboration and skills development in sustainability, renewables, and high value manufacturing.
In particular, focusing on composites as lightweight alternatives for manufacturing, supporting the development and adoption of hydrogen technologies, and maximising the benefits of optics and photonics expertise.
The development is being delivered across two University sites – the Plas Coch campus in Wrexham and the OpTIC Technology Centre at the St Asaph campus.
Through all campus development works at the University, the institution is committed to reducing its environmental impact – and key to delivering this transformative centre was ensuring that the project positively contributed to biodiversity, decarbonisation and social value goals.
During the construction phase, a number of material selections were made aimed at reducing the carbon footprint, including:
The project has also resulted in a 30.5% increase in biodiversity on the University’s campuses – with particular focus on the institution’s Northop campus – which is located half-way between the Plas Coch and St Asaph campuses, where trees have been planted.
The University’s Northop site team is in the process of sowing wildflower seeds, which will create a large feeding and nesting ground for insects, birds and small animals.
Due to its rural location, the Northop campus is uniquely placed to gain maximum benefit from such biodiversity impact interventions.
The construction phase has also surpassed its social and local economic value target – forecasted to achieve 71.7 per cent against a goal of 67.9 per cent, demonstrating a strong commitment to delivering lasting benefits across North Wales.
A significant focus has been on local employment, with more than 400 jobs safeguarded, and nearly 60 per cent of the workforce residing in Wales, including individuals from some of the most deprived communities.
The supply chain strategy supported the regional economy by directing 76 per cent of spend to North Wales SMEs, nearly a third of which operate in areas of high deprivation.
Apprenticeships have played a vital role in developing local skills, with 80 per cent of apprentices recruited from North Wales.
Together, these efforts demonstrate a commitment to inclusive growth, skills development, and strong community partnerships that will create lasting positive change.
Professor Joe Yates, Vice-Chancellor, with Cllr Mark Pritchard, Leader of Wrexham County Borough Council and Chair of North Wales Economic Ambition Board.
Professor Joe Yates, Vice-Chancellor of Wrexham University, said: “We are delighted to have welcomed partners from Ambition North Wales and Wynne Construction to the University today to celebrate this exciting next step for our EEOC development.
“The development aligns with one of our key goals of our newly launched 2030 Vision, which is around excellence in the quality and impacts of research and enterprise, and in turn, delivering successful innovation and transformation.
“The near completion of the EEOC building also marks a superb milestone for sustainability in the project’s positive contributions to decarbonisation, social value and enhancing biodiversity.
“The project team have done an excellent job – from ensuring that materials were carefully selected and sourced to ensure a reduction in our carbon footprint to a 30% increase in biodiversity on our campuses.
We are pleased to have aligned with Ambition North Wales’ ethos of fostering economic growth for North Wales while ensuring developments are built sustainably.
“While from a social value perspective, key to the project has been to attract investment to North Wales and create local employment opportunities – and we’re delighted that -- jobs have been created through the EEOC development.
“We look forward to the building officially opening for the start of the next academic year, and realising our ambitions of it being a specialist centre for research and development, and a hub for industry engagement, here in North Wales.”
Chris Wynne, Managing Director of Wynne Construction, said: “We are incredibly proud to have collaborated with Wrexham University on the delivery of this exceptional building and to play a role in a transformative programme that benefits not only the University but the wider North Wales region.
“At Wynne Construction, social value is the cornerstone of every project we undertake.
We are on track to achieve great results for the EEOC development, once handover is complete.
This includes a total of £6.5m spend with North Wales-based subcontractors of which £1.8m has been spent in areas of high deprivation and £407k with micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
Resulting in 59% of the workforce residing in North Wales.
“My sincere thanks go to the entire team for bringing their expertise to this project and for helping to create a landmark building that will leave a meaningful and lasting legacy — socially, economically, and environmentally — for Wrexham and the surrounding area.”
Cllr Dave Hughes, Lead Member for the North Wales Growth Deal’s Innovation in High Value Manufacturing programme, Ambition North Wales, added: "It was a proud moment to be able to join all partners today, who have worked so hard to bring this pioneering build to life.
“The EEOC is a prime example of the sustainable, economic development we aim to deliver through our Innovation in High Value Manufacturing programme – securing high-value employment and training opportunities and supporting manufacturing businesses to decarbonise.
“The project has really delivered at pace while maintaining a focus on its social value commitments, which I’m delighted were also highlighted today.”
The EEOC is on target to open for the start of the next academic year in September 2025 on time and in alignment with project timelines agreed with Ambition North Wales.
Notes to editors:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/news/articles/head-of-welsh-development-to-be-honoured-at-this-years-wrecsam-eisteddfod:
Date: Wednesday, June 4, 2025
The Head of Welsh Development at Wrexham University will be honoured by the Gorsedd of Bards at this year’s National Eisteddfod for her contribution to higher education and her work in championing the Welsh language.
Elen Mai Nefydd has been recognised for her contribution to the sector over the last 25 years in North Wales, as well as attracting new audiences to the Welsh language and the Eisteddfod.
She is one of a select number of individuals who have been recognised from all parts of the country for their achievements and their commitment to Wales, the language and their local communities.
In line with Gorsedd Cymru’s arrangements for honouring new members, all new members are admitted at the same level, irrespective of whether they are honoured with blue or green robes.
Those who have succeeded in the fields of law, science, sports, journalism, media, local / national activities and services to the nation are presented with blue robes.
While, the Gorsedd admits new members to the green robes for their contribution to the arts and services to the nation – and both recipients of the blue and green robes become Honorary Druids.
Elen Mai will be presented with her own green robe, including her bardic name, in recognition of her efforts.
When Elen Mai first joined the University, she was the Programme Leader for Theatre, TV and Performance, prior to taking up her current role in 2022.
Today, Elen Mai leads on the institution’s Welsh Language Academic Strategy and Action Plan, which sets out to enhance the provision of Welsh medium development at the University.
Since its launch, Welsh language modules have been introduced to a number of degree courses including Speech and Language Therapy and Professional Policing .
In the run-up to the National Eisteddfod, Elen Mai is serving as Vice-Chair for Culture of the Wrexham National Eisteddfod Executive Committee 2025.
Speaking about the honour, she said: “I am absolutely delighted and feel immensely proud that I will be honoured by the Gorsedd of Bards at this year’s Eisteddfod, it really is a pinch me moment – and the fact that it is taking place here in Wrexham this year makes it even more memorable and special for me.
“This recognition comes at an incredibly exciting time for the local area, as there’s been a real tangible and positive change in the air in Wrexham, through so many vibrant cultural activities and milestones.
“It’s been wonderful to have so many great opportunities to promote the Welsh language to everyone in our community, in the hope that it will leave a lasting cultural and linguistic legacy in the region after the Eisteddfod visit.
“It’s also been extremely rewarding to see how far the institution has grown in relation to its Welsh language provision and offer for both students and staff.”
Professor Joe Yates, Vice-Chancellor of Wrexham University, added: “Llongyfarchiadau to Elen Mai for this highly prestigious accolade in recognition of her services to higher education here in North Wales, which highlights her dedication to championing and enhancing provision of Welsh medium and bilingual education, here at the University and within the community.
“As a Welsh institution, we are proud of our heritage and the language and as part of our recently launched vision and strategy, actively promoting the Welsh language, culture and heritage through all our activities is the golden thread running through everything that we do.”
Elen Mai and the other recipients will be honoured at special ceremonies on the Eisteddfod Maes during the first week of August.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/news/articles/football-changemakers-inspire-wrexham-university-students-at-special-event:
Date: Thursday, May 8, 2025
“Don’t rely on someone else to ask you – you have to be brave and do the things that will make you stand out from the rest.”
Those are the words of wisdom shared by Jamie Edwards, Head of Community at Wrexham AFC Foundation to Football Coaching & the Performance Specialist degree students at Wrexham University, during the institution’s Gamechangers: The Future of Football and Community Development conference.
Jamie Edwards, Head of Community at Wrexham AFC Foundation
Jamie, who has worked at the club since last year, was one of the speakers at the event, which focussed on the power of football and each speaker’s unique route into the sport.
He provided students with a fascinating insight into what it’s like to work at the club.
He said: “Working for Wrexham AFC is like jumping on an aeroplane, taking off – all while building it mid-air, you just never know what’s around the corner next – and I love it.
It’s all about grabbing those opportunities as and when they arise.
“Don’t wait around and don’t wait to be asked, volunteer, go out there, and try and experience things for yourself.
Don’t rely on someone else to ask you – you have to be brave and do the things that will make you stand out from the rest.
But ultimately, enjoy what you’re doing and what’s in front of you.”
Through Wrexham AFC Foundation’s work, the team aims to change the lives of children and young people across Wrexham, North Wales and beyond for the better.
Speaking about the Foundation’s purpose, Jamie said: “I love making a difference – and being able to do that in this role is hugely rewarding.
Through the power of football and the club, we want to improve the lives of children and young people through improving their health, support their learning and provide them with opportunities.
“This year, we have also been able to partner with the Kick4Life FC from Lesotho – so as well as making a difference to our community, we also have a chance to make positive change globally.
For us, it’s about remaining rooted locally, while making an impact globally.”
Other speakers during the day, included Kelly Davies from Ashoka Sport for Changemaking, Allan James from Cymru Football Foundation, Katie Rowson from Aberdeen Football Club, and Dan Dodge from Sport4Change.
Sara Hilton, Senior Lecturer in Football and Coaching Science, added: “Our students had an unforgettable day at our Gamechangers conference – and the feedback we’ve received from them following it has been fantastic.
“We were proud to welcome a powerhouse line-up of speakers who inspired, challenged, and energised our students, who were treated to thought-provoking discussions and invaluable insights into how football is being used as a force for positive change in communities around the world.
“A huge thank you to our fantastic speakers, who each brought something special to inspire our next generation of football changemakers.”

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/welcome-week:
We've worked to ensure that everyone feels welcomed, looked after and part of what Wrexham University does best – being a supportive community.
The health, safety and wellbeing of our students and staff are at the forefront of our plans, ensuring that we continue to deliver a high-quality learning experience for all.
Students returning after the summer break will be required to re-enrol in order to continue your studies at Wrexham University.
Please visit our returning students page for more information.
Everything you need to know before arriving at Wrexham University.
Access your timetables and academic calendars.
All of the essential information for enrolment at Wrexham University.
This year, the University is improving the induction and welcome into higher education and to Wrexham University.
The student induction module, separate from your degree, will outline what you need to know about being a student at Wrexham University.
You will be required to choose the option at enrolment and we recommend all new undergraduate students take part.
The University has created a portal for prospective, new and current students to help answer any questions that you may have about your studies.
Examples of information you can find on this platform includes:
Enrolled students at Wrexham University can use their University login details to access the system here .
Applicants, prospective students, students who haven’t completed their enrolment or parents and carers can register to use the system by completing a quick registration form.
If you have any questions about accessing the system then please contact us on ask@wrexham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/careers/careers-and-employability-portal:
ASK: Careers and Employability is a personalised profile for every step of your career journey, beyond graduation.
Through our Careers Portal, we offer:
Students can access the portal here .
Sign in with your student email and password.
Graduates are invited to register as graduates on the portal  using your personal details here.
We encourage all students in their final year of study to update their profile with their personal details to enable the best chances of continual support beyond graduation.
Once registered as an graduate, we will merge your student and graduate data to one profile, this way you have a complete record of your careers and employability activity and achievements.
Prospective Students are invited to register on our portal for support when considering study with Wrexham University.
Register here as a potential student for access to our HE Careers Advisers and employability specialists.
Employers, Recruiters and Voluntary Organisations can create a personlised organisation profile and advertise to our motivated workforce of students and graduates through our portal here .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/accessibility:
This Accessibility Statement is provided by Wrexham University (WU) and applies to our website platform in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) Accessibility Regulations 2018 .
This accessibility statement applies to wrexham.ac.uk which is Wrexham University's main corporate website and is hosted internally.
Our goal is to ensure the website is fully accessible and usable for all users regardless of ability, and the WCAG 2.2 guidelines are followed.
Wrexham University aims to ensure that all the content uploaded to the website are fully accessible to all users, including disabled users.
The University is in the process of ensuring its pages comply with the AA standard of the W3C recommended version of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG).
The University acknowledges that this is an anticipatory and continuing work in progress and, in order to ensure no user is disadvantaged while this work is carried out, the University intends to respond to all requests for assistance with accessibility, by either altering the necessary content as soon as possible, or, if requested, by providing the information in an alternative format within a reasonable timeframe.
The University will make reasonable adjustments to ensure specific individual needs that cannot be addressed by mainstreamed adjustments are met.
Contact webeditor@wrexham.ac.uk for help with this.
You can change the default settings in your browser to help with accessibility issues.
There are a number of accessibility features on the website, that mean you should be able to:
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability
Changing text size
Using your browser controls, you can make the text on this website larger or smaller.
Internet Explorer
Google Chrome
To change the Text Size of web pages you are viewing:
Firefox
To change the Text Size of the web pages you are viewing:
You can select the 'Zoom text size only' option to change just the size of the text, whilst not altering other elements on the page.
Safari
To improve your experience on our website, you can also use our accessibility toolbar (provided by Recite Me ) to change how our website is displayed.
This toolbar provides many options including:
To access the toolbar, click the 'Accessibility' link at the top of any page by the search bar tool.
The toolbar will appear at the top of the page.
Any changes you make will remain as you navigate through the website.
Please note, this toolbar only applies to pages contained within wrexham.ac.uk
This website uses Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to specify its style.
If you are having difficulty reading the text on our website, it is possible to change the colours of the text and background by adjusting the browser settings.
Accessibility features in Firefox
Accessibility features in Chrome
Accessibility features in Internet Explorer
Find out more about how to change text size and colours
To improve your experience on our website, you can also use our accessibility toolbar (provided by Recite Me) to change how our website is displayed.
This toolbar provides many options including:
If you need information on this website in a different format and have not been able to download this using the Blackboard Ally tool, then please email: webeditor@wrexham.ac.uk
We will forward your message to the appropriate member of staff and get back to you as soon as possible.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact: webeditor@wrexham.ac.uk
Your message will be forwarded to the relevant team who will get back to you as soon as possible.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
Wrexham University is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 .
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
Some images do not have a text alternative, so people using a screen reader cannot access the information.
This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.1.1 (non-text content).
Our aim is for all new content added after September 17, 2020 (the time of our most recent major revision to our website) to include 'alt' text for all images.
Some of the links are not labelled clearly.
This means that links do not make sense when taken out of context, and for some links it is not possible to know what the purpose of the link is.
This fails WCAG: 2.4.4 (link purpose in context).
We will correct link text over time as we review each page.
Some videos on our website do not have the required caption controls or transcriptions available (WCAG: 1.2.2, 1.2.4).
In accordance with the regulations, all new content created after September 2020 will be made more accessible.
Some PowerPoint, Word and PDF documents that are essential to learning, teaching and assessment may not meet accessibility standards, for example, they may not be marked up so they are accessible to a screen reader.
These issues will be addressed through a combination of provision of enhanced guidance, staff training and provision of accessible document templates (e.g.
an accessible module handbook template in Word, an accessible PowerPoint slide template), use of Blackboard Ally to prompt improvement of accessibility.
This section covers issues that we do not need to fix right now.
The law calls these exemptions.
Some of our PDFs that are not essential to providing our services were published before September 23, 2018.
We are implementing strategies to ensure that any new PDFs or documents we publish will meet accessibility standards.
If you have trouble accessing these documents, you could make use of the Recite Me tool to download an alternative format.
Alternatively, we will address specific issues on request.
We will focus our efforts on ensuring that wrexham.ac.uk and new content, created in and uploaded to it, is as accessible as possible going forward.
Our site contains third-party content.
We do not have control over and are not responsible for the accessibility of this content, but we make best endeavours to work with the third-party to improve its accessibility.
This may include:
Wrexham University has been able to make use of searchBOX , a centralised, independent directory of third-party accessibility information to help accessibility compliance across the sector.
searchBOX catalogues the contact information and accessibility statements of third-party suppliers, enables the sharing of community-generated accessibility statements, and allows users to map their supplier ecosystem.
Users can access third-party accessibility statements using the free searchBOX Finder service.
Wrexham University will be encouraging all our partners and suppliers to support this effort by ensuring that their accessibility information is included in the searchBOX directory.
Wrexham University has an accessibility working group who meet regularly and work on how the University can meet its obligations in relation to the new accessibility regulations for all of the University's digital provision.
We have provided training opportunities and resources for members of staff on how to improve the accessibility of digital content for learning, teaching and assessment.
We have added a tool to the website called Recite Me and we run any PDFs before it is uploaded to our website through Blackboard Ally software to check whether it is compliant.
We also use that software on a weekly basis to help us identify accessibility issues which we regularly work through resolving.
Issued fixed 15/08/2022: Header and navigation - we’ve identified an issue with our navigation menu noting some menu options receive keyboard focus twice.
Some elements focus when not in view.
Therefore, some elements may not always display effective focus indication (WCAG: 2.4.7).
Issues fixed 2 6 /01/2024 : We have moved live chat provider to address the following issue: After live chat is activated, tabbing takes you to the top of the page rather than the chat window.
Also, the user is unable to adjust line height due to forced inline styles.
Part of the statement was prepared on 22nd September 2020.
It was last reviewed and updated on January 01, 2024.
This website was last tested with assistive technologies on November 25, 2022, by members of staff at Wrexham University.
We last made use of the institutional report available through Blackboard Ally on November 24, 2022.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/disclaimer:
Every effort is made to ensure the accuracy and currency of the information contained in pages of the Wrexham Glyndŵr University site and all subdomains thereof.
However, contents are subject to change from time to time, and the University can accept no liability for the accuracy of all of the information presented at any given time.
The University reserves the right to make changes without notice.
Some links may lead to information maintained by third parties and the University accepts no responsibility for the accuracy or any other aspect of information obtained through such links.
Every effort is made to ensure downloadable content is free from viruses.
The University can accept no liability for damages resulting from virus infection.
The University prospectus and web pages are intended as a general guide to the University courses and facilities, and form no part of any contract between you and the University, except as provided below:
The prospectuses and web pages are prepared in advance of the academic year to which they relate.
Although reasonable steps are taken by the University to provide the courses and services described, the University cannot guarantee the provision of any course or facility.
Any course may be altered or withdrawn owing to circumstances beyond the University’s control.
Such circumstances include (but are not limited to) industrial action, lack of demand, departure of key personnel, and change in government policy, withdrawal or reduction of funding or a change in the law.
Enrolment at the University is subject to your acceptance of the conditions of enrolment, which include (but are not limited to) you agreeing to be bound by the University’s regulations.
The website may contain links to third-party websites.
The University has no control over the contents of those sites and accepts no responsibility for them or for any loss or damage that may arise from your use of them.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cookies:
A cookie is a small file which helps your web browser navigate through a particular website.
The cookie can then be read back later by the web browser as required.
The use of cookies is a convenient way of allowing a computer to remember specific information relating to a website which has been visited.
This cookie data can then be retrieved and can allow us to customise our web pages and services accordingly.
How does Wrexham University use cookies?
The University website will primarily set session cookies.
Session cookies allow websites to remember information from page to page, so the user does not have to input that information more than once.
A prime example of when session cookies are used is during a purchase from an internet shop – a session cookie would be used to remember what the user had put in their basket so that it would be carried through to checkout.
Session cookies will normally be deleted by your browser when the browser is closed.
Some parts of this website use Google Analytics which also place cookies on your computer.
The information generated by these cookies about your use of this website will be transmitted to and stored by Google.
The University will not use the statistical analytics tools to track or to collect personally identifiable information of visitors to this website.
The University will not associate any data gathered with any personally identifying information from any source as part of our use of the statistical analytics tools.
We use Google Analytics cookies to hold information about your visit to our site.
This helps us better identify the use and popularity of our services and how successfully the website is functioning.
If you do not wish us to do this, you can opt out of the Analytics service by installing an extension for your browser .
Alternatively you can delete/restrict the cookies as for any other cookie.
We use Hotjar to help us understand how users navigate around individual pages on our website and to create surveys to gather user feedback.
Find more information on cookies and data privacy from the Hotjar website .
We use Cludo, a third party analytics platform to help us provide better search results for our users
Wrexham University uses Azorus which is our Customer Relationship Management platform (CRM).
It is hosted at be.wrexham.ac.uk.
We use the CRM for data storage, direct marketing, event management, profiling, and reporting.
We use Contractual as a Lawful basis for sending system emails which are triggered by event bookings, form completions or information imported from a 3 rd party enquiry system, such as UniBuddy.
More information on their privacy policy can be found here .
Our third-party CRM provider "Azorus" may use cookie-like technologies from time to time, like web beacons, SDKs, pixels (or “clear gifs”) and other tracking technologies.
They automatically place single-pixel gifs, also known as web beacons, in every email sent from Azorus.
These are tiny graphic files that contain unique identifiers that enable Wrexham University and Azorus to recognise when our Contacts have opened an email or clicked certain links.
These technologies record each Contact’s email address, IP address, date, and time associated with each open and click for a campaign.
Azorus use this data to create reports for Wrexham University about how an email campaign performed and what actions Contacts took.
Wrexham University uses third-party live chat software provided by Chatify .
Wrexham University use the service to respond to direct live chat enquiries.
T o improve your user experience , c ookies are used to remember if you have submitted information previously .
– More information on their privacy policy can be found here .
Social media tracking allows us to track those visitors who have been referred through social platforms such as Facebook and LinkedIn.
It also allows us to remarket to website visitors who use their platforms.
We will share information regarding your visit to our website with social media platforms but this will not include any information specific to your application or other personal information.
This information is used on our behalf to monitor the effectiveness of our advertising and applications.
The information we share will only be used in accordance with Facebook’s data use policy and LinkedIn’s privacy policy .
Tracking may also enable us and our partners to serve ads on and off social media platforms.
Third-party vendors, including Google, use cookies to serve ads based on someone’s past visits to this website.
This allows us to reach people who previously visited the Wrexham University’s website, and match the right people with the right message.
Remarketing cookies will expire two years from the time that the cookie is set or updated (whichever is the later).
Any data collected will be used in accordance with our own privacy policy and Google’s privacy policy.
You can opt out of cookie-based advertisements from both organisations - and others - by visiting Your Online Choices and switching off behavioural advertising from a large number of companies.
When you visit wrexham.ac.uk you may notice some cookies that are not related to the University.
We use a number of external web services on the University site, mostly to display content within our web pages.
For example, to display videos we use YouTube.
We also use a number of Google services, including Calendar and Maps.
This is not an exhaustive or complete list of the services we use, or might use in the future, when embedding content, but these are the most common.
As with the social buttons, we cannot prevent these sites, or external domains, from collecting information on your usage of this embedded content.
If you are not logged in to these external services, then they will not know who you are but are likely to gather anonymous usage information eg number of views, plays, loads etc.
On some of the site's web pages you will see ‘social buttons'.
These enable users to share or bookmark web pages.
There are buttons for Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter.
In order to implement these buttons, and connect them to the relevant social networks and external sites, scripts from domains outside the University are used.
You should be aware that these sites are likely to be collecting information about your internet browsing, including on the University's site.
So, if you click on any of these buttons, these sites will be registering that action and may use that information.
In some cases, if you are logged into their services, these sites will be registering the fact that you are visiting the University's website, and the specific pages you are on, even if you don't click on the button.
You should check the respective privacy and cookie policies of each of these sites to see how exactly they use your information and to find out how to opt out, or delete, such information.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/privacy:
This privacy policy sets out how Wrexham University uses and protects your personal data.
This privacy policy is provided in a layered format so you can click through to the specific areas set out below.
Privacy policy
This privacy policy gives you information about how Wrexham University collects and uses your personal data through your use of this website, including any data you may provide when you register with us, submit a live chat, book onto an open day or event, make an enquiry (via phone, online form or in person) or purchase a product or service.
This website is not intended for children and we do not knowingly collect data relating to children.
Controller
Wrexham University is the controller and responsible for your personal data (collectively referred to as “the University”, "we", "us" or "our" in this privacy policy).
We have appointed a data protection officer (DPO) who is responsible for overseeing questions in relation to this privacy policy.
If you have any questions about this privacy policy, including any requests to exercise your legal rights (paragraph 9), please contact the DPO using the information set out in the contact details section (paragraph 10).
Personal data means any information about an individual from which that person can be identified.
We may collect, use, store and transfer different kinds of personal data about you which we have grouped together as follows:
We also collect, use and share aggregated data such as statistical or demographic data which is not personal data as it does not directly (or indirectly) reveal your identity.
For example, we may aggregate individuals' Usage Data to calculate the percentage of users accessing a specific website feature in order to analyse general trends in how users are interacting with our website to help improve the website and our service offering.
We use different methods to collect data from and about you including through:
advertising networks such as
Legal basis
The law requires us to have a legal basis for collecting and using your personal data.
We rely on one or more of the following legal bases:
Purposes for which we will use your personal data
We have set out below, in a table format, a description of all the ways we plan to use the various categories of your personal data, and which of the legal bases we rely on to do so.
We have also identified what our legitimate interests are where appropriate.
Purpose/Use
Type of data
Legal basis and retention period
To provide information and marketing material if you have made an enquiry, booked an event or open day or registered your interest via directly or via a third-party.
We would use your information to process your requests such as answering an enquiry, providing you with event information such as event details and updates or providing further details for areas you have registered your interest in.
To answer any queries or questions you have made via our live chat
We would use your information to process your requests such as answering an enquiry and providing you with any further details that may be relevant to your enquiry.
We may display ads to users based on previous visits or interactions to our website.
Direct marketing
You will receive marketing communications from us if you have requested information from us or purchased goods or services from us and you have not opted out of receiving the marketing.
We may also analyse your Identity, Contact, Technical, Usage and Profile Data to form a view which products, services and offers may be of interest to you so that we can then send you relevant marketing communications.
Third-party marketing
We will get your express consent before we share your personal data with any third party for their own direct marketing purposes.
Opting out of marketing
You can ask to stop sending you marketing communications at any time by following the opt-out links within any marketing communication sent to you or by contacting us: https://wrexham.ac.uk/contact-us/ .
If you opt out of receiving marketing communications, you will still receive service-related communications that are essential for administrative or customer service purposes.
Cookies
For more information about the cookies we use and how to change your cookie preferences, please see: https://wrexham.ac.uk/cookies/
We may share your personal data where necessary with the parties set out below for the purposes set out in the table above.
We require all third parties to respect the security of your personal data and to treat it in accordance with the law.
We do not allow our third-party service providers to use your personal data for their own purposes and only permit them to process your personal data for specified purposes and in accordance with our instructions.
We may transfer your personal data to service providers that carry out certain functions on our behalf.
This may involve transferring personal data outside the UK to countries which have laws that do not provide the same level of data protection as the UK law.
Whenever we transfer your personal data out of the UK to service providers, we ensure a similar degree of protection is afforded to it by ensuring that the following safeguards are in place:
We have put in place appropriate security measures to prevent your personal data from being accidentally lost, used or accessed in an unauthorised way, altered or disclosed.
In addition, we limit access to your personal data to those employees, agents, contractors and other third parties who have a business need to know.
They will only process your personal data on our instructions and they are subject to a duty of confidentiality.
We have put in place procedures to deal with any suspected personal data breach and will notify you and any applicable regulator of a breach where we are legally required to do so.
How long will you use my personal data for?
We will only retain your personal data for as long as reasonably necessary to fulfil the purposes we collected it for, including for the purposes of satisfying any legal, regulatory, tax, accounting or reporting requirements.
We may retain your personal data for a longer period in the event of a complaint or if we reasonably believe there is a prospect of litigation in respect to our relationship with you.
To determine the appropriate retention period for personal data, we consider the amount, nature and sensitivity of the personal data, the potential risk of harm from unauthorised use or disclosure of your personal data, the purposes for which we process your personal data and whether we can achieve those purposes through other means, and the applicable legal, regulatory, tax, accounting or other requirements.
By law we have to keep basic information about our customers (including Contact, Identity, Financial and Transaction Data) for seven years after they cease being customers for tax purposes.
In some circumstances you can ask us to delete your data: see paragraph 9 below for further information.
In some circumstances we will anonymise your personal data (so that it can no longer be associated with you) for research or statistical purposes, in which case we may use this information indefinitely without further notice to you.
You have a number of rights under data protection laws in relation to your personal data.
You have the right to:
If you want us to establish the data's accuracy;
If you wish to exercise any of the rights set out above, please contact us at dpo@wrexham.ac.uk .
No fee usually required
You will not have to pay a fee to access your personal data (or to exercise any of the other rights).
However, we may charge a reasonable fee if your request is clearly unfounded, repetitive or excessive.
Alternatively, we could refuse to comply with your request in these circumstances.
What we may need from you
We may need to request specific information from you to help us confirm your identity and ensure your right to access your personal data (or to exercise any of your other rights).
This is a security measure to ensure that personal data is not disclosed to any person who has no right to receive it.
We may also contact you to ask you for further information in relation to your request to speed up our response.
Time limit to respond
We try to respond to all legitimate requests within one month.
Occasionally it could take us longer than a month if your request is particularly complex or you have made a number of requests.
In this case, we will notify you and keep you updated.
If you have any questions about this privacy policy or about the use of your personal data or you want to exercise your privacy rights, please contact us in the following ways:
You have the right to make a complaint at any time to the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO), the UK regulator for data protection issues.
We would, however, appreciate the chance to deal with your concerns before you approach the ICO so please contact us in the first instance.
We keep our privacy policy under regular review.
This version was last updated on 20/03/2025 .
It is important that the personal data we hold about you is accurate and current.
Please keep us informed if your personal data changes during your relationship with us, for example a new address or email address.
This website may include links to third-party websites, plug-ins and applications.
Clicking on those links or enabling those connections may allow third parties to collect or share data about you.
We do not control these third-party websites and are not responsible for their privacy statements.
When you leave our website, we encourage you to read the privacy policy of every website you visit.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/information-governance:
Information governance provides the framework to bring together all of the legal rules, guidance and best practices that apply to the handling of information and ensures information risks are minimised.
Data protection is one matter of information governance and for matters relating to data protection, the University has a nominated Data Protection Officer ‌‌.
Information Governance has three main principles: confidentiality, integrity and availability.
All staff should familiarise themselves with the GDPR summary and GDPR principles, and raise awareness of the changes in your team.
These pages will continue to be updated with further advice and guidance.
If you would like to see more information on a particular IG topic, please contact dpo@glyndwr.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/about/welsh-at-wrexham-university:
The Welsh Language (Wales) Measure 2011 established a legal framework to impose a statutory duty on public bodies in Wales to comply with standards of conduct on the Welsh language.
It recognised that there are two official languages in Wales- Welsh and English.
This means Welsh must be treated no less favourably than English.
The standards aim to improve the bilingual service that the people of Wales can expect to receive from organisations in Wales.
The University is committed to making a positive contribution to the development of the Welsh language and to adhering to the Welsh Language standards.
This page outlines some of the services you can expect to receive from us in Welsh.
We demonstrate our commitment to the standards and state how we will comply with them within the following policy and guidance documents:
As part of our commitment to the Welsh standards we will:
The standards that are relevant to Wrexham University are listed in the Welsh language standards compliance notice from the Welsh Language Commissioner.
We are required to comply with the standards listed in the Compliance Letter under the following themes:
The University intends to comply with the Standards in accordance with the expectations outlined in the Compliance Notice and recognises the importance of providing a bilingual service.
We adhere to the principle that, in the conduct of our business, we will treat Welsh and English equally.
The University is required to produce an Annual Report detailing how it has complied with the relevant standards, click here to view.
For more information on the Welsh Standards please contact the University Senior Compliance Officer and DPO .
The University works with its Students Union and with the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol to support students in using the Welsh language.
The University is fully committed to sector-wide developments in relation to Welsh-medium provision.
We offer a growing number of modules which can be studied through the medium of Welsh across subjects such as Occupational Therapy and Education.
Welsh-speaking academic staff offer subject-specific tutorials in the medium of Welsh, and students are encouraged to access Welsh-medium placements which the University can facilitate.
You can ask for a Welsh-speaking personal tutor, provided there are Welsh-speaking members of the teaching staff in your subject area.
If there are no fluent Welsh-speaking academic staff members in your area, an appropriate member of staff from within your faculty will be asked to tutor you.
Students are offered the opportunity to submit their assignments in Welsh and can access Welsh language proofing tools on University computers to facilitate this.
These arrangements are subject to any national or professional body guidance, regulations or QAA Guidance.
All of our central communication to students is in their preferred language.
Students are invited to apply for accommodation which is specifically set aside for Welsh speakers in our halls of residence.
If you have any questions about the University's Welsh Language Standards, please contact the University Senior Compliance Officer and Data Protection Officer tel: 44(0)1978 290666 email dpo@wrexham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/about/governance:
Wrexham University is a Higher Education Corporation which was established under the 1988 Higher Education Reform Act in 1993 as the North East Wales Institute of Higher Education.
It was granted its University title by the Privy Council on 3rd July 2008.
The University is also a charity registered with the Charity Commission (Charity number 1142048).
The Board of Governors is the principal, legal, financial and business authority of the University, as well as the employing authority for all of its staff.
The Board is specifically required to determine the educational character and mission of the University, and to set its general strategic direction.
The Vice-Chancellor is the Chief Executive of the University, and is responsible for making proposals to the Board about the educational character and mission of the University.
They are also responsible for implementing the decisions of the Board, as well as the organisation, direction and management of the University and the leadership of its staff.
They undertake this position with the support of the Vice Chancellor’s Executive Team.
Subject to the overall responsibility of the Board and the responsibilities of the Vice Chancellor, the Academic Board is responsible for general issues relating to the research, scholarship, teaching and courses of the University.
They are also responsible for the development of the academic activities and advising the Vice Chancellor and the Board of Governors on these matters.
Vice-Chancellor
Independent Governors
Staff Governors
Student Governors
External Members Co-Opted to Board Committees
Charity number: 1142048
Wrexham University is a Higher Education Corporation which was established under the 1988 Education Reform Act in 1993 as the North East Wales Institute.
It was granted its University title by The Lords of Her Majesty’s Most Honourable Privy Council on 3rd July 2008.
The University is governed by Instrument and Articles of Government and, as stipulated in its Statement of Primary Responsibilities, the Board of Governors (OLD) is the principal, legal, financial and business authority of the University, as well as the employing authority for all its staff.
The University’s consolidated financial statements are made publically available.
The University's main campus is in Wrexham, North East Wales, with campuses at Northop, St Asaph and London.
The University works with a wide range of partners.
The University's administrative address is Plas Coch, Mold Road, Wrexham.
LL11 2AW.
As with all Higher Education Institutions, the University has always been a charity and its Governors are trustees.
Therefore, it has always had to comply with charity law.
The University completed the registration process and was successfully registered with the Charity Commission in May 2011.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/cyrsiau/cyrsiau-israddedig:
Mae ein cyrsiau gradd sy'n canolbwyntio ar yrfa wedi'u seilio ar eich helpu i gyflawni'ch potensial.
Byddwch yn rhan o Brifysgol sydd wedi'i graddio:
1af yng Nghymru ac yn gydradd 3ydd yn y DU o ran Boddhad Myfyrwyr (Nghanllaw Prifysgol Cyflawn 2026)
Trwy gysylltiadau cryf â diwydiant, rydym yn sicrhau bod pob un o'n cyrsiau wedi'u cynllunio i sicrhau eich bod yn cael y sgiliau allweddol sydd eu hangen arnoch ar gyfer gyrfa yn eich dewis faes.
Cael teimlad ar astudio a bywyd myfyriwr ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam yn un o'n digwyddiadau.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/cyrsiau:
Yn dangos chanlyniad.
Ailosod hidlyddion?
Yn y cwrs 10 wythnos hwn, byddwch yn datblygu sgiliau digidol craidd sy'n gwella eich effeithiolrwydd mewn astudiaethau academaidd, prosiectau personol, a bywyd proffesiynol.
Mae’r cwrs Byr hwn a gyflwynir mewn partneriaeth ag Academi Actorion Sgrîn Wrecsam a Phrifysgol Wrecsam yn rhoi cyflwyniad i actio sgrin, gan ganolbwyntio ar yr agweddau artistig a thechnegol.
Ennill cyflwyniad hanfodol i'r wyddoniaeth y tu ôl i berfformiad pêl-droed elitaidd.
Mae'r modiwl hyblyg, ar-lein hwn wedi'i deilwra ar gyfer myfyrwyr ac ymarferwyr sy'n awyddus i ddeall gofynion corfforol, tactegol, technegol a seicolegol y gêm fodern.
Mae Academi Rhwydweithio CISCO yn rhoi cyfle i fyfyrwyr gymryd rhan mewn profiad dysgu pwerus a chyson.
Mae'r cwrs wedi'i gefnogi gan gwricwla ar-lein ac asesiadau o ansawdd uchel gyda hyfforddiant dan arweiniad hyfforddwr.
P'un ai rydych yn arwain a thyfu eich busnes eich hun neu'n gweithio o fewn busnes sefydledig, mae cefnogi arloesedd yn hanfodol i yrru tyfiant, cynhyrchaeth a ffyniant.
Mae'r cwrs hwn yn cyfuno agweddau technegol lluniadu ag agweddau damcaniaethol ar ymarfer Celf Gain.
Bydd myfyrwyr yn cael eu cyflwyno i nifer o egwyddorion technegol, cyfryngau a dadansoddiad beirniadol o'u gwaith ac eraill i lywio eu hymarfer.
P'un a ydych chi newydd ddechrau yn eich gyrfa broffesiynol neu'n edrych i gymryd y cam nesaf yn eich gyrfa, bydd y cwrs hwn yn eich helpu i fagu hyder trwy well dealltwriaeth o'r hyn sydd ei angen gan arweinydd yn y gweithle heddiw.
Mae'r modiwl hwn yn ddefnyddiol i ymarferwyr sy'n dymuno gwella eu hyder wrth asesu a rheoli cyflyrau mân anafiadau ond hefyd y rhai sydd am anelu at rôl lefel ymarferydd.
Mae'r modiwl hwn yn galluogi ymarferwyr i weithredu'n effeithiol ac yn effeithlon o fewn cyfyngiadau darpariaeth gofal iechyd gyfoes wrth reoli mân salwch, er mwyn gwella arbenigedd ymarferwyr wrth asesu a rheoli mân salwch.
Cwrs byr hwyliog ac addysgiadol wedi'i gynllunio i ddysgu myfyrwyr am feddalwedd golygu sain Avid Pro Tools.
Datblygwyd y cwrs hwn i godi ymwybyddiaeth broffesiynol o weithio gydag oedolion a phobl ifanc sy'n agored i niwed.
Ydych chi am wella eich rhagolygon gyrfa, gwella'ch sgiliau, neu ystyried symud i addysgu?
Ystyriwch gofrestru ar ein Cyflwyniad i Addysgu a Hyfforddiant.
Mae'r cwrs byr hwn yn ceisio darparu arweiniad pellach i unigolion o ran hwyluso sesiynau pêl-droed dan gerdded ar gyfer grwpiau cymdeithasol amrywiol.
Mae'r cwrs hwn yn ddelfrydol ar gyfer y bobl hynny sydd â diddordeb mewn dysgu am gysyniadau sylfaenol dylunio graffeg yn cynnwys syt i ddefnyddio meddalwedd Adobe.
Nod y modiwl hwn yw eich cyflwyno chi i ddylunio gwefannau.
Addysgir yr arfer orau i ddysgwyr ynghylch sut i greu gwefan, o ddewis parth, ystyriaethau mewn perthynas â gwesteia, dylunio safle, brandio ac optimeiddio peiriant chwilio.
Byddwch yn dysgu am yr arferion gorau yn ymwneud â sut i ehangu eich busnes ar-lein, deall yr e-ddefnyddiwr, dulliau gwerthu/marchnata digidol, strategaeth e-fasnach a gwahanol adnoddau digidol megis optimeiddio peiriannau chwilio, hysbysebu talu fesul clic a marchnata cynnwys.
Mae'r cwrs byr wedi'i anelu at unrhyw un sydd â diddordeb mewn dysgu am frandio a sut i greu strategaeth frand effeithiol ar gyfer busnesau.
Byddwch yn dysgu pam fod gan Brydain yr ystod o rywogaethau sydd ganddi a dod i ddeall sut mae hyn wedi newid dros amser gyda nifer o rywogaethau yn cael eu cyflwyno a marw.
Mae'r cwrs yn cyflwyno beth yw cwnsela yn union, gan gynnig y cyfle i ddatblygu sgiliau gwrando sy'n fuddiol ac sy'n gallu cael eu defnyddio mewn ystod eang o leoliadau gwaith a chymdeithasol.
Bydd y cwrs byr hwn yn helpu myfyrwyr i ddiffinio cydweithio a'r egwyddorion sy'n gysylltiedig â datblygu cymunedau sy'n cydweithio, gan archwilio amrywiaeth o ddulliau ac enghreifftiau sy'n gysylltiedig â phob egwyddor.
Mae'r cwrs byr ar-lein hwn yn cyflwyno cyfansoddion, eu cymwysiadau mewn peirianneg a'r buddion a'r heriau a bydd yn darparu trosolwg o'r dechnoleg ac yn galluogi cyfranogwyr i ddatblygu eu gwybodaeth yn y maes hwn.
Bydd y cwrs yn canolbwyntio ar ddamcaniaeth adeiladu, tyfu a gweithredu busnesau gyda ffyrdd sy’n foesol, cynaliadwy, ac sy’n dangos ystyriaeth i’r cydbwysedd rhwng elw a diben.
Mae’r cwrs yn ddelfrydol ar gyfer rhywun sy’n awyddus i wybod mwy am afiechyd meddwl, yn enwedig os ydych yn gweithio gyda phobl ar hyn o bryd, neu eisiau gwneud yn y dyfodol.
Bydd y cwrs hwn yn eich cyflwyno i amrywiaeth o bynciau a all helpu i hyrwyddo lles i unigolion a grwpiau.
Nod y cwrs byr hwn yw darparu trosolwg sylfaenol o'r problemau sy'n ymwneud â newid yn yr hinsawdd, yr achosion a'r effaith ar y blaned yr ydym yn byw arni.
Mae ein cwrs byr Cyflwyniad i Reoli Busnes ar gyfer y rhai sy'n edrych i ehangu eu sgiliau arwain a rheoli neu ar gyfer unrhyw un sy'n chwilio am flas ar gwrs cyn ymuno ag un o'n rhaglenni busnes.
Bydd y cwrs hwn yn galluogi myfyrwyr i ddysgu'r wybodaeth sylfaenol ynghylch diogelwch cyfrifiaduron, bygythiadau seiber sylfaenol a’r technegau canfod ac amddiffyn cyfatebol.
Mae siarad cyhoeddus yn sgìl allweddol yn broffesiynol ymhlith pob sector ac yn bersonol, er mwyn gallu meithrin hyder ac ymwybyddiaeth.
Mae'r cwrs hwn wedi'i anelu at rai sy'n ystyried astudio therapi iaith a lleferydd, neu sydd â diddordeb mewn ehangu eu gwybodaeth am y maes.
Caiff myfyrwyr cyflwyniad i addysg a gwaith cymdeithasol proffesiynol.
Astudiwch egwyddorion gwerthoedd gwaith cymdeithasol ac archwilio'r wybodaeth, y rhinweddau a'r sgiliau allweddol sy'n ofynnol gan weithwyr cymdeithasol.
Mae'r dosbarth min nos yma yn cynnwys cyflwyniad fforddiadwy a phleserus i rai o brif dechnegau gwneud printiau mewn stiwdio.
Oes gennych chi brofiad ymarferol o drin a gofalu am gŵn a diddordeb mawr mewn ymddygiad a hyfforddiant?
Os felly, efallai mai ein cwrs byr Cyflwyniad i Ymddygiad a Hyfforddiant Cŵn yw'r union beth rydych chi'n chwilio amdano!
Bydd y cwrs hwn yn eich cyflwyno i gamau amrywiol y Broses Meddwl Dylunio ynghylch yr hyn sy’n gwneud llyfr lluniau da i blant.
Bydd yn annog archwilio ac arbrofi creadigol o ystod o gyfryngau a thechnegau o fewn ysgrifennu a darlunio llyfrau plant.
Nod y modiwl hwn yw rhoi cyflwyniad i'r broses o adnabod ffynonellau cyllid.
Mae'r cwrs byr ar-lein hwn yn ddelfrydol ar gyfer unrhyw un sydd â diddordeb mewn dysgu am ddefnyddio celf mewn lleoliadau gofal iechyd.
A ydych chi'n ystyried gyrfa mewn nyrsio ond yn credu nad oes gennych y cymwysterau cywir?
Gall hwn fod y modiwl delfrydol i chi.
Mae’r cwrs yn un defnyddiol os oes gennych gamera digidol da ac yn dymuno archwilio potensial creadigol ei swyddogaethau, ac adnabod manteision yr offeryn cymhleth a hyblyg hwn.
Mae ymgysylltiad yn allweddol wrth reoli pobl yn y 21 ganrif.
Dysgwch sut i gymell gweithwyr a chynyddu cynhyrchedd, a defnyddio ymgysylltiad gweithwyr effeithiol yn eich busnes.
Each week you will take part in a creative activity, and then explore how and why this can be used to help people to feel good.
Mae'r cyfleusterau cymeradwy cwrs hwn yn galluogi chi i ailgofrestru i'r Cyngor Bydwreigiaeth Nyrsio ym meysydd Nyrsio Iechyd Cyhoeddus Oedolion, Iechyd Meddwl ac Arbenigol Cymunedol.
Cynlluniwyd y cwrs hwn i’ch galluogi i gynyddu’ch hyder wrth gymryd y cam nesaf i addysg israddedig – boed chi’n dychwelyd i astudio ar ôl cyfnod i ffwrdd, ar fin cychwyn yn y brifysgol neu’n meddwl gwneud cwrs proffesiynol neu ran amser.
Mae’r modiwl annibynnol hwn ar gyfer myfyrwyr sydd am ddatblygu eu gwybodaeth a’u hymarfer ym maes darpariaeth gofal clwyfau clinigol.
Mae’n cynnig dull rhyngbroffesiynol tuag at ddarparu gofal clwyfau mewn nifer o leoliadau clinigol.
Bydd y sgiliau a'r wybodaeth a geir drwy'r cwrs hwn yn drosglwyddadwy, galluogi myfyrwyr o ystod o ddisgyblaethau i ddefnyddio egwyddorion ac arferion eiriolaeth annibynnol mewn amrywiaeth o leoliadau.
Mewn therapi galwedigaethol, mae galwedigaethau'n cyfeirio at y gweithgareddau dyddiol y mae pobl yn eu gwneud i ddod ag ystyr a phwrpas yn fyw.
Mae'r cwrs byr hwn yn eich galluogi i ddeall sut mae'r hyn rydyn ni'n ei wneud fel bodau dynol yn effeithio ar ein hiechyd a'n lles.
Bydd y dosbarth hwn yn eich tywys trwy’r grefft o ddylunio a chynhyrchu darnau hardd trwy dorri a ffurfio metel, ychwanegu gweadau a nodweddion addurniadol a sut i wneud clustdlysau a breichledi syml.
Mae'r modiwl Ymarfer Gofal mewn Anesthetig wedi'i gynllunio ar gyfer Nyrsys Cofrestredig sydd ag uchelgais i weithio fel Ymarferydd Anesthetig.
Bwriad y cwrs yw cefnogi unigolion sy'n ymwneud â rheoli ac arwain busnes.
Byddwch yn cael budd o rwydweithio â chyfoedion gyda chyd-weithwyr proffesiynol a dysgu ar y cyd.
A oes gennych chi ddiddordeb mewn rhoi cynnig ar grefft newydd o gartref ac archwilio eich ochr greadigol?
Beth am roi cynnig ar wneud printiau a dechrau dylunio eich cardiau eich hun, printiau ar gyfer defnydd ayyb.
Darganfyddwch sut i ddefnyddio nifer o offer marchnata digidol, cynllunio cyfryngau cymdeithasol a dadansoddeg a mesur gyda'r cwrs byr hanfodion marchnata digidol hwn.
Mae deall sut i hwyluso newid mewn ymddygiad drwy ddefnyddio profiadau hyfforddi i hyrwyddo a gwella effeithiolrwydd gweithwyr yn faes sgil a gwybodaeth allweddol mewn cyfnod lle mae sefydliadau’n mynd trwy newidiadau mawr, cymhleth a rhyngddibynnol.
Bwriedir y cwrs i ddatblygu a dyfnhau gwybodaeth a dealltwriaeth o bwrpas a natur tosturi, a sut i weithio mewn dull tosturiol mewn modd sydd yn hyrwyddo llesiant ac wedi’i awdurdodi.
Datblygwch eich sgiliau iaith Siapaneaidd gyda'r cwrs byr lefel dechreuwr hwn.
Ydych chi'n fyfyriwr neu nyfelydd graddedig gyda phasion las am arloesi mewn busnes?
Edrychwch ddim ymhellach!
Mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn cyflwyno'n falch ein cwrs byr dynamig, "Lansio Busnes Newydd."
Datblygwch dealltwriaeth o'r cysyniadau allweddol sy'n gysylltiedig â mentora effeithiol.
Ystyriwch sgiliau a phriodweddau mentoriaid effeithiol a gwerthuso canlyniadau perthynas fentora gadarnhaol.
Mae'r cwrs byr hwn yn berffaith i unrhyw un sydd â diddordeb mewn dysgu am sut i greu celf gysyniad ar gyfer gemau.
Meistrolwch hanfodion paentio olew a datblygwch eich creadigrwydd gan ddefnyddio'r cyfrwng.
Bydd y cwrs rhyngweithiol hwn sy'n canolbwyntio ar ymarfer yn dod â rhagnodwyr cymdeithasol ynghyd a'r rhai sy'n darparu gweithgareddau 'gwyrdd', sy'n seiliedig ar natur.
Mae’r cwrs hwn wedi’i gynllunio i gynnig gwir ddealltwriaeth i fyfyrwyr o’r byd Rheoli Adnoddau Dynol a’i berthnasedd i fyd busnes heddiw.
Nod y modiwl hwn yw datblygu gallu a dulliau beirniadol o roi strategaethau ar waith sy’n mynd i’r afael â chymhlethdod gofalu am unigolyn sydd â diabetes drwy ddefnyddio theorïau cyfredol, ymarfer sy’n seiliedig ar dystiolaeth a datblygiadau technolegol.
Bydd y cwrs Rheoli Gweithrediadau Busnes yn cynnig dynesiad strwythuredig i fyfyrwyr tuag at gefnogi unigolion wrth iddynt a'u sefydliadau reoli gweithgareddau o fewn cynhyrchiant newyddau a gwasanaethau, gan ddefnyddio deunyddiau ac adnoddau dynol.
Bydd y cwrs hwn yn cynnig dull strwythuredig i fyfyrwyr i gefnogi unigolion wrth iddyn nhw a’u sefydliadau dramwyo’r heriau sy’n bodoli ar hyn o bryd i alluogi sefydliad i roi ei bŵer a’i berfformiad ar waith drwy beidio ffrwyno potensial llawn ei weithwyr unigol.
Mae’r cwrs hwn wedi’i gynllunio i godi eich hyder wrth ddefnyddio mathemateg...
boed chi’n dychwelyd i astudio ar ôl cyfnod i ffwrdd, neu eich bod ar fin dechrau yn y brifysgol neu’n ystyried gwneud cwrs proffesiynol neu ran amser.
Datblygwch eich sgiliau ieithoedd gyda'r cwrs byr dechreuwr / lefel ganolradd is hwn yn Sbaeneg.
Amcan y cwrs yw ymgysylltu â'n cymuned leol ac ehangach ynghylch llwyddo mewn cyfnodau o argyfwng.
Mae'r cwrs byr Seiberddiogelwch yn edrych ar gyflwyniad y Rheoliad Diogelu Data Cyffredinol (The GDPR) yn Ewrop a'i effaith ar hawliau preifatrwydd data.
Mae deall beth yw’r rhwystrau i gyfathrebu gwych ac archwilio rhai o’r arferion cyfathrebu sy’n hanfodol i arweinyddiaeth fusnes effeithiol yn sgil allweddol mewn cyfnod lle mae sefydliadau’n mynd trwy newidiadau mawr, cymhleth.
Ydych chi wedi'ch cyfareddu gan rai o'r troseddau enwocaf mewn hanes?
Os hoffech ddysgu mwy am sut mae rhai troseddau wedi newid y byd cyfiawnder troseddol, yna mae'r cwrs byr hwn ar eich cyfer chi.
Cewch baratoi i astudio ar lefel 6 a 7 gyda'r cwrs byr hwn.
Byddwch yn datblygu sgiliau meddwl feirniadol wrth ddod yn ddysgwr annibynnol a gwella eich hyder yn eich gallu i astudio.
Mae’r cwrs MA Ffotograffiaeth yn hwyluso archwiliad manwl o faes gwaith personol pob myfyriwr, gan ganolbwyntio ar greadigrwydd, proffesiynoldeb, medrusrwydd a rhagoriaeth dechnegol.
Mae MA Film Making yn rhoi gwybodaeth ymarferol a damcaniaethol i chi sy'n hanfodol i'r diwydiant ffilm.
Byddwch yn cael profiad ymarferol mewn ysgrifennu sgrin, cyfarwyddo, sinematograffi a golygu, sy'n hanfodol ar gyfer creu portffolio proffesiynol.
Ymunwch â rhaglen Meistr arloesol sy’n canolbwyntio ar alluogi arlunwyr i esblygu fel artistiaid hunan-fyfyriol, beirniadol sy’n ymgysylltu â materion cyfoes a newydd.
Mae'r cwrs MSc Seicoleg Gymhwysol yn eich galluogi i ddatblygu eich gwybodaeth am theori seicolegol, ymchwil ac ymarfer proffesiynol.
Gyda'ch goruchwyliwr, byddwch hefyd yn gallu cynllunio a chynnal eich prosiect ymchwil eich hun.
Mae'r dirwedd addysgol yng Nghymru yn newid yn gyflym.
Mae'r MA Addysg Genedlaethol (Cymru) yn rhaglen wirioneddol drawsnewidiol sy'n arwain y sector ar gyfer gweithwyr proffesiynol addysg yng Nghymru, o athrawon i uwch arweinwyr.
Bydd y cwrs yma yn eich darparu gyda’r hyfforddiant a’r arbenigedd i weithio yn un o feysydd cyffrous niferus y diwydiannau darlledu cyfryngol.
Gyda chyfleoedd profiad gwaith eang ar gael, byddwch yn barod ar gyfer amrywiaeth o yrfaoedd yn y diwydiant cyfryngau proffesiynol.
Wedi'i ddatblygu mewn cydweithrediad â Bwrdd Iechyd Prifysgol Betsi Cadwaladr (BCUHB), bydd y rhaglen hon yn datblygu eich sgiliau ymchwil ac yn caniatáu ichi archwilio meysydd arbenigol.
Dilyn gyrfa sy'n seiliedig ar ymchwil mewn Biofeddygaeth academaidd gyda rhaglen sy'n canolbwyntio ar ymchwil glinigol seiliedig ar waith mewn labordai ac sy'n arwain at gymhwyster cydnabyddedig proffesiynol.
Nod y radd ôl-raddedig mewn nyrsio yw darparu'r wybodaeth ddisgyblaethol broffesiynol a dysgu ymarfer ar gyfer eich maes nyrsio dewisol - oedolion, plant neu iechyd meddwl.
Nod y diploma ôl-raddedig mewn nyrsio yw darparu'r wybodaeth ddisgyblaethol broffesiynol a dysgu ymarfer ar gyfer eich maes nyrsio dewisol - oedolion, plant neu iechyd meddwl.
Mae'r cwrs hwn wedi'i gynllunio'n arbennig ar gyfer gweithwyr proffesiynol gofal iechyd er mwyn iddynt ddysgu sut i ragnodi a gweinyddu meddyginiaethau yn gywir.
Oes gennych radd mewn pwnc arall?
Eisiau astudio seicoleg heb orfod gwneud gradd israddedig draddodiadol eto?
Efallai mai’r rhaglen hon fydd yr un i chi.
Wedi'i chyflwyno 100% ar-lein, mae'r rhaglen hon yn adeiladu ar arbenigedd a diddordebau arbenigol ar draws meysydd Troseddeg a Gwaith Cymdeithasol ac yn cynnig cyfle ar gyfer Datblygiad Proffesiynol Parhaus.
Wedi'i gyd-gynhyrchu gyda Bwrdd Iechyd Prifysgol Betsi Cadwaladr, mae'r cwrs yma ymhlith dim ond llond llaw o gyrsiau a gynnigwyd yn gemedlaethol ac mae'n cynnig MA arbennig ar sail celf.
Ymestyn eich gwybodaeth a'ch sgiliau i lefelau uwch yn eich maes ymarfer arbenigol, drwy astudio modiwlau sydd wedi'u cynllunio i ddatblygu eich gallu i ymgymryd â rolau mewn ymarfer uwch.
Mae'r rhaglen wedi'i dylunio er mwyn ymateb i newid wynebol celf, y diwydiant creadigol ac mae'n ymgorffori'r ymarfer rhyngddisgyblaethol cydweithredol o ymchwilwyr PGW i ymarfer cyswllt cymdeithasol.
Bydd y cwrs hwn yn eich galluogi i fynd â'ch sgiliau ymarferol fel dylunydd a gwneuthurwr i'r lefel nesaf wrth i chi sefydlu'ch gyrfa.
Mae'r radd ymchwil yma'n canolbwyntio ar iechyd a chlefydau dynol ac mae'n arfogi graddedigion gyda'r sgiliau a gwybodaeth gwrs benodol byddent angen i ddilyn gyrfa seiliedig ar ymchwil mewn meddygaeth glinigol a gofal iechyd.
Astudiwch i ddod yn athro Cynradd cymwys gyda'r cyrsiau eang hyn, gan gwmpasu'r gwricwlwm Cymraeg a Saesneg i wneud y mwyaf o'ch potensial cyflogaeth.
Dysgwch am reoli anafiadau chwaraeon o atal i adsefydlu gyda'r radd ymarferol hon sy'n arwain at gymhwyster a gydnabyddir yn broffesiynol.
Dysgwch sgiliau sylfaenol ym maes Adsefydlu Anafiadau Chwaraeon a sut i fod yn fyfyriwr llwyddiannus ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam
Hyfforddi i ddod yn nyrs gofrestredig ar gwrs sy'n ymfalchïo mewn meintiau carfan fach a datblygiad personol a phroffesiynol ei myfyrwyr.
Mae'r cwrs hwn yn cynnig rhaglen astudio ymarferol, sy'n eich galluogi i ddod â chymeriadau'n fyw.
Bydd y rhaglen Animeiddio arbenigol hon yn eich trawsnewid yn ymarferydd amlbwrpas ym maes celf y ddelwedd symudol.
Bydd y cwrs hwn yn canolbwyntio ar ystod eang o feysydd diwydiant allweddol sy'n eich arfogi â'r sgiliau sydd eu hangen i weithio yn un o'r sectorau cyflogaeth mwyaf yn y Deyrnas Unedig.
Gwireddwch eich potensial a gwnewch wahaniaeth ym meysydd addysg ffurfiol ac anffurfiol gyda'r rhaglen BA (Anrh) Astudiaethau Addysg.
Y rhaglen ddeinamig a blaengar hon yw eich porth at yrfa werth chweil sy'n ymroddedig i lunio bywydau plant rhwng tair ac un ar ddeg oed.
Datgloi eich potensial a bod yn rhan o weithlu a all wirioneddol siapio bywydau plant ifanc a theuluoedd.
Y rhaglen ddeinamig a blaengar hon yw eich porth i yrfa werth chweil sy'n ymroddedig i ddatblygiad cyfannol plant o'u genedigaeth hyd at wyth mlynedd.
Cyfle i gael cipolwg eang ar fyd busnes a rheolaeth a datblygu'r sgiliau sydd eu hangen i ddiwallu anghenion cyflogwyr ym myd busnes cyfoes.
Cewch archwilio lluniadu, peintio, cerflunio, celf gosod, cyfryngau fideo a lens a chreu printiau, ac yna cymryd y cyfle i arbenigo, cyfuno meysydd neu barhau gyda sail eang gyda’r radd agored, greadigol hon.
Mae’r cwrs yma, a ysgogir gan syniadau ac sydd yn seiliedig ar sgiliau, yn cynnwys popeth o gelfyddyd cysyniad i fodelu 3D, datblygu cymeriadau, cerflunio 3D a chreu lefelau.
Datblygwch eich sgiliau deunydd a dylunio trwy Cerameg, Metel, Gemwaith a chyfryngau cymysg.
Cyfle i weithio ar brosiectau byw, arddangosfeydd a chomisiynau.
Gall hyn roi hyder i chi ar gyfer eich gyrfa yn y dyfodol.
Datblygu eich sgiliau deunydd a dylunio trwy Serameg, Metel, Gemwaith a chyfryngau cymysg gyda'r rhaglen Celfyddydau Cymhwysol hon.
Gweithio ar brosiectau byw, arddangosfeydd a chomisiynau gan roi hyder i chi ar gyfer eich gyrfa yn y dyfodol.
Mae nyrsio plant yn broffesiwn gwerth chweil sy'n gofalu am blant, pobl ifanc a'u teulu o'u genedigaeth hyd at fod yn oedolion ifanc.
Ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam byddwn yn eich paratoi gyda'r wybodaeth a'r sgiliau i ddod yn nyrs plant gofrestredig graddedig ac NMC.
Helpwch i fodloni'r galw cynyddol am gwnselau proffesiynol gyda'r cwrs arbenigol hwn, sy'n arwain at gymhwyster proffesiynol cyffredinol mewn cwnsela.
Dechreuwch eich gyrfa ym maes cyffrous, heriol a deinamig Cyfrifiadureg.
Bydd y rhaglen hon yn eich arfogi â'r wybodaeth, y ddealltwriaeth a'r sgiliau sy'n hanfodol i ddadansoddi, dylunio, datblygu, profi a chynnal systemau ar gyfer y dyfodol.
Dysgu a gweithio mewn amgylchedd cynhyrchu go iawn – datblygir y cwrs Cynhyrchu Cyfryngau hwn mewn cydweithrediad agos ag arbenigwyr blaenllaw yn y diwydiant
Dysgu a gweithio mewn amgylchedd cynhyrchu go iawn – datblygir y cwrs Cynhyrchu Cyfryngau hwn mewn cydweithrediad agos ag arbenigwyr blaenllaw yn y diwydiant.
Mae’r cwrs yn ymdrin ag agweddau ymarferol, proffesiynol ac artistig gweithio fel darlunydd gyda llais artistig personol, gan eich arfogi ar gyfer gyrfa lwyddiannus yn y diwydiannau creadigol.
Mae'r cwrs wedi'i gynllunio i ddatblygu sgiliau datblygu gemau technegol a rheolaeth er mwyn gwella'ch cyflogadwyedd.
Caiff weithio'n agos gyda sefydliadau diwydiant, bydd gennych fynediad at hyfforddiant a gwybodaeth arloesol sy'n gysylltiedig â'r diwydiant.
Ymunwch â chwrs blaengar yn y DU sydd wedi’i gynllunio i ddatblygu sgiliau cryf mewn dylunio gemau technegol, sgiliau busnes a chynhyrchu er mwyn ichi ddod yn arweinwyr diwydiant i’r dyfodol.
Cyfle i ennill profiad a gwybodaeth eang o sgiliau dylunio graffig.Yn ogystal, gweithio gyda chleientiaid go iawn i adeiladu eich hyder, eich sgiliau cyflwyno a'ch galluoedd i ddefnyddio gyrfa yn y diwydiant dylunio.
Cyfle i ennill profiad a gwybodaeth eang o sgiliau dylunio graffig.
Yn ogystal, gweithio gyda chleientiaid go iawn i adeiladu eich hyder, eich sgiliau cyflwyno a'ch galluoedd i ddefnyddio gyrfa yn y diwydiant dylunio.
Dewch yn weithiwr proffesiynol medrus iawn yn y diwydiant peirianneg gyda chymwysterau academaidd a phrofiad ymarferol yn y byd go iawn gyda Phrentisiaeth Gradd Peirianneg Ddiwydiannol.
Hoffech chwarae rôl allweddol mewn galluogi pobl i wella'u hiechyd, lles ac ansawdd bywyd?
Efallai mai'n rhaglen BSc (Anrh) Ffisiotherapi yw'r cwrs perffaith i chi.
Wedi ei ddatblygu ar gyfer myfyrwyr gydag angerdd ar gyfer ffotograffiaeth, ffilm a sinema annibynnol, mae'r rhaglen arloesol, aml-genre yma'n cyfuno ymarfer, damcaniaeth a phroffesiynoldeb.
Datblygwyd ar gyfer myfyrwyr sydd ag angerdd am ffotograffiaeth annibynnol, ffilm a sinema, mae'r rhaglen Ffotograffiaeth a Ffilm aml-genre arloesol hon gyda'r flwyddyn sylfaen yn cyfuno ymarfer, theori a phroffesiynoldeb.
Gan gyfuno profiad ymarferol â theori berthnasol, mae'r radd hon yn arwain at gymhwyster a gydnabyddir yn broffesiynol mewn Gwaith Cymdeithasol
Cwrs cyffrous yw hwn, sydd wedi’u cynllunio’n arbennig ar gyfer pobl sydd eisiau gweithio gyda phlant, pobl ifanc, cymunedau a grwpiau ar y cyrion.
Mae’r cwrs Gwyddoniaeth Fiomeddygol BSc (Anrh) wedi'i gynllunio i ddarparu profiad cyfoethog a deinamig i fyfyrwyr, a gyflawnwyd drwy bartneriaeth rhwng Prifysgol Wrecsam a Chanolfan Ymchwil Glinigol Gogledd Cymru (BIPBC) Bwrdd Iechyd Prifysgol Betsi Cadwaladr (BIPBC).
Mae’r cwrs wedi'i gynllunio i ddarparu profiad cyfoethog a deinamig i fyfyrwyr, a gyflawnwyd drwy bartneriaeth rhwng PGW a BIPBC Bwrdd Iechyd Prifysgol Betsi Cadwaladr.
Os ydych chi eisiau gyrfa yn gweithio ar reng flaen achosion gofal brys, drwy wneud gwahaniaeth i fywydau pobl pan fydd ei angen arnynt fwyaf, mae'r cwrs gradd Gwyddoniaeth Parafeddyg hwn ar eich cyfer chi.
O drawma grym miniog i sbectra, o esgyrn i chwilod...
Bydd Prifysgol Wrecsam yn eich paratoi ar gyfer gyrfa gyffrous mewn gwyddoniaeth.
Yn barod i dreiddio i'r egwyddorion gwyddonol sy'n sail i ymchwiliadau fforensig?
Mae ein cwrs yn eich arfogi i archwilio lleoliadau trosedd, dadansoddi tystiolaeth a chyflwyno canlyniadau yn y llys fel tyst arbenigol.
Astudiwch Gwyddorau Chwaraeon ac Ymarfer Corff drwy safbwynt cyfranogi a pherfformio - drwy gwblhau'r rhaglen radd ymarferol hon, fyddwch yn gallu defnyddio'r sgiliau a ddysgwyd yn y byd go iawn.
Mae'r cwrs yn rhoi'r holl sgiliau a mewnwelediad angenrheidiol i fyfyrwyr weithio yn y diwydiant chwaraeon a ffitrwydd.
Mae’r radd wedi ei dylunio mewn partneriaeth â Chymdeithas Bêl-droed Cymru (CBC), i ehangu eich gwybodaeth benodol am bêl-droed a’i chymhwyso i’r amgylchedd pêl-droed.
Datblygu'r sgiliau sy'n ofynnol i gefnogi amryw o wasanaethau iechyd, lles a gofal cymdeithasol, gan wneud gwahaniaeth cadarnhaol yn y gymuned.
Datblygwch sgiliau sy'n ofynnol i gefnogi amryw o wasanaethau iechyd, lles a gofal cymdeithasol, gan wneud gwahaniaeth cadarnhaol yn y gymuned
Mae'r cwrs hwn yn ddelfrydol ar gyfer y rhai sy'n dymuno gweithio ym maes iechyd meddwl a lles.
Bydd y radd hon, gyda chysylltiadau cryf â diwydiant twristiaeth Gogledd Cymru, yn rhoi'r sgiliau ymarferol a'r wybodaeth hanfodol sydd eu hangen arnoch ar gyfer gyrfa yn y diwydiant lletygarwch, twristiaeth a rheoli digwyddiadau.
Mae'r rhaglen yn cyflwyno ystod eang o sgiliau creadigol, o gynhyrchu syniadau i'w cynhyrchiad technegol drwy argraffu, rhwymo llyfrau, deunyddiau 3D, bywluniadu, cyfryngau traddodiadol a digidol, gyda phwyslais ar ddarlunio a datblygu arddull bersonol unigryw.
Mae'r cwrs hwn yn newydd sbon i Ogledd Cymru ac mae ganddo ddyluniad newydd sy'n ymgorffori'r technolegau a'r llwyfannau digidol diweddaraf i ddarparu profiadau dysgu o'r radd flaenaf a'r byd go iawn.
Os oes gennych ddiddordeb mewn pam rydyn ni'n prynu'r pethau rydyn ni'n eu prynu a sut y gall gwybodaeth am yr ymddygiad dynol hwn ddylanwadu ar bobl?
Os oes, yna mae'r radd Farchnata a Busnes hon yn berffaith i chi.
Dewch yn syrfëwr meintiau yn y diwydiant adeiladu sy'n un o'r sectorau cyflogaeth mwyaf yn y Deyrnas Unedig.
Mae'r rhaglen Nyrsio Filfeddygol hon yn caniatáu ichi roi theori ar waith yn ein cyfres glinigol.
Yn ogystal â datblygu eich sgiliau mewn practis hyfforddi milfeddygol ar gyfer gyrfaoedd mewn gofal anifeiliaid.
Prif nod y radd yw datblygu sgiliau deallusol a chymhwyso drwy gaffael gwybodaeth, datrys problemau, sgiliau didynnu, synthesis, dadansoddi, a gwerthuso.
Prif nod y radd gyda blwyddyn sylfaen yw datblygu sgiliau deallusol a chymhwyso drwy gaffael gwybodaeth, datrys problemau, sgiliau didynnu, synthesis, dadansoddi, a gwerthuso.
Mae'r cwrs rhan-amser hyblyg hwn yn cael ei gyflawni ar sail rhyddhau diwrnod, sy'n eich galluogi i ffitio'ch astudiaethau o amgylch eich cyflogaeth, wrth i chi ddilyn un o bum llwybr arbenigol.
Parhewch â'ch astudiaeth o beirianneg ddiwydiannol trwy ychwanegu at radd lawn, pob un wedi'i chyflawni'n rhan-amser, hyblyg er mwyn caniatáu ichi ddal i weithio.
O gludiant i ynni adnewyddadwy i awyrofod a roboteg, mae’r radd hon yn eich arfogi gyda’r sgiliau hanfodol i weithio ar flaen y gad mewn technolegau newydd a thechnolegau sy’n datblygu.
Wedi'i ddatblygu oherwydd diffyg peirianwyr mecanyddol yn y diwydiant awtomataidd, mae'r cwrs hwn yn archwilio peirianneg, dylunio, dadansoddi a datblygu ceir modern yn llawn.
Caiff myfyrwyr sgiliau a'r profiad sydd eu hangen i ddod yn heddwas, drwy adeiladu cysylltiadau cryf a chynaliadwy â sefydliadau gwasanaeth cyhoeddus a thrydydd sector.
Yn ogystal â ehangu eich gwybodaeth am y system cyfiawnder troseddol.
Os ydych chi'n cael eich cymell drwy weld eu gwaith caled yn cael ei wobrwyo a'u harbenigedd yn cael ei gydnabod mewn diwydiant adeiladu bywiog a heriol, gallai'r cwrs Rheoli Adeiladu hwn fod yn addas i chi.
Bydd ein gradd Rheoli Busnes ac Adnoddau Dynol yn rhoi’r sgiliau sydd eu hangen arnoch i reoli sefydliadau a’u pobl yn llwyddiannus mewn amgylcheddau busnes cyflym, ac yn aml heriol, sydd ohoni.
Mae'r cymhwyster unigryw yma wedi'i sefydlu ar gyfer gweithwyr proffesiynol sy'n gweithio ac yn edrych i ddatblygu eu sgiliau gwybodaeth a sgiliau rheoli busnes.
Yn ogystal, sicrhau bod y gweithiwr proffesiynol yn gallu symud ymlaen ymhellach yn eu gyrfa neu gymryd cyfeiriad newydd.
Mae ein gradd rheoli Cyfrif a Cyllid yn canolbwyntio ar gymwysiadau ymarferol o ddamcaniaethau cyfrifeg a chyllid, gan hybu'ch cyflogadwyedd a sicrhau eich bod yn barod i ymuno â'r byd busnes wrth raddio.
Mae ein gradd Rheoli Cyfrifyddu a Chyllid yn canolbwyntio ar gymwysiadau ymarferol o ddamcaniaethau cyfrifeg a chyllid, gan hybu'ch cyflogadwyedd a sicrhau eich bod yn barod i ymuno â'r byd busnes wrth raddio.
Ewch i'r afael â’r cynnydd mewn seiberddiogelwch trwy ddatblygu dealltwriaeth fanwl o ddiogelwch TG, hacio, fforensig, a'r dyfodol a thechnolegau sy'n dod i'r amlwg gyda'r radd hon.
Ewch i’r afael â’r cynnydd mewn seiberddiogelwch trwy ddatblygu dealltwriaeth fanwl o ddiogelwch TG, hacio, fforensig, a’r dyfodol a thechnolegau sy’n dod i’r amlwg gyda’r radd hon
Ewch i'r afael â'r cynnydd mewn seiberddiogelwch trwy ddatblygu dealltwriaeth fanwl o ddiogelwch TG, hacio, fforensig, a'r dyfodol a thechnolegau sy'n dod i'r amlwg gyda'r radd hon.
Os ydych wedi eu swyno gan ymddygiad ac yn meddwl tybed pam mae pobl yn gwneud yr hyn maen nhw'n ei wneud, yna bydd ein cwrs Seicoleg yn ddelfrydol ar gyfer chi.
Os ydych erioed wedi pendroni ynghylch ymddygiad pobl, a gofyn pam eu bod yn gwneud yr hyn maen nhw’n ei wneud, mae ein cwrs seicoleg yn ddelfrydol ar gyfer eich meddwl chwilfrydig.
Mae'r Dystysgrif Genedlaethol Uwch mewn Technoleg Adeiladu yn gymhwyster delfrydol ar gyfer y rhai sy'n cael eu cyflogi ar hyn o bryd yn y diwydiant.
Mae ein gradd Technoleg Dylunio Pensaernïol yn archwilio sut mae dylunio a thechnoleg yn gweithio gyda'i gilydd, gan roi gwybodaeth ymarferol i chi o'r ddau faes
Ymunwch â rhaglen uchel ei pharch a fydd yn eich helpu i ddatblygu i fod yn therapydd galwedigaethol ymreolaethol myfyriol gydag eang o sgiliau ymarferol.
Mae gradd Therapi Lleferydd ac Iaith yn newydd sbon i Ogledd Cymru.
Y cwrs hwn ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam yw'r cyntaf i gael ei ddylunio yn sgil y pandemig gan ei wneud nid yn unig yn arbenigo yn ei gynnwys ond hefyd yn unigryw yn ei ardal.
Os ydych eisiau gwybod pam fod pobl yn troseddu a sut mae’n effeithio cymdeithas.
Yn ogystal, ydych eisiau ystydio y system gyfiawnder ac achosion enwog gafodd effaith anferthol ar y maes cyfreithiol?
Os ydych, mae'r cwrs Troseddeg a Chyfiawnder Troseddol i chi.
Bydd rhaglen WGU yn darparu rhywfaint o'r sylfaen ar gyfer gyrfa yn y gyfraith drwy ganolbwyntio ar y sylfeini academaidd a phroffesiynol ar gyfer sefyll Arholiad Cymhwyso Cyfreithwyr (SQE) 1 a 2 a Chwrs Hyfforddi'r Bar.
Paratowch ar gyfer gyrfa broffesiynol mewn Ymarfer Adran Weithredu gyda'n rhaglen BSc Anrh - yr unig un o'i fath yng Ngogledd Cymru ac mae'n un o ddim ond dwy raglen yng Nghymru i gyd.
Cael blas o'r diwydiant gofal anifeiliaid wrth ddatblygu eich sgiliau a'ch gwybodaeth am ymddygiad anifeiliaid, hwsmonaeth a hyfforddiant.
Datblygwch gwybodaeth lefel uchel o ymddygiad anifeiliaid, hyfforddiant, lles a chadwraeth ymhellach gyda'n gradd atodol.
Cael blas o'r diwydiant gofal anifeiliaid wrth ddatblygu eich sgiliau a'ch gwybodaeth am ymddygiad anifeiliad, hwsmonaeth a hyfforddiant.
Bydd y cwrs Ymddygiad, Lles a Chadwraeth Anifeiliaid Gwyddor hwn yn eich arfogi â'r wybodaeth a'r sgiliau i fynd i mewn i amrywiaeth o broffesiynau gwahanaol yn y sector anifeiliad.
Bydd y cwrs Ymddygiad, Lles a Chadwraeth Anifeiliad (gyda blwyddyn sylfaen) hwn yn eich arfogi â'r wybodaeth a'r sgiliau i fynd i mewn i amrywiaeth o broffesiynau gwahanol yn y sector anifeiliad.
Mynd i'r afael â rhai o'r heriau mwyaf sy'n wynebu dyn heddiw - Ynni fforddiadwy, newid yn yr hinsawdd, cynhesu byd-eang a rheoli llygredd - ar y Radd hwn.
Mae ein gradd mewn peirianneg adnewyddadwy a chynaliadwy yn mynd i’r afael â rhai o’r heriau mwyaf sy’n wynebu’r ddynol ryw heddiw – ynni fforddiadwy, newid yn yr hinsawdd, cynhesu byd-eang a rheoli llygredd.
Mae’r cwrs hwn wedi ei ddatblygu i gwrdd ag anghenion diwydiant lleol yn y maes hanfodol yma.
Mae’r rhaglen yn rhoi sylw i agweddau allweddol sut i greu systemau, cynnyrch a gwasanaethau sydd yn gynaliadwy i gyfyngu ar yr effeithiau niweidiol ar yr amgylchedd.
100% ar-lein.
Mae'r cwrs wedi'i gynllunio i ddarparu ffordd newydd i weithwyr proffesiynol prysur ennill sgiliau y mae galw amdanynt a chymhwyster yn y maes hwn y mae galw mawr amdano.
Mae'n gwbl hyblyg a gellir ei astudio unrhyw bryd, unrhyw le.
Mae'r radd MA Addysg 100% ar-lein hon yn eich galluogi i atgyfnerthu eich profiad gwaith ymarferol gyda'r theori, yr offer a'r technegau a fydd yn eich helpu i gyflawni llwyddiant gyrfa fel ymarferwr addysgol.
Mae’r radd MA Addysg gyda Phlentyndod Cynnar 100% ar-lein hon yn eich galluogi i atgyfnerthu eich profiad gwaith ymarferol gyda’r offer a’r technegau a fydd yn eich helpu i gyflawni llwyddiant gyrfa fel ymarferwr mewn addysg plentyndod cynnar.
Mae'r radd MA Addysg gyda Arweinyddiaeth 100% ar-lein hon yn eich galluogi i atgyfnerthu eich profiad gwaith ymarferol gyda'r theori addysg ac arweinyddiaeth, yr offer a'r technegau a fydd yn eich helpu i gyflawni llwyddiant gyrfa fel arweinydd addysgol.
Enillwch eich MBA ar-lein gydag Ysgol Reolaeth Gogledd Cymru.
Mae ein gradd MBA unigryw wedi'i chynllunio ar gyfer gweithwyr proffesiynol uchelgeisiol, hunan-gychwynnol sy'n awyddus i roi eu gyrfa ar lwybr carlam gyda dealltwriaeth ddyfnach o sgiliau busnes ac arweinyddiaeth.
Mae’r MBA Dadansoddeg Data Mawr 100% ar-lein wedi’i gynllunio ar gyfer unigolion uchelgeisiol sydd am ennill sylfaen eang o sgiliau busnes yn ogystal â gwybodaeth a galluoedd arbenigol amhrisiadwy wrth gymhwyso dadansoddeg data mewn cyd-destun busnes.
Mae’r MBA Seiberddiogelwch 100% ar-lein wedi’i greu ar gyfer gweithwyr proffesiynol sydd am wella eu rhagolygon trwy ddatblygu gwybodaeth a galluoedd seiberddiogelwch y mae galw mawr amdanynt yn ogystal â chyfres gynhwysfawr o sgiliau mewn meysydd allweddol o fusnes.
Mae'r MBA Entrepreneuriaeth 100% ar-lein hon wedi'i chynllunio i baratoi darpar entrepreneuriaid a gweithwyr proffesiynol uchelgeisiol, beiddgar a chreadigol ar gyfer ystod eang o gyfleoedd gyrfa cyffrous.
Mae'r MBA Cyllid 100% ar-lein wedi'i gynllunio ar gyfer gweithwyr cyllid proffesiynol uchelgeisiol a hoffai uwchsgilio, cyflawni dyrchafiadau'n gyflym a dod yn arweinydd cyllid, yn ogystal ag ar gyfer unigolion uchel eu cymhelliant sydd am lansio gyrfa newydd mewn cyllid neu gyfrifeg.
Mae'r rhaglen MBA Rheoli Gofal Iechyd ar-lein hon wedi'i chynllunio ar gyfer gweithwyr gofal iechyd proffesiynol uchelgeisiol ac arweinwyr sy'n dod i'r amlwg ym maes gofal iechyd sydd am symud ymlaen ymhellach ac yn gyflymach trwy ddatblygu eu dealltwriaeth a'u cymhwysiad o reolaeth.
Mae'r radd MBA Rheolaeth Adnoddau Dynol 100% ar-lein hon yn rhoi'r cyfle i chi gyflymu'ch gyrfa trwy ddatblygu sgiliau busnes allweddol a chael dealltwriaeth ddyfnach o'r ddisgyblaeth rheoli adnoddau dynol.
Cyflawni eich MBA Marchnata ar-lein .
Mae ein gradd unigryw yn rhoi cyfle i weithwyr proffesiynol prysur drawsnewid eu rhagolygon gyrfa trwy ddatblygu set gadarn o sgiliau busnes a dealltwriaeth ddyfnach o farchnata cenedlaethol a rhyngwladol.
Mae'r MBA 100% ar-lein hwn mewn Rheoli Prosiectau yn eich arfogi â set gadarn o sgiliau dadansoddol ar gyfer cynllunio a rheoli unrhyw brosiect ac mae'n dysgu'r cymwyseddau rheoli prosiect hanfodol o ragweld risg a dadansoddi data economaidd.
Mae'r MBA Seicoleg 100% ar-lein wedi'i gynllunio ar gyfer gweithwyr proffesiynol uchelgeisiol sy'n gweithio sydd am gyfuno sylfaen eang o sgiliau busnes allweddol a gwybodaeth gyda dealltwriaeth fanwl o ymddygiad dynol.
Mae’r MPA (Meistr Gweinyddiaeth Gyhoeddus) wedi’i chreu ar gyfer gweithwyr proffesiynol blaengar ac uchelgeisiol, arweinwyr tîm, rheolwyr a swyddogion gweithredol yn y sector cyhoeddus sydd am symud ymlaen i rolau lefel uwch a mwy strategol.
Mae'r MSc Cyfrifiadureg 100% ar-lein wedi'i gynllunio i ddarparu ffordd newydd i weithwyr proffesiynol prysur ennill cymhwyster yn y maes proffidiol hwn y mae galw mawr amdano.
Mae'n gwrs meistr hollol hyblyg a gellir ei astudio unrhyw bryd, unrhyw le.
Mae'r 100% ar-lein MSc Cyfrifiadureg gyda Seiberddiogelwch wedi'i gynllunio i ddarparu ffordd newydd i weithwyr proffesiynol prysur ennill sgiliau y mae galw amdanynt a chymhwyster yn y maes hwn y mae galw mawr amdano.
Mae'r MSc Cyfrifiadureg gyda Rhwydweithio 100% ar-lein wedi'i gynllunio i ddarparu ffordd newydd i weithwyr proffesiynol prysur ennill cymhwyster yn y maes hwn y mae galw mawr amdano ac sy'n cael llawer o wobr.
Mae'r 100% ar-lein MSc Cyfrifiadureg gyda Pheirianneg Meddalwedd wedi'i gynllunio i ddarparu ffordd newydd i weithwyr proffesiynol prysur ennill sgiliau y mae galw amdanynt a chymhwyster yn y maes hwn y mae galw mawr amdano.
Mae’r MSc Seicoleg Addysgol 100% ar-lein wedi’i greu i roi dealltwriaeth gynhwysfawr i weithwyr addysg proffesiynol o rôl seicolegwyr addysg, a’r cysyniadau seicolegol craidd sy’n sail i ymarfer ym maes seicoleg addysg.
Mae'r MSc Seicoleg Fforensig 100% ar-lein wedi'i greu ar gyfer unigolion mewn meysydd sy'n gysylltiedig â'r system cyfiawnder troseddol.
Datblygu gwell dealltwriaeth o wyddoniaeth seicolegol a'i chymhwysiad i ymddygiad troseddol.
Mae'r MSc Seicoleg 100% ar-lein wedi'i gynllunio i'ch arfogi â'r fantais seicolegol hon a'ch helpu i symud eich gyrfa i'r lefel nesaf.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/ymweld/digwyddiadau-israddedig:
Ewch am deimlad o fywyd ym Prifysgol Wrecsam.
Mae ein diwrnodau a'n digwyddiadau ar-lein yn rhoi'r cyfle i chi siarad â staff a myfyrwyr.
Ymunwch â ni i gael gwybod mwy am ein cyrsiau, darganfod ein cyfleusterau a'n gwasanaethau cymorth, a gweld pam y dylai Prifysgol Wrecsam fod yn ddewis gorau i astudio ynddo.
Ydych yn barod yn gwybod pa ardal hoffwch chi astudio ac eisiau ymchwilio'n bellach?
Edrychwch ar ein digwyddiadau pynciol .
Byddwch yn rhan o Brifysgol sydd yn yr 2il safle yn y DU am Gymorth i Fyfyrwyr (Nhabl Cynghrair Prifysgol y Daily Mail, 2024) a’r 5 uchaf yn y DU am Ansawdd Addysgu (Nghanllaw Prifysgolion Da’r Times a’r Sunday Times, 2025) a Boddhad Addysgu (Nghanllaw Prifysgolion y Guardian, 2025)
Cael blas ar bywyd myfyrwyr
“"Un o'r prif resymau ymunais â Phrifysgol Wrecsam oedd oherwydd i mi gael argraff mor dda ohoni yn y Diwrnod Agored."”
Archwiliwch ein campws a'n cyfleusterau yn Wrecsam - gweler ble byddwch chi'n astudio ac yn cael teimlad o fywyd myfyriwr.
Bydd rhagor o fanylion am deithiau ar gampysau eraill yn cael eu cynnwys yn eich e-byst cyn y dydd!
Gwyliwch gyflwyniadau gan gynnwys astudio ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam, gwneud cais, cyllido'ch gradd ac ysgoloriaethau, a llety.
Darganfyddwch mwy am ein cyrsiau a sgwrsiwch gyda'n staff a myfyrwyr.
Creu ffrindiau hyd-oes, cysylltiadau gwerthfawr a byddwch yn rhan o gymuned ddirgrynol.
Byddwch yn siŵr o dderbyn profiad cofiadwy fel myfyriwr ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam.
Yn Wrecsam nid ydych dim ond yn rif, ac rydym yn gwybod pa mor bwysig ydi derbyn cymorth i gyrraedd eich llwyddiannau.
Rydym yma i'ch helpu pab cam o'r ffordd.
Eisiau gwybod mwy?
Edrychwch ar ein blog ar yr hyn y gallwch ei ddisgwyl o ddiwrnod agored, cyn neu ar ôl i chi archebu eich lle.
Peidiwch â phoeni, gallwch barhau i archwilio ein campws yn Wrecsam trwy archebu taith dywys, dan arweiniad myfyriwr presennol neu aelod tîm cymorth ymgeiswyr.
Mae hwn yn gyfle gwych i gael teimlad o fywyd myfyriwr a darganfod mwy gan y rhai sy'n gwybod orau.
Archebwch taith
Darganfod mwy
Rydym yn buddsoddi yn ein dyfodol gyda champysau clyfar gyda thechnoleg o safon uchel a llefydd cyfoes sy'n ysbrydoli a chefnogi dysgu diweddar.
Eisiau gweld ble fyddwch yn byw pan ydych yn symud i Wrecsam?
Edrychwch ar ein llety
Oes gennych chi gwestiwn am fywyd prifysgol neu eisiau sgwrsio gyda rhywun cyn digwyddiad?
Mae ein llysgenhadon myfyrwyr yma i'ch helpu.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/ffioedd-a-chyllido:
Gwybodaeth ar faint bydd eich gradd yn gostio a chymorth ariannol i gyllido eich astudiaethau.
Gwybodaeth ar faint bydd eich cwrs ôl-raddedig yn costio a chymorth ariannol i gyllido eich astudiaethau.
Darganfyddwch ragor o wybodaeth am ffioedd ar gyfer astudio gyda ni fel myfyriwr rhyngwladol.
Ffioedd Rhyngwladol
Chwiliwch am rywle i fyw
Edrychwch ar y bywyd myfyrwyr yn Wrecsam
Dewch i gael deimlad o Prifysgol Wrecsam

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/holi-ein-myfyrwyr:
Eisiau gwybod mwy am fywyd myfyrwyr ym Prifysgol Wrecsam?
Siaradwch ag un o’n Llysgenhadon Myfyrwyr!
Mae ein llysgenhadon yn fyfyrwyr presennol ar gyrsiau amrywiol - ac maen nhw yma ai ateb eich cwestiynau a dweud popeth wrthoch chi am fod yn fyfyriwr yn Wrecsam.
Chwiliwch am y pwnc os oes gennych gwestiwn penodol, neu edrychwch ar broffiliau’r llysgenhadon i ganfod eu trefi genedigol, ieithoedd, diddordebau a mwy.
Noder nad yw’r gwasanaeth UniBuddy ar gael yn y Gymraeg, ond mae siaradwyr Cymraeg ar gael am sgwrs.
Edrychwch ar broffiliau llysgenhadon i ganfod siaradwr Cymraeg.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/astudio/pam-pw/gwybodaeth-i-rieni:
Rydym yn adnabod y rôl byddwch yn chwarae i helpu dewis y brifysgol gorau ar gyfer eich mab neu ferch.
Nid yw’r trawsnewid o ysgol neu goleg dim ond yn heriol i fyfyrwyr, ond i rieni hefyd.
Rhan fwyaf o’r amser byddent yn sefyll ar draed eu hunain am y tro cyntaf, felly mae’n bwysig i chi wybod byddem yn eu cefnogi o’r adeg maent yn cyrraedd tan maent yn graddio a thu hwnt, fel maent yn mynd i mewn i’r byd gwaith a dilyn eu gyrfa ddewisol.
Mae ein campws yn adnabyddus am ei awyrgylch cyfeillgar a theuluol ble fydd eich plentyn yn enw, nid rhif.
Mae gan Wrecsam a’r ardal leol rhywbeth i bawb, boed hynny’n chwaraeon, bywyd nos, diwylliant, ac awyr agored gwych.
Yn y rhan Darganfod Mwy isod gallwch ddarganfod am wasanaethau cymorth myfyrwyr y brifysgol sydd wedi ennill gwobrau, yn ogystal â darllen y blogiau diweddar wedi’u hysgrifennu ar gyfer rhieni/gwarchodwyr neu ofalwyr.
Gallwch hefyd gofrestru i dderbyn gwybodaeth drwy e-bost er mwyn i ni fedru’ch diweddaru chi gyda gwybodaeth ddefnyddiol i gefnogi eich mab neu ferch a byddwch yn derbyn ein Canllaw Rhiant a Gofalwr i’r brifysgol ar ôl cofrestru.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/astudio/gwneud-cais:
Am y rhan fwyaf o gyrsiau israddedig, byddech angen ymgeisio trwy UCAS.
Unwaith rydych wedi dewis pa gyrsiau hoffech chi wneud cais amdanynt yna bydd angen i chi gofrestru ar UCAS.com i ddechrau eich cais.
Os ydych dal yn yr ysgol neu goleg, efallai gewch chi "buzzword" i ddefnyddio pan ydych yn cofrestru - bydd hyn yn helpu gwahaniaethu ble rydych yn gwneud cais o.
Ni fydd angen i'r rheini sy'n dymuno gwneud cais yn annibynnol dderbyn "buzzword", ond byddent yn dal i ddefnyddio'r system UCAS i wneud cais.
Os ydych yn ymgeisio'n uniongyrchol i ni drwy ein Ffurflen Cais am Fynediad ar bapur neu ar lein, dylech anelu i lenwi pob rhan o'r ffurflen mor llawn a fedrwch chi fel bod gennym ni ddigon o wybodaeth gennych chi er mwyn i ni fedru gwneud dewis.
Os ydym angen gwybodaeth bellach gennych chi ar ôl i ni dderbyn y ffurflen byddem yn cysylltu â chi yn syth, ond cofiwch gall hyn oedi eich dewis ychydig felly anelwch i gwblhau'r ffurflen mor llawn â phosib yn wreiddiol.
Mae UCAS Ychwanegol ar gyfer ymgeisydd sydd yn barod yn system UCAS a heb dderbyn cynigion gan eu dewisiadau gwreiddiol neu wedi dirywio unrhyw gynnig a dderbyniwyd.
Mae UCAS Ychwanegol ar gael ar lein o Chwefror y 26ain i Orffennaf y 4ydd.
Os oes gennym ni lefygdd ar eich cwrs dewisol, yna byddem yn cysidro eich cais a gobeithio rhoi cynnig i chi fel gallwch chi ychwanegu ni fel un o'ch dewisiadau Ychwanegol.
Byddem yn eich cynghori ar eich amgylchiadau unigol pan ydych yn cysylltu â ni, ond er mwyn i ni gysidro dewis mor fuan â phosib, rydym yn gofyn eich bod yn mynd i'r rhan edrych ar eich cais o fewn UCAS Track, ei gopïo a gyrru copi o'ch cais drwy e-bost.
Am fwy o wybodaeth ar UCAS Ychwanegol ewch i wefan UCAS.
Os ydych yn gwneud cais trwy UCAS ar ôl Mehefin y 30ain, ni chaiff eich cais ei yrru i ni.
Yn lle hyn, byddech yn derbyn manylion am Glirio.
Mae Clirio yn broses sydd ar gael rhwng Gorffennaf a Medi i'r rheini sydd yn gwneud cais yn hwyr, wedi gwneud cais yn barod a heb dderbyn lle, neu wedi dirywio pob un cynnig a chafwyd.
Am ragor o wybodaeth ewch i'n hadran Glirio .
Mae'r system ymgeisio ar lein ar agor o fis Medi am fynediad i'r Brifysgol y flwyddyn ddilynol.
Nid oes angen i chi gwblhau eich cais i gyd mewn un diwrnod - mae'r system yn caniatáu i chi ei gwblhau mewn rhannau.
Bydd angen i'ch cais gynnwys y wybodaeth ganlynol:
Does dim ffordd benodol i ysgrifennu datganiad personol a fyddai'n gwarantu derbyniad ar eich cwrs dewisol, ond, mae yna ganllawiau a fyddai'n eich helpu i ffocysu ar beth ddylech ac na ddylech chi gynnwys.
Beth am i chi edrych ar ein 10 Awgrym Gorau ar Ysgrifennu Datganiad Personol cyn i chi ddechrau?
Bydd angen darparu tystysgrifau gwreiddiol cyn cofrestru trwy'ch Porth Ymgeiswyr.
Mae angen i'r rhain fod yn dystysgrifau wedi’u sganio, ffotograffau neu electronig clir.
Rhowch brawf o'ch cymwysterau wedi'u cwblhau trwy eu lanlwytho i'ch Porth Ymgeiswyr.
Os ydych chi'n cael trafferth gwneud hyn, anfonwch nhw at admissions@wrexham.ac.uk , gan nodi'ch enw llawn yn glir, y cwrs rydych chi wedi gwneud cais amdano a'ch PID UCAS neu ID Myfyrwyr Wrecsam.
Awgrymiadau ar gymryd llun clir
Rhowch y ddogfen ar wyneb gwastad, dal eich camera uwchben y ddogfen, ei leinio yn y gwyliwr a chymryd llun.
Gwiriwch fod y llun yn glir ac nid yn aneglur a bod y ddogfen gyfan yn weladwy.
Hefyd, gwnewch yn siŵr nad oes unrhyw gysgodion na myfyrdodau (neu leiaf) - efallai y bydd angen i chi droi golau ymlaen neu i ffwrdd i gael y ddelwedd orau!
Ailadroddwch ar gyfer pob un o'ch cymwysterau ac yna eu lanlwytho i'r Porth, yn ddelfrydol fel PDF cyfunol.
Am ran fwyaf o gyrsiau ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam, dylech gyflwyno eich cais erbyn y dyddiad cau ystyriaeth gyfartal (y ddydd Mercher olaf o mis Ionawr).
Yn dilyn y dyddiad yma, gall y Brifysgol cau unrhyw gwrs sydd yn barod yn llawn.
Os mae'r dyddiad cau wedi pasio, y newyddion da ydi gall eich cwrs dewisol dal fod yn agored.
Cysylltwch gyda'n tîm mynediad am fwy o wybodaeth ac i ddarganfod pa gyrsiau sydd ar gael.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/cyrsiau/cyrsiau-ol-raddedig:
Ewch ymhellach yn eich gyrfa gyda gradd ôl-raddedig.
Datblygwch sgiliau a gwybodaeth uwch i'ch helpu i gyrraedd eich potensial.
Mae cymryd y cam nesaf i astudio ar lefel ôl-raddedig yn obaith cyffrous ond brawychus.
Mae gan Brifysgol Wrecsam y system gymorth sefydledig, arbenigedd ymchwil, a'r cyfleusterau i'ch helpu i lwyddo.
Rydym yn cynnal cyfres o ddigwyddiadau sydd wedi’u cynllunio i ateb eich cwestiynau a rhoi cipolwg i chi ar astudio ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam.
"Ymrwymiad Prifysgol Wrecsam i gefnogaeth myfyrwyr, llwyddiant academaidd, a mae cynhwysiant yn ei wneud y lle delfrydol i dyfu a llwyddo." – Ashish , myfyriwr MSc Rheoli Busnes Rhyngwladol

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/ymweld/digwyddiadau-ol-raddedig:
Darganfyddwch bopeth sydd gan Brifysgol Wrecsam i'w gynnig i ôl-raddedigion.
Mae ein nosweithiau agored a digwyddiadau ar-lein yn rhoi'r cyfle i chi siarad gyda staff a myfyrwyr, darganfod ein cyrsiau ôl-raddedig a gweld ein cyfleusterau.
Ewch ar daith o'n campws a chyfleusterau gydag un o'n llysgenhadon myfyrwyr cyfeillgar.
Yn PGW nid ydych dim ond yn rif.
Byddwch yn creu ffrindiau hyd-oes, cysylltiadau gwerthfawr a byddwch yn rhan o gymuned ddirgrynol.
Meddwl am astudio gradd ymchwil?
Darganfyddwch mwy am sut gallem ni helpu.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/ymweld:
Os ydych yn dod ar y campws neu'n mynd ar daith rithwir, ymweliad ydi un o'r ffyrdd gorau i chi gael teimlad o'r brifysgol a g weld pam ein bod yn:
Yn ein digwyddiadau gallwch siarad gyda'n darlithwyr a staff cefnogol, a darganfod mwy am y llety, cyllido, gyrfaoedd, cynhwysiad yn ogystal â gwylio llawer o fideos profiadol.
Darganfyddwch am ein cyrsiau israddedig ar ddiwrnod agored neu ddigwyddiad ar-lein.
Darganfyddwch mwy am ein hopsiynau ôl-raddedig ar noson agored neu ddigwyddiad ar-lein.
Ddigwyddiadau pwnc-benodol i fyfyrwyr ac ysgolion.
Rydym yn cynnal rhagor o ddigwyddiadau penodol i gyrsiau, boed nhw ar-lein neu'n ar y campws.
Methu ymweld â ni ar y campws?
Ewch ar daith rhithwir

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/astudio/gwneud-cais/gwneud-cais-uniongyrchol:
Rydym yn anelu i wneud y broses o wneud cais i astudio ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam mor llyfn a syml a sy’n bosib
Ar gyfer pob cwrs llawn-amser israddedig sy’n dechrau ym mis Medi, dylai myfyrwyr y DU gwneud cais drwy UCAS .
Dylech gyflwyno cais trwy ein ffurflen ceisiadau uniongyrchol os ydych:
Mae dolenni i'r ffurflen gais ar-lein ar gael trwy ein tudalennau cwrs unigol.
Yn y rhan cymwysterau o’ch cais, rhestrwch eich cymwysterau i gyd os gwelwch yn dda, drwy ddangos yn glir y teitl llawn, lefel, corff dyfarnu a chanlyniad o bob cymhwyster (fel y dangosir ar eich tystysgrif) er mwyn osgoi unrhyw oediad ym mhrosesu a chysidro eich cais.
Os oes gennych unrhyw gwestiwn neu angen cymorth yn llenwi’r ffurflen, cysylltwch ag aelod o’r tîm mynediad ar 01978 293439 neu E-bostio enquiries@wrexham.ac.uk
Pa bynnag ffordd ydych yn gwneud cais, bydd angen i chi roi datganiad personol.
Dylech datganiad personol fod hyd at 4000 o lythrennau (tua 500 o eiriau) gyda lleiafswm o 1000 o lythrennau (tua 150 o eiriau).
Cymerwch olwg ar awgrymiadau’r Rheolwr Mynediad yma:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/cyrsiau/cyrsiau-byr:
Rydym yn cynnal cyfres o ddigwyddiadau ar-lein a ar y campws a gynlluniwyd i ateb eich cwestiynau a rhoi cipolwg i chi ar astudio a byw ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/ymweld/digwyddiadau-pwnc:
Dysgwch mwy mewn digwyddiad pwnc.
Os ydych chi eisiau gwybod mwy am gwrs neu bwnc penodol, mae ein digwyddiadau pwnc ar-lein ac ar y campws yn gyfle gwych i siarad â darlithwyr a dysgu mwy am astudio yn Wrecsam.
Ydych chi'n fyfyriwr neu'n ysgol?
Gwnewch yn siŵr eich bod yn edrych ar ein Diwrnodau Darganfod i ddarganfod mwy ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam trwy gael profiad ymarferol o sut beth yw bod yn fyfyriwr prifysgol.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/ymweld/rhithdaith:
Archwiliwch Brifysgol Wrecsam - ble bynnag yr ydych!
Gweld sut beth yw hi ar y campws a'r cyfleusterau sydd ar gael.
Yn ddelfrydol ar gyfer gwaith grŵp, ymlacio neu ddal i fyny gyda ffrindiau, Mae'r Astudfa yn steilus ac ymarferol, gyda thechnoleg o'r radd flaenaf, seddi cyfforddus a digon o socedi codi tâl tri phwynt a USB.
Mae Pentref Wrecsam yn cynnig llety pwrpasol, ar y campws i fyfyrwyr Prifysgol Wrecsam.
Mae pob fflat yn cynnwys 6-8 ystafell wely ac yn rhannu cegin fodern ac ardaloedd byw wedi'u dodrefnu'n llawn.
Mae ein hystafell Amgylchedd Dysgu Gweithredol sy'n Canolbwyntio ar Fyfyrwyr (SCALE-UP) yn defnyddio technoleg a dylunio arloesol i wella profiad myfyrwyr.
O'ch diwrnod cyntaf o ddysgu i'ch seremoni graddio, mae ein prif dderbynfa yn ganolbwynt i'n campws.
Mae'r Oriel yn fan dysgu cymdeithasol modern a chroesawgar, gyda thechnoleg o'r radd flaenaf, bythau eistedd cyfforddus a llawer o socedi codi tâl.
Mae’r ffreutur Cegin Unedig yn gweini bwyd ffres bob dydd, gyda bwydlenni newidiol, bar salad a digon o luniaeth ar gael.
Mae'n lle gwych i fachu tamaid i'w fwyta.
Yn drawiadol ac yn arloesol, mae Adeilad y Diwydiannau Creadigol yn cynnal technoleg a chyfleusterau ar gyfer teledu, cerddoriaeth, newyddiaduraeth, ffilm, celf a mwy.
Mae hefyd yn gartref i'r BBC yng Ngogledd Ddwyrain Cymru.
Yn cynnwys dau gae glaswellt o'r ansawdd uchaf, cae 3G o ansawdd FIFA ynghyd â chyfleusterau cymorth oddi ar y cae, mae ein cyfleuster addysg o'r radd flaenaf wedi'i adeiladu'n bwrpasol ar gyfer myfyrwyr Gwyddor Chwaraeon a Hyfforddi Pêl-droed.
Mae ein rhithdaith yn gweithio mewn ffordd debyg i Google Maps, fodd bynnag mae yna rai eiconau defnyddiol i'ch helpu gyda'ch taith drwy ein Cyfadran:
Bydd y botwm hwn yn chwarae pytiau byr o'r meysydd y gallwch lywio drwyddynt ar eich taith.
Defnyddiwch y botwm yma i newid i olwg person cyntaf o'r daith.
Bydd y botwm hwn yn dangos golygfa trem aderyn ar lawr rydych chi'n teithio, yn ei ddefnyddio i deithio'n gyflym i ardaloedd penodol.
Bydd y botwm hwn yn eich galluogi i symud rhwng gwahanol loriau ar eich taith.
Mae nifer o eiconau lliwgar y gallwch eu dewis a fydd yn eich galluogi i ryngweithio â'r daith: Bydd yr eicon glas yn dangos gwybodaeth i chi am arwynebedd y daith rydych chi ynddi ar hyn o bryd.
Bydd yr eicon coch pan gaiff ei ddewis yn dangos fideo i chi.
Bydd yr eicon porffor yn caniatáu i chi lywio rhwng y gwahanol adeiladau sy'n ffurfio'r daith.
Bydd yr eicon gwyrdd yn caniatáu i chi deithio'n gyflym i wahanol rannau o'r daith.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/astudio/pam-pw:
Rydym ni yn meddwl bod yna lawer o resymau gwych i ddewis Prifysgol Wrecsam fel eich prifysgol.
O'n teimlad cymunedol , i'n haddysgu seiliedig ar ymarfer a chefnogaeth bersonol , rydym wedi ymrwymo i feithrin amgylchedd cynnes a chroesawgar lle mae pawb yn teimlo eu bod yn cael eu clywed a'u gwerthfawrogi .
Adlewyrchir yr ymrwymiad hwn yn ein safleoedd fel 1af yng Nghymru ac yn gydradd 3ydd yn y DU ar gyfer Boddhad Myfyrwyr (Complete University Guide, 2026)
Mae amrywiaeth a chynhwysiant wrth ein gwraidd .
Mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn parhau i fod yn rhif un yng Nghymru a Lloegr ar gyfer Cynhwysiant Cymdeithasol am y 7fed flwyddyn yn olynol (Canllaw Prifysgolion Da’r Times a’r Sunday Times, 2025)
Daeth Prifysgol Wrecsam yn 2il yn y DU a 1af yng Nghymru ar gyfer Cymorth i Fyfyrwyr yn Nhabl Cynghrair Prifysgol y Daily Mail, 2024.
"Roedd y gefnogaeth wych a gafwyd yn y Brifysgol wir yn gwneud i mi deimlo fy mod yn gwneud y penderfyniad cywir ac wedi fy helpu i ddatblygu fy hyder yn fy maes astudio a'r sgiliau academaidd sydd eu hangen i wneud yn dda."
Chris Wallace - BSc (Anrh) Gwyddorau Chwaraeon ac Ymarfer Corff
Mae ein gwasanaeth Gyrfaoedd a Chyflogadwyedd ymroddedig, cyrsiau ymarferol, a chyfleoedd lleoliad wedi'u cynllunio i ddatblygu eich gwybodaeth, eich sgiliau a'ch profiadau yn y byd go iawn, gan eich paratoi ar gyfer bywyd ar ôl graddio.
Gallech fod â hawl i fwrsariaeth lawn gan GIG Cymru, gan gynnwys ffioedd dysgu a bwrsariaeth nad yw'n ad-daladwy ar gyfer byw.
Rydym yn buddsoddi yn ddyfodol ni a chi.
Wedi'i leoli'n gyfleus ar y ffin rhwng Cymru a Lloegr , gan ddarparu'r gorau o'r ddau fyd.
Mae dewis ble i ddod i'r brifysgol yn benderfyniad mawr, felly beth am ddod i brofi Wrecsam drosoch eich hun?
Ein Digwyddiadau Agored yw'r ffordd orau o archwilio ein cyfleusterau, sgwrsio â myfyrwyr presennol a chwrdd â'r academyddion a fydd yn eich tywys drwy eich gradd.
Gyda Gorsaf Drenau Cyffredinol Wrecsam ond taith gerdded bum munud o gampws Plas Coch a Phentref Myfyrwyr Wrecsam, ynghyd â chysylltiadau trafnidiaeth gwych i Gaergybi, Manceinion a Lerpwl, ble bynnag mae eich taith yn dechrau, mae cyrraedd yma yn awel.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/campysau-a-chyfleusterau-:
Mae campysau Prifysgol Glyndŵr Wrecsam yn adlewyrchu ein harbenigedd yn ogystal â bod yn gartref i ystod o gyfleusterau i ddiwallu anghenion myfyrwyr – mae gennym ni bopeth ar gyfer eich anghenion astudio ac adloniant.
Mae gan bob campws ei gymeriad, hunaniaeth a diben penodol ei hun, ac maent yn ased nid yn unig i’n poblogaeth myfyrwyr ond hefyd i’r gymuned ac i fusnesau yn y rhanbarth.
Campws 2025 yw ein strategaeth £80m i wella ein holl gampysau i sicrhau bod gan ein myfyrwyr y cyfleusterau a'r amgylchedd dysgu gorau.
Ein campws mwyaf a’r man ble dechreuodd Prifysgol Glyndŵr Wrecsam yn 2008…neu 1887, o olrhain yn ôl drwy ein hanes.
Cartref gwledig y brifysgol ar gyfer addysg gwyddor anifeiliaid; canolfan bwrpasol ar gyfer rhyngweithio a lles anifeiliaid a phobl.
Gan ddod â’r byd academaidd a diwydiant at ei gilydd, mae’r gweithgareddau yn Llanelwy yn canolbwyntio ar dechnoleg optoelectroneg lefel uchel.
Archwiliwch naill ai’n rhithiol, neu drwy daith o amgylch y campws, bopeth sydd gennym i’w gynnig.
Mae sawl digwyddiad chwaraeon o bwys wedi eu llwyfannu yn ein canolfan chwaraeon, un o’r lleoliadau chwaraeon blaenllaw yng Ngogledd Cymru, ac mae ar gael i’w defnyddio gan y brifysgol a’r gymuned.
Mae ystod o fannau arlwyo ar draws ein campysau ble gall myfyrwyr fwyta, yfed, ymlacio a chymdeithasu.
Mae ein bar myfyrwyr, Glyn's, yn ganolbwynt i adloniant myfyrwyr ac yn lle gwych i gwrdd.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/llety:
Ydych chi'n barod i gychwyn ar eich pennod nesaf a chroesawu eich bywyd prifysgol?
Peidiwch ag edrych ymhellach, P’un a ydych yn fyfyriwr sy’n dymuno aros ar neu oddi ar y campws, eisoes yn breswylydd gyda ni, neu angen llety haf, Pentref Myfyrwyr Wrecsam yw eich porth i brofiad myfyriwr eithriadol sy’n cyfuno cysur, cymuned, a chyfleustra, i gyd mewn un lle!

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/bywyd-myfyrwyr/darganfod-wrecsam:
Os ydych yn dewis astudi ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam yna bydd gennych y gorau o ddau fyd - bywyd dinas a’r cefn gwlad wych.
Mae Wrecsam yn gyforiog o dreftadaeth, gyda golygfeydd hardd a nifer o safleoedd hanesyddol, yn ogystal â chanol dinas brysur gyda siopa gwych, diwylliant ffyniannus ac adloniant, yn ogystal â bywyd nos bywiog.
Felly, p’un a ydych yn mwynhau teithiau cerdded golygfaol ac archwilio safleoedd hanesyddol, mynd i siopa a rhoi cynnig ar gaffis a bwytai lleol, neu fynychu lleoliadau adloniant a chael noson allan, mae yna rywbeth at ddant pawb.
Byddwch yn gweld rydym wedi ein lleoli ar y ffin Cymru-Lloegr, lleoliad perffaith am fynediad hawdd i’r dinasoedd agos, sef Gaer , Lerpwl a Manceinion , i’r dwyrain, harddwch garw Eryri i’r gorllewin a thraethau gwych ar hyd arfordir syfrdanol y gogledd.
A rhywbeth arall, mae’n lle hawdd iawn i fynd i.
Wedi’i leoli oddi ar yr A483, mae gennym ni gysylltiadau arbennig i bob prif ffordd ar hyd y Gogledd Orllewin, gan gynnwys rhwydwaith bysiau eang ar hyd Gogledd Cymru, Gogledd Orllewin Lloegr a’r Canoldiroedd, gan ei wneud yn lleoliad hawdd ei gyrraedd
Mae hefyd gan Wrecsam cysylltiadau rheilffyrdd gwych, gyda dwy brif orsaf sy’n rhedeg gwasanaethau uniongyrchol i Gaer, Caergybi ac ar hyd Arfordir Gogledd Cymru, yr Amwythig, Birmingham a Chaerdydd.
Gallwch hefyd fod yn Lloegr o fewn ychydig dros ddwy awr a hanner, Caeredin mewn ychydig dros bedair, a Dulyn mewn llai na chwech.
Yn gyfleus , mae Gorsaf Drenau Cyffredinol Wrecsam wedi'i lleoli wrth ymyl ein prif gampws , gan ei gwneud yn berffaith ar gyfer diwrnod allan digymell .
Efallai eich bod chithau hefyd wedi gweld Wrecsam yn y newyddion yn ddiweddar, diolch i'r pryniant llwyddiannus CPD Wrecsam gan yr enwogion Ryan Reynolds a Rob McElhenney .
Mae'r clwb hefyd yn digwydd bod yn agos at brif gampws y brifysgol, felly efallai y byddwch yn weld ambell i wyneb enwog o gwmpas!
Ac mewn cyd-ddigwyddiad hyd yn oed yn fwy,, mae Wrecsam wedi cael ei arwydd ‘Holywood’ ei hun i helpu i'w roi ar y map.
Gyda chymaint yn mynd ymlaen a chymaint i'w weld a'i wneud, nid oes amser gwell i fod yma.
“Un fantais i Brifysgol Wrecsam yw bod gennych chi'r gorau o'r ddau fyd - mae gennych gefn gwlad gerllaw ac mae gennych y ddinas ei hun hefyd.”
Gwylio, chwarae, sirioli o’r ochrau - mae yna gyfoeth o chwaraeon gallwch gymryd rhan ynddynt yn lleol.
Mae yna lawer i weld, boed chi’n aros yn Wrecsam neu’n mentro’n bellach i ffwrdd.
O fywyd nos fywiog i gerddoriaeth a theatr byw, mae yna ddigon i’ch difyrru.
Eisiau gwybod yn union pa mor agos ydym ni?
“Dewisais i astudio yn Wrecsam oherwydd yma, mae ychydig yn fwy bywiog na lle dwi'n dod - mwy o siopa, mwy o lefydd i fynd allan.
Ond rwy'n dal yn agos at adref, felly pan dwi eisiau newid golygfeydd, dwi'n gallu jyst hopian ar drên a mynd i gerdded yn y mynyddoedd.”
Os hoffech gael mwy o fewnwelediad i'r hyn y mae Wrecsam yn ei gynnig , edrychwch ar rai o'n blogiau defnyddiol :
11 peth y dylai pob myfyriwr newydd eu gwneud yn Wrecsam
Ein dewis o leoedd arbennig Wrecsam, ar y campws ac oddi arno
Sut i dreulio 48 awr yn Wrecsam

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/cymorth-myfyrwyr:
Gwybodaeth ar gyfer Myfyrwyr, pryd bynnah y byddech angen.
Yn Wrecsam, mae help ar gael ichi bob amser.
O'n timau sgiliau dysgu ymroddedig i'n cynghorwyr lles a'n cefnogaeth arbenigol, rydyn ni i gyd yma i'ch helpu chi i gyrraedd eich potensial llawn.
Gofyn yw'r tîm cymorth i fyfyrwyr a all helpu gydag ymholiadau sy'n ymwneud â Chynhwysiant, Cwnsela ac Iechyd Meddwl, Lles Myfyrwyr, Arian a Chyngor Ariannol, a Gyrfaoedd a Chyflogadwyedd.
“Fe wnaeth pobl wir gymryd eu hamser gyda mi.
Hefyd, fe wnaeth y brifysgol darparu gwasanaeth cefnogi proffesiynol i mi - roedd y gweithiwr yno i helpu ac roedd hynny wir yn gwneud gwahaniaeth.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/blog:
Wrth i ni baratoi at lansio’r tymor nesaf o Gyfres Darlithoedd Cyhoeddus Sgyrsiau Ymchwil Wrecsam, dyma’r adeg berffaith i fyfyrio ar y tapestri cyfoethog o syniadau, straeon a chanfyddiad...
Cynhaliodd Prifysgol Wrecsam Ddiwrnod Ymchwil Seicoleg Crefydd ysbrydoledig yn ddiweddar, gan ddod ag ysgolheigion rhyngwladol blaenllaw a’n cymuned academaidd ein hunain ynghyd i archwilio sut ...
Mae’n bleser gennym rannu bod Grant Ymchwil Pump Primer gan yr Elizabeth Casson Trust wedi ei ddyfarnu i Dr Liz Cade.
Bydd y cyllid yn cefnogi astudiaeth ansoddol sy’n dwyn y teitl Gwirfod...
Mae'n bleser gennym gyhoeddi bod yr Athro Anne Nortcliffe, Deon y Gyfadran, wedi llwyddo i sicrhau grant dan gynllun Athro Gwadd Academi Frenhinol Peirianneg.
Cyflogadwyedd Graddedigion a Phart...
Roeddwn bob amser yn gwybod fy mod am ddilyn proffesiwn a oedd yn cyd-fynd â'm gwerthoedd a'm hangerdd am degwch a chyfiawnder cymdeithasol.
Y nod hwn a'm harweiniodd i ddarganfod y cwrs Gwaith ...
Awst 2025
Mae Dr Mobayode Akinsolu, Uwch-ddarlithydd mewn Peirianneg Electronig a Chyfathrebu, yn parhau â'i ymchwil i ddylunio ac optimeiddio dyfeisiau cyfathrebu diwifr newydd, yn benodol: ant...
Herio Stigma drwy Stori: Sut y Gwnaeth Ffilm a Gafodd ei Chyd-greu gan Bobl â Dementia Newid Agweddau
Yn ddiweddar, cyhoeddodd Dr Ian Davies-Abbott a’i gydweithwyr erthygl yn y Journal of ...
O’i dechreuadau yng Nghei Connah’s i brosiectau dylunio mawr blaenllaw yn Efrog Newydd, mae taith greadigol Sam Wilkes wedi bod yn unrhyw beth ond cyffredin.
Wedi’i henwi’n ddi...
Galluogodd aelodaeth Prifysgol Wrecsam o Gonsortiwm Ymchwil Guild HE i fynychu Gŵyl Ymchwil Doethurol Guild HE a gynhaliwyd ym Mhrifysgol Caerwynt ar 11 a 12 Mehefin 2025.
Roedd y digwyddiad pre...
Cafodd sesiwn olaf y Tŷ Agored ar gyfer Ymchwil yn y flwyddyn academaidd hon ei chadeirio gan yr Athro Wulf Livingston.
Dechreuwyd y sesiwn gyda dau gyhoeddiad – yn gyntaf, cyhoeddiad ynglŷn &ac...

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/dyddiadau-tymor:
Semester Un
Dydd Llun 23 Medi 2024 i ddydd Gwener 24 Ionawr 2025
Semester Dau
Dydd Llun 27 Ionawr 2025 i ddydd Gwener 16 Mai 2025
Cyfnod yr Haf
Dydd Llun 19 Mai 2025 i ddydd Gwener 22 Awst 2025
Gwyliau
Dydd Llun 16 Rhagfyr 2024 i ddydd Gwener 3 Ionawr 2025 - bydd myfyrwyr yn cael egwyl y gaeaf
Dydd Llun 14 Ebrill 2025 i ddydd Gwener 25 Ebrill 2025 - bydd myfyrwyr yn cael egwyl gwanwyn

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/bywyd-myfyrwyr:
Mae prifysgol yn fwy na radd.
Mae’n le byddwch yn gweithio, chwarae a byw yn ystod eich astudiaethau.
Felly mae’n bwysig i chi fedru gwneud y gorau allan o’ch amser tu fewn a thu allan o’r dosbarth, beth bynnag ydi’ch bwriad.
Boed chi’n symud i Wrecsam am y tro cyntaf neu eisiau gwybod beth i ddisgwyl nawr mae profiadau myfyrwyr yn wahanol, gallem ni eich helpu.
O gymorth astudio i edrych ar ôl eich lles - rydym yma i’ch helpu.
Boed chi’n chwilio i ymuno â’r tîm o lysgenhadon neu eisiau gofyn cwestiwn iddyn nhw, maent yma ac yn barod i’ch helpu.
Darganfyddwch eich cartref newydd - o ganol y dref i atyniadau a llefydd gwyrdd prydferth.
Eisiau gweld o eich hun?
Ymwelwch â ni drwy ddod i un o ein digwyddiadau.
Edrychwch ar ein llety ar y campws - wedi’i leoli rhwng y brifysgol a stadiwm Clwb Pêl-droed Wrecsam.
O labiau o safon uchel i adloniant.
Mae ein Hundeb Myfyrwyr yma i wneud eich profiad myfyrwyr y gorau gall o fod - o etholiadau’r UM a chyngor i glybiau a chymdeithasau.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/rhyngwladol/ysgol-haf-peirianneg:
Blwyddyn mynediad
Hyd y cwrs
4 Wythnos
Côd y sefydliad
Lleoliad
Wrecsam

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/partneriaethau-academaidd:
Mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn falch o weithio gydag amrywiaeth o bartneriaethau fel phrifysgolion, colegau a darparwyr addsyg breifat o'r Du a thu hwnt.
Mae'r partneriaid hyn yn cynnig cyrsiau penodol Prifysgol Wrecsam yn eu safleoedd i roi hyblygrwydd ychwanegol i fyfyrwyr o bob man o'r byd o ran eu dewis o ble i astudio.
Coleg Barking a Dagenham (BDC)
Sefydliad Bloomsbury Llundain
Ysgol Dylunio Inchbald
Grŵp NPTC
Astudiaethau Annibynnol Gwyddoniaeth a Thechnoleg
Athrofa Marchnata Sri Lanka (SLIM)
Athrofa Technoleg Hong Kong (HKIT)
Campws Dinas Londontec
Coleg Busnes Galwedigaethol Chonquing
Coleg Capital
Coleg Despark
Coleg Hyder
Coleg MBS Crete
Coleg Prifysgol New Era (NEUC)
Coleg Rheolaeth Princeton (PMC)
Coleg SHRM
Cymdeithas Rheolaeth Hong Kong (HKMA)
Prifysgol Polytechnig Dalian (DPU)
WCDI Prifysgol Shanghai
Ysgol Busnes ACCRA
Rebecca Wilcock – Rheolwr Datblygu a Chyswllt Partneriaethau +44 (0)1978 293026 Teresa Cox – Uwch Swyddog Partneriaethau +44 (0)1978 293006 Joanne Whitehouse – Uwch Swyddog Cyswllt Partneriaeth a Llais Myfyrwyr +44(0)1978 294489 Jo Corless – Rheolwr Ansawdd Partneriaethau +44 (0)1978 293074 Am fwy o wybodaeth e-bostiwch partnershipsoffice@wrexham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/busnes:
Mae Tîm Menter Prifysgol Wrecsam yma i gefnogi eich busnes i gyflawni twf a llwyddiant.
P’un a oes angen cymorth arnoch gyda arloesi, cyllid, hyfforddiant a datblygu, lleoliadau, neu recriwtio graddedigion a myfyrwyr, mae’r Tîm Menter yn fan cychwyn cyflawn ar gyfer pob angen busnes.
Mae ein tîm profiadol a deinamig wedi ymrwymo i’ch helpu chi a’ch busnes i ffynnu.
Amdan y Tîm Menter
Tanysgrifiwch am ddiweddariadau a digwyddiadau

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/busnes/arloesedd-a-masnacheiddio:
Cefnogi trawsnewid syniadau arloesol yn gymwysiadau byd go iawn.
Mae’r tîm Arloesedd a Masnacheiddio (I&C) yn rhan o'n tîm Menter ehangach ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam, a’i brif rôl yw cynorthwyo gyda thaith fasnacheiddio arloeswyr ein prifysgol.
Mae gweledigaeth cenhadaeth ddinesig ein prifysgol o "ymchwil sy'n trawsnewid" yn rhan annatod o'n hymdrechion arloesi a masnacheiddio.
Drwy flaenoriaethu gwreiddioldeb, arwyddocâd a thrylwyredd yn ein hymchwil, rydym yn gosod y sylfeini ar gyfer arloesiadau sy’n sbarduno dysgu a thwf economaidd.
Amdan Arloesedd a Masnacheiddio
Archebwch adnoddau at ddefnydd masnachol
Archebwch ymgynghoriaeth academaidd
Nodwch fod y dudalen gwe hon yn fersiwn "Beta" ar hyn o bryd.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/busnes/arloesedd-a-masnacheiddio/adnoddau-i-fusnesau:
Os yw eich busnes yn wynebu her neu’n archwilio syniad arloesol a fyddai’n elwa o gydweithio â phrifysgolion, rydym yma i’ch cefnogi.
P’un a oes angen arbenigedd academaidd arnoch, mynediad at adnoddau ac offer arbenigol, neu gymorth i ddeisebu ar y cyd am arian a grantiau, mae ein tîm yma i’ch helpu.
Mae ein profiad helaeth ar draws amrywiaeth o feysydd yn ein galluogi i ddarparu atebion wedi'u teilwra i ddiwallu'ch anghenion.
Archebwch offer ar gyfer defnydd masnachol (ffurflen)
Archebwch ymgynghoriaeth academaidd (ffurflen)
Manylion a sut i archebu adnoddau
Ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam mae gennym amrywiaeth o offer arbenigol ar draws ein cyfadrannau y gellir eu darparu at ddefnydd masnachol.
Mae ein hoffer yn cwmpasu ystod o feysydd gan gynnwys;
Archebwch Ymgynghoriaeth Academaidd (ffurflen)
Gall ein Mentrau Trosglwyddo Gwybodaeth gefnogi busnesau'n uniongyrchol a darparu cyfleoedd ariannu trwy gyfrwng KTPs, Mini-KTPs a Phartneriaethau SMART.
Gall sefydliadau cymwys yn Wrecsam, Sir Ddinbych a Sir y Fflint hefyd gael mynediad at gyllid uwch trwy Dalebau Sgiliau, sy'n cael eu galluogi trwy'r Gronfa Ffyniant Gyffredin (SPF).
Mae Cymorth Arloesedd Hyblyg SMART (FIS) yn gynllun unigryw gan Lywodraeth Cymru gyda’r nod unigol o helpu sefydliadau Cymreig i gyflawni “Rhagoriaeth Arloesedd”.
Gwerth nodweddiadol y cyllid £100k y flwyddyn am 2 flynedd gyda chyfradd ymyrraeth – 50% (o fis Gorffennaf 2024)
Fel rhan o Rwydwaith Arloesi Cymru , mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn bartner ac yn aelod gweithgar yn y themâu can lynol:
Pe bai eich busnes yn gallu elwa o gefnogaeth ar draws y brifysgol, gallwn ddefnyddio ein rhwydwaith fel cyfrwng posibl ar gyfer trafodaethau.
Cysylltwch â ni am ragor o wybodaeth ar enterprise@wrexham.ac.uk
Rydym wedi sefydlu Canllawiau Deillio a Thrwyddedu cadarn a luniwyd i feithrin buddsoddiad yn ein hymchwil a’n harloesedd.
Mae ein polisïau yn sicrhau trefniadau sydd o fudd cyfartal i'r Brifysgol a'n partneriaid.
Ar gyfer cwmnïau deilliedig, mae'r Brifysgol yn mabwysiadu dull menter-gyfeillgar trwy gymryd ecwiti safonol y diwydiant yn y cwmni newydd.
Mae ein cyfran ecwiti yn cynnwys darpariaethau gwanhau mewn digidau sengl pan a lle bo'n briodol, gan ganiatáu ar gyfer mwy o hyblygrwydd ac atyniad i fuddsoddwyr cyfalaf menter.
Ein nod yw cefnogi twf a llwyddiant cwmnïau deillio tra'n cynnal partneriaeth fuddiol.
Mae ein bargeinion trwyddedu wedi'u strwythuro i ddarparu manteision sylweddol trwy gymhellion seiliedig ar freindal ar werthiannau net.
Mae'r model hwn yn sicrhau bod y Brifysgol a'r trwyddedai yn elwa o lwyddiant masnachol y dechnoleg drwyddedig.
Rydym yn ymdrechu i greu cytundebau sy'n deg, yn dryloyw, ac wedi'u hanelu at gydweithredu a phroffidioldeb hirdymor.
Holwch am ein hymchwil cynnar
Mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn croesawu cyfleoedd noddi, ac rydym yn agored i amrywiaeth o lwybrau ar gyfer cydweithio:
P'un a yw'ch sefydliad yn Wneuthurwr Offer Gwreiddiol (OEM), yn Gwmni Meddalwedd, neu'n ddarparwr gwasanaeth, fe'ch gwahoddir i noddi adnoddau eich sefydliad i'w defnyddio yn ein rhaglenni addysgu academyddion a myfyrwyr.
Edrychwn ymlaen at drafodaethau am sut y gellir integreiddio eich offer, meddalwedd neu'ch gwasanaethau i'n gweithgareddau addysgu i gyfoethogi profiadau dysgu ymarferol a damcaniaethol.
Anogir sefydliadau sydd ag adnoddau sydd wedi'u cynllunio i wella sgiliau, gwella effeithlonrwydd, neu gefnogi ymchwil academaidd i noddi gweithdai addysgol ar gyfer ein hacademyddion a'n myfyrwyr.
Rydym hefyd yn agored i estyn gwahoddiadau i gynulleidfaoedd allanol lle bo'n briodol, gan sicrhau ymgysylltiad ac effaith ehangach â'r gymuned.
Os yw nodau eich cwmni yn cyd-fynd â’n blaenoriaethau ymchwil ac arloesi, rydym yn croesawu’r cyfle i gydweithio ar brosiectau penodol.
Gall noddi ein mentrau gweithredol helpu i yrru ymchwil flaengar a chanlyniadau ystyrlon yn eu blaen.
Rydym yn agored i archwilio cyfleoedd noddi wedi’u teilwra sy’n cyd-fynd ag amcanion eich sefydliad.
Boed trwy ymchwil ar y cyd, ymgysylltiad academaidd, neu fentrau unigryw, rydym yn awyddus i drafod sut y gallwn gydweithio i gyflawni nodau cilyddol.
Cysylltwch â ni yn enterprise@wrexham.ac.uk i ddysgu mwy am gyfleoedd noddi.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/busnes/arloesedd-a-masnacheiddio/mentrau-trosglwyddo-gwybodaeth:
“Nod Partneriaethau Trosglwyddo Gwybodaeth (KTP) yw helpu busnesau i wella eu cystadleurwydd a'u cynhyrchiant trwy ddefnyddio gwybodaeth, technoleg a sgiliau sy'n well o fewn sylfaen wybodaeth y DU yn well."
Mae KTP yn rhaglen cymorth arloesi genedlaethol sefydledig ac uchel ei pharch, a reolir gan Innovate UK a ariennir gan Innovate a chyd-gyllidwyr gan gynnwys Llywodraeth Cymru yng Nghymru, sy'n galluogi busnesau i drosglwyddo ac ymgorffori arbenigedd o'r byd academaidd yn eu busnes i ddatblygu gallu, newydd.
cynhyrchion a phrosesau, i wella eu cystadleurwydd, eu cynhyrchiant a'u perfformiad.
Ers i'r rhaglen gychwyn mae parneriaethau KTP wedi trawsnewid dros 12,000 o fusnesau bach a mawr, ar draws pob sector a rhanbarth o'r DU.
Strwythur hanfodol KTP yw bod unigolyn o safon uchel ( graddedig wedi'i addysgu) yn cael ei gyflogi i weithio yn y busnes i ddatblygu ac ymgorffori galluoedd newydd, eu mentora a'u cefnogi gan dîm academaidd a gyda mynediad at gyfleusterau'r sefydliad academaidd.
Oedran cyfartalog Associates yw 31, mae gan lawer ohonynt PhD ac fel rheol maent yn eu swydd gyntaf neu ail swydd cyn dod i KTP.
Mae KTP yn bosib ar draws pob maes a disgyblaeth gyda ffocws tuag at brosiectau sy'n ymgorffori technolegau a phrosesau newydd a'r rhai sy'n datblygu gallu rheoli a staff.
O weithgynhyrchu i ddylunio, cynaliadwyedd i farchnata; gall unrhyw sector busnes, gan gynnwys sefydliadau'r trydydd sector a'r sector cyhoeddus fel y GIG, gymryd rhan.
Gall busnesau o bob maint gymryd rhan hefyd, o ficro-fusnesau i fentrau mawr.
Mae partneriaethau fel arfer yn rhedeg am oddeutu 2 flynedd ac mewn tua 75% o achosion, mae'r Associates yn cael eu cadw gan y cwmni ar ôl KTP ac yn cael eu hariannu'n rhannol gan grant.
Chwilio am fwy o gynhyrchiant?
Strategaethau i adeiladu gwytnwch?
Arbenigedd rheoli dyfnach neu well prosesau busnes?
Mae Partneriaethau Trosglwyddo Gwybodaeth Rheoli (mKTPs) wedi'u cynllunio i helpu i gyflawni'r math hwn o drawsnewidiad i'ch busnes.
Trwy gysylltu â Phrifysgol Wrecsam, mae mKTPs yn eich galluogi i fabwysiadu ac addasu arbenigedd i sicrhau newid strategol sy'n canolbwyntio ar bobl i helpu'ch busnes i lwyddo.
Yn rhychwantu'r holl swyddogaethau busnes allweddol - o farchnata i TG, creadigrwydd i reolaeth strategol; i gysylltiadau cyflogaeth; cyllid i logisteg, mae'r rhaglen mKTP yn creu partneriaeth gydweithredol fedrus iawn sy'n benthyca o lwyddiant rhaglen y Bartneriaeth Trosglwyddo Gwybodaeth (KTP) sydd wedi bod yn helpu busnesau i arloesi ar gyfer twf ers 45 mlynedd.
Mae mKTPs yn ceisio cefnogi prosiectau rheoli strategol ar draws gweithgareddau craidd gan gynnwys:
Mae gan Brifysgol Wrecsam Glyndŵr enw da hirsefydlog ac uchel ei barch am gyflawni prosiectau KTP o safon.
Ers trosglwyddo i statws Prifysgol yn 2008, rydym wedi cefnogi mwy na 40 o gwmnïau ledled y rhanbarth i gyflawni eu nodau trwy brosiect KTP.
Mae gan ein Prifysgol arbenigedd mewn ystod eang o feysydd a hyd yma mae wedi cydweithio mewn prosiectau sy'n ymwneud â: Datblygu TG, Cemeg, Gwyddor Deunyddiau, Peirianneg, Marchnata, Diwydiannau Creadigol a llu o ddisgyblaethau eraill.
Rydym hefyd wedi creu pecyn cynhwysfawr o gefnogaeth ar ffurf ein Ysgol Arloesi sydd newydd ei lansio; dull hyblyg, “camog” o gydweithio academaidd, gan ddarparu ystod o atebion yn dibynnu ar y busnes a chaniatáu i fusnesau symud ymlaen yn raddol tuag at KTP llawn.
Mae'r ysgol yn cynnig y mentrau canlynol i fusnesau, y gellir archwilio pob un ohonynt fel rhan o gydweithrediad tymor hwy, neu gall busnesau fanteisio ar un neu ddau o gamau yn unig, yn dibynnu ar eu hangen busnes;
Mae'r cam cyntaf ar ein Ysgol Arloesi yn adeiladu ar brosiect trosglwyddo gwybodaeth hynod lwyddiannus a gynhaliwyd gennym o 2018 -2020, gan roi mynediad i fusnesau lleol i'n harbenigwyr academaidd am rhwng diwrnod ac wythnos i weithio ar brosiectau tymor byr penodol iawn, trwy Wybodaeth.
Mae talebau hyd at £ 2,500 ar gael i fusnesau weithio gyda staff academaidd Prifysgol Wrecsam a byddant yn cwmpasu hyd at wythnos o amser academaidd, neu fynediad i gyfleusterau'r Brifysgol ar gyfer profi, dadansoddi neu brototeipio.
Mae Mini KTP yn caniatáu i fusnesau gyflogi myfyriwr graddedig diweddar i ymgymryd â phrosiect penodol am rhwng 3 a 6 mis, gyda'r budd ychwanegol o gael mynediad at aelod academaidd o staff i weithio gyda'r myfyriwr graddedig a'i fentora trwy gydol y prosiect am hanner diwrnod yr wythnos.
.
Er y bydd y busnes yn cyflogi'r myfyriwr graddedig trwy gydol cyfnod y prosiect, mae'r menter Mini KTP yn darparu cyllid tuag at yr amser academaidd a dreulir ar y prosiect a hyd at £ 1000 tuag at nwyddau traul y prosiect.
Mae Mini KTP yn ffordd wych o ennill gwybodaeth newydd i mewn i fusnes trwy fframwaith strwythuredig a rheoledig gyda chefnogaeth ac arweiniad academaidd i sicrhau llwyddiant prosiect.
Ariennir Partneriaethau SMART gan Lywodraeth Cymru a'u nod yw cynyddu gallu a galluoedd busnesau Cymru, wrth gynnig cefnogaeth ariannol i brosiectau cydweithredu arloesol.
Mae Partneriaeth SMART fel KTP yn bartneriaeth tair ffordd rhwng busnes, cyswllt (graddedig diweddar) a phrifysgol.
Fodd bynnag, dim ond i fusnesau yng Nghymru y mae partneriaethau SMART ar gael.
Mae partneriaethau SMART rhwng 6 - 12 mis o hyd ac yn cael eu hariannu'n rhannol hyd at 50% gyda'r busnes yn talu cyfraniad o 50%.
Cysylltwch â'n tîm Menter enterprise@glyndwr.ac.uk
Am ragor o wybodaeth ar sut i wneud cais am KTP, edrychwch ar wefan gov.uk .
“Mae'r rhaglen KTP wedi caniatáu llwyfan ardderchog ar gyfer datblygu ein strategaeth frandio.
Roedd y dull cydweithredol yn effeithiol iawn o ran cyfuno'r creadigrwydd a gynigiwyd gan y Sylfaen Gydymaith a Gwybodaeth gyda'n harbenigedd ein hunain yn y diwydiant.
Bydd ein proffil newydd ar-lein a'n hymwybyddiaeth gynyddol o frand yng ngwellau ein strategaethau twf o fewn sectorau marchnatai newydd a rhai presennol.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/busnes/datblygiad-proffesiynol:
Rydym yn credu mewn arfogi pobl a busnesau â’r sgiliau a’r wybodaeth sydd eu hangen arnynt i gyflawni eu gwir botensial.
Mae ein cyrsiau'n defnyddio senarios ymarferol a gwersi bywyd go iawn i baratoi myfyrwyr, gweithwyr a sefydliadau ar gyfer yr heriau y byddant yn eu hwynebu ar hyd eu taith broffesiynol.
Yn y cyfnod economaidd heriol hwn, mae’n hanfodol i sefydliadau a’u gweithwyr gadw ar y blaen i’r gystadleuaeth.
Bydd staff sydd wedi'u hyfforddi'n dda mewn sefyllfa well i wneud cyfraniad gwerthfawr i lwyddiant y busnes.
Ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam, rydym yn cynnal nifer o gyrsiau sydd wedi'u cynllunio'n benodol ar gyfer gweithwyr proffesiynol, gan alluogi unigolion i ennill cymwysterau newydd a rhagori ar y gystadleuaeth.
Edrychwch ar ein rhaglen gyfredol o gyrsiau proffesiynol
Rydym hefyd yn cynnig cyrsiau byr a all gyd-fynd â'ch bywyd gwaith, sy'n opsiynau gwych ar gyfer uwchsgilio proffesiynol gyda sesiynau â ffocws yn rhedeg dros gyfnod amser byrrach.
Rydym hefyd yn cynnig amrywiaeth eang o gyrsiau ôl-raddedig.
Gall dewis astudio ar y lefel hon ddod â llawer o fanteision i'ch gyrfa broffesiynol - gall cymhwyster ôl-raddedig wella'ch sgiliau yn eich dewis faes a gwella'ch rhagolygon, gan fynd â'ch gyrfa i'r lefel nesaf.
Edrychwch ar ein graddau ôl-raddedig
Mae llawer o gyrsiau ar gael i'w hastudio'n rhan-amser, sy'n eich galluogi i barhau â'ch cyflogaeth bresennol tra'n astudio.
Os ydych am bontio'r bwlch sgiliau yn eich sefydliad heb ymrwymiad amser ar gyfer cyrsiau hirach, mae ein gweithdai proffesiynol hyblyg yn cynnig atebion wedi'u targedu ar gyfer amrywiaeth o anghenion busnes.
Rhowch hwb i sgiliau eich staff gyda’n hystod o weithdai sydd ar gael yn rhwydd, neu crëwch sesiynau hyfforddi pwrpasol gyda ni, wedi’u teilwra’n benodol i’ch busnes.
Gweld mwy am ein gweithdai proffesiynol
Methu dod o hyd i gwrs neu weithdy i gyd-fynd ag anghenion eich sefydliad?
Siaradwch â ni am bosibiliadau hyfforddiant pwrpasol, cysylltwch â enterprise@wrexham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/busnes/prentisiaethau-gradd:
Mae Prentisiaethau Gradd yn ffordd wych o gael cymhwyster lefel prifysgol i weithwyr yng Nghymru tra byddant yn parhau mewn cyflogaeth.
Mae Prentisiaeth Gradd yn eich galluogi i ennill gweithiwr medrus iawn gyda'r cymwysterau academaidd a'r sgiliau ymarferol perthnasol a fydd yn gwella'ch gweithlu.
Gallwch ddefnyddio Prentisiaethau Gradd i uwchsgilio gweithiwr presennol neu recriwtio talent newydd i'ch busnes.
Wrth weithio i'ch cwmni bydd Prentis Gradd yn datblygu dealltwriaeth fanwl o'ch busnes a'i sector.
Drwy astudio un diwrnod yr wythnos gyda ni, byddan nhw’n dod â safbwyntiau ffres a’r wybodaeth ddiweddaraf yn ôl i’w gweithle.
Yn debyg i brentisiaeth draddodiadol, mae Prentisiaeth Gradd yn cyfuno dysgu cysylltiedig â gwaith ag astudiaeth Addysg Uwch.
Rhaid i’r “prentis” fod mewn swydd sy’n briodol i’r rhaglen y mae’n astudio ac yn gweithio 51% o’i amser yng Nghymru.
Nid oes terfyn oedran uchaf i'r rhaglenni hyn.
Ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam mae gennym ddegawdau o brofiad mewn dysgu seiliedig ar waith ac addysgu myfyrwyr diwydiannol.
Mae gennym hanes llwyddiannus o sicrhau cyllid ar gyfer 8 rhaglen Prentisiaeth Gradd a ariennir yn llawn .
• Peirianneg Fecanyddol • Peirianneg Drydanol • Ynni Carbon Isel, Effeithlonrwydd a Chynaliadwyedd
Mae'r rhaglenni canlynol yn cael eu darparu mewn partneriaeth â Coleg Cambria
• BSc (Anrh) Tirfesur Adeiladau • BEng (Anrh) Peirianneg Sifil • BSc (Anrh) Rheolaeth Adeiladu • BSc (Anrh) Mesur Meintiau
Gellir gwneud ymholiadau ynglŷn â’r rhaglenni isod a’u dyddiadau cychwyn trwy gysylltu â enterprise@wrexham.ac.uk
• Seiberddiogelwch • Peirianneg Meddalwedd
I fod yn gymwys am Brentisiaeth Gradd a ariennir yn llawn gyda Phrifysgol Wrecsam, rhaid i'r gweithiwr;
• Gweithio yng Nghymru o leiaf 51% o'r amser.
• Bod mewn cyflogaeth llawn amser .
• Gallu mynychu Prifysgol Wrecsam un diwrnod yr wythnos ar gyfer astudiaethau.
• Cwrdd â gofynion mynediad y cwrs a ddewiswyd.
• Heb astudio pwnc tebyg ar y lefel hon neu uwch o'r blaen.
I gael rhagor o fanylion am ein rhaglenni Prentisiaethau Gradd, cysylltwch â enterprise@wrexham.ac.uk
Ydych chi eisiau gwybod mwy am sut y gallech chi gael mynediad at gyrsiau wedi'u hariannu'n llawn tra'n gweithio'n llawn amser?
Nid oes rhaid i chi bellach ddewis rhwng Gradd neu Brentisiaeth!
Mae nifer cynyddol o gwmnïau’n cynnig prentisiaethau lefel gradd, felly gallwch astudio am radd heb ddyled wrth ennill profiad masnachol ymarferol.
Mae Prentisiaethau Gradd yn wych os:
• Oes gennych lwybr gyrfa penodol mewn golwg.
• Rydych eisiau dechrau gweithio tra'n astudio tuag at radd.
• Hoffwch ennill cyflog tra'n dysgu.
• Rydych yn astudio yn hwyrach yn eich gyrfa.
Mae Prentisiaeth Gradd yn rhoi profiad gwaith byd go iawn i chi, ochr yn ochr â'r wybodaeth a'r theori a gewch o astudio am radd.
Trwy ganiatáu i chi ddatblygu'r sgiliau a'r wybodaeth ar gyfer swyddi penodol, gallai roi hwb i'ch gyrfa a rhoi CV cryf i chi wedi'i deilwra i'r maes rydych chi am weithio ynddo.
Nid oes angen i chi fod yn recriwt newydd yn y gweithle i ddechrau rhaglen Prentisiaeth Gradd, gallwch chi a’ch cyflogwr presennol edrych ar ddatblygu eich sgiliau presennol tra yn y swydd.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/busnes/lleoliadau-ymarfer-uwch:
Mae’r modiwl Lleoliad Ymarfer Uwch (ADP) yn gyfle i ni godi ymwybyddiaeth ymhlith cyflogwyr o sut y gall cyfraniadau gan ein myfyrwyr arwain at ymgysylltiadau sydd o fudd i’r ddwy ochr.
Gall lleoliad hefyd gychwyn deialog ar gyfer cydweithredu pellach rhwng diwydiant a phrifysgol.
Un o'r manteision mwyaf i'n myfyrwyr o gael eu lleoli o fewn eich sefydliad yw y cyfle i brofi amgylcheddau busnes go iawn gan arddangos eu gwybodaeth a'u sgiliau ymarferol trwy gyfrannu at, a dysgu oddi wrth, eich busnes.
Boed hynny trwy fynychu cyfarfodydd, casglu ymchwil marchnad, datblygu datrysiadau busnes byd go iawn neu ddadansoddi ffigurau diweddar - bydd cyfrannu at sefydliad gweithgar a chyfathrebu â staff yn cyfoethogi eu profiadau y tu hwnt i'r ystafell ddosbarth.
Rydym yn croesawu lleoliadau sy'n galluogi'r myfyrwyr fod yn bresennol yn y gweithle yn bennaf, fodd bynnag, rydym yn ymwybodol bod llawer o gwmnïau wedi mabwysiadu arferion gwaith hybrid a allai olygu rhywfaint o weithio o bell.
Mae ein myfyrwyr yn gweithio gyda thechnoleg cyfathrebu ar-lein ac felly byddant yn addasu'n hawdd i weithio’n hybrid.
Modiwl: ADP701: Ymarfer Uwch: Dysgu Seiliedig ar Waith
Os ydych angen rhagor o wybodaeth, neu os hoffech fynegi eich diddordeb mewn paratoi lleoliad, mae croeso i chi gysylltu â ni drwy ebostio adp701@wrexham.ac.uk
Rhaglenni Busnes:
Rhaglenni Peirianneg
Rhaglenni Cyfrifiadura:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/busnes/gweithdai-proffesiynol:
Wedi'u cynllunio i rymuso sefydliadau, mae ein gweithdai'n cynnig mewnwelediadau blaengar, strategaethau y gellir eu gweithredu, ac offer amhrisiadwy i gefnogi datblygiad proffesiynol yn nhirwedd menter fodern sy'n esblygu'n barhaus.
Os hoffech archwilio maes hyfforddiant penodol ar gyfer eich busnes, gallwn greu gweithdai pwrpasol wedi’u teilwra i’ch anghenion.
Mae gweithdai pwrpasol yn gwbl addasadwy o gynnwys i hyd, ac rydym yn gweithio'n agos gyda chi i sicrhau bod y ddarpariaeth hyfforddiant yn cyd-fynd â'ch amcanion busnes.
Mae enghreifftiau o weithdai wedi’u teilwra’n cynnwys:
Os oes gennych ddiddordeb mewn archwilio posibiliadau hyfforddiant pwrpasol ar gyfer eich sefydliad, cysylltwch â enterprise@wrexham.ac.uk
Mae pob gweithdy yn costio £150 y pen, y diwrnod , ac maent ar gael i bob busnes.
Mae’r gweithdy dwys hwn dros ddau ddiwrnod wedi’i gynllunio ar gyfer hyfforddwyr a darparwyr dysgu sydd am wella eu sgiliau wrth hwyluso newid ymddygiad a hyrwyddo effeithiolrwydd gweithwyr drwy brofiadau hyfforddi arloesol.
Bydd cyfranogwyr yn cael profiad ymarferol o dechnegau dysgu cyflymedig a strategaethau sy’n gyfeillgar i’r ymennydd i greu ymyriadau hyfforddi ymgysylltiol ac effeithiol.
Dydd Mercher, Hydref 1 & Dydd Iau, Hydref 2, 2025.
9:30yb - 4:00yp.
Archebwch Nawr
Gwella eich effaith.
Meistroli eich neges.
Yn y byd cyflym a llawn cyfryngau heddiw, mae’r gallu i gyfathrebu’n glir, yn hyderus ac yn gredadwy yn fwy pwysig nag erioed—yn enwedig i weithwyr proffesiynol sy’n cynrychioli eu sefydliadau yn gyhoeddus neu o flaen y wasg.
Mae’r gweithdy deinamig, wyneb yn wyneb hwn wedi’i gynllunio ar gyfer gweithwyr proffesiynol diwydiant sydd am hogi eu sgiliau cyfathrebu a chael mewnwelediad gwerthfawr i dirwedd y cyfryngau.
P’un a ydych yn paratoi ar gyfer cyfweliadau, siarad cyhoeddus neu ymgysylltu â rhanddeiliaid, bydd y sesiwn hon yn rhoi’r offer i chi gyflwyno eich neges yn glir ac yn hyderus.
Arweinydd: Sian Lloyd, gweithiwr darlledu gyda dros 25 mlynedd o brofiad ar draws cyfryngau cenedlaethol a Chymreig, gan gynnwys teledu, radio a llwyfannau ar-lein.
Dydd Iau, Hydref 23, 2025.
10:00yb – 16:00yp.
Siaradwch yn hyderus.
Cyflwynwch gyda effaith.
P’un a ydych yn rhoi araith allweddol, yn cynnig syniadau i gleientiaid, neu’n cyfrannu at drafodaeth panel, gall sgiliau siarad cyhoeddus cryf wella eich presenoldeb proffesiynol a’ch dylanwad.
Mae’r gweithdy rhyngweithiol hwn wedi’i gynllunio ar gyfer gweithwyr proffesiynol diwydiant sydd am adeiladu hyder, mireinio eu dull cyflwyno, a chyfathrebu’n glir ac yn awdurdodol o flaen unrhyw gynulleidfa.
Arweinydd: Sian Lloyd, arbenigwr cyfathrebu a darlledu gyda dros 25 mlynedd o brofiad ar lwyfannau teledu, radio a digidol cenedlaethol.
Dydd Mercher, Chwefror 18, 2026.
10:00yb – 4:00yp.
Dewch o hyd i’ch llais.
Rhannwch eich neges.
Ysbrydolwch eich cynulleidfa.
Mae podlediadau yn un o’r llwyfannau sy’n tyfu gyflymaf ar gyfer arweinyddiaeth feddylgar, adrodd straeon brand, ac ymgysylltu â chynulleidfaoedd.
Gyda sgiliau cyflwyno cryf, mae’n cynnig ffordd bwerus i weithwyr proffesiynol gysylltu, dylanwadu ac arwain.
Mae’r gweithdy ymarferol hwn wedi’i gynllunio ar gyfer gweithwyr proffesiynol diwydiant sydd am archwilio byd podlediadau tra’n hogi eu sgiliau cyfathrebu a chyflwyno.
P’un a ydych am lansio podlediad, cyfrannu at un, neu wella sut rydych yn cyflwyno eich hun a’ch syniadau, bydd y sesiwn hon yn rhoi’r offer a’r hyder i chi wneud hynny’n dda.
Arweinydd: Sian Lloyd, arbenigwr cyfathrebu a darlledu gyda dros 25 mlynedd o brofiad ar draws teledu, radio a chyfryngau digidol cenedlaethol.
Dydd Gwener, Mawrth 18, 2026.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/busnes/cyfleusterau-:
Gyda nifer o safleoedd ledled Gogledd Cymru, mae gan Brifysgol Glyndŵr Wrecsam amrywiaeth eang o gyfleusterau sydd ar gael i helpu i gefnogi'ch busnes.
Mae Canolfan y Diwydiannau Creadigol yn adeilad modern, arloesol a agorodd ei ddrysau yn 2011, a sefydlwyd i gefnogi ein cyfres o gyrsiau creadigol gan gynnwys celf, cerddoriaeth, newyddiaduraeth, darlledu, ffilm a theatr.
Mae gan y canolfan y stiwdios teledu a radio ddiweddaraf, gweithdai 3D, ystafelloedd TG (gan gynnwys cyfarpar hyfforddi Apple) a chyfleusterau ôl-gynhyrchu sain a gweledolac mae hefyd yn ganolfan Gogledd Ddwyrain Cymru i BBC Cymru Wales.
Mae gennym hefyd ganolfan gynadledda ar y safle, Canolfan Catrin Finch sy'n ddelfrydol ar gyfer cynnal cynadleddau, cyfarfodydd, digwyddiadau, cyrsiau hyfforddi ac arddangosfeydd.
Am rywbeth ychydig yn wahanol, mae gennym Xplore!
– canolfan darganfod gwyddoniaeth ddiddorol gyda llu o arddangosfeydd ysgogol ar gyfer dysgu ymarferol.
Yn ein campws yn Llanelwy , fe welwch ein canolfan ymchwil arloesol, sy'n dod ynghyd arbenigwyr o diwydiant ac academia.
Mae gennym amrywiaeth o labordai a gweithdai arbenigol yn cynnwys ystod eang o'r offer technegol diweddaraf sydd yn canobwyntio ar brosiectau ymchwil sy'n arwain y byd.
I gael gwybod mwy am y cyfleusterau sydd ar gael ym Mhrifysgol Glyndwr Wrecsam cysylltwch ag enterprise@glyndwr.ac.uk neu ffoniwch 01978 293997.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/sut-i-ddod-o-hyd-i-ni:
Mae campysau Prifysgol Wrecsam wedi’u lleoli ledled y Gogledd-ddwyrain yn Wrecsam, Llaneurgain a Llanelwy.
Mae pob un yn rhwydd eu cyrraedd o’r M53/A55 ac ar drafnidiaeth gyhoeddus.
Mae ein prif gampws, sef Plas Coch, wedi’i leoli ar gyrion canol tref Wrecsam ar Ffordd yr Wyddgrug (cod post LL11 2AW).
Mae’n rhwydd ein cyrraedd ar drafnidiaeth gyhoeddus, gyda gorsaf fysiau Wrecsam 10 munud i ffwrdd ar droed.
Mae llwybrau rhai bysiau yn stopio’n union y tu allan i’r campws.
Yr orsaf reilffordd agosaf yw Wrecsam Cyffredinol sydd ychydig funudau ar droed i’r prif gampws.
Mae digonedd o lefydd parcio ceir ar y safle.
Mae’r Ysgol Gelf wedi’i lleoli ar Stryt y Rhaglaw (cod post LL11 1PF), sydd ond ychydig funudau o gerdded o gampws Plas Coch a gorsafoedd trafnidiaeth gyhoeddus.
Mae ein Canolfan Datblygu Pêl-droed Cenedlaethol o’r radd flaenaf ym Mharc y Glowyr i’w chanfod ychydig tu allan canol trefn Wrecsam yng Ngresffordd (LL12 8PW).
Lawrlwythwch map campws .
Cyfeiriad:
Prifysgol Wrecsam, Ffordd yr Wyddgrug, Wrecsam, LL11 2AW
Mae campws Llaneurgain (cod post CH7 6AA) wedi’i leoli yng nghefn gwlad Sir y Fflint a gellir ei gyrraedd drwy’r A55/B5126.
Yr orsaf drenau agosaf i’n campws yn Llaneurgain yw’r Fflint, sydd tua 10 munud i ffwrdd mewn car.
Campws Northop Prifysgol Wrecsam, Ffordd Treffynnon.
Llaneurgain, Yr Wyddgrug CH7 6AA
Gadewch yr A55 ar gyffordd 26 a mynd am Barc Busnes Llanelwy.
Ar y gylchfan gyntaf, cymerwch y trydydd allanfa.
Mae Prifysgol Wrecsam – Llanelwy ar eich chwith (Cod post LL17 0JD).
Yr orsaf drenau agosaf yw’r Rhyl, sydd tua 10 munud i ffwrdd.
O’r fan hon mae trenau cyflym rheolaidd i Euston Llundain sydd ond yn cymryd dwy awr a hanner.
Y Ganolfan OpTIC Parc Busnes Llanelwy, Ffordd William Morgan, LL17 0JD

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/cyn-fyfyrwyr:
Ar ôl i chi raddio o Brifysgol Wrecsam, nid dyma ddiwedd eich taith gyda ni – gobeithiwn yn fawr mai dim ond y dechrau ydyw.
Mae ein cymuned o gyn-fyfyrwyr yn byw ac yn gweithio ar draws y byd ac rydym yn falch iawn ohonyn nhw i gyd.
Felly, ni waeth pryd neu beth wnaethoch chi ei astudio gyda ni, rydym wedi datblygu ffordd i chi fod yn rhan ohono o hyd, gyda'n cymdeithas cyn-fyfyrwyr.
Cadwch mewn cysylltiad ar ôl i chi raddio.
Darganfyddwch am y manteision niferus a gynigir i'n cyn-fyfyrwyr
Gwybodaeth a chymorth i gael tystysgrif eich gradd neu gael copi arall.
Darllenwch ein straeon cyn-fyfyrwyr a myfyrwyr o bob rhan o'r brifysgol
Gwobrau i’n graddedigion sy’n llwyddo’n rhagorol.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/ysgolion-a-cholegau:
Nid yw erioed yn rhy fuan i ddechrau meddwl am eich dyfodol.
Rydym yn gweithio'n agos gyda myfyrwyr o bob oedran, athrawon, rhieni/gwarchodwyr a chynghorwyr gyrfaoedd i gynnig rhagor o ddigwyddiadau a gweithgareddau i godi ymwybyddiaeth ac annog dyheadau addysg uwch, i annog pobl ifanc i gysidro'r cyfleoedd sydd ar gael iddynt.
Rydym yn cydnabod y pwysigrwydd o weithio'n agos gydag athrawon a chynghorwyr gyrfaoedd, a'r rôl hanfodol maent yn chwarae i sicrhau fod gan y myfyrwyr fynediad i'r wybodaeth ddiweddaraf am addysg uwch.
Mae bod yn brifysgol lai yn gweithio i'n mantais gan ein bod ni ym Mhrifysgol Glyndŵr yn cymysgu pwysigrwydd academia gyda synnwyr cymunedol cryf.
Rydym yn canolbwyntio ar y myfyrwyr, dan arweiniad y farchnad ac yn agored i bawb.
Boed o'n ymweliad rhithwir neu gorfforol, rydym yma i'ch helpu chi i ddarganfod ychydig mwy amdanom ni a beth allem ni wneud i chi.
Beth bynnag ydi'ch cefndir, oed, rhyw neu anabledd, rydym yn cynnig cymorth a chyngor i'ch helpu i lwyddo yma.
Edrychwch ar ein gwybodaeth ar gyfer athrawon a chynghorwyr.
Edrychwch ar ein digwyddiadau dyfodol.
Cysylltwch gyda'r tîm recriwtio.
Darganfyddwch mwy am ein cwrs Cynhyrchu Cyfryngau .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/cysylltwch-a-ni:
Cadwch mewn cysylltiad â Phrifysgol Wrecsam.
P'un a ydych am wneud ymholiad, siarad â myfyrwyr presennol neu gysylltu â chyd-ddisgyblion trwy ein Cymdeithas Cyn-fyfyrwyr, fe welwch y manylion sydd eu hangen arnoch isod.
Eisiau siarad â ni ar unwaith?
Cliciwch ar ein botwm 'Sgwrsio gyda ni' yng nghornel dde isaf unrhyw dudalen i sgwrsio ag aelod o'n tîm.
Gwnewch ymholiad am y brifysgol.
E-Bostiwch: reception@wrexham.ac.uk
Galwch: 01978290666
Gofyn Cwestiwn
Galwch: 01978293439
Cysylltwch â ni ar gyfryngau cymdeithasol.
Cadwch mewn cysylltiad â ni ar ôl i chi raddio - ymunwch â'n cymdeithas i gyn-fyfyrwyr
Gweld ar beth mae ein myfyrwyr presenol yn gwneud ar Instagram drwy ein Mewnwyr Prifysgol Wrecsam
Ymunwch â'r tîm fel llysgennad myfyriwr.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/ein-hymchwil:
Yn unol â’n Strategaeth Ymchwil , mae ein hymchwil yn gwneud cyfraniad cadarnhaol tuag at ddatblygiad Gogledd Cymru a thu hwnt o safbwynt economaidd, cymdeithasol a diwylliannol.
Mae ein Gweledigaeth a’n Strategaeth yn amlinellu ein hymrwymiad i ragoriaeth, c ynhwysiad, cydweithio, trawsnewidiad ac cynaliadwyedd, ac mae ein Cenhadaeth Ddinesig yn hybu cysylltiadau agos â’r gymuned leol.
Mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn hyb ymchwil addawol sy’n parhau i ddatblygu ein hymchwilwyr a’n diwylliant o ran ymchwil.
Rydym wedi arwyddo’r Concordat i Gefnogi Datblygiad Gyrfa Ymchwilwyr, sy’n dangos ein hymrwymiad i helpu ein hymchwilwyr i ddatblygu hyd orau eu gallu, ynghyd â chynyddu ein capasiti o ran cael dylanwad yn y byd go iawn o safbwynt y cyfoeth o arbenigedd a geir yma.
“Mae gan Brifysgol Wrecsam hanes maith o ymchwil sy’n dyddio’n ôl cyn cyfnod ein statws prifysgol, ac sy’n mynd i’r afael ag anghenion cymdeithas, o safbwynt rhanbarthol a rhyngwladol.
Mae canlyniadau ymarfer y Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil yn dangos bod y brifysgol yn cynhyrchu ymchwil ardderchog ar lefel ryngwladol, sy’n flaenllaw trwy’r Byd”

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/graddau-ymchwil:
Mae nifer o opsiynau ar gael o ran astudio gradd ymchwil ôl-raddedig yma ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam.
*Noder mai Prifysgol Caer yw ein corff dyfarnu ar gyfer graddau MPhil/PhD
•    Meistr Ymchwil (MRes)*
*Noder mai Prifysgol Wrecsam yw ein corff dyfarnu MRes
Mae testunau ymchwil yn amrywiol, ac yn aml wedi eu dylanwadu gan ffactorau megis cryfderau academaidd y myfyriwr, diddordebau personol, ac arbenigedd ymchwil y brifysgol.
Dysgwch fwy am Lwybrau at Ymchwil a Sut i Wneud Cais .
Mae gennym nifer o Ganolfannau Ymchwil ar draws ein dwy gyfadran: Y Gyfadran Gwyddorau Cymdeithasol a Bywyd (FSLS) a Chyfadran y Celfyddydau, Cyfrifiadura a Pheirianneg (FACE).
Am ragor o wybodaeth ynglŷn ag arbenigeddau ymchwil y cyfadrannau, prosiectau ymchwil presennol, neu ddigwyddiadau sydd ar y gweill, gweler Ein Hymchwil .
Pan fyddwch yn ymuno â Phrifysgol Wrecsam fel myfyriwr ymchwil ôl-raddedig (PGR), fe ddewch yn rhan o gymuned ymchwil fywiog a chefnogol ble byddwn yn helpu i feithrin eich diddordebau a datblygu sgiliau a mewnwelediadau sy’n hanfodol i’ch cynnydd i’r dyfodol.
Mae’r Swyddfa Ymchwil yn cydlynu gweithgaredd y gymuned ymchwil sy’n gynhwysol o’n myfyrwyr ymchwil ôl-raddedig yn ganolog.
Mae esiamplau yn cynnwys:
Mae’r Rhaglen Datblygu Ymchwilydd yn creu amgylchedd dysgu sydd yn caniatâu i ymchwilwyr o bob disgyblaeth ar draws y Brifysgol wella eu sgiliau ar gyfer profiad ymchwil a gyrfa lwyddiannus.
Yn seiliedig ar Fframwaith Datblygu Ymchwil Vitae , rydym yn cynnig cyfleoedd hyfforddi a datblygu cynhwysfawr drwy gydol y flwyddyn academaidd, gan gynnwys Ymchwiliwr Hyderus.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/sgyrsiau-wrecsam:
Rydym wrth ein bodd cael rhannu ein rhaglen Sgyrsiau Ymchwil Wrecsam ar gyfer 2025/2026 - cyfres o ddarlithoedd cyhoeddus am ddim sy’n arddangos yr amrywiaeth gyfoethog o ymchwil sy’n digwydd ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam.
Mae'r darlithoedd cyhoeddus fin nos, rhad ac am ddim a gynhelir ar y campws gan y Swyddfa Ymchwil yn agored i bawb.
Dewch i fwynhau ychydig o fwyd a lluniaeth am ddim wrth rwydweithio ymlaen llaw â siaradwyr a mynychwyr, yna ymlaciwch i wrando ar y sgyrsiau a ddarperir gan ein hymchwilwyr ac a gyflwynir gan Gadeirydd, cyn sesiwn holi cwestiynau gan y gynulleidfa.
Diben y darlithoedd yw gwahodd trafodaeth a dadl mewn amrywiol feysydd pwnc sy'n procio'r meddwl.
Rydym yn ymfalchïo mewn ymchwil gymhwysol, Ymchwil Sy'n Trawsnewid, ymchwil sy'n dylanwadu'r gymuned leol a'r byd ehangach, ac rydym eisiau rhannu hyn gyda chi mewn ffordd hygyrch.
Heb gynulleidfa, nid oes pwrpas i Ddarlithoedd Cyhoeddus, felly edrychwn ymlaen at groesawu eich safbwyntiau newydd ar ein hymchwil.
Cymerwch gip ar ein hamserlen ac archebwch eich lle ar Eventbrite gan ddefnyddio'r dolenni neu'r codau QR.
Os nad yw'n bosibl i chi fynychu, bydd modd i chi wylio recordiad ar-lein o'r sesiwn yn fuan wedi'r digwyddiad.
Er bod y darlithoedd yn rhad ac am ddim i’w mynychu, sylwch fod yn rhaid archebu tocynnau ymlaen llaw.
Cymerwch gip ar restrau’r digwyddiadau i weld y manylion llawn, gan gynnwys lleoliad, amseroedd a sut i archebu eich lle.
Os oes gennych unrhyw ymholiadau neu eich bod yn dymuno cyfrannu at Sgyrsiau Wrecsam, cysylltwch â researchoffice@wrexham.ac.uk .
Gwyliwch yn ôl ein darlithoedd blaenorol .
Olivia Neen, Tiwtor Sgiliau Iaith Gymraeg ac Academaidd
Dr Grace Thomas, Cymrawd Ymchwil Hŷn mewn Ymgysylltu â’r Celfyddydau
Dr Tegan Brierly-Sollis, Darlithydd Plismona, Troseddeg a Dulliau sy’n Ystyriol o Drawma
Dr Chris White, Darlithydd mewn Iechyd, Iechyd Meddwl, a Lles
Sara Hilton, Uwch Ddarlithydd mewn Pêl-droed a Gwyddor Hyfforddi
Yr Athro Wulf Livingston, Athro Astudiaethau Alcohol
Yr Athro Alec Shepley, Athro’r Celfyddydau a Chymdeithas

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/fframwaith-rhagoriaeth-ymchwil:
Mae'r Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil (REF) yn asesu ansawdd ymchwil mewn prifysgolion yn y DU.
Mae Research England, Cyngor Cyllido Addysg Uwch Cymru (CCAUC), Cyngor Cyllido yr Alban (SFC) a'r Adran dros yr Economi yng ngogledd Iwerddon yn cydredeg y Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil.
Mae'r pedwar corff ariannu yn defnyddio'r Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil i bennu sut y dyrannir oddeutu £2 biliwn o gyllid ymchwil bob blwyddyn.
Mae'r fframwaith yn canolbwyntio ar bennu atebolrwydd ar gyfer buddsoddiad cyhoeddus mewn ymchwil, asesu ansawdd ymchwil, dangos allbynnau, a buddion ac effaith y fframwaith ar ein cymdeithas.
Roedd Glyndŵr ymhlith y 157 o brifysgolion yn y DU a gymerodd ran yn Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil (REF) 2021.
Mae ein canlyniadau'n dangos cynnydd gwych a brwdfrydedd uchelgeisiol ymchwil Glyndŵr ers canlyniadau'r REF blaenorol a dderbyniwyd yn 2014.
“Mae'n braf gweld rhan o'n ceisiadau'n cael eu graddio fel gwaith blaenllaw yn fyd-eang ac o safon ryngwladol.
Rwy'n ddiolchgar iawn i'r holl staff sydd wedi fy helpu gyda'r ceisiadau, ond rwy'n eithriadol o falch o'r rheiny yn y maes Gwaith Cymdeithasol a Pholisi Cymdeithasol, oherwydd mae'r graddau hynny'n rhagorol o ystyried na chawsom wneud ymchwil yn y maes hwn y tro diwethaf.”

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/cystadleuaeth-ymchwil-delweddu:
Mae Cystadleuaeth Ymchwil Delweddu Prifysgol Wrecsam yn dathlu ei ymchwil, tynnu sylw at ei amrywiaeth, ac yn gwobrwyo'r unigolion a thimau ymchwil sy'n gwneud hyn yn bosib.
Mae'r gystadleuaeth hon yn gwahodd yr holl staff ymchwil gweithredol a myfyrwyr ymchwil i gymryd rhan.
Mae'n ffaith adnabyddus bod pobl yn rhoi fwy o sylw i luniau na llawer o ysgrifennu dwys, ac mae ein cystadleuaeth yn herio ymchwilwyr i gipio stori eu prosiect mewn un ddelwedd sengl.
Nid yw'n hawdd, yn enwedig os yw eich maes pwnc yn wyddoniaeth galed ac nid yw cynrychiolaeth weledol o gysyniadau yn ffordd draddodiadol o arddangos eich gwaith...
ond mae hynny'n rhan o'r hwyl!
Gall delweddau helpu i ymgysylltu a chipio sylw eich cynulleidfa darged.
Gall y dull hwn o ledaenu eich helpu i gyrraedd pobl na fyddant fel arfer yn dangos diddordeb yn eich gwaith nac yn deall y jargon academaidd.
Mae un llun yn werth mil o eiriau, yn ôl y sôn.
Gall ymdrin ag ymgysylltiad cyhoeddus mewn ffordd fwy creadigol hefyd eich helpu i ddehongli eich hun fel ymchwilydd, a gall hyd yn oed gynnig buddion llesiant.
Canfu un astudiaeth bod tynnu llun a'i rannu bob dydd yn cynnig sawl mantais, gyda'r cyfranogwyr yn datgan bod treulio amser i ofalu am eu hunain yn rhoi hwb i'w hwyliau, a gallai gynnwys pum munud i dynnu llun ar ffôn neu anogaeth i fynd allan o'r tŷ i ddod o hyd i leoliad ffotogenig.
Ers dechrau'r gystadleuaeth, rydym wedi cael cynigion gwych gan staff a myfyrwyr ymchwil Wrecsam ar draws sawl maes pwnc amrywiol.
Mae rhai pobl yn dewis cyflwyno llun traddodiadol, eraill yn dewis golygfa wedi'i osod yn benodol, a rhai hyd yn oed wedi defnyddio meddalwedd golygu llun i ychwanegu haenau ychwanegol at eu cynnig.
Nid oes terfyn i'r posibiliadau, felly ewch ati i fod yn greadigol heddiw!
Pob ymchwilydd cyfredol (gan gynnwys MPhil, PhD, MRes, EdD a Doethuriaeth Broffesiynol).
Mae pob aelod o staff presennol Prifysgol Wrecsam yn gymwys i ymgeisio, ar yr amod ei fod yn a) gweithio tuag at radd ymchwil, b) yn meddu ar radd ymchwil ac ynghlwm yn weithredol â gwaith ymchwil, neu c) ar hyn o bryd yn cynnal ymchwil fel aelod o staff academaidd.
Rhaid cynhyrchu delweddau o ganlyniad i ymchwil a wnaed fel y nodir uchod.
Gallai delwedd sy'n ganlyniad uniongyrchol o'ch ymchwil neu sy'n cynrychioli agwedd arno ddenu diddordeb newydd yn eich gwaith.
Gall y ddelwedd fod yn ddefnyddiol ar gyfer sawl peth, er enghraifft cyfryngau cymdeithasol, datganiadau i'r wasg neu fel clawr i gyfrol hyd yn oed.
Yn y pendraw gallai arwain at gynnydd yn y nifer o bobl sy'n cysylltu â'ch ymchwil a'i gyfradd gyfeirio.
Os bydd eich delwedd yn cyrraedd y rhestr fer, caiff ei harddangos ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam, ar wefan Prifysgol Wrecsam ac o bosibl yn lleoliadau eraill yn lleol a chenedlaethol; gan eich cydnabod chi a'ch syniadau.
Bydd yr enillydd a ddewisir gan y Panel Beirniadu yn cael £250, a bydd y ddau enillydd a ddaeth yn ail safle yn cael £50.
Bydd enillydd Dewis y Bobl yn derbyn £50.
I gofrestru , tynnwch lun a fydd yn denu diddordeb a thynnu sylw at eich ymchwil .
Dylai'r ddelwedd hysbysu a denu sylw cynulleidfa o bobl academaidd nad ydynt yn arbenigwyr , a chynnig safbwynt gweledol ar ymchwil cyfredol lefel ddoethurol neu ôl-ddoethurol .
Ynghyd â'r ddelwedd , dylid rhoi crynodeb dim llai na 100 gair a dim mwy na 200 gair sy'n egluro'r hyn mae eich delwedd yn ei ddangos a sut mae'n cysylltu â'ch ymchwil .
Dylech ysgrifennu hwn mewn iaith sy'n ddealladwy i gynulleidfa o bobl nad ydynt yn arbenigwyr .
VR Canllawiau Ffurflen Gais Cystadlu 24-25
Gellir dod o hyd i'r holl ymgeiswyr o gystadlaethau Ymchwil Delweddu Prifysgol Wrecsam yn y gorffennol yn enillwyr a chynigion b laenorol .
Dim o gwbl !
Gweler enillwyr a chynigion b laenorol am dystiolaethau .
Rydym yma i helpu !
Cymerwch olwg ar Agweddau at Ffotograffiaeth neu cysylltwch â Karen Heald karen.heald@wrexham.ac.uk neu’r Swyddfa Ymchwil researchoffice@wrexham.ac.uk a byddwn yn hapus i ateb unrhyw gwestiynau .
Gweler enillwyr a cheisiadau blaenorol am ysbrydoliaeth .
Hefyd , m ae crynod ebau defnyddiol i gyd-fynd â'r delweddau ar gael gan y Swyddfa Ymchwil .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/ein-hymchwil/canolfannau-ymchwil/cyfiawnder-y-sefydliad-ymchwil-cynhwysiant-cymdeithasol:
Cyfiawnder: Sefydlwyd y Sefydliad Ymchwil Cynhwysiant Cymdeithasol ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam ar ddechrau 2022.
Mae'n gymuned ymchwil o fewn y Gyfadran Gwyddorau Cymdeithasol a Bywyd sydd â'r nod o feithrin cydweithrediad rhwng academyddion, darparwyr gwasanaethau, a defnyddwyr gwasanaethau (rhyngddisgyblaethol, lleol, cenedlaethol a rhyngwladol) i fynd i'r afael ag ymchwil o safon, ymateb i gyfleoedd cyllid, a datblygu ceisiadau am grantiau er mwyn hyrwyddo cynhwysiant cymdeithasol.
Mae'r sefydliad yn croesawu cyswllt gan unigolion sy'n dymuno ymgymryd ag astudiaethau ar lefel PhD yn y meysydd cyfiawnder troseddol, gofal cymdeithasol neu bolisi cymdeithasol.
Mae hefyd yn croesawu cyswllt gan asiantaethau a grwpiau sy'n dechrau ar brosiectau newydd, sy'n dymuno cwmpasu dealltwriaeth bresennol cyn cyflwyno ceisiadau am gyllid, neu sy'n dymuno gweithio mewn partneriaeth ac archwilio sut gall staff y Sefydliad helpu gyda cheisiadau am gyllid a/neu werthusiadau prosiectau.
“Mae staff PW wedi bod yn cynnal ymchwil o safon ers nifer o flynyddoedd.
Cyfiawnder Bydd y Sefydliad Ymchwil Cynhwysiant Cymdeithasol yn adeiladu ar y llwyfan hwn i ddod yn adnodd ar gyfer staff y Brifysgol i lansio neu ymestyn eu proffiliau ymchwil, ac i randdeiliaid yn y byd cyfiawnder troseddol, gofal cymdeithasol, neu bolisi cymdeithasol gydweithio er mwyn helpu i nodi, hyrwyddo ac ymchwilio i arfer da er mwyn mynd i'r afael â chynhwysiant cymdeithasol.”
Cymerwch olwg ar brosiectau presennol a blaenorol y Sefydliad Ymchwil Cynhwysiant Cymdeithasol ym meysydd troseddeg, polisi cymdeithasol, gwaith cymdeithasol, a mwy...
Cymerwch olwg ar y digwyddiadau sydd ar y gweill a gynhelir gan Cyfiawnder.
Y Cyd-Gyfarwyddwyr, aelodau'r Sefydliad, aelodau Cyswllt, ac Aelodau Myfyrwyr.
Rhestr o bartneriaid presennol a blaenorol sydd wedi gweithio gydag aelodau Cyfiawnder.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil:
Mae ymchwil Prifysgol Wrecsam yn canolbwyntio ar effeithio ar ddatblygiad economaidd, cymdeithasol a diwylliannol.
Boed hynny’n lleol neu’n rhyngwladol, ar raddfa fach neu fawr, mae’r pwyslais bob tro ar ddatrys problemau a chyfrannu at anghenion go iawn.
Mae allbynnau cyhoeddedig o’n hymchwil ar gael ar-lein.
“Er mwyn deall pa anghenion hyfforddi sydd eu hangen ar artistiaid sydd yn gweithio ym maes gofal iechyd, mae’n rhaid inni’n gyntaf ddeall sut mae eu hymarfer yn gweithredu yn y lleoliad yma.
I wneud hyn, mae fy ymchwil wedi mabwysiadu dulliau ymchwil ansoddol drwy gyfweliadau lled-strwythuredig ac arsylwadau ethnograffig gydag artistiaid yn gweithio yn y maes, gan ddadansoddi’r data wedi hynny drwy theori ag iddi sail gadarn, a dadansoddiad thematig.”

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/cyfadran-y-celfyddydau-gwyddoniaeth-a-thechnoleg:
Mae strwythur academaidd Prifysgol Wrecsam wedi'i rannu i mewn i ddwy gyfadran, y ddwy yn gartref i gyfoeth o arbenigedd, athrawiaeth a dysgu ar hyd ragor o ddisgyblaethau
Mae gan Gyfadran y Celfyddydau, Gwyddoniaeth a Thechnoleg ym Prifysgol Wrecsam hanes cyfoethog o arloesiad yn y Celfyddydau ac yng Ngwyddoniaeth sy'n dyddio yn ôl i 1887.
Mae ein dull athrawiaeth a dysgu sy'n ganoledig ar fyfyrwyr wedi'i deilwra i anghenion myfyrwyr ac mae ein darlithoedd yn maethu diwylliant o gydweithio ac yn ymdrechu i helpu myfyrwyr gyda'u huchelgeisiau.
Rydym yn annog dulliau positive ac arloesol i ddysgu ac yn defnyddio grwpiau athrawiaeth fach fel gallwch chi gyflawni'ch gorau a mynd ymlaen i fwynhau gyrfa lwyddiannus.
Beth bynnag ydi'ch profiadau neu gefndir, byddem yn hapus i chi gwneud cais i ymuno gyda ni.
Mae'r Gyfadran yn cynnal amgylchedd croesawgar a bywiog wedi'i gynllunio i ddatblygu sgiliau a gwybodaeth myfyrwyr o fewn y diwydiannau creadigol a thechnolegol drwy arbenigedd y staff a'u rhagoriaeth athrawol.
Mae'r dysgu yma yn ymgorffori cyfleusterau cyfoesol, ymweliadau diwydiannol a llawer mwy i wella eich cyflogadwyedd ar ôl i chi astudio gyda ni.
Mae'r Gyfadran yn fentrol ac uchelgeisiol yn ei chenhadaeth i gyfrannu i gynnydd economaidd yr ardal drwy bartneriaethau diwydiannol a meddwl creadigol.
Archwiliwch STEAM - catalog digidol sy'n arddangos detholiad o waith ein ymchwilwyr a myfyrwyr sy'n graddio.
Mae'r gyfadran yn cynnwys cyrsiau yn yr ardaloedd canlynol; celf a dylunio, amgylchedd adeiledig, cyfrifiadura, peirianneg, dyniaethau, cyfryngau, gwyddoniaeth a theatr.
Mae ein myfyrwyr Celf a Dylunio yn falch o gyflwyno eu Sioe Radd 2022, Unjammed .
Chwiliwch am un o'n cyrsiau israddedig ac ól-raddedig gyda ffocws gyrfaol.
Y newyddion a digwyddiadau diweddaraf o'r gyfadran.
Byddem wrth ein boddau clywed gennych chi, os hoffech chi wybod mwy am astudio gyda ni, neu os gennych chi unrhyw gwestiwn, galwch ni ar 01978 293439 neu E-bostiwch enquiries@glyndwr.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/cyfadran-y-gwyddorau-cymdeithasol-a-bywyd:
Mae Cyfadran y Gwyddorau Cymdeithasol a Bywyd yn angerddol am anghenion y gymdeithas, boed hynny'n addysg, iechyd, gofal cymdeithasol, yr amgylchedd neu'r system cyfiawnder.
Ein nod yw creu amgylchedd dysgu ysbrydol, canolfan gwych o arbenigedd dysgu ac ymchwil, yn helpu i drawsffurfio bywydau myfyrwyr, ein cymuned a sefydliadau yn yr ardaloedd ehangach.
Mae tîm y Gyfadran yn gweithio gyda'i gilydd i greu diwylliant o onestrwydd, dysgu a chefnogaeth hygyrch, parch, arloesedd ac uchelgais yn nyheadau ein myfyrwyr.
Mae cysylltiadau gwych gyda diwydiannau a gwasanaethau cyhoeddus yn yr ardal yn rhoi cyfleoedd i'r Gyfadran diogelu amrywiaeth o leoliadau gwaith i ganiatáu profiadau gwerthfawr gall fyfyrwyr elwa ohonynt fel rhan o'u hastudiaethau.
Mae'r partneriaethau diwydiannol yma yn hanfodol i sicrhau fod rhaglenni yn rhoi'r cyfleoedd cyflogadwyedd a chynnydd gyrfaol gorau.
Drwy ddefnyddio cymysgedd o ddulliau athrawiaeth a dysgu ac amrywiaeth o arddulliau trosglwyddo rydym yn teilwra ein hathrawiaeth i siwtio anghenion gwahanol fyfyrwyr (gan gynnwys dysgu ar lein/o bell ar rai cyrsiau).
Mae'r gyfadran yn cynnwys cyrsiau yn yr ardaloedd canlynol; busnes, addysg, iechyd, seicoleg, gofal cymdeithasol, cymdeithas a chwaraeon

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/newyddion:
Darganfyddwch beth sy'n digwydd ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam.
Os ydych chi'n chwilio am ddiweddariadau ar yr hyn sy'n digwydd ar y campws neu o fewn y gymuned leol, edrychwch ar yr erthyglau isod.
Mae myfyrwyr Meistr Ysgol Gelf Prifysgol Wrecsam yn gwahodd aelodau o’r gymuned i ddod draw i weld eu harddangosfa derfynol fel rhan o’u hastudiaethau.
Yn arddangos amrywiaeth o ffurfiau c...
Trodd myfyriwr graddedig mewn Seicoleg rwystr gyrfa yn gyfle a newidiodd ei fywyd trwy astudio ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam a sefydlu ei fusnes cwnsela ei hun.
Mae Nigel Skinner, 59, a raddiodd o Brifysgol W...
Mae papur ymchwil academydd o Brifysgol Wrecsam ar leihau’r effeithiau amgylcheddol sy’n gysylltiedig ag adeiladu gwastraff dymchwel ar gyfer archfarchnad flaenllaw wedi ennill Gwobr Premi...
Daeth myfyrwyr nyrsio Prifysgol Wrecsam ynghyd â’u darlithwyr ar gyfer dathliad arbennig i nodi cwblhau eu hastudiaethau - a pharatoi at eu camau nesaf o ymuno â gweithlu gofal iechy...
Mae Pennaeth Datblygu'r Gymraeg ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam, Elen Mai Nefydd, wedi cael ei hanrhydeddu’n ffurfiol gan Orsedd y Beirdd yn Eisteddfod Genedlaethol Wrecsam eleni, gan gydnabod ei chyfrani...
PEDWAR sefydliad addysgol blaenllaw wedi uno i ffurfio Cynghrair Trydyddol Gogledd Cymru (CTGC) - partneriaeth nodedig i gryfhau addysg a datblygu sgiliau, hybu twf economaidd ac i wella cyfleoedd byw...
Caiff plant a phobl ifanc sy’n mynychu’r Eisteddfod Genedlaethol yn Wrecsam eleni y cyfle i ddarganfod yr ŵyl ddiwylliannol Gymraeg eiconig mewn ffordd gwbl newydd – o fewn byd Minec...
Dyfarnwyd Partneriaeth SMART a ariennir gan Lywodraeth Cymru i Brifysgol Wrecsam a Thai ClwydAlyn er mwyn datblygu arloesedd ym maes tai cynaliadwy.
Bydd y cydweithrediad yn creu datrysiadau tai arloe...
Mae myfyriwr Gwaith Cymdeithasol, sydd ond wythnosau i ffwrdd o ennill ei gradd, wedi trafod ei huchelgais i fod “y gweithiwr cymdeithasol sy’n newid safbwynt person ifanc o’r system...
Bydd cynnig cyfrwng Cymraeg  Prifysgol Wrecsam yn cael ei arddangos a’i ddathlu yn Eisteddfod Genedlaethol Wrecsam.
Bydd staff a myfyrwyr y Brifysgol yn gweithio’n galed i dynnu...

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/cysylltiadau-cyfryngau:
Mae swyddfa’r wasg ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam yn casglu ynghyd wybodaeth am y brifysgol o nifer o wahanol ffynonellau.
Yn yr adran y wasg yma ceir y datganiadau i’r wasg diweddaraf, a fydd yn eich hysbysu o’r hyn sy’n digwydd yn y brifysgol, newyddion archif i ddarganfod straeon o’r gorffennol, orielau lluniau a fideos yn ogystal â’n prif sianeli cyfryngau cymdeithasol.
Mae’r prifysgol hefyd yn cadw cyfeiriadur o arbenigwyr er mwyn eich helpu i gael gafael ar arbenigwyr sy’n gallu darparu sylwadau neu gyfarwyddiadau deallus ynghylch amryw o bynciau.
Dylai newyddiadurwyr sydd eisiau cysylltu â swyddfa’r wasg gysylltu â:
Naomi Penrose, Swyddog Cyfathrebu a Marchnata Cyhoeddus
Rhif ffôn: 01978 293484
Ebost: Naomi.Penrose@wrexham.ac.uk
Ar gyfer unrhyw ymholiadau cyfryngau eraill, cysylltwch â Swyddfa Wasg y Brifysgol.
E-bostiwch press@wrexham.ac.uk .
Mae'r wybodaeth gyswllt uchod ar gyfer ymh oliadau gan y cyfryngau yn unig.
Dylech gyfeirio pob ymholiad arall at: enquiries@wrexham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/amdanom-ni:
Dirgrynol, cyfeillgar a chynhwysol.
Mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn gymuned ddysgu gyda ffocws ar ysbrydoli myfyrwyr i anelu'n uchel a chyflawni mwy.
Y gorffennol, presennol a'r dyfodol.
Edrychwch ar sut rydym yn tyfu fel prifysgol ac ein golwg am beth sydd nesaf.
Mae ein Fframwaith Dysgu Gweithredol yn cyfuno gwneud y defnydd gorau o’n mannau dysgu ar y campws sy’n canolbwyntio ar gynnwys digidol hygyrch wedi’i ffocysu at fyfyrwyr.
Mae ALF yn ymgorffori ffyrdd o ddysgu sy'n creu a chefnogi synnwyr o berthyn i fyfyrwyr.
Gwybodaeth ar sut rydym yn gweithio fel prifysgol, ein harweinyddiaeth a strwythur.
Rydym yn gweithio gyda phartneriaethau a chymunedau i wneud gwahaniaeth positif y gorau i'r cyhoedd ar draws Gogledd Cymru.
Rydym yn ymrwymo i gefnogi, datblygu a hyrwyddo cydraddoldeb ac amrywiaeth yn ein hymarferion a digwyddiadau.
Rydym yn anelu i hyrwyddo cymunedau, gwasanaethau a defnydd o adnoddau corfforol cynaliadwy.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/ysgolion-a-cholegau/ehangu-mynediad:
Mae croeso i bawb ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam.
R ydym wedi ymrwymo i sicrhau y rhoddir cyfle i bawb sydd â'r potensial i gyflawni mewn addysg uwch wneud hynny .
Mae hyn yn golygu, beth bynnag fo'ch cefndir, oedran, rhyw neu anabledd, ein bod yn cynnig cymorth a chyngor i'ch helpu i lwyddo yma.
Mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn gwerthfawrogi amrywiaeth y cymunedau y mae'n eu gwasanaethu, a'r myfyrwyr rydym yn eu haddysgu.
Rydym yn darparu cymorth penodol i chwalu rhwystrau gan gynnwys gwahaniaethau iaith, diwylliannol a ffydd, er mwyn creu ymdeimlad o gydraddoldeb a chydlyniant i bawb.
Ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam, mae'n bwysig i ni y gall pobl o gartrefi incwm is nid yn unig anelu at addysg prifysgol ond hefyd ei defnyddio.
Daw chwarter o'n graddedigion o'r hyn a elwir yn gymdogion cyfranogiad isel.
Yn syml, mae'r rhain yn bobl nad oeddent byth yn meddwl y gallent fynd i'r brifysgol ond a wnaeth.
Mae ein llwyddiant yn helpu i sicrhau chwarae teg ac yn mynd i'r afael â materion allweddol fel tlodi plant ac annhegwch.
Dyna pam rydym wedi cymryd yr awenau yng Nghymru, gan osod arfer gorau a sefydlu meincnodau ar wella mynediad i addysg uwch.
Mae Prifysgol Wrecsam wedi ymrwymo i gefnogi ei myfyrwyr ar eu taith o adael gofal i addysg uwch.
Rydym yma bob cam o'r ffordd a gallwn eich cefnogi drwy gydol eich taith brifysgol gyfan.
Fel prifysgol yng Nghymru, rydym hefyd yn rhan o CLASS Cymru, sy'n anelu at ddarparu'r profiad gorau posibl o addysg bellach ac uwch i oedolion ifanc sy'n agored i niwed, gan gynnwys plant a phobl, ifanc mewn gofal, gofal perthynas, pobl sy'n gadael gofal ac sydd wedi ymddieithrio oddi wrth deuluoedd.
Dysgwch fwy am gymorth i'r rhai sy'n gadael gofal yma .
Dysgwch fwy am y gefnogaeth i fyfyrwyr sydd wedi ymddieithrio yma https://www.propel.org.uk/Details/glyndwr-university
Os ydych yn ystyried dod i'r brifysgol a'ch bod yn gadael gofal neu'n fyfyriwr sydd wedi ymddieithrio, cysylltwch â'r cydlynydd     ehangu mynediad amber.percy@glyndwr.ac.uk neu ffoniwch ar 01978293342 i drafod eich camau a'ch cefnogaeth nesaf.
Mae gan ein hadran Ehangu Cyfranogiad gysylltiadau cryf â'r gymuned leol mewn ardaloedd fel Caia/Hightown a'r Pentrefi Trefol, yn ogystal ag yn Nwyrain a Gorllewin Sir y Fflint, SW y Rhyl a Dinbych Uchaf.
Mae ein gwaith yn cael ei ymestyn ar draws ardaloedd cod post blaenoriaeth eraill yng Nghymru a dros y ffin yn Lloegr.
Ein nod yw ymgysylltu â'r aelodau anoddaf eu cyrraedd o'n cymuned yn ein hymgais i gefnogi plant ac oedolion i gydnabod manteision enfawr addysg.
Mae ein staff yn gweithio'n helaeth gyda grwpiau cymunedol i ddarparu dysgu oedolion ac allgymorth sy'n hyrwyddo addysg uwch i ysgolion a grwpiau.
Er mwyn eu hannog i werthfawrogi profiad y brifysgol, rydym yn cyflwyno amserlen lawn o ddigwyddiadau a seminarau i godi ymwybyddiaeth, ysbrydoli ac ymgysylltu â'r gymuned leol.
‌
Mewn cydweithrediad â phartneriaid lleol , mae Prifysgol Wrecsam wedi bod yn chwaraewr allweddol wrth hyrwyddo a datblygu ystod o wahanol weithgareddau Ymestyn yn Ehangach i godi ymwybyddiaeth o addysg uwch .
Mae'r fenter Ymestyn yn Ehangach yn strategaeth cyngor Cyllido Addysg Uwch Cymru gyfan (CCAUC), a sefydlwyd yn 2002, i ehangu cyfranogiad a mynediad i addysg uwch , cefnogi cynhwysiant cymdeithasol a gwella sgiliau .
Mae'r fenter Ymestyn yn Ehangach yn canolbwyntio ar bedwar prif grŵp o bobl sydd wedi'u tangynrychioli mewn Addysg Uwch ar hyn o bryd.
Y grwpiau hyn yw'r rhai sy'n byw mewn ardaloedd lle mae pobl sy'n mynychu addysg uwch yn is, pobl o gymunedau lleiafrifoedd ethnig,y rhai sy'n dymuno astudio drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg a phobl ag anabledd.
Ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam , rydym yn gweithio'n agos gyda'r Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol i ddatblygu cyfleoedd cyfrwng Cymraeg i fyfyrwyr .
Rydym hefyd yn darparu sgyrsiau cyfrwng Cymraeg i fyfyrwyr 6ed dosbarth sy'n meddwl am addysg uwch .
Fel rhan o rhaglan Byd Gwaith, rydym hefyd yn cynnig sgyrsiau gyrfa i ddisgyblion blwyddyn 6 drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg.
Dim ond enghraifft fach o'r gwaith allgymorth y mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn ei wneud gydag ysgolion , sefydliadau a grwpiau cymundefol yw'r prosiectau Ymestyn yn Ehangach hyn .
Os hoffech gael rhagor o wybodaeth am unrhyw un o'n prosiectau neu os hoffech ymwneud â'r brifysgol , cysylltwch â amber.percy@wrexham.ac.uk neu ffoniwch 01978 293342.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/cynaliadwyedd:
Mae Prifysgol  Wrecsam yn anelu i hyrwyddo cymunedau, gwasanaethau a defnyddio adnoddau corfforol cynaliadwy.
Mae ein Gweithgor Gweithredu Cynaliadwyedd (SAWG), byddin fach o Hyrwyddwyr Gwyrdd, yn cynnwys Myfyrwyr a Staff, gan gynnwys yr Undeb Myfyrwyr a chynrychiolwyr Unison, ac mae Cynaliadwyedd wedi derbyn cyllideb flynyddol o £20,000 wedi'i ddiogelu ar gyfer prosiectau arbennig.
Rydym wedi defnyddio 100% o drydan adnewyddadwy ers 2018
Mae allyriadau carbon wedi gostwng 51% ers 2009/10
Fe wnaethom ailgylchu 40% o'n gwastraff yn 2022/23 - ein targed nesaf yw 50%.
Darganfyddwch mwy am ein hymrwymiad tuag at adnoddau, dysgu a gwasanaethau cynaliadwy
186 tunnell o wastraff wedi'i gasglu, 34% wedi'i ailgylchu
18% o werthiannau ddiodydd poeth mewn cwpanau ailddefnyddiol - 11,069 tafladwy wedi'u hosgoi
Lleihad nwy a thrydan o 23% ers 2009/10
O'n staff a phwyllgorau i grwpiau cymunedol lleol, darganfyddwch am y bobl sy'n helpu ein hymrwymiad cynaliadwyedd.
Dysgwch am sut mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn rheoli defnydd egni a lleihad carbon.
Darganfyddwch am ein hymrwymiad i sicrhau fod staff a myfyrwyr yn deall, ac yn poeni, am broblemau byd eang o ddatblygiad cynaliadwy.
Mae Prifysgol Wrecsam ymysg y traean uchaf o brifysgolion Prydeinig mewn rhestr werdd am ei berfformiad yn y Cynghrair Prifysgol Pobl a'r Blaned.
Mae tîm Pobl a'r Blaned yn mesur popeth o bolisïau lleihau carbon i fesurau lleihau defnydd dŵr, gyda 153 o brifysgolion yn y DU wedi'u graddio felly.
Mae Prifysgol Glyndŵr Wrecsam yn safle 43 ac yn y 10 uchaf ar gyfer gyrfaoedd moesegol a recrwtio a Buddsoddiad Moesegol.
Mae'r Brifysgol hefyd wedi ymuno â Chod Ymarfer Llywodraeth Cymru ar Gyflogaeth Foesegol yn y Gadwyn Gyflenwi a'r Ddeddf Caethwasiaeth Fodern, sef y gofrestr data agored mwyaf yn y byd sydd wedi ymrwymo i ddod â chaethwasiaeth modern a cham-drin gweithlu'r gadwyn gyflenwi i ben.
Derbyniwyd y brifysgol wobr Cymdeithas Ddinesig Ardal Wrecsam ar gyfer cynaliadwyedd.
Disgrifiodd y gymdeithas adeilad y Ganolfan Diwydiannau Creadigol fel "darn trawiadol a llwyddiannus o bensaernïaeth fodern".
Mae ei nodweddion cynaliadwy wedi bod yng nghalon yr adeilad ers cafodd ei ddylunio, o'r to sedwm 'gwyrdd' i gyflenwad y toiledau i gyd o ddŵr glaw wedi'i ailgylchu a chasglwyd o'r to, defnyddir pympiau gwres o'r awyr i'r aer, er mwyn darparu gwres, ac mae'r to gwyrdd yn darparu màs thermol uchel sy'n lleihau'r galw am ynni ymateb cyflym.
Mae Effaith Werdd yn grymuso unigolion ac adrannau leihau eu heffaith amgylcheddol yn herio'r brifysgol i weithredu nifer o gamau ymarferol, hawdd a fydd yn helpu'r amgylchedd.
Mae Undeb Myfyrwyr WGU yn gwithio ar y cud a Phrifysgol Wrexham ar y Wobr Effaith Werdd yn flynyddol.
Eleni cafwyd sgor o 305 a gwobr RHAGOROL.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/amdanom-ni/asiantaeth-sicrhau-ansawdd:
Mae’r Asiantaeth Sicrhau Ansawdd ar gyfer Addysg Uwch (QAA) yn elusen annibynnol sy’n gweithio er budd myfyrwyr ac addysg uwch.
Maent yn gweithio gyda’r llywodraeth, asiantaethau a sefydliadau yn fyd-eang mewn amryw o ffyrdd.
Yng Nghymru maent yn gweithio’n agos gyda Medr a’r Comisiwn Addysg Drydyddol ac Ymchwil er enghraifft.
O safbwynt Prifysgol Wrecsam rydym yn aelodau o’r QAA ac rydym wedi gallu elwa o’u gweithgareddau i aelodau ac wedi cael y QAA i ymgymryd ag adolygiadau annibynnol o’n darpariaeth addysg uwch.
Mae’r broses Adolygiad Gwella Ansawdd (QER) yn cyfuno sicrwydd ansawdd a gwella ansawdd.
Cafodd yr Adolygiad Gwella Ansawdd diwethaf ei gynnal yn ystod blwyddyn academaidd 2024/25.
Canfu’r adolygiad bod Prifysgol Wrecsam yn bodloni gofynion Rhan 1 Safonau a Chanllawiau Ewropeaidd (ESG) ar gyfer sicrwydd ansawdd mewnol, a’i fod yn bodloni gofynion rheoliadol llinell sylfaen perthnasol Asiantaeth Sicrhau Ansawdd Cymru.
Gellir gweld yr adroddiad llawn yma .
Mae’r cynllun gweithredu i’w gael yma: Cynllun Gweithredu Adolygiad Gwella Ansawdd Prifysgol Wrecsam 2025

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/newyddion/erthyglau/prifysgol-wrecsam-ar-y-brig-yng-nghymru-am-foddhad-myfyrwyr-am-yr-ail-flwyddyn-yn-olynol:
Dyddiad: Dydd Mercher, Mehefin 11, 2025
Mae boddhad myfyrwyr ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam wedi cyrraedd y brig yng Nghymru am yr ail flwyddyn yn olynol yn y Complete University Guide 2026.
Mae'r Canllaw hefyd wedi ein gosod yn gydradd drydydd yn y DU ar gyfer lefelau boddhad myfyrwyr – allan o 130 o sefydliadau addysg uwch.
Mae'r sefydliad hefyd wedi perfformio'n gryf mewn nifer o feysydd pwnc – yn arbennig, pynciau Cymdeithaseg – lle mae'r Brifysgol yn cynnig cwrs mewn Troseddeg a Chyfiawnder Troseddol (BA Anrh) – a ddaeth yn gyntaf yn y DU am foddhad myfyrwyr am y drydedd flwyddyn yn rhes.
Mae'r Brifysgol hefyd wedi cyrraedd y brig yn y DU am foddhad myfyrwyr ym mhynciau Astudiaethau Iechyd – lle mae'r sefydliad yn cynnig cyrsiau mewn BSc (Anrh) Iechyd Meddwl a Lles , Dip HE Iechyd a Lles Cymdeithasol ac BSc (Anrh) Adsefydlu Anafiadau Chwaraeon.
Ar lefel pwnc ar draws holl sefydliadau'r DU, mae'r Brifysgol wedi'i rhestru:
Ar lefel pwnc y tu allan i brifysgolion Cymru, mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn cael ei rhestru:
Meddai’r Athro Joe Yates, Is-Ganghellor Prifysgol Wrecsam: “Rydym yn falch iawn o fod ar y brig yng Nghymru am foddhad myfyrwyr am yr ail flwyddyn yn olynol, yn ogystal â chydradd drydydd yn y DU am yr un metrig hwnnw.
“Mae'r hyn sydd gan ein myfyrwyr i'w ddweud yn wirioneddol bwysig i ni, ac mae ein safleoedd uchel cyson yn ymwneud â pha mor fodlon ydyn nhw ag ansawdd yr addysgu maen nhw'n ei dderbyn yn rheswm enfawr i fod yn falch – ac yn dangos yn wirioneddol pa mor galed y mae ein staff academaidd yn gweithio i darparu lefelau addysgu o ansawdd uchel.”
Mae'r Complete University Guide 2026.
yn rhyddhau tablau prifysgol a chynghrair pwnc y DU bob blwyddyn i gefnogi darpar fyfyrwyr i wneud penderfyniadau gwybodus am eu dyfodol.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/clirio:
Ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam, rydym o’r farn y dylai eich taith ymestyn y tu hwnt i ennill gradd yn unig.
Mae’n ymwneud â chanfod eich diddordebau, gwneud ffrindiau oes, ac addysgu sy’n eich ysbrydoli bob cam o’r ffordd.
Mwynhewch dawelwch meddwl gyda diogelwch 24/7, Wi-Fi am ddim, a pharcio ar y safle.
Mae ein llety myfyrwyr hefyd yn cynnwys cyfleusterau golchi dillad cyfleus ar y safle.
O fewn pellter cerdded i siopau a chanol y ddinas, bydd popeth sydd ei angen arnoch dafliad carreg i ffwrdd.
Yn ogystal, gyda chysylltiadau trên i Gaer, Lerpwl, a Manceinion 5 munud i ffwrdd ar droed, nid oes ffordd haws o grwydro’r rhanbarth.
Cysur, cyfleustra, cymuned, i gyd mewn yn un lle.
Peidiwch â gadael i bryderon ariannol eich rhwystro, rydym wedi casglu popeth sydd ei angen arnoch i lywio drwy'r broses glirio'n hyderus.
Os ydych chi’n gwneud cais am un o’n graddau Nyrsio neu Berthynol i Iechyd, efallai eich bod yn gymwys am fwrsariaeth lawn y GIG i ariannu’r cwrs hwn (Telerau ac Amodau’n Berthnasol)
“Mae astudio ar gyfer fy ngradd yma ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam wedi bod yn un o ddewisiadau gorau fy mywyd.”
Gall y broses Glirio deimlo’n llethol, ond nid ydych ar eich pen eich hun.
Darllenwch flog Maham i ddysgu sut y bu iddi wneud ei phenderfyniad, sut oedd y broses mewn gwirionedd, a sut y daeth hi o hyd i’r llwybr cywir.
Ystyried astudio yn y DU fel myfyriwr rhyngwladol?
O ddewis eich cwrs a deall gofynion mynediad, i fisas, ffioedd a gwneud eich hun yn gartrefol, rydym yn trafod popeth sydd angen ichi ei wybod i wneud eich taith mor ddidrafferth â phosibl.
Mae ein tîm Derbyniadau arbenigol wedi llunio atebion i’r cwestiynau mwyaf cyffredin am y broses Glirio, gan eich helpu i ddod o hyd i’r cwrs cywir a gwneud penderfyniad cadarnhaol sy’n addas i'ch llwybr chi.
Mae llinell gymorth ein proses Glirio ar agor Llun i Gwener, 9yb tan 5yp.
Oriau Estynedig:
Ymunwch â ni ar ddiwrnod agored sydd i ddod i gwrdd â'ch darlithwyr, darganfyddwch fwy am ein cyrsiau, darganfyddwch ein cyfleusterau a chael blas ar fywyd myfyriwr.
Porwch ein holl ddiwrnodau agored a digwyddiadau .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/blog/posts/pam-astudio-nyrsio-ym-mhrifysgol-wrecsam:
Felly, rydych chi eisiau astudio Nyrsio ond dydych chi ddim yn siŵr ym mha brifysgol i astudio Nyrsio?
Rydyn ni yma i helpu!
Mae nyrsio yn yrfa ddeinamig a gwerth chweil, ac mae’n bwysig astudio mewn prifysgol sydd wedi ymrwymo i roi’r wybodaeth a’r sgiliau i chi ragori yn y maes hwn.
Pum cwestiwn i'w cadw mewn cof wrth ddewis ble i astudio Nyrsio yw:
O fewn y blog hwn, byddwn yn amlinellu rhai o'r rhesymau pam mae myfyrwyr yn dewis Prifysgol Wrecsam fel eu dewis cyntaf o ran astudio gradd Nyrsio.
Rydym yn deall bod gan bob myfyriwr ei ddiddordebau penodol a'i nodau gyrfa eu hunain.
Felly, rydym yn cynnig sawl llwybr Nyrsio gwahanol y gallwch ddewis ohonynt.
P’un a oes gennych ddiddordeb mewn Nyrsio Oedolion , Nyrsio Plant neu Nyrsio Iechyd Meddwl , mae gennym yr arbenigedd a’r cyfleusterau i roi dealltwriaeth ddofn i chi o’ch dewis faes.
Mae gennym hefyd ystod eang o gyrsiau Perthynol i Iechyd , gan roi'r hyblygrwydd i chi archwilio gwahanol agweddau ar y maes gofal iechyd.
Mantais enfawr arall astudio ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam yw’r cyfle i fanteisio ar gynllun bwrsariaeth GIG Cymru .
Mae'r cynllun hwn yn cwmpasu ffioedd dysgu ac yn darparu bwrsariaeth na ellir ei had-dalu i helpu gyda chostau byw i fyfyrwyr sy'n gymwys ac sy'n ymrwymo i weithio yng Nghymru am ddwy flynedd ar ôl graddio.
Mae'r cymorth ariannol hwn yn golygu y byddwch yn gallu canolbwyntio ar eich astudiaethau heb boeni am ddyled ac ad-daliadau gormodol.
Fel rhan o'n datblygiadau parhaus ar datblygiadau campws , mae Prifysgol Wrecsam wedi adeiladu Canolfan Efelychu Gofal Iechyd flaengar sy'n dynwared amgylcheddau clinigol y byd go iawn.
Mae'r ganolfan yn cynnwys technoleg ac offer uwch megis dwy ward, bae ochr efelychu, technoleg sain/gweledol uwch, ac ystafell arsylwi lle gall gweithwyr proffesiynol hyfforddedig fonitro ac asesu'ch cynnydd.
Mae’r cyfleuster arloesol hwn yn sicrhau eich bod wedi paratoi’n dda ar gyfer yr heriau ymarferol y byddwch yn eu hwynebu mewn lleoliadau gofal iechyd go iawn.
Mae ymrwymiad Prifysgol Wrecsam i addysgu rhagorol a phrofiad myfyrwyr yn cael ei gydnabod yn genedlaethol.
Daeth ein cyrsiau Nyrsio yn 1af yn y DU yn ddiweddar am Ansawdd Addysgu a Phrofiad Myfyrwyr, ac yn gydradd 1af yn y DU ar gyfer Rhagolygon Graddedigion yng Nghanllaw Prifysgolion Da’r Times a Sunday Times, 2025.
Ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam, credwn fod profiad ymarferol yn allweddol i baratoi ein myfyrwyr ar gyfer gyrfaoedd llwyddiannus.
Rydym yn gweithio’n agos gyda sawl darparwr gofal iechyd lleol i sicrhau eich bod yn cael cymysgedd o amgylcheddau cymunedol a ward/clinigol.
Disgwylir i fyfyrwyr nyrsio gwblhau 2,300 awr o waith ymarferol trwy gydol eu cwrs; cwblhau 4 lleoliad ym mlwyddyn un a dau, a thri lleoliad yn eu blwyddyn olaf.
Mae'r lleoliadau hyn yn darparu profiad amhrisiadwy, gan eich helpu i gymhwyso'r sgiliau a ddysgwyd yn yr ystafell ddosbarth i leoliadau clinigol gwirioneddol o dan arweiniad gweithwyr gofal iechyd proffesiynol profiadol.
Yn ogystal, mae'r lleoliadau hyn yn rhoi cyfle i adeiladu cysylltiadau proffesiynol a all wella'ch cyflogadwyedd ar ôl graddio.
Darllenwch flog a ysgrifennwyd gan un o'n myfyrwyr Nyrsio Iechyd Meddwl i ddysgu mwy am y broses leoli ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam.
Yn gyffredinol, mae dewis y brifysgol gywir ar gyfer eich astudiaethau Nyrsio yn hanfodol, gan y bydd yn siapio'ch sgiliau, parodrwydd gyrfa, a phrofiad cyffredinol yn y maes boddhaus hwn.
Beth am fynychu un o'n dyddiau agored sydd i ddod i ddysgu mwy am pam y dylai Prifysgol Wrecsam fod yn ddewis cyntaf i chi o ran cychwyn ar eich taith Nyrsio.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/newyddion/erthyglau/canolfan-peirianneg-ac-opteg-menter-yn-agosau-at-gael-ei-chwblhau:
Dyddiad: Dydd Lau, Mehefin 5, 2025
Mae partneriaid diwydiant, academyddion a'r rhai a fu ynghlwm â saernïo prosiect adeiladu cyntaf Cynllun Twf Gogledd Cymru wedi dod ynghyd i ddathlu ei gynnydd llwyddiannus fel datblygiad cynaliadwy.
Bellach yn nesáu at gael ei chwblhau, mae'r Ganolfan Peirianneg ac Opteg Menter(EEOC) ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam yn ddatblygiad blaengar, a ddaw'n ganolfan arbenigol ar gyfer ymgysylltiad diwydiant, ymchwil ac arloesi.
Dechreuodd y gwaith yn swyddogol ar y ganolfan ym mis Chwefror 2024, a heddiw (Dydd Lau, Mehefin 5), bu i gydweithwyr o'r Brifysgol, Wynne Construction - prif gontractwr y gwaith adeiladu, ac Uchelgais Gogledd Cymru - y mae EEOC yn un o'i brosiectau, ddod ynghyd i nodi'r garreg filltir.
Bydd yr EEOC yn darparu canolfan i Ogledd Cymru ar gyfer cydweithio a datblygu sgiliau mewn cynaliadwyedd, deunyddiau adnewyddadwy, a gweithgynhyrchu gwerth uchel.
Yn benodol, bydd yn canolbwyntio ar ddeunyddiau cyfansawdd fel opsiynau amgen ysgafn ar gyfer gweithgynhyrchu, cefnogi'r dasg o ddatblygu a mabwysiadu technolegau hydrogen, a manteisio ar fuddiannau arbenigedd opteg a ffotoneg.
Cyflwynir y prosiect ar draws dau o’n safleoedd Prifysgol – campws Plas Coch yn Wrecsam a Chanolfan Technoleg OpTIC yng nghampws Llanelwy.
Drwy'r holl waith datblygu sy'n digwydd ar gampysau'r Brifysgol, mae'r sefydliad wedi ymrwymo i leihau ei effaith amgylcheddol - ac roedd sicrhau bod y prosiect yn cyfrannu'n gadarnhaol at nodau bioamrywiaeth, datgarboneiddio a gwerth cymdeithasol yn greiddiol i gyflawni'r ganolfan drawsnewidiol hon.
Yn ystod y cyfnod adeiladu, gwnaed nifer o ddewisiadau o ran deunyddiau oedd â'r nod o leihau ôl troed carbon, yn cynnwys;
Mae'r prosiect hefyd wedi arwain at gynnydd o 30.5% mewn bioamrywiaeth ar gampysau'r Brifysgol - gyda phwyslais penodol ar gampws Llaneurgain - sydd wedi'i leoli hanner ffordd rhwng campysau Plas Coch a Llanelwy, lle mae coed wedi'u plannu.
Mae tîm safle Llaneurgain y Brifysgol yn y broses o hau hadau blodau gwyllt, a fydd yn creu tir nythu a bwydo i bryfed, adar ac anifeiliaid bach.
Oherwydd ei leoliad gwledig, mae campws Llaneurgain mewn lleoliad delfrydol i gael y budd gorau posibl o ymyriadau effaith bioamrywiaeth o'r fath.
Mae'r cyfnod adeiladu hefyd wedi rhagori ar ei darged gwerth economaidd lleol a chymdeithasol - y rhagwelir iddo gyflawni 71.7 y cant yn erbyn nod o 67.9 y cant, gan ddangos ymrwymiad cryf i gyflawni buddion parhaol ar draws Gogledd Cymru.
Bu pwyslais sylweddol ar gyflogaeth leol, gyda thros 400 o swyddi wedi'u diogelu, a bron i 60 y cant o'r gweithlu'n preswylio yng Nghymru, gan gynnwys unigolion o rai o'r cymunedau mwyaf difreintiedig.
Cefnogwyd yr economi ranbarthol gan y strategaeth cadwyn gyflenwi drwy gyfeirio 76 y cant o wariant i fusnesau bach a chanolig Gogledd Cymru, y mae bron i draean ohonynt yn gweithredu mewn ardaloedd o amddifadedd uchel.
Mae prentisiaethau wedi chwarae rhan hanfodol mewn datblygu sgiliau lleol, gydag 80 y cant o brentisiaid wedi'u recriwtio o Ogledd Cymru.
Gyda'i gilydd, dengys yr ymdrechion hyn ymrwymiad i dwf cynhwysol, datblygiad sgiliau, a phartneriaethau cymunedol cryf a fydd yn creu newid cadarnhaol parhaol.
Dywedodd yr Athro Joe Yates, Is-ganghellor Prifysgol Wrecsam : "Pleser oedd cael croesawu partneriaid o Uchelgais Gogledd Cymru a Wynne Construction i'r Brifysgol heddiw i ddathlu'r cam nesaf cyffrous hwn o'n datblygiad EEOC.
"Mae'r datblygiad yn cyd-fynd ag un o brif nodau ein Gweledigaeth 2030, sydd newydd ei lansio ac sy'n seiliedig ar ragoriaeth o ran ansawdd ac effeithiau gwaith ymchwil a menter, ac yn y pen draw, cyflawni arloesedd a thrawsnewidiad llwyddiannus.
"Gyda gwaith adeiladu'r EEOC yn agosáu at ben ei daith, mae hefyd yn nodi carreg filltir ragorol i gynaliadwyedd yng nghyfraniadau cadarnhaol y prosiect i ddatgarboneiddio, gwerth cymdeithasol a chyfoethogi bioamrywiaeth.
"Mae'r tîm prosiect wedi cyflawni gwaith ardderchog - rhwng sicrhau bod y deunyddiau wedi'i dewis a'u caffael yn ofalus er mwyn lleihau ein hôl troed carbon a sicrhau cynnydd o 30% mewn bioamrywiaeth ar ein campysau.
Rydym yn falch o fod yn gytûn ag ethos Uchelgais Gogledd Cymru o feithrin twf economaidd ar gyfer Gogledd Cymru wrth sicrhau ar yr un pryd bod datblygiadau'n cael eu hadeiladu'n gynaliadwy.
"Er, o safbwynt gwerth cymdeithasol, yr hyn fu'n allweddol i'r prosiect oedd denu buddsoddiad i Ogledd Cymru a chreu cyfleoedd cyflogaeth lleol - ac rydym yn ymfalchïo yn y ffaith bod swyddi wedi'u creu drwy ddatblygiad EEOC.
"Rydym yn edrych ymlaen at agoriad swyddogol yr adeilad ar gyfer dechrau'r flwyddyn academaidd nesaf, a gwireddu ein huchelgais o'i gweld yn datblygu i fod yn ganolfan arbenigol ar gyfer ymchwil a datblygu, ac yn hwb ar gyfer ymgysylltiad diwydiant, yma yng Ngogledd Cymru."
Dywedodd Chris Wynne, Rheolwr Gyfarwyddwr Wynne Construction: "Rydym yn hynod falch o fod wedi cael cydweithio â Phrifysgol Wrecsam ar gyflawni'r adeilad eithriadol hwn a chael chwarae rhan mewn rhaglen drawsnewidiol sydd nid yn unig yn o fudd i'r Brifysgol ond hefyd i ranbarth ehangach Gogledd Cymru.
"Yn Wynne Construction, gwerth cymdeithasol yw conglfaen pob prosiect a ymgymerir gennym.
Rydym ar y trywydd iawn i gyflawni canlyniadau gwych i'r datblygiad EEOC, ar ôl cwblhau'r broses drosglwyddo.
Mae hyn yn cynnwys cyfanswm gwariant o £6.5m gydag is-gontractwyr y mae £1.8m ohono wedi'i wario mewn ardaloedd o amddifadedd uchel a £407k gyda micro-fusnesau a busnesau bach a chanolig.
Gan arwain at 59% o’r gweithlu'n preswylio yng Ngogledd Cymru.
"Hoffwn ddiolch o waelod calon i'r tîm cyfan am drosglwyddo eu harbenigedd i'r prosiect hwn ac am helpu i greu adeilad nodedig a fydd yn gadael etifeddiaeth arwyddocaol a pharhaol - yn gymdeithasol, yn economaidd ac yn amgylcheddol - i Wrecsam a'r cyffiniau."
Ychwanegodd y Cynghorydd Dave Hughes, Aelod Arweiniol ar gyfer rhaglen Arloesedd mewn Gweithgynhyrchu Gwerth Uchel Cynllun Twf Gogledd Cymru, Uchelgais Gogledd Cymru: Roedd hi'n foment falch heddiw gallu ymuno â'n holl bartneriaid sydd wedi gweithio mor galed i ddod â'r adeilad arloesol hwn yn fyw.
"Mae'r EEOC yn enghraifft berffaith o'r datblygiad economaidd, cynaliadwy rydym yn ceisio'i gyflawni drwy ein rhaglen Arloesedd mewn Gweithgynhyrchu Gwerth Uchel - gan sicrhau cyflogaeth a chyfleoedd hyfforddiant gwerth uchel yn ogystal â chefnogi busnesau gweithgynhyrchu i ddatgarboneiddio.
"Mae'r prosiect hwn yn wirioneddol wedi cyflawni'n gyflym wrth ddal ati i ganolbwyntio ar ei ymrwymiadau gwerth cymdeithasol, yr wyf yn falch iddynt hwythau gael eu hamlygu heddiw hefyd."
Mae'r EEOC ar y trywydd iawn i agor ar gyfer y flwyddyn academaidd nesaf ym mis Medi 2025 yn brydlon ac yn unol ag amserlenni'r prosiect y cytunwyd arnynt gydag Uchelgais Gogledd Cymru.
Nodiadau i olygyddion:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/newyddion/erthyglau/pennaeth-datblygur-gymraeg-iw-hanrhydeddu-yn-eisteddfod-genedlaethol-wrecsam-eleni:
Dyddiad: Dydd Mercher, Mehefin 4, 2025
Bydd Pennaeth Datblygu’r Gymraeg ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam yn cael ei hanrhydeddu gan Orsedd y Beirdd yn yr Eisteddfod Genedlaethol eleni am ei chyfraniad i addysg uwch a’i gwaith yn hyrwyddo’r iaith Gymraeg.
Mae Elen Mai Nefydd wedi cael ei chydnabod am ei chyfraniad i’r sector dros y 25 mlynedd ddiwethaf yng Ngogledd Cymru, yn ogystal â denu cynulleidfaoedd newydd i’r iaith Gymraeg a’r Eisteddfod.
Mae hi’n un o nifer dethol o unigolion sydd wedi cael eu cydnabod o bob rhan o’r wlad am eu cyflawniad a’u hymrwymiad i Gymru, yr iaith a’u cymunedau lleol.
Yn unol â threfniadau Gorsedd Cymru ar gyfer anrhydeddu aelodau newydd, mae pob aelod newydd yn cael eu derbyn ar yr un lefel, p'un a ydynt yn cael eu hanrhydeddu â gwisg las neu wyrdd.
Mae'r rhai sydd wedi llwyddo ym meysydd y gyfraith, gwyddoniaeth, chwaraeon, newyddiaduraeth, y cyfryngau, gweithgareddau lleol/cenedlaethol a gwasanaeth i'r genedl yn cael eu cyflwyno â gwisg las.
Mae'r Orsedd yn derbyn aelodau newydd i'r wisg werdd am eu cyfraniad i'r celfyddydau a'u gwasanaeth i'r genedl - ac mae'r ddau dderbynnydd o'r wisg las a gwyrdd yn dod yn Dderwyddon Anrhydeddus.
Bydd Elen Mai yn cael ei chyflwyno â'i gwisg werdd ei hun, yn cynnwys ei henw barddol, i gydnabod ei hymdrechion.
Pan ymunodd Elen Mai â'r Brifysgol gyntaf, hi oedd Arweinydd y Rhaglen ar gyfer Theatr, Teledu a Pherfformio, cyn ymgymryd â'i rôl bresennol yn 2022.
Heddiw, mae Elen Mai yn arwain ar Strategaeth Academaidd a Chynllun Gweithredu'r Iaith Gymraeg y sefydliad, sy'n anelu at wella'r ddarpariaeth o ddatblygu'r Gymraeg yn y Brifysgol.
Ers ei lansio, mae modiwlau drwy'r Gymraeg wedi'u cyflwyno i nifer o gyrsiau gradd gan gynnwys Therapi Lleferydd ac Iaith a Phlismona Proffesiynol .
Yn y cyfnod cyn yr Eisteddfod Genedlaethol, mae Elen Mai yn gwasanaethu fel Is-gadeirydd Diwylliant Pwyllgor Gwaith Eisteddfod Genedlaethol Wrecsam 2025
Wrth siarad am yr anrhydedd, dywedodd: "Rwyf wrth fy modd ac yn teimlo'n hynod falch y byddaf yn cael fy anrhydeddu gan Orsedd y Beirdd yn yr Eisteddfod eleni, mae wir yn foment sy'n fy nghyffwrdd i - ac mae'r ffaith ei fod yn digwydd yma yn Wrecsam eleni yn ei gwneud hyd yn oed yn fwy cofiadwy ac arbennig i mi.
"Daw'r gydnabyddiaeth hon ar adeg hynod gyffrous i'r ardal leol, gan fod newid gwirioneddol gadarnhaol wedi bod yn yr awyr yn Wrecsam, drwy gynifer o weithgareddau a cherrig milltir diwylliannol bywiog.
"Mae wedi bod yn hyfryd cael cymaint o gyfleoedd gwych i hyrwyddo'r iaith Gymraeg i bawb yn ein cymuned, yn y gobaith y bydd yn gadael gwaddol diwylliannol ac ieithyddol parhaol yn y rhanbarth ar ôl yr ymweliad yr Eisteddfod
"Mae hefyd wedi bod yn hynod werthfawr gweld faint mae'r sefydliad wedi tyfu o ran ei ddarpariaeth cyfrwng Cymraeg a'r hyn a gynigir i fyfyrwyr a staff."
Ychwanegodd yr Athro Joe Yates, Is-Ganghellor Prifysgol Wrecsam: "Llongyfarchiadau i Elen Mai am y wobr fawreddog hon i gydnabod ei chyfraniad i wasanaethau i addysg uwch yma yng Ngogledd Cymru, sy'n amlygu ei hymroddiad i hyrwyddo a gwella darpariaeth addysg cyfrwng Cymraeg a dwyieithog, yma yn y Brifysgol ac o fewn y gymuned.
"Fel sefydliad Cymraeg, rydym yn falch o'n treftadaeth a'r iaith ac fel rhan o'n gweledigaeth a'n strategaeth ddiweddar, hyrwyddo'r iaith, y diwylliant a threftadaeth Gymraeg yn weithredol drwy ein holl weithgareddau yw'r edau aur sy'n rhedeg drwy bopeth a wnawn."
Bydd Elen Mai a derbynwyr eraill yn cael eu hanrhydeddu mewn seremonïau arbennig ar faes yr Eisteddfod yn ystod wythnos gyntaf mis Awst.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/newyddion/erthyglau/changemakers-pel-droed-yn-ysbrydoli-myfyrwyr-prifysgol-wrecsam-mewn-digwyddiad-arbennig:
Dyddiad: Dydd Lau, Mai 8, 2025
“Peidiwch â dibynnu ar rywun arall i ofyn i chi – mae'n rhaid i chi fod yn ddewr a gwneud y pethau a fydd yn gwneud ichi sefyll allan o'r gweddill.”
Dyna’r geiriau doethineb a rennir gan Jamie Edwards, Pennaeth Cymunedol Sefydliad Clwb Pêl-droed Wrecsam gyda myfyrwyr Hyfforddi Pêl-droed a'r Arbenigwr Perfformiad y m Mhrifysgol Wrecsam, yn ystod cynhadledd Gamechangers: The Future of Football and Community Development y sefydliad.
Jamie Edwards, Pennaeth Cymunedol Sefydliad Clwb Pêl-droed Wrecsam
Roedd Jamie, sydd wedi gweithio yn y clwb ers y llynedd, yn un o’r siaradwyr yn y digwyddiad, a oedd yn canolbwyntio ar bŵer pêl-droed a llwybr unigryw pob siaradwr i’r gamp.
Rhoddodd gipolwg hynod ddiddorol i fyfyrwyr ar sut beth yw gweithio yn y clwb.
Meddai: “Mae gweithio i Glwb Pêl-droed Wrecsam fel neidio ar awyren, tynnu – i gyd wrth ei adeiladu yng nghanol yr awyr, dydych chi byth yn gwybod beth sydd rownd y gornel nesaf – ac rydw i wrth fy modd.
Mae’n ymwneud â bachu’r cyfleoedd hynny pan fyddant yn codi.
“Peidiwch ag aros o gwmpas a pheidiwch ag aros i gael eich gofyn, gwirfoddoli, mynd allan yna, a cheisio profi pethau drosoch eich hun.
Peidiwch â dibynnu ar rywun arall i ofyn i chi – mae'n rhaid i chi fod yn ddewr a gwneud y pethau a fydd yn gwneud ichi sefyll allan o'r gweddill.
Ond yn y pen draw, mwynhewch yr hyn rydych chi'n ei wneud a beth sydd o'ch blaen.”
Trwy waith Sefydliad Clwb Pêl-droed Wrecsam, nod y tîm yw newid bywydau plant a phobl ifanc ar draws Wrecsam, Gogledd Cymru a thu hwnt er gwell.
Wrth siarad am bwrpas y Sefydliad, dywedodd, meddai Jamie: “Rwyf wrth fy modd yn gwneud gwahaniaeth – ac mae gallu gwneud hynny yn y rôl hon yn rhoi boddhad mawr.
Trwy rym pêl-droed a’r clwb, rydym eisuau gwella bywydau plant a phobl ifanc trwy wella eu hiechyd, cefnogi eu dysgu a rhoi cyfleoedd iddynt.
“Eleni, rydym hefyd wedi gallu partneru â Kick4Life FC o Lesotho – felly yn ogystal â gwneud gwahaniaeth i'n cymuned, mae gennym gyfle hefyd i wneud newid cadarnhaol yn fyd-eang.
I ni, mae'n ymwneud ag aros â gwreiddiau'n lleol, tra'n cael effaith yn fyd-eang.”
Ymhlith y siaradwyr eraill yn ystod y dydd, roedd Kelly Davies o Ashoka Sport for Changemaking, Allan James o Sefydliad Pêl-droed Cymru, Katie Rowson o Glwb Pêl-droed Aberdeen, a Dan Dodge o Sport4Change.
Ychwanegodd Sara Hilton, Uwch Ddarlithydd mewn Pêl-droed a Gwyddor Hyfforddi: “Cafodd ein myfyrwyr ddiwrnod bythgofiadwy yn ein cynhadledd Gamechangers – ac mae’r adborth rydyn ni wedi’i dderbyn ganddyn wedyn wedi bod yn wych.
"Roeddem yn falch o groesawu llinell bwerdy o siaradwyr a ysbrydolodd, heriodd ac egnïodd ein myfyrwyr, a gafodd drin trafodaethau ysgogol a mewnwelediadau amhrisiadwy i sut mae pêl-droed yn cael ei ddefnyddio fel grym ar gyfer newid cadarnhaol mewn cymunedau ledled y byd.
“Diolch yn fawr i'n siaradwyr gwych, a daeth pob un â rhywbeth arbennig i ysbrydoli ein cenhedlaeth nesaf o wneuthurwyr newid pêl-droed.”

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/wythnos-croeso:
Rydym wedi gweithio i sicrhau bod pawb yn teimlo bod croeso iddynt, yn derbyn gofal ac yn rhan o'r hyn y mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn ei wneud orau - sef bod yn gymuned gefnogol.
Mae iechyd, diogelwch a lles ein myfyrwyr a'n staff yn flaenllaw yn ein cynlluniau ac yn sicrhau ein bod yn parhau i ddarparu profiad dysgu o ansawdd uchel i bawb.
Bydd angen i fyfyrwyr sy'n dychwelyd ar ôl gwyliau'r haf ailgofrestru er mwyn parhau â'ch astudiaethau ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam.
Ewch i'n tudalen myfyrwyr sy'n dychwelyd am ragor o wybodaeth.
Popeth byddwch angen gwybod cyn i chi gyrraedd Prifysgol Wrecsam.
Dewch o hyd i'ch amserlenni a'ch calendr academaidd.
Yr holl wybodaeth hanfodol i gofrestru yn Prifysgol Wrecsam.
Eleni, mae'r Brifysgol yn newid ac yn gwella'r anwythiad a'r croeso i addysg uwch ac i Prifysgol Wrecsam.
Bydd y modiwl newydd, ar wahân i'ch gradd, yn amlinellu'r hyn sydd angen i chi ei wybod am fod yn fyfyriwr yn Prifysgol Wrecsam.
Bydd gofyn i chi ddewis yr opsiwn wrth gofrestru ac rydym yn argymell i bob myfyriwr israddedig newydd gymryd rhan.
Mae'r Brifysgol wedi creu porth ar gyfer myfyrwyr rhagbrofol, newydd a chyfredol i helpu i ateb unrhyw gwestiynau sydd gennych am eich astudiaethau.
Mae enghreifftiau o wybodaeth y gallwch ddod o hyd iddi ar y wefan hon yn cynnwys:
Gall myfyrwyr cofrestredig ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam ddefnyddio eu manylion mewngofnodi Prifysgol i gael mynediad i'r system yma.
Gall ymgeiswyr, darpar fyfyrwyr, myfyrwyr nad ydynt wedi cwblhau eu cofrestriad neu rieni a gofalwyr gofrestru i ddefnyddio'r system trwy lenwi ffurflen gofrestru gyflym.
Ar ôl cofrestru, gallwch gael mynediad i'r system i gael rhagor o wybodaeth am Brifysgol Wrecsam a bywyd myfyrwyr.
Os oes gennych unrhyw gwestiynau am gael mynediad i'r system, cysylltwch â ni ar ask@wrexham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/gyrfaoedd/porth-gyrfaoedd-a-chyflogadwyedd:
Mae GOFYN: Gyrfaoedd a Chyflogadwyedd yn broffil personol ar gyfer pob cam o'ch taith yrfaol, ar ôl i chi raddio.
Trwy ein Porth Gyrfaoedd, rydym yn cynnig: mynediad 24/7 at Gynghorwyr Gyrfaoedd Addysg Uwch cymwys ac arbenigwyr cyflogadwyedd Addysg Uwch.
Gall myfyrwyr gyrchu’r porth yma .
Mewngofnodwch gyda'ch cyfeiriad e-bost myfyriwr a’ch cyfrinair.
Gwahoddir graddedigion i gofrestru fel graddedigion ar y porth gan ddefnyddio eich manylion personol yma.
Rydym yn annog yr holl fyfyrwyr yn eu blwyddyn olaf o astudio i ddiweddaru eu proffil gyda'u manylion personol i fanteisio ar y cyfleoedd gorau o gefnogaeth barhaus ar ôl iddynt raddio.
Unwaith y byddwch wedi cofrestru fel myfyriwr graddedig, byddwn yn uno eich data myfyriwr a graddedig i greu un proffil, fel bod gennych gofnod llawn o'ch gweithgareddau a chyflawniadau gyrfaoedd a chyflogadwyedd.
Gwahoddir Darpar Fyfyrwyr i gofrestru ar ein porth i gael cefnogaeth wrth ystyried astudio ym Mhrifysgol Wrecsam.
Cofrestrwch yma fel darpar fyfyriwr i gyrchu ein Cynghorwyr Gyrfaoedd AU a’n harbenigwyr cyflogadwyedd.
Gall Cyflogwyr, Recriwtwyr a Sefydliadau Gwirfoddol greu proffil sefydliad personol a hysbysebu i’n gweithlu brwdfrydig o fyfyrwyr a graddedigion trwy ein porth yma .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/hygyrchedd:
Darperir y Datganiad Hygyrchedd hwn gan Brifysgol Wrecsam (PW) ac mae’n berthnasol i’n llwyfan gwefan yn unol â Rheoliadau Hygyrchedd Cyrff y Sector Cyhoeddus (Gwefannau ac Apiau Symudol) 2018 .
Mae'r datganiad hygyrchedd hwn yn berthnasol i wrexham.ac.uk, sydd yw prif wefan corfforaethol Prifysgol Wrecsam a chaiff ei chynnal yn fewnol.
Ein nod yw sicrhau bod y wefan yn gwbl hygyrch ac ar gael at ddefnydd pob defnyddiwr, waeth beth yw eu gallu, ac rydym yn dilyn canllawiau WCAG2.2 .
Mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn ymrwymo i sicrhau fod ei wefan yn hygyrch i'r gynulleidfa ehangaf posib, gan gynnwys defnyddwyr gydag anableddau.
Mae'r Brifysgol yn y broses o sicrhau fod ei dudalennau yn cydymffurfio â'r safonau AA o fersiwn o Ganllawiau Hygyrchedd Cynnwys y We (CHCW) a argymhellir gan W3C .
Mae'r Brifysgol yn cydnabod bod hyn yn waith rhagweledol a pharhaus ar ei hanner ac, er mwyn sicrhau nad oes unrhyw ddefnyddiwr dan anfantais tra bod y gwaith yma'n mynd ymlaen, mae'r Brifysgol yn bwriadu ymateb i bob cais am gymorth gyda hygyrchedd unai drwy newid y cynnwys angenrheidiol cyn gynted a sy'n bosib, neu, os dymunwyd, drwy ddarparu'r wybodaeth mewn ffurf arall o fewn ffrâm amser rhesymol.
Bydd y Brifysgol yn gwneud newidiadau rhesymol er mwyn sicrhau cyrraedd anghenion penodol unigol ni all newidiadau prif ffrwd eu gafael.
Cysylltwch webeditor@glyndwr.ac.uk am gymorth â hyn.
Mae sawl nodwedd hygyrchedd ar y wefan, sy’n golygu y dylech chi fedru:
Mae gan AbilityNet gyngor ar wneud eich dyfais yn haws i’w defnyddio os oes gennych chi anabledd
Newid maint testun
Drwy ddefnyddio gosodiadau eich porwr gallwch wneud y testun ar y gwefan hwn yn fwy neu'n llai.
Newid Maint Testun o dudalennau gwe rydych yn edrych ar
Gallwch ddewis yr opsiwn "Chwyddo main testun yn unig" i dim ond newid maint y testun heb newid unrhyw elfen arall ar y dudalen
I wella'ch profiad ar ein gwefan, gallwch hefyd ddefnyddio ein bar offer hygyrchedd (wedi'i darparu gan Recite Me ) i newid sut mae ein gwefan yn arddangos.
Mae'r bar offer yma'n rhoi llawer o opsiynau gan gynnwys:
I gyrchu'r bar offer cliciwch y linc "Hygyrchedd" ar ben unrhyw dudalen wrth ymyl y bar chwilio.
Bydd y bar offer yn ymddangos ar ben y dudalen.
Bydd unrhyw newid ydych yn gwneud yn aros tra rydych yn llywio drwy'r wefan.
Nodwch, dim ond ar dudalennau wedi'u cynnwys o fewn www.wrexham.ac.uk bydd y bar offer yn gweithio.
Mae'r wefan hon yn defnyddio Dolenni Diwyg Raeadrol (CSS) i nodi'r steil.
Os oes gennych drafferthion yn darllen y testun ar ein gwefan mae'n bosib newid lliwiau'r testun a chefndir drwy addasu gosodiadau'r porwr
Nodweddion hygyrchedd Firefox
Nodweddion hygyrchedd Chrome
Nodweddion hygyrchedd Internet Explorer
Darganfyddwch mwy am sut i newid maint testun a lliwiau .
Er mwyn gwella eich profiad ar ein gwefan, gallwch hefyd ddefnyddio ein bar offer hygyrchedd (a ddarperir gan Recite Me) i newid sut mae ein gwefan yn cael ei harddangos.
Mae’r bar offer yma yn cynnig sawl opsiwn gan gynnwys:
I ddefnyddio’r bar offer, cliciwch ar y ddolen ‘Hygyrchedd’ ar frig unrhyw dudalen ger yr offeryn bar chwilio.
Bydd y bar offer yn ymddangos ar frig y dudalen.
Bydd unrhyw newidiadau a wnewch yn aros yn eu lle wrth ichi lywio drwy’r wefan.
Noder, mae’r bar offer yma ar gael dim ond ar gyfer tudalennau sydd wedi eu cynnwys ar wrexham.ac.uk .
Os bydd angen gwybodaeth sydd ar y wefan hon arnoch chi mewn fformat gwahanol, ac nad ydych chi wedi gallu lawrlwytho hyn gan ddefnyddio’r offeryn Blackboard Ally, danfonwch e-bost at: webeditor@glyndwr.ac.uk
Fe wnawn ni gyfeirio eich neges at yr aelod staff priodol a fydd yn cysylltu â chi cyn gynted ag y bo modd.
Rydym bob amser yn chwilio am ffyrdd i wella hygyrchedd y wefan hon.
Os byddwch yn canfod unrhyw broblemau nad ydynt wedi eu rhestru ar y dudalen hon neu’n credu nad ydym wedi bodloni gofynion hygyrchedd, cysylltwch â: webeditor@glyndwr.ac.uk Bydd eich neges yn cael ei chyfeirio at y tîm perthnasol a fydd yn cysylltu â chi cyn gynted ag y bo modd.
Mae’r Comisiwn Cydraddoldeb a Hawliau Dynol (EHRC) yn gyfrifol am orfodi Rheoliadau Hygyrchedd Cyrff y Sector Cyhoeddus (Gwefannau ac Apiau Symudol) (Rhif 2) 2018 (y ‘rheoliadau hygyrchedd’).
Os nad ydych yn fodlon gyda sut rydym yn ymateb i’ch cwyn, cysylltwch â'r Gwasanaeth Cynghori a Chymorth Cydraddoldeb (EASS) .
Mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn ymroi i wneud ei gwefan yn hygyrch, yn unol â Rheoliadau Hygyrchedd Cyrff y Sector Cyhoeddus (Gwefannau ac Apiau Symudol) (Rhif 2) 2018 .
Mae’r wefan hon yn cydymffurfio’n rhannol gyda safon AA Canllawiau Cynnwys y We fersiwn 2.1, oherwydd y diffyg cydymffurfio a restrir isod.
Mae’r cynnwys a restrir isod yn anhygyrch oherwydd y rhesymau canlynol.
Nid oes gan rai delweddau ddewis amgen sydd yn destun, felly nid all pobl sydd yn defnyddio darllenwr sgrin gael mynediad at y wybodaeth.
Nid yw hyn felly yn cwrdd â meini prawf llwyddiant 1.11 WCAG 2.1 (cynnwys di-destun).
Ein nod yw bod yr holl gynnwys a ychwanegir ar ôl Medi 17, 2020 (dyddiad yr adolygiad mawr diweddaraf i’n gwefan) yn cynnwys testun ‘amgen’ ar gyfer pob delwedd.
Nid yw rhai o’r dolenni wedi eu labelu’n eglur.
Mae hyn yn golygu nad ydynt yn gwneud synnwyr o’u cymryd allan o’u cyd-destun, ac yn achos rhai dolenni, nid yw’n bosib gwybod beth yw pwrpas y ddolen.
Mae hyn yn fethiant o ran WCAG: 1.4.4 (pwrpas dolen mewn cyd-destun).
Byddwn yn cywiro testun dolenni tros amser, wrth adolygu pob tudalen.
Nid oes gan rai fideos ar ein gwefan y nodweddion pennawd gofynnol na thrawsgrifiadau (WCAG: 1.2.2, 1.2.4).
Yn unol â’r rheoliadau, bydd pob cynnwys newydd sy’n cael ei greu wedi Medi 2020 yn fwy hygyrch.
Mae’n bosib nad yw rhai dogfennau PowerPoint, Word a PDF sydd yn hanfodol o ran y dysgu, addysgu ac asesu, yn cwrdd â safonau hygyrchedd, er enghraifft, mae’n bosib nad ydynt wedi eu paratoi i fod yn hygyrch ar gyfer darllenydd sgrin.
Byddwn yn mynd i’r afael â’r materion hyn drwy gyfuniad o ddarparu gwell canllawiau, hyfforddi staff a darparu templedi ar gyfer dogfennau hygyrch (e.e.
templed llawlyfr modiwl hygyrch ar ffurf Word, templed ar gyfer sleid PowerPoint hygyrch), defnyddio Blackboard Ally i ysgogi gwelliant mewn hygyrchedd.
Mae’r adran hon yn rhoi sylw i faterion nad oes angen inni eu datrys ar hyn o bryd.
Mae’r gyfraith yn galw’r rhain yn esemptiadau.
Cyhoeddwyd rhai o’n ffeiliau PDF nad ydynt yn hanfodol o ran darparu ein gwasanaethau cyn Medi 23, 2018.
Rydym yn rhoi strategaethau ar waith i sicrhau y bydd unrhyw PDF neu ddogfennau newydd a gyhoeddwn yn cwrdd â safonau hygyrchedd.
Os ydych yn ei chael hi’n anodd cael mynediad at y dogfennau hyn, mae modd defnyddio offeryn Recite Me i lawrlwytho fformat amgen.
Neu fel arall, fe wnawn ni ymateb i unrhyw faterion penodol ar gais.
Byddwn yn canolbwyntio ein hymdrechion ar sicrhau bod wrexham.ac.uk ac unrhyw gynnwys newydd sy’n cael ei greu ynddo a’i uwchlwytho iddo, mor hygyrch â phosib i’r dyfodol.
Mae cynnwys gan drydydd parti ar ein gwefan.
Nid oes gennym reolaeth dros y cynnwys yma ac nid ydym yn gyfrifol am ei hygyrchedd, ond fe wnawn ein gorau i weithio gyda’r trydydd parti i wella eu hygyrchedd.
Gall hyn gynnwys:
Mae Prifysgol Wrecsam wedi gallu defnyddio searchBOX , sef cyfeiriadur canolog ac annibynnol o wybodaeth ynghylch hygyrchedd trydydd parti i helpu cydymffurfio â hygyrchedd ar draws y sector.
Mae searchBOX yn rhestru gwybodaeth cyswllt a datganiadau hygyrchedd cyflwnwyr trydydd parti, yn galluogi rhannu datganiadau hygyrchedd a gynhyrchir gan y gymuned, ac yn galluogi defnyddwyr i fapio ecosystem eu cyflenwyr.
Gall defnyddwyr gael mynediad at ddatganiadau hygyrchedd trydydd parti gan ddefnyddio gwasanaeth rhad ac am ddim searchBOX Finder .
Bydd Prifysgol Wrecsam yn annog ein holl bartneriaid a chyflenwyr i gefnogi’r ymdrech hon drwy sicrhau bod eu gwybodaeth ynghylch hygyrchedd wedi ei chynnwys yng nghyfeiriadur searchBOX.
Ar ôl cychwyn y Sgwrsio Byw, mae tabio yn mynd â chi i frig y dudalen yn hytrach na’r ffenestr sgwrsio.
Hefyd, nid yw’r arddulliau mewnol gorfodol yn caniatáu i’r defnyddiwr addasu uchder y llinell.
Mae'r materion hyn yn cael eu hystyried ar hyn o bryd ac mae meddalwedd sgwrsio byw yn cael ei adolygu.
Mae gan Prifysgol Wrecsam weithgor hygyrchedd sydd yn cwrdd yn rheolaidd i weithio ar sut gall y Brifysgol ddiwallu ei rhwymedigaethau mewn perthynas â’r rheoliadau hygyrchedd newydd ar gyfer holl ddarpariaeth ddigidol y Brifysgol.
Rydym wedi darparu cyfleodd hyfforddi ac adnoddau ar gyfer aelodau staff ar sut i wella hygyrchedd cynnwys digidol ar gyfer dysgu, addysgu ac asesu.
Rydym wedi ychwanegu offeryn i’r wefan, sef Recite Me, ac rydym yn gwirio unrhyw PDF cyn ei uwchlwytho i’n gwefan drwy feddalwedd Blackboard Ally i wneud yn siŵr eu bod yn cydymffurfio.
Rydym ni hefyd yn defnyddio’r feddalwedd honno’n wythnosol i’n cynorthwyo i adnabod unrhyw faterion hygyrchedd ac yn gweithio’n rheolaidd i’w datrys.
Mater wedi'i Sefydlog - 15/08/2022: Pennawd a gwe-lywio - rydym ni wedi adnabod problem gyda’n dewislen gwe-lywio, sef bod rhai dewisiadau ar y ddewislen yn derbyn ffocws bysellfwrdd ddwywaith.
Mae rhai elfennau yn ffocysu pan nad ydynt i’w gweld.
Felly, mae’n bosib na fydd rhai elfennau yn dangos arwyddiant ffocws effeithiol bob tro (WCAG: 2.4.7).
Materion Sefydlog - 26/01/2024: Rydym wedi n ewid darparwr sgwrsio byw i fynd i'r afael â'r mater canlynol : Ar ôl i sgwrs cael ei actifadu , mae tabio yn mynd â chi i frig y dudalen yn hytrach na'r ffenestr sgwrsio .
Hefyd , nid yw'r defnyddiwr yn gallu addasu uchder llinell oherwydd arddulliau mewn-lein gorfodol .
Paratowyd rhan o’r datganiad hwn ar 22ain Medi 2020.
Fe’i hadolygwyd a’i diweddaru’n ddiweddarach ar Tachwedd 25, 2022.
Profwyd y wefan hon ddiwethaf gyda thechnolegau cynorthwyol ar Tachwedd 25, 2022, gan aelodau staff Prifysgol Glyndŵr Wrecsam.
Y tro diwethaf inni ddefnyddio’r adroddiad sefydliadol sydd ar gael drwy Blackboard Ally oedd Tachwedd 25, 2022.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/ymwadiad:
Gwneir pob ymdrech i sicrhau cywirdeb a chyfredolrwydd o wybodaeth a roddir yn nhudalennau ar wefan Prifysgol Glyndŵr Wrecsam a phob is-barth o hynny.
Er hyn, mae'r cynnwys yn newid bob hyn a hyn a ni all y Brifysgol dderbyn cyfrifoldeb am gywirdeb o'r wybodaeth i gyd a gyflwynir ar unrhyw adeg benodol.
Mae'r Brifysgol yn cadw'r hawl i wneud newidiadau heb rybudd.
Gall rhai linciau ddilyn i wybodaeth a chynhaliwyd gan drydydd parti a ni dderbyniwyd y Brifysgol unrhyw gyfrifoldeb am gywirdeb neu unrhyw agwedd arall o wybodaeth a cheir drwy'r linciau yma.
Gwneir pob ymdrech i sicrhau fod cynnwys a all ei lawrlwytho heb firysau.
Ni all y Brifysgol dderbyn unrhyw gyfrifoldeb am niwed o ganlyniad i haint firws.
Bwriad prosbectws a thudalennau gwe'r Brifysgol yw arweiniad cyffredinol i gyrsiau a chyfleusterau’r Brifysgol ac nid ydynt yn ffurfio rhan o unrhyw gontract rhyngoch chi na'r Brifysgol, oni bai fel y rhoddir isod;
Paratowyd y prosbectws a thudalennau gwe cyn y flwyddyn academaidd maent yn perthyn i.
Er cymerith y Brifysgol camau rhesymol i ddarparu'r cyrsiau a gwasanaethau fel y disgrifiwyd, ni all y Brifysgol gwarantu'r ddarpariaeth o unrhyw gwrs na chyfleuster, gall unrhyw gwrs ei newid neu ei dynnu oherwydd amgylchiadau tu allan i reolaeth y Brifysgol.
Gall amgylchiadau cynnwys (ond nid yn gyfyngedig i) achosion diwydiannol, diffyg galw, ymadawiad personél allweddol, a newid mewn polisi llywodraethol, tynnu neu leihau cyllid, newid yn y gyfraith.
Mae cofrestru i'r Brifysgol yn ddibynnol ar eich derbyniad o'r amodau o gofrestru sy'n cynnwys (ond nid yn gyfyngedig i) eich cytundeb i fod yn rhwym i reoliadau'r Brifysgol.
Gall y wefan cynnwys linciau i wefannau trydydd parti.
Nid oes gan y Brifysgol unrhyw reolaeth dros gynnwys y gwefannau hyn a ni dderbyniwyd y Brifysgol unrhyw gyfrifoldeb amdanynt nag am unrhyw golled neu niwed a fedr godi o'ch defnydd ohonynt.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/cwcis:
Mae cwci yn ffeil fach sy'n helpu'ch porwr we i lywio drwy wefan penodol.
Yna, gall y cwci ei ddarllen yn ôl gan y porwr we fel yr angen.
Mae'r defnydd o cwcis yn ffordd gyfleus o adael i gyfrifiadur cofio gwybodaeth benodol sy'n ymwneud a gwefan sydd wedi'i hymweld â.
Yna, gall y data cwci yma ei hadennill a gall adael i ni addasu ein tudalennau a gwasanaethau yn unol â hynny.
Sut mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn defnyddio cwcis?
Bydd wefan y Brifysgol, yn bennaf, yn gosod cwcis sesiynol.
Mae cwcis sesiynol yn caniatáu i wefannau cofio gwybodaeth rhwng tudalennau fel nad oes angen i'r defnyddiwr mewnbynnu'r wybodaeth mwy nag unwaith.
Y brif enghraifft o pan gaiff cwcis sesiynol eu defnyddio ydi yn ystod prynu o siop ar lein - defnyddir cwci sesiynol er mwyn cofio beth roddwyd y defnyddiwr i mewn i'w basged er mwyn ei gario drwy i'r ddesg talu.
Fel arfer, ceir cwcis sesiynol eu dileu gan eich porwr pan rydych yn cau eich porwr.
Mae rhai rhannau o'r wefan hon yn defnyddio Google Analytics sydd hefyd yn rhoi cwcis ar eich cyfrifiadur.
Ceir y wybodaeth a chaiff ei greu gan y cwcis yma am eich defnydd o'r gwefan hwn eu trosglwyddo i a'u storio gan Google.
Ni ddefnyddir y Brifysgol yr arfau dadansoddi ystadegol er mwyn eich tracio na chasglu gwybodaeth ganfyddadwy bersonol am ymwelwyr o'r wefan hon.
Ni chysylltir y Brifysgol unrhyw ddata a chasglwyd gydag unrhyw wybodaeth ganfyddadwy bersonol o unrhyw ffynhonnell fel rhan o’n defnydd o'r arfau dadansoddi ystadegol.
Rydym yn defnyddio cwcis Google Analytics er mwyn dal gwybodaeth am eich ymweliad i ein safle.
Mae hyn yn helpu ni i adnabod defnydd a phoblogrwydd ein gwasanaethau yn well a pa mor llwyddiannus mae'r gwefan yn gweithio.
Os na ddymunwch i ni wneud hyn, gallwch eithrio o'r gwasanaeth Dadansoddi drwy lawr lwytho estyniad ar gyfer eich porwr .
Dewis arall ydi gallwch ddileu/cyfyngu'r cwcis fel gallwch ar unrhyw gwci arall.
Rydym yn defnyddio Hotjar er mwyn helpu ni ddeall sut mae defnyddwyr yn llywio o gwmpas tudalennau unigol ar ein gwefan ac i greu holiaduron i gasglu adborth defnyddwyr.
Darganfyddwch mwy o wybodaeth am gwcis a phreifatrwydd data ar wefan Hotjar .
Rydym yn defnyddio Cludo, platfform dadansoddi trydydd parti er mwyn helpu ni i roi canlyniadau chwilio gwell i'n defnyddwyr
Mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn defnyddio Azorus sef ein llwyfan Rheoli Perthynas Cwsmeriaid (CRM).
Fe'i cynhelir ar be.glyndwr.ac.uk.
Rydym yn defnyddio'r CRM ar gyfer storio data, marchnata uniongyrchol, rheoli digwyddiadau, proffilio, ac adrodd.
Rydym yn defnyddio Cytundebol fel sail gyfreithlon ar gyfer anfon negeseuon e-bost system sy'n cael eu sbarduno gan archebion digwyddiadau, cwblhau ffurflen neu wybodaeth a fewnforiwyd o system ymholiadau 3ydd parti, megis UniBuddy.
Mae rhagor o wybodaeth am eu polisi preifatrwydd ar gael yma.
Gall ein darparwr CRM trydydd parti " Azorus " ddefnyddio technolegau tebyg i gwcis o bryd i'w gilydd , fel bannau gwe , SDKs, picsel (neu "gifs clir ") a thechnolegau olrhain eraill .
Maent yn gosod gifs picsel sengl yn awtomatig , a elwir hefyd yn bannau gwe , ym mhob e- bost a anfonir o Azorus .
Ffeiliau graffeg bychan iawn yw'r rhain sy'n cynnwys dynodwyr unigryw sy'n galluogi Prifysgol Wrecsam ac Azorus i gydnabod pan fydd ein Cysylltiadau wedi agor e- bost neu glicio ar rai cysylltiadau .
Mae'r technolegau hyn yn cofnodi cyfeiriad e- bost pob Cyswllt , cyfeiriad IP, dyddiad , ac amser sy'n gysylltiedig â phob un agored a chliciwch ar gyfer ymgyrch .
Mae Azorus yn defnyddio'r data hwn i greu adroddiadau i Brifysgol Wrecsam am sut y bu ymgyrch e- bost yn perfformio a pha gamau a gymerodd Cysylltiadau .
Mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn defnyddio meddalwedd sgwrsio byw trydydd parti a ddarperir gan Chatify.
Mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn defnyddio'r gwasanaeth i ymateb i ymholiadau sgwrsio byw uniongyrchol .
I wella eich profiad defnyddiwr , defnyddir cwcis i gofio a ydych wedi cyflwyno gwybodaeth o'r blaen .
- Mae mwy o wybodaeth am eu polisi preifatrwydd ar gael yma .
Mae tracio cyfryngau cymdeithasol yn caniatáu i ni dracio defnyddwyr sydd wedi'u hailgyfeirio o blatfform cymdeithasol fel Facebook a LinkedIn.
Mae hefyd yn ein caniatáu ni i ail-farchnata i ymwelwyr y gwefan sy'n defnyddio'r platfformau yma.
Byddem yn rhannu gwybodaeth sy'n ymwneud â'ch ymweliad i ein gwefan gyda phlatfformau cyfryngau cymdeithasol ond na fydd hyn yn cynnwys unrhyw wybodaeth ynglŷn â'ch cais neu unrhyw wybodaeth bersonol arall.
Defnyddir y wybodaeth yma ar ein rhan ni er mwyn monitro'r effeithiolrwydd o ein hysbysebu a rhaglenni.
Defnyddiwyd y wybodaeth rydym yn rhannu mewn cytundeb â pholisi defnydd data Facebook a pholisi preifatrwydd LinkedIn yn unig.
Gall tracio hefyd ein galluogi ni a'n partneriaid i weini hysbysebion ar ac oddi ar blatfformau cyfryngau cymdeithasol.
Mae gwerthwyr trydydd parti, gan gynnwys Google, yn defnyddio cwcis er mwyn gweini hysbysebion yn seiliedig ar ymweliadau gorffennol rhywun i'r wefan hon.
Mae hyn yn caniatáu i ni gyrraedd pobl sydd wedi ymweld â gwefan Prifysgol Wrecsam, o'r blaen, a pharu'r bobl iawn gyda'r neges iawn.
Bydd cwcis ail-farchnata yn dod i ben dwy flynedd o'r amser gosodwyd neu diweddarwyd y cwci (pa bynnag ydi'r hwyraf).
Ceir unrhyw ddata a chasglwyd ei ddefnyddio mewn cytundeb â'n polisi preifatrwydd a pholisi preifatrwydd Google.
Gallwch eithrio o hysbysebion sy'n seiliedig ar cwcis o'r ddau sefydliad - ac eraill - drwy fynd i Eich dewisiadau ar lein a diffodd hysbysebu ymddygiadol gan nifer fawr o gwmnïau
Pan ydych yn ymweld â glyndwr.ac.uk efallai byddech yn sylwi cwcis heb berthynas i'r Brifysgol.
Rydym yn defnyddio nifer o wasanaethau allanol ar wefan y Brifysgol, yn bennaf er mwyn dangos cynnwys o fewn ein tudalennau gwe.
Er enghraifft, er mwyn dangos fideos rydym yn defnyddio YouTube.
Rydym hefyd yn defnyddio nifer o wasanaethau Google, gan gynnwys Calendr a Mapiau.
Nid yw hwn yn rhestr drwyadl na chyflawn o'r gwasanaethau rydym yn defnyddio, neu gallem ni ddefnyddio yn y dyfodol, pan rydym yn mewnblannu cynnwys, ond rhain yw'r rhai mwyaf cyffredin.
Fel gyda'r botymau cymdeithasol, nid yw'n bosib i ni atal y gwefannau yma, neu barthau allanol, o gasglu gwybodaeth ar eich defnydd o'r cynnwys wedi'i mewnblannu.
Os nad ydych wedi mewngofnodi i'r gwasanaethau allanol yma yna na fyddent yn gwybod pwy ydach chi ond mae'n debygol byddent yn casglu data defnydd dienw ee nifer o weithiau a welwyd, chwaraewyd, llwythwyd, ayyb.
Ar rai o dudalennau'r wefan hon byddech yn gweld 'botymau cymdeithasol'.
Mae'r rhain yn galluogi defnyddwyr i rannu neu lyfrnodi tudalennau gwe.
Mae yna fotymau ar gyfer Facebook, Twitter a LinkedIn
Er mwyn gweithredu'r botymau yma, a'u cysylltu gyda'u cyfryngau cymdeithasol a gwefannau allanol perthnasol, defnyddir sgriptiau o barthau tu allan i'r Brifysgol.
Dylech fod yn ymwybodol mae'n debygol fod y gwefannau hyn yn casglu gwybodaeth tra rydych yn pori'r rhyngrwyd, gan gynnwys ar wefan y Brifysgol.
Felly, os ydych yn clicio ar unrhyw un o'r botymau hyn, bydd y gwefannau yma yn cofrestru'r weithred yna ac efallai yn defnyddio'r wybodaeth yna.
Mewn rhai achosion, os ydych wedi mewngofnodi i'w gwasanaethau, bydd y gwefannau hyn yn cofrestru'r ffaith eich bod yn ymweld â gwefan y Brifysgol, a'r tudalennau penodol ydych arno, hyd yn oed os nad ydych yn clicio ar y botwm.
Dylech wirio'r polisïau preifatrwydd a chwcis perthnasol o'r gwefannau hyn i gyd er mwyn gweld sut yn union maent yn defnyddio eich gwybodaeth a darganfod sut i ddileu neu eithrio o'r wybodaeth.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/preifatrwydd:
Mae’r polisi preifatrwydd hwn yn nodi sut mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn defnyddio eich data personol ac yn ei ddiogelu.
Darperir y polisi preifatrwydd yma mewn fformat haenog fel y gallwch glicio drwy’r meysydd penodol a nodir isod.
Polisi preifatrwydd
Mae’r polisi preifatrwydd hwn yn rhoi gwybodaeth i chi ynghylch sut mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn casglu ac yn defnyddio eich data personol wrth i chi ddefnyddio’r wefan hon, gan gynnwys unrhyw ddata y gallwch ei ddarparu pan rydych yn cofrestru gyda ni, yn cyflwyno sgwrs fyw, yn mynnu lle ar ddiwrnod agored neu ddigwyddiad, gwneud ymholiad (dros y ffôn, ffurflen ar-lein neu wyneb yn wyneb) neu brynu cynnyrch neu wasanaeth.
Nid yw’r wefan hon ar gyfer plant ac nid ydym yn casglu data sy’n ymwneud â phlant yn fwriadol.
Rheolwr
Prifysgol Wrecsam yw’r rheolwr ac yn gyfrifol am eich data personol (y cyfeirir ati fel “ Y Brifysgol”, “ni”, “ninnau” neu “ein” yn y polisi preifatrwydd hwn).
Rydym wedi penodi swyddog diogelu data (DPO) sy’n gyfrifol am oruchwylio cwestiynau sy’n berthnasol i’r polisi preifatrwydd hwn.
Os oes gennych chi unrhyw gwestiynau ynghylch y polisi preifatrwydd hwn, gan gynnwys unrhyw ofynion i arddel eich hawliau cyfreithiol (paragraff 9 ) , cysylltwch â’r Swyddog Diogelu Data gan ddefnyddio’r wybodaeth a roddir yn yr adran manylion cyswllt (paragraff 10 ) .
Mae data personol yn cyfeirio at unrhyw wybodaeth ynghylch unigolyn  y gellir ei defnyddio i adnabod yr unigolyn hwnnw.
Mae’n bosib y byddwn yn casglu, defnyddio, storio ac yn trosglwyddo gwahanol fathau o ddata personol yn eich cylch rydym wedi ei ddwyn ynghyd fel a ganlyn:
Rydym hefyd yn casglu, defnyddio a rhannu data cyfanredol megis data ystadegol neu ddemograffig sydd heb fod yn ddata personol gan nad yw’n datgelu eich hunaniaeth yn uniongyrchol (nac yn anuniongyrchol).
Er enghraifft, mae'n bosib y byddem yn crynhoi'ch Data Defnyddio er mwyn cyfrifo canran y defnyddwyr sy'n cyrchu nodwedd gwefan benodol er mwyn dadansoddi tueddiadau cyffredinol o ran sut mae defnyddwyr yn rhyngweithio gyda’n gwefan i helpu gwella’r wefan a’n cynnig o ran gwasanaeth.
Rydym yn defnyddio dulliau gwahanol i gasglu data gennych chi ac amdanoch chi gan gynnwys drwy:
rhwydweithiau hysbysebu megis
Y Sail Gyfreithiol
Mae’r gyfraith yn ei gwneud hi’n ofynnol i ni gael sail gyfreithiol dros gasglu a defnyddio eich data personol.
Rydym yn dibynnu ar un neu fwy o’r seiliau cyfreithiol canlynol:
Y dibenion yr ydym yn defnyddio eich data personol ar eu cyfer
Rydym wedi nodi isod, ar ffurf tabl, disgrifiad o’r holl ffyrdd rydym yn bwriadu defnyddio amrywiol gategorïau eich data personol, a pha un o’r seiliau cyfreithiol rydym yn dibynnu arnynt i wneud hynny.
Rydym hefyd wedi adnabod beth yw ein diddordebau cyfreithiol lle mae’n briodol.
Diben/Defnydd
Math o ddata
Sail gyfreithiol a chyfnod cadw
Darparu gwybodaeth a deunydd marchnata os ydych chi wedi gwneud ymholiad, wedi mynnu lle mewn digwyddiad neu ar ddiwrnod agored neu wedi cofrestru eich diddordeb yn uniongyrchol neu drwy drydydd parti.
Byddem yn defnyddio eich gwybodaeth er mwyn prosesu ceisiadau, megis ateb ymholiad, eich darparu â gwybodaeth ynghylch digwyddiad fel manylion digwyddiad a diweddariadau neu ddarparu rhagor o fanylion ar gyfer meysydd yr ydych wedi cofrestru eich diddordeb ynddynt.
Er mwyn ateb unrhyw ymholiadau a chwestiynau rydych wedi’u holi drwy ein sgwrs fyw
Byddem yn defnyddio eich gwybodaeth er mwyn prosesu ceisiadau megis ateb ymholiad a'ch darparu gydag unrhyw fanylion pellach sy’n berthnasol i’ch ymholiad.
Ail-farchnata
Mae’n bosib y byddwn yn arddangos hysbysebion i ddefnyddwyr yn seiliedig ar ymweliadau blaenorol neu ryngweithiadau gyda’n gwefan.
Marchnata uniongyrchol
Byddwch yn derbyn cyfathrebiadau marchnata gennym ni os ydych chi wedi gwneud cais am wybodaeth gennym neu wedi prynu nwyddau neu wasanaethau gennym ni ac nad ydych wedi dewis peidio â derbyn y marchnata.
Mae’n bosib y byddwn hefyd yn dadansoddi eich Data Hunaniaeth, Cyswllt, Technegol, Defnydd a Phroffil er mwyn ffurfio barn gyda chynnyrch, gwasanaethau a chynigion a allai fod o ddiddordeb i chi fel ein bod wedyn yn gallu anfon cyfathrebiadau marchnata perthnasol atoch chi.
Marchnata trydydd parti
Byddwn yn sicrhau eich caniatâd penodol cyn y byddwn yn rhannu eich data personol gydag unrhyw drydydd parti ar gyfer eu pwrpasau marchnata uniongyrchol eich hun.
Eithrio rhag marchnata
Gallwch ofyn am i gyfathrebiadau marchnata beidio â chael eu hanfon atoch chi ar unrhyw adeg drwy ddilyn y dolenni eithrio o fewn unrhyw gyfathrebiad marchnata a anfonwyd atoch chi neu drwy gysylltu â ni: https://wrexham.ac.uk/contact-us/
Os ydych yn dewis peidio â derbyn cyfathrebiadau marchnata, byddwn yn parhau i dderbyn cyfathrebiadau sy’n gysylltiedig gyda’r gwasanaeth sy’n angenrheidiol at ddibenion gweinyddol neu wasanaeth cwsmer.
Cwcis
Am ragor o wybodaeth ynghylch y cwcis rydym yn eu defnyddio a sut i newid eich dewisiadau cwcis, gweler: https://wrexham.ac.uk/cookies/
Mae’n bosib y byddwn yn rhannu eich data personol lle mae’n angenrheidiol gyda’r partïon a nodir isod ar gyfer y dibenion a nodir yn y tabl uchod.
Rydym yn ei gwneud gofyn i bob trydydd parti barchu eich data personol a’i drin yn unol â’r gyfraith.
Nid ydym yn caniatáu i’n darparwyr trydydd parti ddefnyddio eich data personol at eu pwrpas eu hunain ac ond yn caniatáu i brosesu eich data personol at ddibenion penodol ac yn unol gyda’n cyfarwyddiadau.
Mae’n bosib y byddwn yn trosglwyddo eich data personol i ddarparwyr gwasanaeth sy’n rhoi rhai gweithrediadau ar waith ar eich rhan.
Gall hyn gynnwys trosglwyddo data personol oddi allan i’r DU i wledydd sydd â chyfreithiau nad ydynt yn darparu’r un lefel o warchod data ag y mae cyfraith y DU.
Pryd bynnag y byddwn yn trosglwyddo eich data personol o’r DU i ddarparwyr gwasanaeth, byddwn yn sicrhau bod lefel debyg o amddiffyniad yn cael ei roi iddo drwy sicrhau bod y nodweddion diogelu yn eu lle:
Rydym wedi rhoi nifer o fesurau diogelwch priodol yn eu lle er mwyn atal eich data personol gael ei golli’n ddamweiniol, ei ddefnyddio neu ei gyrchu mewn ffordd nas awdurdodwyd, ei newid neu ei ddatgelu.
Yn ogystal, byddwn yn cyfyngu mynediad at eich data personol i’r gweithwyr, asiantaethau, contractwyr ac endidau trydydd parti sydd ag angen gwybod ar sail busnes.
Ni fyddant ond yn prosesu eich data personol o dan ein cyfarwyddyd ni ac maent yn ddibynnol ar ddyletswydd cyfrinachedd.
Rydym wedi rhoi gweithdrefnau yn eu lle er mwyn delio gydag amheuaeth o dor-data a byddwn yn rhoi gwybod i chi ac unrhyw reoleiddiwr perthnasol o doriad lle mae’n ofynnol i ni wneud hynny’n gyfreithiol.
Am ba hir fyddwch chi’n defnyddio fy nata personol?
Ni fyddwn ond yn cadw eich data personol am gyhyd ag y mae’n rhesymol o angenrheidiol er mwyn cyflawni’r dibenion rydym yn ei gasglu ar ei gyfer, gan gynnwys at ddibenion boddhau unrhyw ofynion cyfreithiol, rheoleiddiol, treth, cyfrifo neu adrodd.
Mae’n bosib y byddwn yn cadw eich data personol am gyfnod hirach yn achos cwyn neu os ydym yn credu yn rhesymol bod posiblirwydd o liniaru o safbwynt ein perthynas gyda chi.
Er mwyn penderfynu ar y cyfnod cadw priodol ar gyfer data personol, rydym yn ystyried swm, natur a sensitifrwydd y data personol, y posibilrwydd o risg neu niwed o ddefnydd anawdurdodedig neu ddatgelu eich data personol, byddwn yn prosesu eich data personol a ph’un a ydym yn gallu cyflawni’r dibenion hynny drwy ffyrdd eraill, a’r gofynion cyfreithiol, rheoleiddiol, treth, cyfrifo neu ofynion eraill perthnasol.
Yn ôl y gyfraith rydym angen cadw gwybodaeth sylfaenol am eich cwsmeriaid (gan gynnwys Data Cyswllt, Hunaniaeth, Ariannol a Throsglwyddo) am saith mlynedd wedi iddynt roi’r gorau i fod yn gwsmeriaid at ddibenion treth.
Mewn rhai amgylchiadau, gallwch ofyn i ni ddileu eich data: gweler paragraff 9 isod am wybodaeth bellach.
Mewn rhai amgylchiadau byddwn yn anonymeiddio eich data personol (fel nad yw bellach yn gallu cael ei gysylltu gyda chi) at ddibenion ymchwil neu ystadegol, ac yn yr achos yma mae’n bosib y byddwn yn defnyddio’r wybodaeth yma am gyfnod amhenodol heb eich hysbysu ymhellach.
Mae gennych nifer o hawliau dan gyfreithiau diogelu data.
Mae gennych yr hawl i:
Gofyn am gyfyngu ar brosesu eich data personol.
Mae hyn yn eich galluogi chi i ofyn am ohirio prosesu data personol o dan un o’r sefyllfaoedd canlynol:
Os hoffech weithredu unrhyw un o’r hawliau a nodir uchod, cysylltwch â ni os gwelwch yn dda yn dpo@wrexham.ac.uk .
Nid oes ffi’n daladwy fel arfer
Ni fyddwch angen talu ffi er mwyn cael mynediad at eich data personol (neu i weithredu unrhyw un o’r hawliau eraill).
Fodd bynnag, mae’n bosib y byddwn yn codi ffi resymol os yw eich cais yn amlwg yn ddi-sail, yn ailadrodd, neu’n ormodol.
Neu, gallwn wrthod cydymffurfio gyda’ch cais o dan yr amgylchiadau hyn.
Yr hyn y gallem fod ei angen gennych
Mae’n bosib y byddwn angen gwneud cais am wybodaeth benodol gennych chi er mwyn ein helpu ni i gadarnhau eich hunaniaeth a sicrhau eich hawl i gael mynediad at eich data personol (neu drwy roi un o'ch hawliau eraill ar waith).
Mae hyn yn fesur diogelwch er mwyn sicrhau nad yw data personol yn cael ei ddatgelu i unrhyw berson nad oes hawl ganddo ei dderbyn.
Mae’n bosib y bydden hefyd yn cysylltu â chi er mwyn holi am ragor o wybodaeth mewn perthynas â’ch cais er mwyn cyflymu ein hymateb.
Cyfyngiad amser er mwyn ymateb
Byddwn yn ceisio ymateb i’r holl geisiadau cyfreithlon o fewn un mis.
O bryd i'w gilydd, gallai gymryd mwy na mis os yw eich cais yn arbennig o gymhleth neu os ydych wedi gwneud sawl cais.
Yn yr achos hwn, byddwn yn rhoi gwybod i chi ac yn eich diweddaru yn ôl yr angen.
Os oes gennych chi unrhyw gwestiynau ynghylch y polisi preifatrwydd hwn neu ynghylch defnyddio eich data personol neu eich bod eisiau gweithredu eich hawliau preifatrwydd, gallwch gysylltu â ni yn y ffyrdd canlynol:
Mae gennych yr hawl i wneud cwyn ar unrhyw adeg i Swyddfa’r Comisiynydd Gwybodaeth (OCO), rheoleiddiwr y DU ar gyfer materion diogelu data.
Byddem, fodd bynnag, yn gwerthfawrogi’r cyfle i ddelio gyda’ch pryderon cyn i chi gysylltu gyda’r ICO felly dylech gysylltu â ni yn y lle cyntaf.
Rydym yn adolygu ein polisi preifatrwydd yn rheolaidd.
Cafodd y fersiwn hwn ei ddiweddaru ddiwethaf ar 20/03/25 .
Mae’n bwysig bod y data personol rydym yn ei ddal amdanoch chi yn gywir ac yn gyfredol.
Rhowch wybod i ni os gwelwch yn dda os yw eich data personol yn newid yn ystod eich perthynas gyda ni, er enghraifft cyfeiriad newydd neu gyfeiriad e-bost.
Mae’n bosib y bydd y wefan hon yn cynnwys dolenni i wefannau trydydd parti, ategolion a chymwysiadau.
Gall glicio ar y dolenni hynny neu alluogi’r cysylltiadau hynny alluogi i unrhyw drydydd parti gasglu neu rannu data amdanoch chi.
Nid ydym ni’n rheoli’r gwefannau trydydd parti yma ac nid ydym yn gyfrifol am eu datganiadau preifatrwydd.
Pan fyddwch yn gadael ein gwefan, rydym yn eich annog i ddarllen polisi preifatrwydd pob gwefan rydych chi’n ymweld â hi.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/llywodraethu-gwybodaeth:
Mae Llywodraethu Gwybodaeth yn darparu'r fframwaith i ddod â'r holl reolau cyfreithiol, canllawiau ac arfer gorausy'n berthnasol i drin gwybodaeth ac yn sicrhau bod risgiau gwybodaeth yn cael eu lleihau.
Mae diogelu data yn un rhan o lywodraethu gwybodaeth ac am faterion sy'n ymwneud â diogelu data, mae gan y Brifysgol Swyddog Diogelu Data .
Mae gan Lywodraethu Gwybodaeth dair prif egwyddor: cyfrinachedd, uniondeb ac argaeledd.
Dylai'r holl staff ymgyfarwyddo â chrynodeb GDPR ac egwyddorion GDPR, a chodi ymwybyddiaeth o'r newidiadau yn eich tîm.
Bydd y tudalennau hyn yn cael eu diweddaru gyda chyngor ac arweiniad pellach, os hoffech chi weld mwy o wybodaeth ar bwnc IG penodol, cysylltwch â dpo@glyndwr.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/amdanom-ni/y-gymraeg-ym-mhrifysgol-wrecsam:
Sefydlodd Mesur yr Iaith Gymraeg (Cymru) 2011 fframwaith cyfreithiol i osod dyletswydd statudol ar gyrff cyhoeddus yng Nghymru i gydymffurfio â safonau ymddygiad mewn perthynas â’r Gymraeg.
Mae’n cydnabod bod dwy iaith swyddogol yng Nghymru - Cymraeg a Saesneg.
Mae hyn yn golygu na ellir trin y Gymraeg yn llai ffafriol na Saesneg.
Nod y safonau yw gwella’r gwasanaeth dwyieithog y gall pobl Cymru ddisgwyl ei dderbyn gan sefydliadau yng Nghymru.
Mae’r Brifysgol yn ymrwymo i wneud cyfraniad cadarnhaol at ddatblygiad yr iaith Gymraeg a thuag at gadw at Safonau’r Iaith Gymraeg.
Mae’r dudalen hon yn amlinellu rhai o’r gwasanaethau y gallwch ddisgwyl eu derbyn gennym trwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg.
Rydym yn dangos ein hymrwymiad i’r Safonau ac yn datgan sut y byddwn yn cydymffurfio â hwy yn y polisi a’r dogfennau canllaw canlynol:
Fel rhan o’n hymrwymiad i Safonau’r Gymraeg byddwn yn:
Mae’r safonau sydd yn berthnasol i Brifysgol Wrecsam wedi eu rhestru yn yr Hysbysiad Cydymffurfio gan Gomisiynydd y Gymraeg.
Mae gofyn inni gydymffurfio â’r safonau yn y Llythyr Cydymffurfio dan y themâu canlynol:
Mae’r Brifysgol yn ymroi i gydymffurfio â’r Safonau yn unol â’r disgwyliadau a amlinellir yn yr Hysbysiad Cydymffurfio ac yn cydnabod pwysigrwydd darparu gwasanaeth dwyieithog.
Rydym yn cadw at yr egwyddor y byddwn, wrth ymgymryd â’n busnes, yn trin y Gymraeg a’r Saesneg yn gyfartal.
Mae gofyn bod y Brifysgol yn cynhyrchu Adroddiad Blynyddol sydd yn amlinellu sut mae wedi cydymffurfio â’r safonau perthnasol, cliciwch yma i’w weld.
Am ragor o wybodaeth am Safonau’r Gymraeg, cysylltwch ag Uwch Swyddog Cydymffurfio a Dirprwy Lywydd y Brifysgol .
Mae'r Brifysgol yn gweithio gydag Undeb y Myfyrwyr a'r Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol i gefnogi myfyrwyr i ddefnyddio'r Gymraeg.
Dysgu drwy gyfwng y Gymraeg
Mae'r Brifysgol yn gwbl ymroddedig i ddatblygiadau ar draws y sector mewn perthynas â darpariaeth cyfrwng Cymraeg.
Rydym yn cynnig nifer gynyddol o fodiwlau y gellir eu hastudio drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg ar draws pynciau megis Therapi Galwedigaethol ac Addysg.
Mae staff academaidd sydd yn meddu ar y Gymraeg yn cynnig tiwtorialau pwnc-benodol drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg ac anogir myfyrwyr i ddewis lleoliadau cyfrwng Cymraeg y gall y Brifysgol eu trefnu.
Gofal Bugeiliol
Gallwch ofyn am diwtor personol sy'n siarad Cymraeg, ar yr amod bod yna aelodau Cymraeg eu hiaith ymhlith y staff dysgu yn eich maes pwnc.
Os nad oes siaradwyr Cymraeg rhugl ymhlith y staff academaidd yn eich maes, byddwn yn gofyn i aelod o staff priodol o'ch cyfadran fod yn diwtor ichi.
Asesu
Gall myfyrwyr gyflwyno eu haseiniadau yn y Gymraeg a gallant ddefnyddio meddalwedd cywiro Cymraeg ar gyfrifiaduron y Brifysgol i hwyluso hyn.
Mae'r trefniadau hyn yn ddarostyngedig i unrhyw gyfarwyddyd neu reoliadau cenedlaethol gan gorff proffesiynol neu Arweiniad yr Asiantaeth Ansawdd (QAA).
Cyfathrebu
Mae ein holl gyfathrebu canolog â myfyrwyr yn eu dewis iaith.
Llety
Gall myfyrwyr geisio am lety sydd wedi ei neilltuo’n arbennig yn ein neuaddau preswyl ar gyfer siaradwyr Cymraeg.
Cysylltu â ni
Os oes gennych unrhyw gwestiynau am Safonau'r Gymraeg cysylltwch ag Uwch Swyddog Cydymffurfio a Swyddog Diogelu Data.
Ffôn: 44(0)1978 290666 e-bost dpo@wrexham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/cy/amdanom-ni/trefn-lywodraethol:
Mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn Gorfforaeth Addysg Uwch sefydlwyd yn 1993 fel Sefydliad Addysg Uwch Gogledd Ddwyrain Cymru o dan y Ddeddf Diwygiad Addysg Uwch 1998; a chaniatawyd ei deitl Prifysgol gan y Cyfrin Gyngor ar Orffennaf 3ydd 2008.
Mae'r Brifysgol hefyd yn elusen wedi'i gofrestru gyda'r Comisiwn Elusennau (Rhif elusen 1142048).
Y Bwrdd Llywodraethwyr yw awdurdod blaenaf, cyfreithiol, ariannol a busnes y Brifysgol yn ogystal â'r awdurdod cyflogi ar gyfer ei holl staff.
Mae angen i'r Bwrdd bennu cymeriad addysgiadol a bwriad y Brifysgol a gosod ei gyfeiriad strategol cyffredinol.
Yr Is-ganghellor yw Prif Weithredwr y Brifysgol ac yn gyfrifol am wneud cynigion i'r Bwrdd ynglŷn â chymeriad addysgiadol a bwriad y Brifysgol a dros weithredu penderfyniadau’r Bwrdd, yn ogystal â threfniant, cyfeiriad a rheolaeth y Brifysgol ac arweinyddiaeth ei staff.
Mae hi'n gwneud hyn gyda chefnogaeth Tîm Gweithredol yr Is-ganghellor.
Yn amodol ar gyfrifoldeb cyffredinol y Bwrdd a chyfrifoldebau'r Is-ganghellor mae'r Bwrdd Academaidd yn gyfrifol am faterion cyffredinol yn ymwneud ag ymchwil, ysgoloriaeth, addysgu a chyrsiau'r Brifysgol, datblygiad y gweithgareddau academaidd a chynghori'r Is-ganghellor a'r Bwrdd Llywodraethwyr ar y materion hyn.
Rhif elusen: 1142048
Mae Prifysgol Wrecsam yn Gorfforaeth Addysg Uwch a sefydlwyd o dan Ddeddf Diwygio Addysg 1988 fel Sefydliad Gogledd Ddwyrain Cymru yn 1993 gan dderbyn y teitl Prifysgol gan Gyfrin Gyngor Mwyaf Anrhydeddus Arglwyddi Ei Mawrhydi ar 3 Gorffennaf 2008.
Caiff Prifysgol Glyndŵr ei rheoli gan Offeryn ac Erthyglau Llywodraethu ac, fel y nodir yn ei Datganiad o Brif Gyfrifoldebau, Bwrdd y Llywodraethwyr yw prif awdurdod cyfreithiol, ariannol a busnes y Brifysgol yn ogystal â’r awdurdod dros gyflogi ei holl staff.
Mae datganiadau ariannol cyfunol y Brifysgol ar gael i'r cyhoedd.
Mae prif gampws y Brifysgol yn Wrecsam, Gogledd Ddwyrain Cymru gyda champysau yn Llaneurgain, Llanelwy a Llundain.
Mae'r Brifysgol yn cydweithio ag ystod eang o bartneriaid.
Cyfeiriad gweinyddol y Brifysgol yw Plas Coch, Ffordd yr Wyddgrug, Wrecsam.
Fel pob Sefydliad Addysg Uwch, mae’r Brifysgol yn wastad wedi bod yn elusen, gyda’i llywodraethwyr yn ymddiriedolwyr iddi.
Gan hynny y mae bob amser wedi gorfod cydsynio â chyfraith elusennol.
Cwblhaodd y Brifysgol y broses gofrestru ac fe’i chofrestrwyd yn llwyddiannus gyda’r Comisiwn Elusennau ym mis Mai 2011.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/animal-behaviour-welfare-and-conservation-top-up:
UCAS Code
D301
2025, 2026
1 YR (FT) 2 YRS (PT)
Northop
The BSc (Hons) Animal Behaviour, Welfare and Conservation top-up programme follows on from our FdSc Applied Animal Behaviour, Welfare and Conservation.
It provides a balanced package of skills and knowledge, tailored for those wishing to enter an animal care sector profession.
You will:
Students who have completed HND, FdSc or Dip HE in a related subject at other institutions can also join the course.
The Top Up year provides students with the opportunity to complete their own unique piece of research, thus enabling them to focus on a topic of choice.
Conservation and animal welfare assessment are concentrated on in this year, together with sustainable animal practices .
Career development is also a central theme, and third years are expected to complete additional professional development activities alongside their degree to enhance their chances of employment.
Research skills and professional development: The module aims to equip students with the skills to evaluate research design critically as applicable to equine science and welfare management, to select and justify appropriate methods for data collection and analysis, and to reflect on personal development over the duration of the programme of study in preparation for future employment.
Research Project: This module aims to ensure students can critically evaluate research and will guide students through the completion of a research-based study of a specialised area related to equine science and welfare management.
Animal Welfare Assessment: This module will enable students to explore how animal welfare can be assessed and improved in a range of environments and situations.
Students will investigate the physical, physiological and behavioural adaptations of animals resulting from their modern use and husbandry.
Sustainable Animal Practices: This module explores sustainable practices in the animal industry, emphasising the interconnectedness of human, animal, and environmental health.
Students will gain a comprehensive understanding of sustainability challenges and draw from different disciplines to offer sustainable solutions.
Conservation Policy: This module aims to introduce students to the range of contemporary threats to biodiversity across the UK.
Students will explore the role and the range of conservation polices that work towards protecting biodiversity in the UK and understand the range of socioeconomic impacts of these policies.
The information listed in this section is an overview of the academic content of the programme that will take the form of either core or option modules.
Modules are designated as core or option in accordance with professional body requirements and internal academic framework review, so may be subject to change.
A foundation degree or equivalent in animal studies or a closely related subject.
UCAS code: D301
Modules are assessed in a wide variety of ways.
This includes academic essays, research posters, presentations, seminar discussions, exams, portfolios, reflective practice and practical assessment.
The balance between the different forms of assessment is determined by the different aims and learning outcomes of the modules.
Teaching and learning
Module delivery is achieved through a combination of theoretical lectures, seminar discussions, guest lectures, educational visits, and practical work.
Between lectures, students are expected to read around their subjects making use of the detailed reading lists published in Module Guides.
Wrexham University is committed to supporting our students to maximise their academic potential.
We offer workshops and support sessions in areas such as academic writing, effective note-making and preparing for assignments.
Students can book appointments with academic skills tutors dedicated to helping deal with the practicalities of university work.
Our student support section has more information on the help available.
In terms of particular needs, the University’s Inclusion Services can provide appropriate guidance and support should any students require reasonable adjustments to be made because of a recognised prevailing disability, medical condition, or specific learning difference.
Our Careers & Employability service is there to help you make decisions and plan the next steps towards a bright future.
From finding work or further study to working out your interests, skills and aspirations, they can provide you with the expert information, advice and guidance you need.
Career opportunities in the animal care industry are wide-ranging.
You could be working in:
Further study opportunities are also available, such as progression to postgraduate level research and teaching qualifications.
Students moving into employment could expect to progress to careers within the animal industry such as, Welfare Centre managers, zoo keepers or careers allied to the industry, for example research and consultancy work.
You do not have to pay your tuition fees upfront.
The fees you pay and the support available will depend on a number of different factors.
Full information can be found on our fees & finance pages.
You will also find information about what your fees include in the fee FAQs .
All fees are subject to any changes in government policy, view our undergraduate fees .
For international students looking to study this course please see our international fees .
At Wrexham University, we offer on-campus en-suite rooms within our Wrexham Student Village.
These private, fully furnished spaces are conveniently located, providing easy access to campus facilities, study areas, and social spaces.
Plus, you’re just a 10-minute walk from the city centre!
With all bills included, free Wi-Fi, 24/7 security, and large social areas, you’ll find everything you need for a great student experience.
Explore our student accommodation options to find your perfect home away from home.
This course is open to international students, for information about the university’s entry requirements for EU/international students, please visit our international section .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/animal-behaviour-welfare-and-conservation-with-foundation-year:
85D4
3 YRS (FT)
UCAS Tariff
48-72
Northop, Wrexham
If you’re passionate about animals there’s never been a better time to prepare for your dream career with this course which covers animal behaviour, ethics and welfare.
You can also choose to study this course without a foundation year FdSc Applied Animal Behaviour, Welfare and Conservation UCAS code: D300
The Foundation Year is an integrated year where you will study core modules with a broad range of students from across the Faculty of Social and Life Sciences, giving you access to different perspectives and networking opportunities.
The modules will equip you with key skills needed for Higher Education and beyond.
They will give you the chance to explore your subject area and available careers, allowing you to adapt your reading and assessments to be relevant to your degree pathway.
Alongside teaching from the broader faculty staff, you will be able to meet with staff and other students from your main degree pathway and get involved with events and opportunities that they are running.
In this year you will build upon knowledge gained in your first year and develop your understanding of a variety of topics in more detail.
You will learn about anatomy and physiology, survey skills for conservation, learning and training.
In addition, the second work placement module will allow you to gain further hands on experience in the workplace.
MODULES
UCAS code: 85D4
Applications are welcomed from candidates who do not possess the standard qualifications but who can demonstrate their capacity to pursue the course successfully.
Entrance for these candidates is dependent on an assessment of past experience, a successful interview, references and diagnostic assessment to determine suitability for the course.
Enthusiasm and commitment are essential.
The course comprises a range of modules that are assessed by theoretical and in some cases practical coursework.
Types of assessment include, portfolios, posters, laboratory reports, essays, presentations, seminars, practical exams, written exams and reflective diaries.
TEACHING AND LEARNING
This programme includes a variety of learning and teaching methods in the class, practical settings and sessions delivered within the workplace.
These include:
The animal care industry is now worth £1 billion to the UK economy with 13,000 businesses and numerous animal charities, zoos, conservation organisations, wildlife parks and animal visitor attractions.
You could be working in animal welfare organisations, conservation, zoos and wildlife parks, veterinary practices, animal feed companies and veterinary or pharmaceutical companies.
Further study opportunities are also available, such as progression to teaching qualifications or postgraduate level research.
Our Careers and Employability service is there to help you make decisions and plan the next steps towards a bright future.
Please contact admissions@wrexham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/animal-behaviour-welfare-and-conservation-science:
839K
96-112
This broad-based course is designed to equip you with the knowledge and skills required to enter a variety of professions within the animal sector.
You will:
In the first year, you are introduced to the concepts of biology, animal behaviour and welfare that you will use throughout the rest of your course.
Laboratory skills are essential to science and you will receive a foundation in these.
You will develop animal husbandry skills and knowledge.
You will also undertake a period of work experience so that you become familiar with the animal sector and develop practical skills necessary for the workplace.
In the second year you will build upon knowledge gained in your first year and develop your understanding of a variety of topics in more detail.
You will learn about nutrition, physiology, conservation, and population biology.
You will also learn research skills and report writing within research methodologies.
The final year provides students with the opportunity to complete their own unique piece of research, thus enabling them to focus on a topic of choice.
UCAS code: 839K
96-112 UCAS Tariff points at GCE A Level or equivalent.
Appropriate AS Level and Level 3 Key Skills qualifications will also be taken into account.
At least four GCSEs at grade C/4 (including English/Welsh (First Language) and Maths).
An animal background is required.
This may be achieved from work experience in the animal sector, and/or from an informal means such as breeding or keeping animals for leisure purposes.
The entry requirements are for general guidance.
Alternative qualifications and experience are considered.
All applications are considered on their individual merits.
Modules are assessed in a wide variety of ways, including academic essays, research posters, presentations, seminar discussions, exams, portfolios, reflective practice and practical assessment.
Between lectures students are expected to read around their subjects making use of the detailed reading lists published in Module Guides.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/animal-behaviour-welfare-and-conservation-science-with-foundation-year:
ASFY
4 YRS (FT)
In the second year, you are introduced to the concepts of biology, animal behaviour and welfare that you will use throughout the rest of your course.
You will also undertake a period of work experience so that you become familiar with the animal sector and develop the practical skills necessary for the workplace.
Biological Concepts : This module aims to develop students’ understanding of the key principles of animal biology, biological pathogens, laboratory skills and anatomical structure and function.
The origins and classification of life will be covered together with cell and tissue structure and function.
The main organs and systems of the animals’ body will also be introduced.
In the third year, you will build upon knowledge gained in your second year and develop your understanding of a variety of topics in more detail.
Research Methodologies : This module will enable you to understand the role of relevant research within the field of equine studies.
In addition, it will provide you with sufficient capability to plan a research project in your field of study, to define the research parameters, assess appropriate methodologies, and present your findings.
You will learn how to examine and assess the appropriateness of different research methodologies to various research briefs and become aware of ethical and political issues in social research.
Conservation, stress and welfare are concentrated on, together with methods of behaviour modification.
Career development is also a central theme, and final year students are expected to complete additional professional development activities alongside their degree to enhance their chances of employment.
UCAS Code: ASFY
48-72 UCAS Tariff points at GCE A Level or equivalent.
At least four GCSEs at grade C/4 (including English and Maths).
This may be achieved through work experience in the animal sector, and/or from an informal means such as breeding or keeping animals for leisure purposes.
Students moving into employment could expect to progress to careers within the animal industry such as Welfare Centre managers, zookeepers or careers allied to the industry, for example, research and consultancy work.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/animal-behaviour-welfare-and-conservation:
D300
2 YRS (FT) 3.5 YRS (PT)
You can also choose to study this course with a foundation year over three years FdSc Applied Animal Behaviour, Welfare and Conservation (three years including foundation year) UCAS code: 85D4
Following the completion of the Foundation course, you may choose to study the top-up degree BSc Animal Behaviour, Welfare and Conservation .
In this year, you will be introduced to key concepts in animal behaviour, welfare, and conservation which will form the foundation for your entire course.
You will gain knowledge and practical experience in animal husbandry.
Additionally, you will participate in a work experience placement to become familiar with the animal sector and acquire the practical skills necessary for your chosen career.
MODULES Professional and Academic Development: This module aims to equip you with a range of skills and attributes in preparation to work in their chosen sector whilst following professional codes of practice.
The module will also develop a range of skills required for academic studies, which will be used and extended upon throughout the programme.
Professional Practice 1: This module will enable you to apply and integrate professional skills, knowledge and behaviours gained from the programme into a real-life workplace setting.
This module will enable you to further develop the University skills framework and develop and reflect upon the key employability skills required for the sector.
Introduction to Ecology: This module aims to introduce you to the relationship between organisms and the environment around them.
Key ecological definitions will be explained, and students will understand the variety of complex biotic and abiotic interactions that influence the abundance and distribution of organisms.
Contemporary Animal Management: This module aims to equip you with knowledge of the underlying concepts and principles of animal management and contemporary ethical practice.
You will apply theory to Practice and develop the qualities and skills, and personal responsibility necessary for employment in industry.
Ethics and Welfare: This module delves into current themes and challenges in animal welfare, providing you with a comprehensive understanding of various ethical considerations.
You will explore and evaluate a range of modern ethical and welfare issues.
Additionally, they will have the opportunity to select a topic that aligns with their personal interests, allowing for a tailored and engaging learning experience.
Human-Animal Interaction: This module introduces you to the many facets of Human-Animal Interaction and the wide ranging roles of animals in society across time and cultures.
You will examine different types of interactions and relationships between humans and animals and identify the costs and benefits to both species.
Professional Practice 2: This module will enable you to build upon the professional skills, knowledge and behaviours gained from the programme and previous professional practice module at level 4.
Deeper reflection with be undertaken through the Professional Behavioural Evaluation Assessment.
You will focus on your career goals and the skills, attributes and professional behaviour needed to gain employment.
Health and Disease: This module continues to extend and develop our students’ knowledge and understanding of animal health and disease from their anatomy and physiology module.
The disease process will be examined and the physiological status which affects the normal parameters.
This module will examine the different pathogens and how they manifest into disease states.
An introduction to immunology will provide you with the understanding on how Animal physiology can help to fight disease.
The role of immunisation and vaccination protocols will also be included in this module.
Animal Anatomy and Physiology: This module will develop the your knowledge and understanding of animal anatomy and physiology at both a systems and cellular level.
This module will cover a range of animal species.
Climate Change and Conservation: This module aims to introduce you to natural and anthropogenic changes in the climate and the science of current climate change.
You will be able to identify how climate change will affect biomes, habitats and species worldwide and learn how global efforts to combat climate change are being implemented.
Learning and Training: This module will equip you with the underpinning knowledge of learning theory and its use effects and application to practical training.
This can be utilised to develop and implement training and handling techniques in the workplace which are effective and ethically sound.
Survey Skills for Conservation: This module aims to develop your identification skills through engaging with practical ecological surveys in the field and online database searches.
You will be involved in data collection, analysis, and interpretation and understand how to write an ecological report using current mapping software to display data.
UCAS code: D300
The academic requirements for the course are 48-72 UCAS tariff points from A/AS level, National Diploma or equivalent (max of 60 points obtained from AS levels).
Appropriate AS-Level and Level 3 Key Skills qualifications will also be taken into account.
An animal-related qualification, such as National Diploma in Animal Management or Science related A2 qualifications are particularly welcomed.
In addition four GCSEs at grade C/4 or above (including Science, English/Welsh (First Language) and Mathematics) or equivalent.
Although not required for the course itself, depending on the nature of work placement on this course you may be required to have Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance (previously known as CRB), and pay the appropriate fee, so that a check can be made on your suitability for working with children and vulnerable adults.
Types of assessment include, portfolios, posters, practical animal handling and health checks, essays, presentations, seminars, practical exams, written exams and reflective diaries.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/canine-behaviour-training-and-performance-with-foundation-year:
48
in partnership with K9 Conservation Consultancy
specialist detection dog training modules taught by leading internationally renowned practitioners
grounds including meadows and woodland, ideal for tracking and conservation detection
This unique Canine Training and Performance degree offers you an exciting opportunity to gain the latest scientific knowledge and practical skill set to succeed.
We can empower you with the learning toolkit to become a specialist in canine behaviour, training and performance.
On this degree you will:
48 UCAS points.
Experience with dogs will also be considered.
This course is for those who are passionate about dogs and working with them rather than against them.
We believe that learning should be fun for dogs and people.
We welcome applications from different backgrounds and levels of experience.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/canine-behaviour-training-and-performance-fdsc:
2 YRS (FT) 4 YRS (PT)
48-72 UCAS points.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/veterinary-nursing:
FDVN
by the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons (RCVS)
our fully equipped Veterinary Nursing Clinical Suite
in a RCVS-approved veterinary practice each year
Veterinary Nurses have a key role within the multidisciplinary veterinary team in providing evidence-based nursing care for their patients.
If you want to work with companion animals and their owners to improve their wellbeing, and would thrive in an environment that is challenging, varied but immensely rewarding, this is the course for you.
In this first year of study, you will develop a range of skills and the underpinning knowledge that are essential for working in the veterinary industry.
There are four modules to be studied in the first year of your programme.
All modules are core modules.
Four core modules this year to be studied, two at level 4 and two at level 5.
This year’s modules begin to focus on specific and specialist skills that the veterinary nurse will become competent in practice.
The final four modules of the programme are delivered in this year.
The modules are aimed at preparing you for the veterinary workforce and highlighting the skills and professional opportunities that are available for Registered Veterinary Nurses, now and in their future careers.
Clinical placement: 16 weeks during each academic year, y o u will be allocated a clinical supervisor to support you in practice.
All practices we use are registered training practices with the RCVS
In addition to the University’s tariff points for a Foundation degree (48-72 points), applicants are required to have at least 5 GCSEs at Grade 4 (C) or above including English Language, Mathematics and Science or equivalent qualifications.
Applicants are required to have 10 days referenced work experience in a veterinary practice.
Applicants will also be considered if they have 5 days of work experience in a veterinary practice and 5 days experience within a relevant animal sector environment.
Suitable applicants will be invited to an interview.
Assessments methods are varied and designed to stretch and challenge all students.
They are also linked to the skills and knowledge that will be required within the veterinary profession.
Assessments may include:
Contact hours:  For level 4 modules, students will receive 36 hours of contact time and at level 5, contact time with students will be 30 hours.
Student-centred teaching will be the focus, using the clinical suite at the centre of all teaching sessions to enable a theory to practice learning experience.
Group activities, individual activities, innovate teaching and interactive methods will be used.
Teaching and Learning
Our dedicated Careers and Employability team is committed to helping you achieve your professional goals.
They provide personalised advice, useful resources, and extracurricular employability events to prepare you for the job market.
Graduates of this course can pursue careers in:
Small animal general practice Small animal referral hospitals Emergency and out-of-hours nursing Equine and mixed practice Patient rehabilitation and behaviour modification therapies District nursing Conservation Zoological environment Pharmaceutical industry Education Entrepreneurial and business opportunities
Additionally, you may choose to further your expertise through postgraduate studies.
Explore our postgraduate courses for more information.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/veterinary-nursing-top-up:
Online
This Level 6 top-up programme will enable existing RVNs to advance their knowledge and skills to enable progression to more specialised and senior roles.
The flexible degree will further enable RVNs to be fully utilised within their role and deepen understanding of evidence-based practice and advanced clinical skills.
The top up programme will be delivered online to enable flexible learning for students around their other commitments.
Full use of the University’s VLE facilities will enable 24/7 access to recorded lectures, study material, seminars and discussion forums.
Real time delivery online will also take place to ensure students have opportunity for live discussion of topics with both staff and peers.
The use of guest speakers will further enrich delivery by providing insight into a range of experiences.
At level 6, there is an expectation for students to read around their topics to broaden knowledge and understanding.
Each module will have up to two assessments for completion that assess the module learning outcomes.
A variety of different types of assessment methods have been selected to ensure learners’ learning styles are covered, and to help develop skills relevant to the subject area .
Head Veterinary Nursing Nursing Manager Referral Veterinary Nurse Lecturer (subject to relevant teaching qualification) Working abroad Academic research Further education Specialism in a particular discipline Clinical Director Practice Manager

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/animation:
259B
to meet industry demands
to build a professional portfolio
from industry experts
Our BA (Hons) Animation degree gives you the tools you need to enter the industry, creating compelling works of motion and magic.
We look to nurture and embolden your skills through relevant theory, constant practice and high-calibre technical demonstration.
You can also choose to study this course as a foundation year BA (Hons) Animation (four years including foundation year) UCAS code: 259D
Your studies will see you gain experience in digital skills and techniques used to bring your imagination from ideas to screen through, various animation techniques, depending on which you choose to specialise in.
UCAS code: 259B
The academic requirements for the course are 96-112 UCAS tariff points at GCE A-level or equivalent.
The programme welcomes applications from anyone who can demonstrate a commitment to the subject and the potential to complete their chosen programme successfully.
This can be established by showing appropriate academic achievements or by demonstrating that they possess the knowledge and ability equivalent to the academic qualifications.
Candidates may be interviewed and asked to display a portfolio of their work.
Experience may also be taken into consideration depending on the extent and depth of such subject knowledge.
Students from overseas, or who are unable to attend an interview, are asked to send their portfolio of work digitally for consideration.
An admissions tutor considers each application individually.
Different qualifications are considered, including Scottish Higher, Irish Leaving Certificate, the Welsh Baccalaureate, the International Baccalaureate, Access courses, BTEC, VCE, GNVQ, A and AS levels as well as other overseas qualifications.
Progression from HND / FdA
Applicants with relevant HND qualifications, or a foundation degree in a relevant Art and Design subject area may progress onto Level 6 of a BA or MDes programme subject to Wrexham University’s RP(E)L procedures.
There are no set exams.
Assessment is continuous and relates to all aspects of the programme, providing more carefully defined emphasis on formative assessment and feedback on your coursework throughout the academic year.
We will advise you on your level of attainment and direct you towards a strategy for further progression as assignments and modules are completed.
There are varied formats of assessment to encourage your learning through group seminars, critiques and tutorials.
This can be through group interaction with critical analysis where you will submit a range of work including sketchbooks, design sheets, finished artwork, screen-based work, technical/ production files, journals, essays, and audio-visual presentations.
There are reviews of work at key points before Christmas and before Easter and this provides time for you to reflect on your progress prior to a final or summative year end assessment.
On this course, teaching and learning is designed to support students from a variety of backgrounds with diverse needs and to promote the supportive learning environment and pastoral care the School of Art and Design provides.
Timetabling is developed to help learning teaching and assessment methodologies and provide clear and effective feedback to students.
Contact hours are 16 per week in year 1, 14 per week in year 2 and 12 per week in year 3.
The programme is structured to enable you to work in a cross disciplinary manner with Illustration, Comics and Graphic Design, to be flexible and enable you to develop individually.
This is supported by a personal tutor / tutorials system that provides you with guidance throughout all aspects of the programme.
Our graduates have gone on to work for companies like the BBC, Channel 4, S4C, and Disney, working on titles such as A Bug’s Life, The Corpse Bride, Frankenweenie and the Harry Potter series games.
Career opportunities exist in all areas of animation, including:
This degree also allows you to gain a range of transferable skills that can lead to a variety of employment opportunities.
Further study opportunities are also available at MDes / MA or PGCE level.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/animation-with-foundation-year:
259D
You can also choose to study this course as a three year degree (without the foundation year) BA (Hons) Animation .
UCAS code: 259B.
The foundation year will introduce you to the key elements of art and design.
You will explore the creative thought process relating to various art and design disciplines, developing your ability to put ideas down on paper quickly.
There will be a range of practice assignments that will increase your recognition of strong ideas and original concepts.
Our general entry requirement for the foundation year is 48-72 UCAS tariff points but all applications are considered individually and we consider work experience, vocational training/qualifications as well as motivation and potential to succeed.
We will advise you on your level of attainment and direct you towards a strategy for further progression as you complete assignments and modules.
This can be through group interaction with critical analysis where you will submit a range of work including sketchbooks, design sheets, finished artwork, screen-based work, technical/ production files, journals, essays and audio-visual presentations.
On this course teaching and learning is designed to support students from a variety of backgrounds with diverse needs and to promote the supportive learning environment and pastoral care the School of Art and Design provides.
The programme is structured to enable you to work in a multidisciplinary manner, to be flexible and enable you to develop individually.
Emphasis is placed on your personal and professional development, communication and entrepreneurial skills, so that you are well equipped to enter a diverse and rapidly changing industry.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/applied-art:
W201
links to gallery and commercial institutions
2nd in the UK for Teaching Satisfaction*
your work in an end-of-year degree show
Unleash your creativity with our Applied Art degree where you will focus on the high-quality craft skills needed to launch your professional artistic career.
We will help you develop your material and design expertise and versatility through ceramics, metal, jewellery and mixed media.
Y ou will:
* This subject area is rated joint 2 nd in the UK for Satisfied with Teaching in the Fine Art subject area league table in the Guardian University Guide, 2025.
You can build a solid basis to prepare you for your studies with our BA Hons Applied Art (with foundation year)
Year one introduces you to the breadth of materials and techniques within the Applied Arts, where you have the opportunity to work across all the material areas, experimenting with ceramics, metal and mixed media.
Year two expands your making skills within your main material choice, developing a depth of knowledge and understanding about materials and craft skills and allowing you to advance your own creative style.
The key professional skills of understanding market, publicity and costings are also developed through practical projects.
Year three allows you to realise your ideas in the direction of your choice, with students developing their own individual themes to produce collections, demonstrating high-quality making skills and innovative design solutions.
UCAS code: W201
Standard entry requirements for BA (Hons) Applied Art 96-112 UCAS Tariff points at GCE A Level or equivalent.
The Applied Art programme team welcomes applications from anyone who can demonstrate a commitment to the subject and the potential to complete their chosen programme successfully.
All candidates will either be individually interviewed or invited to an applicants’ day where they will have the opportunity to display a portfolio of their work.
Experience may also be taken into consideration, particularly for those applicants who do not meet the academic requirements above, depending on the extent and depth of subject knowledge.
Students from overseas, who are unable to attend an interview are invited to send their portfolio of work digitally for consideration.
Assessment is predominantly through practical and design work such as maquettes, sketchbooks, samples, and finished objects.
Work is presented to tutors, and verbal feedback is given instantly, followed by more expansive written feedback.
You'll be assessed for each module.
Formative assessments are used to monitor progress and can take place at any time.
These consist of a band grading, plus evaluative comments and a feedback tutorial if appropriate.
Grading isn't finalised until the end of the year, when work is reviewed and moderated by an external examiner.
Contact time is 14 hours per week for Level 4, 12 hours per week for Level 5, and 10 hours per week for Level 6.
The workshop facilities are open and staffed 5 days a week and students have constant access to the workshops.
Designers who can respond creatively to applied art and design problems remain in high demand.
Our graduates have careers in a wide range of areas including education, restoration work, museums and retail.
A proportion go on to work in or set up their own galleries.
This degree teaches you to be a highly skilled designer maker, utilising traditional craft skills to create objects for exhibition and sale.
Alongside the practical skills you will learn, the course will develop your understanding of the core business skills needed as a professional maker, with opportunities to show your work at a variety of venues and sell to the public.
A degree in Applied Art provides a variety of future opportunities for graduates.
Jobs include, but are not limited to:
There are also options for further study including our MA Professional Art Practitioner , MA Interdisciplinary Art Practice and PGCE courses.
As part of its continuous quality assurance and enhancement, t he University reviews its courses on a regular basis to ensure that they reflect the needs of students and employers.
P eriodic review of the existing programmes is required every five years and major changes may be made to the programmes during the re-validation process.
As soon as the programmes are re- validated the details of the course will be confirmed.
The majority of courses that are still ‘subject to re-validation’ are approved by the validation process; however, this is not guaranteed and should the course not go ahead as planned, or be significantly amended, you will be informed by the university and assistance will be provided to those who have been offered a place to find a suitable alternative course either at Wrexham University or at another provider.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/applied-art-with-foundation-year:
W202
Year two introduces you to the breadth of materials and techniques within the Applied Arts, where you have the opportunity to work across all the material areas, experimenting with ceramics, metal and mixed media.
Year three expands your making skills within your main material choice, developing a depth of knowledge and understanding about materials and craft skills and allowing you to advance your own creative style.
Year four allows you to realise your ideas in the direction of your choice, with students developing their own individual themes to produce collections, demonstrating high-quality making skills and innovative design solutions.
Entry requirements for our foundation year are 48-72 UCAS tariff points but all applications are considered individually and we consider work experience, vocational training/qualifications, as well as motivation and potential to succeed.
The Applied Arts programme team welcomes applications from anyone who can demonstrate a commitment to the subject and the potential to complete their chosen programme successfully.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/comics:
CO19
and developed based on industry requirements with emphasis on employability
to enter competitions and build a professional portfolio
to course delivery, simulating professional studio practice
Our comics degree will help you develop both your own style and flair for creative sequential storytelling.
The course covers the practical, professional, and artistic sides of working as a comic artist with an individual artistic voice, equipping you for a successful career in the creative industries.
You can also choose to study this course as a foundation year Comics (with Foundation Year) (four years including foundation year) UCAS code: CO1FY
The first year introduces students to the fundamental principles of illustration that will help you develop your illustrative style.
This includes developing an understanding of the tools and creative techniques you will be using, the historical contexts and theories of comics, creative writing, print, production, bookbinding techniques, an understanding of the industry and newer digital applications.
Semester 1
Semester 2
The second year enables you to develop your individual approach to character design, scriptwriting and visual storytelling, the practical aspects of making comics as well as exploring the basics of running a business as a freelancer.
The third year is focused on your specialism.
You will work with staff to pitch the projects that demonstrate your flair for storytelling, your skills and abilities, your ambition, and your understanding of the comics industry.
Appropriate AS-Level and Level 3 Key Skills qualifications will also be considered.
Progression from HND / FDA
Applicants with relevant HND qualifications, or a foundation degree in a relevant Art and Design subject area may progress onto Level 6 of a BA subject to Wrexham University’s RP(E)L procedures.
There are varied formats of assessment to encourage your learning through group seminars, critiques, and tutorials.
The programme is delivered with a cross-disciplinary (with Animation, Illustration and Graphic Design) enabling collaboration with different disciplines and studio ethos.
Emphasis is placed on your personal and professional development, communication, and entrepreneurial skills, so that you are well equipped to enter a diverse and rapidly changing industry.
Students studying Comics have gone on to working in a variety of jobs including:
Further study opportunities are also available at MA or PGCE level.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/comics-with-foundation-year:
COFY
approach to course delivery, simulating professional studio practice
The academic requirements for the course are 48-72 UCAS tariff points but all applications are considered individually and we consider work experience, vocational training/qualifications, as well as motivation and potential to succeed.
The majority of the active teaching and learning is studio/workshop based and practical in nature supported with lectures, demonstrations, tutorials, seminars and critiques and talks by specialist guest speakers

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/fine-art:
W000
studio space in a traditional art school setting
in the UK for Teaching on my Course*
with galleries and exhibition spaces
Explore drawing, painting, sculpture, installation, video and lens-based media and printmaking, and then take the opportunity to specialise, combine areas or to remain broad-based with this open, creative degree.
*This course is ranked joint 1 st in the UK for Teaching on my Course in the Art subject area league table in the National Student Survey 2025.
You can choose to study this course with a foundation year BA (Hons) Fine Art (with Foundation Year) UCAS Code: W100
Level 4 of the programme provides a broad base exposing you to diverse learning approaches and art media.
The focus is on building core technical skills, conceptual development, contextual grounding, communication abilities and independent practice.
This foundation equips students with both practical dexterity and critical thinking to progress in their degree.
In this year, the modules will advance your contextual grounding, critical reflection abilities, risk-taking, and communication aptitude.
The focus is on evolving a personal visual language and situating practice professionally via public participation.
The final year modules stress self-directed explorations culminating in resolved bodies of work, writing to articulate insights, and situating practice professionally via promotions and networks.
There is an emphasis on sustaining creative trajectories beyond graduation.
Standard entry requirements for BA (Hons) are 96-112 UCAS Tariff points at GCE A Level or equivalent.
The Fine Art programme team welcomes applications from anyone who can demonstrate a commitment to the subject and the potential to complete their chosen programme successfully.
All candidates will either be individually interviewed or invited to an applicants’ day where they will have the opportunity to display a portfolio of their work.
The majority of the work is studio/workshop based and practical in nature supported with lectures, talks by specialist guest speakers, demonstrations, tutorials, seminars and critiques.
Assessment is continuous, and there are a series of set and chosen, both individual and team, assignments in which students learn a range of skills and techniques and apply them creatively to solve art and design problems.
Assessment is designed to enable students to participate in the measurement of their own progress, with clear aims provided from the very beginning of each module, regular feedback and group interaction with critical analysis throughout the course, giving students the opportunities they need to succeed.
In terms of particular needs , the University’s Inclusion Services can provide appropriate guidance and support should any students require reasonable adjustments to be made because of a recognised prevailing disability, medical condition, or specific learning difference.
Fine Art, like all of our Art and Design undergraduate programmes, has a strong vocational and academic ethos that aims to ensure graduates acquire a range of vocationally relevant skills.
Integral to this ethos is the responsibility to ensure that our graduates have a portfolio of abilities and attributes which will allow them to thrive in the 21st Century workplace.
It takes into account the fact that the future needs of the creative industries are likely to be very different and aims to prepare ‘independent learners’ who, on completion of their studies, are able to flourish within increasingly diverse professional contexts.
We pride ourselves on the high level of realistic and practical experience of working in the professional creative environment that you can gain while you are on the programme.
Students are encouraged to initiate, organise and participate in off-site projects and engage in professional opportunities, including commercial activities that have the potential to launch their career in Fine Art.
Many Fine Art graduates go on pursue careers in:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/fine-art-with-foundation-year:
W100
Our general requirement for the foundation year is 48-72 UCAS tariff points but all applications are considered individually and we consider work experience, vocational training/qualifications, as well as motivation and potential to succeed.
Assessment is continuous, and there are a series of set and chosen, (both individual and team), assignments in which students learn a range of skills and techniques and apply them creatively to solve art and design problems.
Assessment is designed to enable students to participate in the measurement of their own progress, with clear aims provided from the very beginning of each module, regular feedback and group interaction with critical analysis throughout the course, giving students the opportunities they need to succeed.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/graphic-design:
W991
your work in public exhibitions
from practicing artists and scholars
state-of-the-art facilities
The BA (Hons) Graphic Design course is designed to equip you with the essential skills and knowledge required to excel in the dynamic field of graphic design.
Through a blend of theoretical studies and practical projects, you'll explore various aspects of visual communication, preparing you for a successful career in the creative industries.
You can also choose to study this course as a foundation year Graphic Design (with Foundation Year) (four years including foundation year) UCAS code: W290.
In the first year, you will be introduced to the fundamental principles of graphic design, focusing on building a strong foundation in both theory and practice.
The second year builds upon the foundational skills, encouraging independent creative thinking and introducing industry-relevant practices.
The final year focuses on preparing you for the professional design world, emphasizing speciali s ed skills, major project work, and portfolio refinement.
Applicants with relevant HND qualifications, or a foundation degree in a relevant Art and Design subject area may progress onto Level 6 of a BA subject to Glyndŵr University’s RP(E)L procedures.
You will experience a blend of lectures, seminars, practical workshops, and project-based learning.
Assessment methods include essays, exams, portfolios, and presentations, designed to evaluate both your theoretical understanding and practical application of design concepts.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/graphic-design-with-foundation-year:
W290
In year two, you will be introduced to the fundamental principles of graphic design, focusing on building a strong foundation in both theory and practice.
Year three builds upon the foundational skills, encouraging independent creative thinking and introducing industry-relevant practices.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/illustration:
IL19
from professional creative industries
in an end-of-year degree show
The Illustration degree will help you develop both your illustrative style and flair for creative image-making.
The course covers the practical, professional, and artistic sides of working as an illustrator with an individual artistic voice, equipping you for a successful career in the creative industries.
You can also choose to study this course as a foundation year Illustration (with Foundation Year) (four years including foundation year) UCAS code: ILFY
Level 4 introduces you to the fundamental principles of illustration that will help you develop your illustrative style.
This includes developing an understanding of the tools and creative techniques you will be using, the historical contexts and theories of illustration, print, production techniques and an understanding of the illustration industry.
Level 5 enables you to develop your individual approach the role of illustration in society, the conceptual aspects of illustration, the practicalities of preparing work for production as well as exploring the fundamentals of running a business as a freelancer.
Level 6 is focused on your specialism.
You will work with staff to pitch the projects that demonstrate your illustrative style, your skills and abilities, your ambition, and your understanding of the illustration industry.
Assessment is continuous and relates to all aspects of the programme, providing a more carefully defined emphasis on formative assessment and feedback on your coursework throughout the academic year.
Wrexham Glyndŵr University is committed to supporting our students to maximise their academic potential.
Students studying Illustration at the School of Creative Arts have gone on to working in a variety of jobs including:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/illustration-with-foundation-year:
ILFY

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/photography:
W990
your work in galleries and festivals
entrepreneurial skills
in national and international competitions and commissions
Our innovative, multi-genre BA (Hons) Photography course offers a degree that blends creativity, technical excellence and professionalism.
Year 1 provides introductory skills in design and critical analysis will be developed.
There will be an emphasis on creative problem-solving and basic research methodologies.
Level 5 will focus on advancement in research skills and design methodologies.
You will focus on synthesising theory and practice, with an emphasis on emerging trends.
During level 6, high-level research skills, critical thinking, and professional practice will be the focus.
There will be independent projects and your collaborative work will demonstrate advanced understanding and application.
The academic requirements for the course are 96-112 UCAS tariff points at GCE A-level or equivalent but all applications are considered on an individual basis, and we also take work experience into consideration, vocational training/qualifications as well as individual motivation and potential are also key aspects in selection.
You will learn via a blend of l ectures, contextual workshops, seminars and practical / technical workshops in the studio environment and on location.
Your degree will prepare you for work in art and design, film and photographic industries and in education.
Photography, like all of our Art and Design undergraduate programmes, has a strong vocational and academic ethos that aims to ensure graduates acquire a range of vocationally relevant skills.
Integral to this ethos is the responsibility to ensure that our graduates have a portfolio of abilities and attributes which will allow them to thrive in the 21st century workplace.
It takes into account the fact that the future needs of the creative industries are likely to be very different.
It therefore aims to prepare ‘independent learners’ who on completion of their studies are able to flourish within increasingly diverse professional contexts.
You will gain a high level of realistic and practical experience of working in the professional creative environment whilst you are on the programme.
You are encouraged to initiate, organise and participate in off-site projects and engage in professional opportunities, including commercial activities that have the potential to launch their career in photography.
Many Photography graduates go on pursue careers as:
Courses shown as “subject to validation” are new courses which are in development and the details of these courses are in the process of being finalised through the approval cycle, known as the ‘validation’ process.
As soon as the programmes are validated the details of the course will be confirmed.
The majority of new courses that are still ‘subject to validation’ are approved by the validation process; however, this is not guaranteed and should the course not go ahead as planned, or be significantly amended, you will be informed by the university and assistance will be provided to those who have been offered a place to find a suitable alternative course either at Wrexham University or at another provider.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/photography-with-foundation-year:
W600
including professional guest speakers
Developed for students with a passion for independent photography, this innovative multi-genre programme combines practice, theory and professionalism.
Whether you prefer to work with the still or moving image, you can creatively and conceptually explore photography on our inspiring, challenging and rewarding degree.
Students will:
Year 2 provides introductory skills in design and critical analysis will be developed.
You will focus on synthesizing theory and practice, with an emphasis on emerging trends.
During level 6 study high-level research skills, critical thinking, and professional practice will be the focus.
The academic requirements for the course are 48-72 72 UCAS tariff points but all applications are considered individually and we consider work experience, vocational training/qualifications, as well as motivation and potential to succeed.
The Photography & Film programme team welcomes applications from anyone who can demonstrate a commitment to the subject and the potential to complete their chosen programme successfully.
All candidates will be interviewed and asked to display a portfolio of their work.
To enable students to develop creatively, formative and summative feedbacks are given.
Formative assessment offering advice on how to improve your work occurs at key points before Christmas and before Easter.
This provides time for students to reflect on their progress prior to a final or summative assessment.
Assessment is designed to enable students to participate in the measurement of their own progress.
Students will submit a range of coursework including an on-line reflective journal/blog, sketchbooks, design sheets, finished artworks, screen-based work, installations, technical/ production files, essays and audio-visual presentations.
The majority of the active teaching and learning is studio/workshop based and practical in nature supported with lectures, demonstrations, tutorials, seminars and critiques and talks by specialist guest speakers.
Our Student Support section has more information on the help available.
In terms of particular needs, the University’s Inclusion team can provide appropriate guidance and support should any students require reasonable adjustments to be made because of a recognised prevailing disability, medical condition, or specific learning difference.
Our Careers and employability service is there to help you make decisions and plan the next steps towards a bright future.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/architectural-design-technology:
K100
3 YRS (FT) 4.5 YRS (PT)
The Architectural Design Technology course explores how buildings are designed and constructed to satisfy aesthetic, functional and environmental considerations in the creation of architecture.
The course is both creative and technical in its content.
The course is fully accredited by the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (CIAT) and you will be eligible for Associate Membership (ACIAT) on graduation.
Graduates can progress to full Chartered Member status with appropriate technical experience.
Students:
The first year of the Architectural Design Technology course comprises seven core modules and one optional module that combine to provide an informed introduction to the range of aesthetic, functional, legal and environmental considerations that contribute to the design and construction of buildings.
Choice of one:
The second year of the course builds upon the first through modules that explore important technical and procedural considerations in the development of architectural projects.
Modern Methods of Construction considers opportunities for prefabrication and the use of modular design systems, and Procurement and Contract Practice addresses the ways in which building designs are commissioned and implemented towards completion and use.
The final year of the course provides an opportunity to research a particular area of interest in Individual Research Project, and to define and develop a significant architectural design proposal in Major Project.
All nineteen modules combine to engage students in their chosen field of study and are intended to encourage confidence and enthusiasm in the development of their expertise.
UCAS code: K100
To enrol on the BSc (Hons) Architectural Design Technology programme, applicants will normally be expected to have previously achieved one of the following as a minimum:
Applications from candidates who do not satisfy the standard entry criteria identified above are welcome and will be expected to demonstrate through an interview that they have the potential to succeed on the programme.
Candidates who are employed within the construction industry and have sufficient appropriate experience are also welcome, though diagnostic assessment prior to admission will be considered in order to measure academic capability, particularly in mathematics and English or Welsh.
Modules are delivered using a variety of teaching and learning techniques, including traditional lectures, practical ‘hands-on’ activities, tutorials and group discussions, laboratory work, construction site-based observation and peer appraisal.
The main priority is to ensure that you feel comfortable within the academic learning environment and feel able to contribute to the discussion of subject matter within any class, tutorial or other learning activity that forms part of your studies – teaching and learning is fundamentally a two-way process within which your opinion is vitally important.
A range of assessment methods are used within the programme to simulate the sorts of written, practical, visual and oral communication skills that are expected of architectural technologists; written reports, the practical use of technical equipment, visual presentations, laboratory analyses, in-class tests, examinations, coursework and oral presentations are all important ways in which you can demonstrate your understanding.
The types of assessment selected for each module have been chosen to best-suit the nature of the technical content in each subject, and collectively provide a range of opportunities for you to demonstrate your interest, enthusiasm and interpretation of content during your studies.
In terms of particular assessment needs, the University’s Inclusion Services department can provide appropriate guidance and support should you require reasonable adjustments to be made to assessment processes because of a recognised prevailing disability, medical condition, or specific learning difference.
The BSc (Hons) Architectural Design Technology course provides a qualification that is recognised as a comprehensive, informed and valuable measure of the technical abilities of the Wrexham University graduate in the design of architectural projects.
Opportunities for architectural technologists exist within the construction industry in many varied contexts, from ‘new-build’ developments to heritage and refurbishment projects of all scales and types – developing a career as an architectural technologist can therefore lead to many rewarding experiences, not least due to the fact that no two architectural projects are the same, and that architectural technologists are likely to spend as much time on site as they are at their desks.
These circumstances mean that a career in architectural technology can often be challenging, particularly rewarding, but never routine.
The BSc (Hons) Architectural Design Technology qualification will therefore provide a sound basis upon which to develop a career in the professional and technical aspects of building design in a range of architectural contexts.
Graduates of the course continue to establish themselves as architectural technologists, construction project managers and design consultants not least because of the experience and understanding gained whilst following the BSc (Hons) Architectural Design Technology programme at Wrexham University.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/architectural-design-technology-with-foundation-year:
28L4
This year of study ensures that students from all subject backgrounds and life experiences get a foundational course of study that both prepares for subject specific and wider, university skills at an undergraduate level.
You will spend time with a subject specific teaching team and a wider support network to ensure you get the support for a wide range of skills.
The second year of the Architectural Design Technology course comprises seven core modules and one optional module that combine to provide an informed introduction to the range of aesthetic, functional, legal and environmental considerations that contribute to the design and construction of buildings.
The third year of the course builds upon the first through modules that explore important technical and procedural considerations in the development of architectural projects.
Our general requirement for the foundation year is UCAS tariff points of 48-72 but all applications are considered individually and we consider work experience, vocational training/qualifications, as well as motivation and potential to succeed.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/building-surveying:
BS24
3 YRS (FT) 5 YRS (PT)
Blended Learning, Wrexham
to your needs with the ability to select an optional module in year 1
the expertise needed to be recognised within a vibrant and challenging construction industry
through conferences, guest lectures and visits
The BSc (Hons) Building Surveying course will focus on a wide range of key industry areas equipping you with the skills required to working in one of the largest employment sectors in the United Kingdom.
This course:
The first year of the BSc (Hons) Building Surveying programme comprises seven core modules and one optional module that combine to provide an informed introduction to the range of aesthetic, functional, legal and environmental considerations that contribute to the measurement, assessment and refurbishment of buildings and infrastructure.
*One to be selected
The second year of the Programme builds upon the first through modules that explore important technical and procedural considerations in the practice of building surveying.
Building Services considers the importance of ensuring that buildings function comfortably for users in terms of the internal environment through essential services such as lighting, power, air handling, emergency fire warning/suppression systems and mechanical conveyance, and Procurement and Contract Practice addresses the ways in which building appraisal and refurbishment projects are commissioned and implemented towards completion and use.
The final year of the programme provides an opportunity to research a particular area of interest in Individual Research Project, and to identify and develop a significant building surveying proposal in Major Project.
[Part-time study will comprise combinations of these modules over a five year period, though a Higher National Certificate or Higher National Diploma in a construction-related subject may carry exemptions at Levels 4 and/or 5, subject to approval by the University.]
To enrol on the BSc (Hons) Building Surveying programme, applicants will normally be expected to have previously achieved one of the following as a minimum:
International applicants whose existing qualifications are outlined by the National Academic Recognition and Information Centre (NARIC) as being equivalent to the relevant UK entry qualification are also welcome.
All applicants whose first language is not English or Welsh will be expected to demonstrate English language proficiency; European applicants are able to provide this evidence in a number of ways ( further details ), including IELTS; International applicants require a UKVI Approved Secure English Language Test (SELT) ( further details ).
The main priority is to ensure that students feel comfortable within the academic learning environment and feel able to contribute to the discussion of subject matter within any class, tutorial or other learning activity that forms part of their studies – teaching and learning is fundamentally a two-way process within which student opinion is vitally important.
A range of assessment methods are used within the programme to simulate the sorts of written, practical, visual and oral communication skills that are expected of building surveyors; written reports, the practical use of technical equipment, visual presentations, laboratory analyses, in-class tests, examinations, coursework and oral presentations are all important ways in which students can demonstrate their understanding.
The types of assessment selected for each module have been chosen to best-suit the nature of the technical content in each subject, and collectively provide a range of opportunities for students to demonstrate their interest, enthusiasm and interpretation of content during their studies.
In terms of particular assessment needs, the University’s Inclusion Services department can provide appropriate guidance and support should any students require reasonable adjustments to be made to assessment processes because of a recognised prevailing disability, medical condition, or specific learning difference.
The BSc(Hons) Building Surveying degree provides a qualification that is recognised as a comprehensive, informed and valuable measure of the ability of the Wrexham University graduate in the measurement, appraisal and refurbishment of buildings.
Opportunities for building surveyors exist within the construction industry in many varied contexts, from recent developments to heritage and refurbishment projects of all scales and types – developing a career as a building surveyor can therefore lead to many rewarding experiences, not least due to the fact that no two building projects are the same, and that building surveyors are likely to spend as much time on site as they are at their desks.
These circumstances mean that a career in building surveying can often be challenging, particularly rewarding, but never routine.
The BSc (Hons) Building Surveying qualification will therefore provide a sound basis upon which to develop a career in the professional and technical aspects of measuring, appraising and renovating  buildings in a range of contexts.
Graduates of the programme can therefore work towards establishing themselves as building surveyors, building consultants and inspectors, not least because of the experience and understanding gained whilst following the BSc(Hons) Building Surveying programme at Wrexham University.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/building-surveying-with-foundation-year:
The second year of the BSc (Hons) Building Surveying programme comprises seven core modules and one optional module that combine to provide an informed introduction to the range of aesthetic, functional, legal and environmental considerations that contribute to the measurement, assessment and refurbishment of buildings and infrastructure.
The third year of the Programme builds upon the first through modules that explore important technical and procedural considerations in the practice of building surveying.
The BSc (Hons) Building Surveying degree provides a qualification that is recognised as a comprehensive, informed and valuable measure of the ability of the Wrexham University graduate in the measurement, appraisal and refurbishment of buildings.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/civil-engineering-degree-apprenticeship:
4 YRS (PT)
between Wrexham and the Institute of Civil Engineers
* subject to Welsh Government funding allocation
Study whilst in full time employment
Our Civil Engineering degree is an ideal qualification for those who wish to be challenged yet supported and wish to develop knowledge and skills to equip them to problem solve, communicate and deliver resilient and sustainable engineering solutions for generations to come.
The first year of the BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering programme comprises seven core modules and one optional module.
Through this first year you will be provided with opportunities to design simple structures, appreciate fundamental soil behaviour and develop techniques to analyse, and problem solve.
Threaded throughout the modules on the programme are the Joint Board of Moderators themes such as design, health, safety and risk and sustainability, which will provide a pathway to a range of underpinning knowledge, skills and behaviours that contribute to supporting your working role.
One of:
The second year of the Programme builds upon the first and provides opportunities to gain practical experience using industry standard surveying equipment and software.
You will develop your knowledge of fundamental fluid properties and undertake practical laboratory experiments to augment your understanding of hydraulic engineering and sustainable water resource management.
You will consider sustainable approaches to infrastructure design and asset management and demonstrate your knowledge through work-based scenarios and solutions.
In the third year you will study four modules.
The Project Management module offers opportunities for you to demonstrate technical, financial, time and people management skills, required in the execution of typical Civil Engineering projects.
Building Information Management within this module provides you with an insight into this innovative technology used to coordinate the full cycle of development, from inception, through the design and construction processes towards the management of the completed project, its potential adaptation and eventually its deconstruction.
You will develop personal management skills through communication and group work engagement and consideration of Professional Codes of Conduct.
The Procurement and Contract Practice module addresses the ways in which civil engineering / construction projects are commissioned and implemented towards completion, use and management.
The Individual Research Project will allow you to demonstrate independent learning, critical analysis and synthesising skills, and to demonstrate your understanding of research, analysis and the critical resources required to offer sustainable solutions to civil engineering problems.
This module will also provide you with transferable skills such as those required in the creation of technical reports and the preparation and submission of review documentation to Professional Bodies.
In the  final year of the programme, Design for Climate Resilience provides you with an overview of aspects of the Climate Emergency and the impacts on Infrastructure, Society and the Environment.
It considers the basis of climate change and identifies environmental impact, assessment, risk and management.
The module explores techniques and methods which can be offered up as solutions to reduce impact and improve infrastructure design resilience.
The Major Project (Work based Learning) and all the preceding Work Based learning modules are a significant element of the Degree Apprenticeship programme and provide opportunities to develop and implement knowledge and professional experience which relates  not  only directly to the  workplace but provide apprentices with transferable skills  and attributes required to gain Incorporated Engineer status.
A further purpose of this module is to enable students to reflect upon and to develop their own effectiveness in relation to their current employment practice.
To enrol on the BEng(Hons) Civil Engineering programme, applicants will normally be expected to have previously achieved one of the following as a minimum:
Applicants without the necessary UCAS tariff points, or who have qualifications that do not carry UCAS tariff points, will be considered based on their professional experience within the industry they intend to study the apprenticeship in.
All applicants who do not meet the above requirements will be interviewed prior to being made an offer, providing those without formal UCAS tariff points the opportunity to demonstrate how their skills and experiences from within the industry make them a suitable candidate for this programme of study.
The main priority is to ensure that you feel comfortable within the academic learning environment and feel able to contribute to the discussion of subject matter within any class, tutorial or other learning activity that forms part of your studies – teaching and learning is fundamentally a two-way process within which student opinion is vitally important.
A range of assessment methods are used within the programme to simulate the sorts of written, practical, visual and oral communication skills that are expected of civil engineers; written reports, the practical use of technical equipment, visual presentations, laboratory analyses, in-class tests, examinations, coursework and oral presentations are all important ways in which you can demonstrate your understanding.
The types of assessment selected for each module have been chosen to develop students and reflect typical work based learning scenario’s.
The BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering Degree Apprenticeship is a qualification that is recognised by Industry and the Professional Bodies as providing graduates with the knowledge, skills and behaviours to provide engineering project solutions in a sustainable, safe and cost effective, practical and technically competent manner.
Civil Engineering Degree Apprenticeships allow you to earn and learn from the onset, developing technical competencies and professional skills to enhance your role in the workplace and transferable skills for future career aspirations.
Civil Engineering is a vibrant, diverse, challenging and rewarding career path.
It provides opportunities to be at the forefront of climate resilient design solutions, development of low carbon materials and implementation of sustainable construction practices for the betterment of society now and in the future.
Potential career options include:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/construction-management-with-foundation-year:
The BSc (Hons) Construction Management degree is an ideal qualification for those who are motivated by seeing their hard work rewarded and their expertise recognised within a vibrant and challenging construction industry.
The Construction Industry is one of the largest employment sectors in the United Kingdom and requires a constant supply of construction managers to run building and civil engineering projects of all descriptions; large, small, straight-forward and complex.
Whether you have identified construction management as an area of interest, or you have worked in the construction sector previously, this course will extend your knowledge and reinforce your understanding of how projects are created, managed, constructed and operated upon completion.
Whilst many construction managers are engaged in the construction of new development projects, many others are responsible for the management of heritage and refurbishment projects; often sensitive in nature because of historical or architectural significance, or the traditional quality of the existing fabric.
A career in construction management can therefore be as diverse or as specialist as you want it to be in pursuing your own personal goals and ambitions.
If you are employed within the construction sector and intend to study on a part-time basis, please contact the Programme Leader Dr Gareth Carr as funding might well be available through schemes administered by sector skills organisations.
The second year of the BSc (Hons) Construction Management course comprises seven core modules and one optional module that combine to provide an informed introduction to the range of aesthetic, functional, legal and environmental considerations that contribute to the construction of buildings and infrastructure.
The third year of the course builds upon the first through modules that explore important technical and procedural considerations in the management of construction projects.
Modern Methods of Construction considers opportunities for prefabrication and the use of modular construction systems, and Procurement and Contract Practice addresses the ways in which construction projects are commissioned and implemented towards completion and use.
The final year of the course provides an opportunity to research a particular area of interest in Individual Research Project, and to articulate and manage a complex set of construction-specific circumstances in Major Project.
Part-time study will comprise combinations of these modules over a five year period, though a Higher National Certificate or Higher National Diploma in a construction-related subject may carry exemptions at Levels 4 and/or 5, subject to approval by the University.
A range of assessment methods are used within the programme to simulate the sorts of written, practical, visual and oral communication skills that are expected of construction managers; written reports, the practical use of technical equipment, visual presentations, laboratory analyses, in-class tests, examinations, coursework and oral presentations are all important ways in which you can demonstrate your understanding.
The BSc (Hons) Construction Management degree provides a qualification that is recognised as a comprehensive, informed and valuable measure of the ability of the Wrexham University graduate in the management of construction.
Opportunities for construction managers exist within the construction industry in many varied contexts, from ‘new-build’ developments to heritage and refurbishment projects of all scales and types – developing a career as a construction manager can therefore lead to many rewarding experiences, not least due to the fact that no two construction projects are the same, and that construction managers are likely to spend as much time on site as they are at their desks.
These circumstances mean that a career in construction management can often be challenging, particularly rewarding, but never routine.
The BSc (Hons) Construction Management qualification will therefore provide a sound basis upon which to develop a career in the professional and technical aspects of managing construction projects in a range of contexts.
Graduates of the programme continue to establish themselves as construction managers, assistant construction managers, building inspectors and diverse other building technologists, not least because of the experience and understanding gained whilst following the BSc(Hons) Construction Management programme at Wrexham University.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/construction-management:
K222
The first year of the BSc (Hons) Construction Management course comprises seven core modules and one optional module that combine to provide an informed introduction to the range of aesthetic, functional, legal and environmental considerations that contribute to the construction of buildings and infrastructure.
The second year of the course builds upon the first through modules that explore important technical and procedural considerations in the management of construction projects.
To enrol on the BSc (Hons) Construction Management degrees, applicants will normally be expected to have previously achieved one of the following as a minimum:
Applications from candidates who do not satisfy the standard entry criteria identified above are welcome and will be expected to demonstrate through interview that they have the potential to succeed on the programme.
All applicants whose first language is not English or Welsh will be expected to demonstrate English language proficiency; European applicants are able to provide this evidence in a number of ways ( please see ), including IELTS; International applicants require a UKVI Approved Secure English Language Test (SELT) (please visit here for details).

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/construction-management-degree-apprenticeship:
4YRS (PT)
to ensure close cooperation between employer organisations and the University in supporting you throughout your studies
The BSc (Hons) Construction Management Degree Apprenticeship is an ideal qualification for those who are employed in the construction industry and are motivated by seeing their hard work rewarded and their expertise recognised within a vibrant and challenging construction sector.
If you are currently working in the construction sector, this degree program will enhance your existing knowledge and strengthen your understanding of construction management projects from commencement to completion, operation, maintenance and eventual deconstruction.
Our interaction with buildings has given us all some level of experience in the construction sector, and this programme will further expand your expertise in this field.
A career in construction management can therefore be as diverse or as specialist as you want it to be in pursuing your own personal goals and ambitions as an employee within the sector.
The first year of the BSc (Hons) Construction Management Degree Apprenticeship programme comprises six core modules and one optional module that combine to provide an informed introduction to the range of aesthetic, functional, legal and environmental considerations that contribute to the construction of buildings and infrastructure.
The second year of the Programme builds upon the first through modules that explore important technical and procedural considerations in the management of construction projects.
Modern Methods of Construction considers opportunities for prefabrication and the use of modular construction systems, and Commercial Management addresses financial considerations and costs associated with the design, procurement, construction, completion, maintenance and decommissioning of buildings.
The third year of the programme provides opportunities to better understand the implications of, and mitigations against, the effects of climate change in Design for Climate Resilience, and Project Management considers the principles and practices that lead to the successful implementation of development projects.
The fourth and final year of the programme completes the Degree Apprenticeship by incorporating elective elements where apprentices are able to identify and pursue an appropriate research proposal in Individual Research Project, and complete a Major Project, the parameters and work-based context of which is determined between the Apprentice, their employer and the Module Tutor.
To enrol on the BSc (Hons) Construction Management Degree Apprenticeship programme, applicants must:
Applicants will normally be expected to satisfy one or more of the following academic and/or professional criteria as a minimum:
Applications from candidates who do not satisfy the standard academic or professional body entry criteria identified above are welcome and will be expected to demonstrate through interview that they have the potential to succeed on the programme.
Candidates who have sufficient appropriate industrial experience are also welcome, though diagnostic assessment prior to admission will be considered in order to measure academic capability, particularly in mathematics and English or Welsh.
All applicants whose first language is not English or Welsh will be expected to demonstrate English language proficiency; European applicants are able to provide this evidence in a number of ways ( please see ), including IELTS; International applicants require a UKVI Approved Secure English Language Test (SELT) ( please visit here for details ).
The types of assessment selected for each module have been chosen to best-suit the nature of the technical content in each subject, and collectively provide a range of opportunities for apprentices to demonstrate your interest, enthusiasm and interpretation of content during your studies.
The BSc (Hons) Construction Management Degree Apprenticeship provides a qualification that is recognised as a comprehensive, informed and valuable measure of the ability of the Wrexham University graduate in the management of construction.
The BSc (Hons) Construction Management Degree Apprenticeship qualification will therefore provide a sound basis upon which to develop a career in the professional and technical aspects of managing construction projects in a range of contexts.
Graduates can expect to establish themselves as construction managers, assistant construction managers, building inspectors and diverse other building technologists, not least because of the experience and understanding that can be gained by following the BSc (Hons) Construction Management Degree Apprenticeship programme at Wrexham University.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/building-surveying-degree-apprenticeship:
to ensure close cooperation with your employer helping to support you throughout your studies
The BSc (Hons) Building Surveying Degree Apprenticeship is an ideal qualification for those who are employed in the industry and are motivated by seeing their hard work rewarded and their expertise recognised within a vibrant and challenging construction sector.
The first year of the BSc (Hons) Building Surveying Degree Apprenticeship programme comprises six core modules and one optional module that combine to provide an informed introduction to the range of aesthetic, functional, legal and environmental considerations that contribute to the measurement, assessment and refurbishment of buildings and infrastructure.
The third year of the programme provides opportunities to better understand the implications of, and mitigations against, the effects of climate change in Design for Climate Resilience, and Project Management considers the principles and practices that lead to the successful implementation of refurbishment and development projects.
To enrol on the BSc (Hons) Building Surveying Degree Apprenticeship programme, applicants must:
All applicants whose first language is not English or Welsh will be expected to demonstrate English language proficiency; European applicants are able to provide this evidence in a number of ways ( further details ), including IELTS; International applicants require a UKVI Approved Secure English Language Test (SELT) (further details ).
The main priority is to ensure that you feel comfortable within the academic learning environment and feel able to contribute to the discussion of subject matter within any class, tutorial or other learning activity that forms part of their studies – teaching and learning is fundamentally a two-way process within which your opinion is vitally important.
A range of assessment methods are used within the programme to simulate the sorts of written, practical, visual and oral communication skills that are expected of building surveyors; written reports, the practical use of technical equipment, visual presentations, laboratory analyses, in-class tests, examinations, coursework and oral presentations are all important ways in which you can demonstrate your understanding.
In terms of particular assessment needs, the University’s Inclusion Services department can provide appropriate guidance and support should any apprentices require reasonable adjustments to be made to assessment processes because of a recognised prevailing disability, medical condition, or specific learning difference.
The BSc (Hons) Building Surveying Degree Apprenticeship provides a qualification that is recognised as a comprehensive, informed and valuable measure of the ability of the Wrexham University graduate in the measurement, appraisal and refurbishment of buildings.
The BSc (Hons) Building Surveying Degree Apprenticeship qualification will therefore provide a sound basis upon which to develop a career in the professional and technical aspects of measuring, appraising and renovating  buildings in a range of contexts.
Graduates can expect to establish themselves as building surveyors, building inspectors and diverse other building technologists, not least because of the experience and understanding that can be gained by following the BSc (Hons) Building Surveying Degree Apprenticeship programme at Wrexham University.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/construction-technology:
1 YR (PT)
The construction industry is one of the largest employment sectors in the United Kingdom and requires a constant supply of construction technologists to contribute to building and civil engineering projects of all sizes.
The HNC programme will build upon your existing knowledge of building design and construction processes, and will further-develop your understanding of how projects are created, managed, constructed and operated upon completion.
As you are employed within the construction sector and intend to study on a part-time basis, please contact the Programme Leader Dr Gareth Carr as funding might well be available through schemes administered by sector skills organisations.
The HNC Construction Technology programme comprises six core modules and two optional modules that combine to provide an informed understanding of the range of aesthetic, functional, technical, legal and environmental considerations that contribute to the construction of buildings and infrastructure.
Choice of two:
To enrol on the HNC Construction Technology programme, applicants will normally be expected to have previously achieved one of the following as a minimum:
Candidates who have sufficient appropriate experience are also welcome, though diagnostic assessment prior to admission will be considered in order to measure academic capability, particularly in mathematics and English or Welsh.
All applicants whose first language is not English or Welsh will be expected to demonstrate English language proficiency; European applicants are able to provide this evidence in a number of ways ( please read ), including IELTS; International applicants require a UKVI Approved Secure English Language Test (SELT) ( please read for details ).
All candidates must be appropriately employed on a full-time basis within the construction industry with a facility to attend on a ‘day-release’ basis.
A range of assessment methods are used within the programme to simulate the sorts of written, practical, visual and oral communication skills that are expected of construction technologists; written reports, the practical use of technical equipment, visual presentations, laboratory analyses, in-class tests, examinations, coursework and oral presentations are all important ways in which you can demonstrate your understanding.
The Higher National Certificate in Construction Technology course provides a qualification that is recognised as a comprehensive, informed and valuable measure of understanding in the technologies of construction.
Opportunities for construction technologists exist within the construction industry in many varied contexts, from ‘new-build’ developments to heritage and refurbishment projects of all scales and types – developing a career as a construction technologist can therefore lead to many rewarding experiences, not least due to the fact that no two construction projects are the same, and that construction technologists are likely to spend as much time on site as they are at their desks.
These circumstances mean that a career in construction technology can often be challenging, particularly rewarding, but never routine.
The HNC Construction Technology qualification will therefore provide a sound basis upon which to further-develop a career in the technical aspects of construction projects in a range of contexts.
Those who successfully complete the programme will establish a sound basis from which to progress within the sector, not least because of the experience and understanding gained whilst following the HNC Construction Technology programme at Wrexham University.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/quantity-surveying:
QS24
This Quantity Surveying course prepares you for a career in one of the largest employment sectors in the United Kingdom.
The construction industry requires a constant supply of quantity surveyors to measure, quantify and cost financial aspects associated with the design, construction, use and disposal of buildings and infrastructure.
The first year of the Quantity Surveying course comprises seven core modules and one optional module that combine to provide an informed introduction to the financial management of building and infrastructure projects.
The second year of the Programme builds upon the first through modules that explore important technical and procedural considerations in the practice of quantity surveying.
Commercial Management considers the importance of financial management throughout the various phases of the development process including evaluating real property as a financial asset, and Procurement and Contract Practice addresses the ways in which building projects are commissioned and implemented towards completion and use.
To enrol on the BSc(Hons) Quantity Surveying programme, applicants will normally be expected to have previously achieved one of the following as a minimum:
A range of assessment methods are used within the programme to simulate the sorts of written, practical, visual and oral communication skills that are expected of quantity surveyors; written reports, the practical use of technical equipment, visual presentations, laboratory analyses, in-class tests, examinations, coursework and oral presentations are all important ways in which you can demonstrate your understanding.
The types of assessment selected for each module have been chosen to best-suit the nature of the technical content in each subject, and collectively provide a range of opportunities for you to demonstrate your interest, enthusiasm and interpretation of content during their studies.
The BSc (Hons) Quantity Surveying degree provides a qualification that is recognised as a comprehensive, informed and valuable measure of the ability of the Wrexham University graduate in the financial management of building and infrastructure projects.
Opportunities for quantity surveyors exist within the construction industry in many varied contexts, from recent developments to heritage and refurbishment projects of all scales and types – developing a career as a quantity surveyor can therefore lead to many rewarding experiences, not least due to the fact that no two building projects are the same, and that quantity surveyors are likely to spend as much time on site as they are at their desks.
These circumstances mean that a career in quantity surveying can often be challenging, particularly rewarding, but never routine.
The BSc (Hons) Quantity Surveying qualification will therefore provide a sound basis upon which to develop a career in the professional and technical aspects of the financial management of development projects in a range of contexts.
Graduates of the programme can therefore work towards establishing themselves as quantity surveyors, building finance consultants and project managers, not least because of the experience and understanding gained whilst following the BSc (Hons) Quantity Surveying programme at Wrexham University.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/quantity-surveying-degree-apprenticeship:
The BSc (Hons) Quantity Surveying Degree Apprenticeship is an ideal qualification for those who are employed in the industry and are motivated by seeing their hard work rewarded and their expertise recognised within a vibrant and challenging construction sector.
The first year of the BSc (Hons) Quantity Surveying Degree Apprenticeship programme comprises six core modules and one optional module that combine to provide an informed introduction to the financial management of building and infrastructure projects.
The second year of the Quantity Surveying course builds upon the first through modules that explore important technical and procedural considerations in the practice of quantity surveying.
The third year of the programme provides opportunities to better understand the implications of, and mitigations against, the effects of climate change in Design for Climate Resilience, and Project Management considers the principles and practices that lead to the successful implementation of refurbishment and new-build development projects.
To enrol on the BSc (Hons) Quantity Surveying Degree Apprenticeship programme, applicants must:
All applicants whose first language is not English or Welsh will be expected to demonstrate English language proficiency; European applicants are able to provide this evidence in a number of ways ( further details ), including IELTS; International applicants require a UKVI Approved Secure English Language Test (SELT) ( further details ).
The BSc (Hons) Quantity Surveying Degree Apprenticeship provides a qualification that is recognised as a comprehensive, informed and valuable measure of the ability of the Wrexham University graduate in the financial management of building and infrastructure projects.
The BSc (Hons) Quantity Surveying Degree Apprenticeship qualification will therefore provide a sound basis upon which to develop a career in the financial management of development projects in a range of contexts.
Graduates can expect to establish themselves as quantity surveyors, building finance consultants and project managers, not least because of the experience and understanding that can be gained by following the BSc (Hons) Quantity Surveying Degree Apprenticeship programme at Wrexham University.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/quantity-surveying-with-foundation-year:
The second year of the Quantity Surveying course comprises seven core modules and one optional module that combine to provide an informed introduction to the financial management of building and infrastructure projects.
The third year of the Programme builds upon the first through modules that explore important technical and procedural considerations in the practice of quantity surveying.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/accounting-and-finance-management:
4J68
by ACCA with eight exemptions
out of Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland for Overall Satisfaction*
a level 5 CMI Diploma in leadership & management upon graduation †
Our Accounting and Finance Management degree concentrates on the practical applications of accounting and finance theories, boosting your employability by developing you as a business-ready graduate.
*This course is part of a Subject Area that is ranked Joint 2 nd out of Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland for Overall Satisfaction .
(National Student Survey, 2024)
†Wrexham based students
You can also choose to study this course with foundation year , UCAS code: A268 - or an industrial placement year , UCAS code: AFIP
In year one, y ou will be introduced to foundational topics across key business disciplines, including management, finance, human resources, marketing, communication, and analytics.
This year focuses on building essential knowledge and skills that provide a strong basis for further specialised studies.
Year two will deepen your understanding of core accountancy and business concepts such as management accounting, taxation, and corporate risk management.
It also introduces you to legal and financial principles, sustainability in finance, and valuation techniques.
Additionally, there is an option to take an industry placement, offering practical experience and enhancing employability.
The final year emphasises advanced learning, covering areas like financial management , auditing, strategy, and reporting.
A dissertation is a key feature, allowing you to integrate your knowledge through research, further preparing you for professional and real-world challenges.
UCAS code: 4J68
The academic requirements for the course are 96-112 UCAS tariff points at GCE A-level or equivalent, from a minimum of two A levels and GCSE Mathematics and English/Welsh (First Language) at Grade C/4 or equivalent.
Students are assessed in a variety of ways over the course of their undergraduate studies.
The balance between the different forms of assessment is determined by the different aims and learning outcomes of the core and option modules.
Assessment methods include academic essays, presentations, reports, simulation exercises and examinations.
Our student support section has more information on the help available.
Students who study BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance Management will go on to work in fields such as, but not limited to:
Graduates have gone to work at; PWC, Deloitte, Bank of America, Lloyds, and a variety of other Accounting and Finance firms.
Students who complete this degree can go on to study a Master of Business Administration (MBA) or MSc International Business and Finance Management .
Students can also go on to study one of our online postgraduate degrees at the North Wales Management School .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/accounting-and-finance-management-with-industry-placement:
AFIP
4 YRS (INDUSTRY PLACEMENT)
by ACCA with eight exemptions.
a level 5 CMI Diploma in leadership & management upon graduation.
†
You can also choose to study this course as without industry placement as a 3 year degree UCAS code: 4J68 - or as four years with foundation year UCAS code: A268

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/accounting-and-finance-management-with-foundation-year:
A268
3 year degree without foundation year , UCAS code: 4J68 - or an industrial placement year , UCAS code: AFIP
In year two, y ou will be introduced to foundational topics across key business disciplines, including management, finance, human resources, marketing, communication, and analytics.
Year three will deepen your understanding of core accountancy and business concepts such as management accounting, taxation, and corporate risk management.
UCAS code: A268

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/accounting-and-finance-management-with-international-foundation-year:
You will be enrolled in the International Foundation Year programme that will be co-taught alongside home students, fostering an inclusive and collaborative learning environment.
This integration allows students to benefit from diverse perspectives, enhance your cultural awareness, and build strong academic and social connections within the university community.
Students entering the programmes with an IELTS score of 5.5 with no skills score below 5.0 and a maximum of two skills at 5.0 will be required to undertake the non-credit bearing English for Academic Support module alongside English for Academic Purpose.
The International Foundation Year (IFY) programme is aimed at international applicants who normally be aged 17 or over before 31 December in the year of registration, will have completed a 12-year school system, and reached at least AS level at the appropriate grade as defined by Ecctis (formerly UK NARIC), in their respective relevant discipline.
Applicants will fulfil the English language requirements for the respective programme entry, via possession of a UKVI approved Secure English Language Test (SELT) from an approved Centre.
IELTS 5.5 With No Skill Score Below 5.0 and a maximum of two skills at 5.0
Applicants with IELTS score of 5.5, with no skills score below 5.0 and a maximum of two skills at 5.0 are only eligible to apply for the 1-year standalone International Foundation Year .
If applicants hold an alternative SELT, acceptance maybe granted subject to Wrexham University admissions assessment on eligibility.
Once accepted on to the International Foundation Year, applicants will be issued a one-year confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
Students will initially apply for a subject specialism (e.g.
International Foundation Year Engineering) with the intention of progressing to a subject specific honours degree route (e.g.
BEng (Hons) Aeronautical & Mechanical Engineering), subject to the successful completion of the International Foundation Year.
Students are required to sit an approved UKVI SELT at the end of Semester 1 to apply for their chosen bachelor’s degree programme at Wrexham University or any other higher education institution (HEI) requiring a second CAS.
Support and guidance from the international team will be provided, and applications will be assessed based on individual merit, entry requirements, and programme availability.
IELTS 5.5 With No Skill Score Below 5.5 Applicants with an IELTS score of 5.5 with no skills score below 5.5 are to apply for the 4-year integrated International Foundation Year pathway.
In some cases, acceptance of alternative English language proficiency certificates with an equivalent of IELTS 5.5 with no skill score below 5.5, can be accepted subject to Wrexham University admissions assessment on eligibility.
Once accepted on to the International Foundation Year, applicants will be issued with a four-year Confirmation of Acceptable for Studies (CAS).
This CAS will cover the full duration of the programme.
During the International Foundation Year, the chosen undergraduate course pathway can be changed, subject to approval from the academic department and in accordance with UKVI regulations, e.g.
from Aeronautical & Mechanical Engineering to Electrical & Electronic Engineering.
Any course transfer would need to be completed within time limits set by the academic admissions tutors, usually before the end of semester 2 of the International Foundation Year at the latest.
Non-Standard Entry Criteria
Students who have successfully completed a pre-sessional programme at Wrexham University with an IELTS Academic overall score of 5.5 with no skill score below 5.5 will be eligible to apply for the International Foundation Year.
Applications will be evaluated based on individual merit and programme

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/applied-business-management-top-up:
on career growth or returning to work
curriculum designed by industry professionals
b y the Chartered Management Institute
This Top-Up course will allow you to complete a full BA (Hons) degree.
It is suitable for those who already hold a relevant foundation degree (in FdA Applied Business Management or others) or equivalent experience.
The course is cost effective and only 12 days per year on campus.
Focused on:
A relevant foundation degree (in FdA Applied Business Management or equivalent b usiness studies or closely related subject ) or equivalent experience.
You must have access to a computer and internet connection.
Assessments are varied, encouraging application within your business/current role.
Inclusive of case studies, management reports, research reports, work-based projects, group and individual presentations and reflective writing.
Business careers are available in pretty much every sector you can think of; all industries need strong leaders, managers and market-savvy decision-makers.
They provide personalised advice, useful resources, and extracurricular employability events.
Thinking of a career in Business?
Hear from lecturers and students about our various Business degrees at Wrexham University.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/applied-business-management:
2 YRS (PT)
by the Chartered Management Institute
This unique part-time business degree is designed for those looking to develop the business knowledge and management skills to take a new direction, return to work or progress further in their career.
Successful completion at Level 4 (12 months) will give you a Certificate of Higher Education; whilst an additional 12 months successful learning at Level 5 achieves a Foundation Degree.
On completion of your Foundation Degree, you can top-up to a BA (Hons) in Applied Business Management (Top-Up) with an additional 12 months successful study at Level 6.
(Please note that with relevant Level 5 qualifications and/or experience, you may qualify to apply to directly enrol in Level 6, BA (Hons) in Applied Business Management (Top-up) .)
The comprehensive curriculum covers key business disciplines including marketing, finance, strategy and human resource management, developing practical and theoretical business leadership skills.
The academic requirements for the course are 48-72 UCAS tariff points at GCE A-level and/or relevant experience.
The Foundation degree is taught over two years on a part time basis.
We hold 12 Learning Days per year, for which attendance is expected from 9.30 – 4.30 on Plas Coch campus.
Additionally, there will be weekly online tasks to complete which will underpin and complement our Learning Days.
There are three, 40 credit, modules per year, each with four Learning Days.
Our Learning Days consist of mini lectures, guest speakers, discussions and practical activities.
Each module has two assessments.
These range from written reports, portfolios, practical tasks and can be individual or group work.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/business-and-human-resource-management:
HRMB
in the UK for Teaching Satisfaction*
available as an optional year
a level 5 CMI Diploma in leadership & management upon graduation
Our degree in Business & Human Resource Management (HRM) will give you the skills you need to successfully manage organisations and their people in today’s fast-paced, and often challenging business environments and to play a part in influencing strategic business decisions.
*This subject area is rated top 10 in the UK for Satisfied with Teaching in the Business and Management subject area league table in the Guardian University Guide, 2025.
You can also study this course with a foundation year BA (Hons) Business and Human Resource Management (with foundation year) UCAS Code: HRMF
The academic requirements for the course are 96-112 UCAS tariff points at GCE A-level or equivalent from a minimum of two A levels and GCSE Mathematics and English/Welsh (First Language) at Grade C/4 or equivalent.
Independent learning is an important aspect of all modules, as it enables students to develop both their subject-specific and key skills.
Independent learning is promoted through the feedback given to students, which takes several forms including small group and one-to-one discussions.
In accordance with sound educational research and current best practice, the BA Business and HRM programme will be delivered through a broad range of learning and teaching strategies.
The delivery of the programme and its assessment will reflect the spirit of Wrexham University’s Learning, Teaching and Assessment Strategy and Active Learning Framework, with particular emphasis on:
Our Business & HRM degree can be applied to almost any organisation in any sector.
It is a versatile qualification for dealing with hiring, training, development and general people skills.
A degree in Business and Human Resource Management provides a variety of future opportunities for graduates.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/business-and-human-resource-management-with-industry-placement:
BHIP
* This subject area is rated top 10 in the UK for Satisfied with Teaching in the Business and Management subject area league table in the Guardian University Guide, 2025.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/business-and-management:
8BR6
by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI)
a Level 5 CMI Diploma in leadership & management upon graduation
Our BA (Hons) in Business & Management prepares students for the challenges of the modern business world and strengthens and develops their broader personal and professional skills.
You can also choose to study this course with an industrial placement year .
UCAS Code: BMIP
At Level 4, students will take several introductory topics in management & business, finance, HRM, marketing and analytics.
As students progress onto Level 5 and 6, they will gain an understanding of customer service, digital business, agile leadership, managing corporate risk, strategy and international human resources, as well as having an option to take an industrial placement that will significantly enhance your CV and employment prospects.
A dissertation is embedded in the final part of their studies to give all our students the ability to develop their research skills.
Teaching methods include workshop-based core skills modules, lectures by practitioners, student-led seminars and guided research.
Independent learning is an important aspect of all modules, as it enables students to develop both their subject specific and key skills.
Students can book appointments with academic skills tutors dedicated to helping them deal with the practicalities of university work.
Business careers are available in pretty much every sector you can think of; all industries need strong leaders, managers, financial advisors and market-savvy decision-makers.
For many of our Business & Management graduates however, the traditional pathways still hold a strong appeal – including careers in the banking and financial sectors, consultancy, human resources and marketing roles.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/business-and-management-with-foundation-year:
W3L7
Our BA Business & Management degree is designed to produce graduates with the skills to meets employers’ needs in the contemporary business world and who are ready to build a successful business career.
You can also study this course as a three year degree (without foundation year) BA (Hons) Business and Management UCAS code: 8BR6
- Types of organisation prevalent in the business world - The importance of human resource management and the role of HR practitioners - HR activities in organisations - Impact of technology on human resource management
For many of our Business & Management graduates, however, the traditional pathways still hold a strong appeal – including careers in the banking and financial sectors, consultancy, human resources and marketing roles.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/business-and-management-with-industry-placement:
BMIP
by the Chartered Marketing Institute (CMI)
You can also choose to study this course with a foundation year .
UCAS code: W3L7

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/international-business:
IB22
of the Business Graduates Association with access to a range of benefits including consultative services and the BGA eLearning hub
a Level 5 CMI Diploma in Leadership & Management upon graduation
Our BA (Hons) in International Business allows students to see how globalisation has brought about an increasing 'connectedness' of businesses, markets, people and information across countries and gives students understanding of the different business management practices found all over the world.
CORE MODULES
OPTIONAL MODULES
Our international business degree opens a variety of careers and students can also use their knowledge to internationalise their own business ideas.
Specific careers include:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/international-business-with-industry-placement:
IBIP

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/marketing-and-business:
350T
by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM)
an optional level 4 CIM certificate in digital marketing* and a level 5 CMI diploma in leadership and management upon graduation
Our BA (Hons) in Marketing and Business prepares students for the challenges of the modern business world and strengthens and develops their broader personal and professional skills.
Work-based learning is embedded into the programme, meaning that all graduates will be equipped with knowledge and skills to meet current and future market needs and be ‘work ready’.
* This course is part of a subject area ranked top 10 in the UK for Satisfied with Teaching in the Business and Management subject area league table in the Guardian University Guide, 2025.
Marketing Essentials: This module is about recognising the importance of marketing’s role in driving success and delivering results.
Students will learn about the different functions of marketing in the 21st century and will study how an appreciation of consumer behaviour and the marketing environment can enable effective targeting and planning.
By the end of this module students will have gained an awareness of the various tools available to the modern day marketer, and be capable of recognising their strengths and weaknesses, enabling them to use them both creatively and effectively in an operational context including commercial and non-profit sector organisations
Business Analytics: This module aims to develop a critical and practical understanding of the concepts and principles of analytics and the ability to apply these concepts to the systematic analysis of data within the contemporary business world.
Marketing offers an extensive job market for qualified graduates who can think strategically, create relevancy and deliver measurable results.
Possible careers include - Advertising Account Executive, Advertising Art Director, Digital Marketer, Market Researcher, Media Buyer, Social Media Manager, Social Media Manager.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/marketing-and-business-with-industry-placement:
MBIP
in the UK for Teaching Satisfaction *
an optional level 4 CIM certificate in digital marketing and a level 5 CMI diploma in leadership and management upon graduation

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/tourism-and-hospitality-management:
P0L2
in the UK for Teaching*
This dedicated degree will give you the practical skills and the vital knowledge you need for a career in the Tourism & Hospitality Management industry.
The course is made up of stimulating and thought-provoking modules covering essential business topics, including advanced modules providing a breadth of knowledge and experience such as creating events, visitor attraction management, sustainable planning & development, contemporary issues in hospitality management and human resource management.
*This course is part of a subject area ranked joint 1st in the UK for teaching on my course, Assessment and Feedback, Academic Support, and Organisation and Management (National Student Survey, 2024)
*The course is also part of a subject area ranked joint 1st out of Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland for overall satisfaction (National Student Survey, 2024)
Teaching methods include workshop-based core skills modules, lectures by practitioners, student-led seminars, pre-recorded material available on VLE and guided research.
This degree offers potential for employment in a wide range of areas within the tourism and hospitality sector.
Your qualification, practical experience and volunteering opportunities will provide you with the prerequisites employers are looking for.
Alternatively, it may equip you with the skills to start your own business in the service sector.
Specific careers can include:
Other opportunities in other areas include HR management or carrying on your studies at postgraduate level.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/tourism-and-hospitality-management-with-industry-placement:
of the Business Graduates Association
a range of benefits including consultative services and the BGA eLearn

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/computer-game-design-and-enterprise:
GE17
This course delivers the expertise required to design and produce creative game projects.
The course specialises in game design, entrepreneurship, 3D development software and agile production to build industry ready skills and develop a high-quality portfolio.
This course is also available to study with industrial placement UCAS Code: CEIP - or with foundation year UCAS Code: GEFY (both are four year degrees)
In the first year of study, you will be introduced to a variety of themes that relate to the production of game products across design and enterprise modules along with opportunities expand on your skills in a full game project.
You will begin studying game design, 3D software and 2D Design in the first semester, and build on this to utilise Unreal Engine in semester 2 to create narratively inspired environments and trailers.
The second year of study will build of the foundations of the first, and will encourage you to start to specialise in your area.
In the first s emester , you will study two specialist modules and explore the world of environmental design in a more detailed way, as well as starting study what it means to be in game production.
In the second s emester, the focus will shift to student-led, multi-disciplinary 3D game project in which you will be required to manage and deliver a significant vertical slice of a 3D game whilst maintaining a professional management methodology .
The final year of the course will further build on your subject specialisms, as the course starts to explore what graduate opportunities you have in the games industry – whether that be in a larger studio or in your own indie studio.
You will have final core and specialist training modules, however, the area of development will be through the large scale games project which will run from the start of the year until the summer.
In addition to this, applicants must have five GCSE passes at grades C/4 or above, including Mathematics and English/Welsh (First Language).
Teaching and learning on this course are designed to support students from a variety of diverse backgrounds.
Students will be able to access their tutors both during sessions and outside of sessions to get help and support from their tutors.
Where relevant, additional staff may be part of the learning environment to support, such as Learning Support Assistants, Personal Assistants, and Sign Language interpreters.
This course uses a combination of learning environments including significant use of computer lab rooms, production and assessment meeting rooms, collaborative working environments, and lecture theatres.
All delivered sessions will be supported by our VLE platform Moodle, with content such as internal and external videos, lecture slides, additional notes, and important links and files that will always be available.
During your first year of study, you will be timetabled into four tutor-led sessions a week, usually over three days, with the remaining time suggested for self-directed learning.
These directed sessions will run at between two or three hours each depending on the module.
Some modules will be taught with the wider games suite and will include students from other games courses, and some will be purely for students on Computer Game Development .
All modules are delivered within the games team with the games suite.
Due to the nature of the subject, the course is portfolio-focused with students creating work that represents their development and has no formal exams.
Assessment methods include the production of games and game elements, practical work, presentations and pitches, assessment meetings, technical documentation, production data, and portfolio submissions.
Additionally, during project modules, additional strategies will be in place to track and balance work within teams to ensure fair assessment and consistent development over longer periods of time.
Gameplay Programmer Game Designer Level Designer 3D Asset Artist Technical Artist Producer QA Test Analysis AI Programmer Software Engineer UI/UX Developer Scrum Master

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/computer-game-design-and-enterprise-with-foundation-year:
GEFY
This course can also be studied as a three year degree without the foundation year BSc (Hons) Computer Game Design and Enterprise UCAS Code: GE17 - or with industry placement UCAS Code: CEIP (four year degree)
In year two, you will be introduced to a variety of themes that relate to the production of game products across design and enterprise modules along with opportunities expand on your skills in a full game project.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/computer-game-design-and-enterprise-with-industrial-placement:
CEIP
This course is also available with foundation year (4 years) UCAS code: GEFY - or without foundation year and industrial placement as a 3 year degree UCAS code: GE17
Th is work-based module will provide you with the opportunity to gain valuable experience of the games-related workplace via first-hand experience.
This module allows you to undertake a sustained period, embedded with a host employer, to work on one or more defined projects or goals.
In addition to this, applicants must have five GCSE passes at grades C/4 or above, including Mathematics and English/Welsh (first language).
Thinking of a career in Computing?
Hear from lecturers and students about our Computing course at Wrexham University.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/computer-game-development:
G451
This technical course delivers the expertise required to design and develop game projects.
The course specialises in game design, game programming, 3D development software and agile production to build industry skills and develop a high-quality portfolio.
In the first year of study, you will be introduced to a variety of themes that relate to the development of game products across technical and design modules along with opportunities expand on your skills in a full game project.
You will begin studying game design, 3D software and C++ programming in the first semester, and build on this to utilise Unreal Engine in semester 2 to create narratively inspired environments and trailers.
The second year of study will build of the foundations of the first and will encourage you to start to specialise in a specific area.
In the first s emester , you will study two specialist modules and explore the world of programming and developing games in a more detailed way, including starting to create C++ based game projects with Unreal Engine.
You will have final core and specialist training modules; however, the area of development will be through the large-scale games project which will run from the start of the year until the summer.
MODULES:
The academic requirements for the course are 96-112 UCAS tariff points at GCE A-level or equivalent including a good pass in IT, Computing, Maths or Physics.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/computer-game-development-with-foundation-year:
I620
In level 4, you will be introduced to a variety of themes that relate to the development of game products across technical and design modules along with opportunities expand on your skills in a full game project.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/computer-game-development-with-industrial-placement:
CGIP
T h is work-based module will provide you with the opportunity to gain valuable experience of the games-related workplace via first-hand experience.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/computer-science:
4R9B
department in future and emerging technologies
to state-of-the-art facilities and equipment
to qualify for CISCO accreditation
Our BSc Computer Science course offers a solid foundation in core computer science principles, programming, and software development, with opportunities to specialise in Machine Learning,  AI and Data Analytics.
This course will allow you to develop vital ethical, professional, and communication skills to excel in a rewarding IT career.
You can also choose to study this course with foundation year, UCAS code: I345 - or an industrial placement year , UCAS code: CSIP
The BSc Computer Science programme aims to provide you with a strong foundation in computer science principles, theories, and practical skills.
It will provide you with a comprehensive understanding of core computer science concepts, as well as the theoretical elements of computer science.
This course aims to offer hands-on experience through lab work, and coding assignments, and foster an understanding of ethical issues related to computer science including privacy, security, intellectual property, and social implications of technology.
Finally, you will be able to specialise in specific areas of computer science, such as machine learning, artificial intelligence, and data analytics.
YEAR 1 (LEVEL 4)
The first year (Level 4) establishes a solid foundation in software and web development within the broader context of computing and digital industries.
Through design exercises, case studies, and projects, you will gain practical experience by applying core principles to real-world scenarios.
In your second year (Level 5), you will explore advanced principles in software and web design, development, and production, with a focus on practical application through case studies, teamwork, and design exercises.
You will enhance your understanding of industry tools, workflows, and roles, while developing problem-solving skills using data structures and algorithms to deliver innovative solutions.
This year also sharpens your collaboration, communication, and project management abilities, alongside fostering professional practices and reflection on social, ethical, and sustainability issues—preparing you for academic success and a competitive edge in your professional career.
The final year (Level 6) emphasi s es critically evaluating computing within a broader context, focusing on advanced principles in software/web design, development, and production through graduate-level projects.
You will apply development tools, considering technical, design, and team-based skills, while addressing social, ethical, and sustainability issues.
The year fosters advanced competencies in research, programming,  and software systems development, including security techniques and speciali s a tion in computer science.
You will refine problem-solving, communication, leadership, and agile project management skills.
Additionally, you will enhance personal growth, time management, and research abilities, preparing you for professional success in the computing industr y.
The academic requirements for the course are 96-112 UCAS tariff points at GCE A-level or equivalent, including a good pass in IT, Computing, Maths or Physics.
Applicants who do not meet the criteria above will be assessed on an individual basis by interview.
Teaching
Th is course leverages cutting-edge industry tools and software , paired with innovative teaching methods, to equip students with industry-relevant skills and empower them to excel .
Staff fully embrace the Active Learning Framework (ALF), enhancing the teaching and learning experience through diverse, dynamic methods.
The programme integrates core project modules simulating cross-disciplinary industry practices with subject-specific modules, offering theoretical and practical expertise .
Students engage in active learning sessions, industry talks, workshops, and practical exercises while exploring emerging technologies and industry best practices.
Most undergraduate modules, apart from the 40-credit final-year project, are 20 credits.
Each 20-credit module requires 200 hours of learning, consisting of a small proportion of timetabled sessions, including lectures, labs, workshops, and tutorials, alongside a significant proportion of guided independent study.
Staff operate an Open-Door policy, providing flexible support beyond scheduled hours.
Assessment
Aligned with the Active Learning Framework (ALF), the programmes employ innovative, context-driven assessment strategies that integrate portfolio-building exercises to enhance student achievement and employability.
Cloud-based systems track and manage student progress in projects, ensuring transparency in group work and simulating an industry environment to deepen professional awareness.
Assessments focus on mastery of skills and knowledge, adopting a tailored approach supported by formative activities such as self-reflection, peer assessments, and targeted feedback.
For coursework and portfolio-based modules, milestone reviews provide personalised feedback, keeping students on track to meet learning outcomes and deliverables.
Modules with embedded industry certifications include preparatory coursework submissions for feedback, ensuring readiness for final assessments.
These assessments align with certification requirements and may involve remote proctored in-class evaluations, bridging academic and industry standards to strengthen student employability.
Assessments encompass a diverse range of methods, including:
Software Engineer Software Developer Data Analysts Data Scientists Artificial Intelligence Machine Learning Software Architect Systems Analyst IT Consultant IT Project Manager

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/computer-science-top-up:
1 YR (FT)
Are you looking to complete your BSc Computer Science degree?
Our Top-Up programme provides a supportive pathway into the final year of your studies.
For direct entry to the top up provisions, applicants must have achieved a qualification at Level 5 or better in a relevant discipline.
Entry to the programme may be gained by students who can present one of the pieces of evidence listed below:
a) Have passed a Dip HE in a relevant discipline
b) Have passed a French DUT
c) Have achieved a minimum of 120 ECTS credits in a relevant discipline
d) Have passed a Foundation Degree or HND in a cognate discipline
e) Have passed a qualification from an EU or other overseas country equivalent, as defined as equivalent NARIC, to a DipHE or better in a relevant discipline.
Such as State Certified Technician ( Staatlich geprüfter Techniker ) or Mittelland Higher Technical ( Höhere Fachschule Technik Mittelland)

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/computer-science-with-foundation-year:
I345
Year 2 (Level 4) establishes a solid foundation in software and web development within the broader context of computing and digital industries.
At level 5, you will explore advanced principles in software and web design, development, and production, with a focus on practical application through case studies, teamwork, and design exercises.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/computer-science-with-industrial-placement:
CSIP
The placement year will take place during the third academic year.
This pivotal phase in your education allows you to gain hands-on experience in your field of study, bridging the gap between theoretical knowledge and practical application.
It is an opportunity to immerse yourself in a professional environment, develop ind ustry-specific skills, and build a network of contacts that can be invaluable for your future career.
During this year, you'll work with professionals, tackle real-world challenges, and refine your understanding of the ind ustry, all while earning academic credit.
This blend of academic and professional development is designed to enhance your employability, giving you a competitive edge in the job market upon graduation.
The computing program suite employs a diverse range of cutting-edge industry tools and software, complemented by innovative teaching methods.
This dynamic approach not only imparts industry-relevant skills but also empowers you to elevate your work to new heights when possible.
The entire staff enthusiastically embraces the active learning framework (ALF), resulting in numerous enhancements to the teaching and learning experience.
Assessments in computer science at the university level are designed to evaluate your' understanding, application, and proficiency in various aspects of the discipline.
These assessments encompass a diverse range of methods, including:
Personalised Support The department follows a well-established open-door approach, actively interacting with students, alumni, and industry stakeholders.
Essential information and communication avenues are facilitated through tools like Teams and Moodle.
Additionally, every student is assigned a personal tutor, fostering regular meetings, while additional personalized support is extended to part-time students through the Virtual Learning Environment (VLE).

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/computer-science-with-international-foundation-year:
This integration allows you to benefit from diverse perspectives, enhance your cultural awareness, and build strong academic and social connections within the university community.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/computing-top-up:
Are you looking to complete your BSc Computing degree?

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/cyber-security:
8L6D
to a wide range of hardware and software
Our BSc (Hons) Cyber Security course provides you with a comprehensive foundation in cybersecurity, equipping you with the technical expertise, practical experience, and professional skills needed for a successful career in this dynamic field.
Year one provides a strong foundation in cybersecurity, computing, and software development.
You will gain hands-on experience in network defence, governance, risk management, and programming, applying computational thinking to real-world challenges.
You’ll also explore ethical, legal, and social aspects of cybersecurity while developing teamwork, communication, and project management skills through agile methodologies.
In year two , you will deepen your knowledge of cybersecurity theories, including distributed architecture, security by design, and secure programming.
You will tackle real-world challenges, exploring ethical, legal, and sustainability issues and g ain hands-on experience in system defence, detection, mitigation, and ethical hacking using industry tools.
Through agile methodologies and collaborative projects, you'll refine your teamwork, communication, and organisational skills, preparing you to address industry challenges and protect digital infrastructure .
In your final year, you will apply advanced theories to real-world challenges, integrating practical experience to develop solutions for complex cybersecurity issues.
You will tackle social, ethical, and sustainability concerns while refining your skills in system defence, detection, and mitigation.
Through your final-year project, you'll demonstrate independence and critical thinking, applying development tools to solve industry-relevant problems.
Graduate-level competencies in research, self-management, and communication will prepare you to lead in the fast-paced cybersecurity industry .
The academic requirements for the course are 96-112 UCAS tariff points at GCE A-level or equivalent, including IT, computing, maths or physics.
Assessments in cyber security at university level are designed to evaluate your understanding, application, and proficiency in various aspects of the discipline.
Cyber Security Architect Cyber Security Analyst Cyber Assurance Manager Network Security Engineer Network Administrator Penetration Tester Information Security consultant Security Operatio ns Centre Analyst Network Engineer IT Systems Engineer Application Security Engineer Chief Information Security Officer Security Consultant

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/cyber-security-top-up:
Are you looking to complete your BSc Cyber Security degree?

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/cyber-security-with-foundation-year:
H098
Year two provides a strong foundation in cybersecurity, computing, and software development.
In year three , you will deepen your knowledge of cybersecurity theories, including distributed architecture, security by design, and secure programming.
Our general requirement for the foundation year is 48-72 UCAS tariff points, but all applications are considered individually and we consider work experience, vocational training/qualifications, as well as motivation and potential to succeed.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/cyber-security-with-industrial-placement:
CYIP
Our Cyber Security degree provides you with a thorough grasp of the principles, technologies, and methodologies associated with safeguarding digital information and systems.
This includes a detailed exploration of fundamental Cyber Security concepts such as cryptography, network security, and access control.
It is an opportunity to immerse yourself in a professional environment, develop industry-specific skills, and build a network of contacts that can be invaluable for your future career.
During this year, you'll work with professionals, tackle real-world challenges, and refine your understanding of the industry, all while earning academic credit.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/game-art:
305D
This course delivers the expertise required to design and produce artistic elements for creative game projects.
You’ll explore character and environmental work, game production, and design software to build a high-quality art portfolio.
This degree is primarily designed for those who want to pursue a career in the game art and associated design industries.
It explores all key aspects of game art production processes, drawing upon your imagination and using a variety of techniques from 2D concepts to 3D production on screen, including 3D modelling, sculpting, level design and mixed screen-based media.
Emphasis is placed on your personal and professional development, communication and entrepreneurial skills so that you are well equipped to enter a diverse and rapidly changing industry.
In the first year of study, you will be introduced to a variety of themes that relate to the art and design of game products across aesthetic and design modules along with opportunities expand on your skills in a full game project.
You will begin studying game design, 3D software and concepting in the first semester, and build on this to utilise Autodesk Maya to begin to create Characters from initial 2D drafts to a sculpted final 3D Character.
In the first s emester , you will study two specialist modules and explore the world of environmental design in a more detailed way, as well as producing game characters that can be interacted with in a game engine.
You will have final core and specialist training modules; however, the area of development will be through the large scale games project which will run from the start of the year until the summer.
Some modules will be taught with the wider games suite and will include students from other games courses, and some will be purely for students on Game Art.
3D Character Artist Environmental Artist Character Animation 3D Asset Artist Concept Artist Technical Artist Weapon/Vehicle Artist UI/UX Developer 3D Sculpting Product Design

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/game-art-with-foundation-year:
305G
In year two, you will be introduced to a variety of themes that relate to the art and design of game products across aesthetic and design modules along with opportunities expand on your skills in a full game project.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/game-art-with-industrial-placement:
GAIP

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/criminology-and-criminal-justice:
M240
3 YRS (FT) 6 YRS (PT)
in the UK for Student Satisfaction*
in the UK for Teaching on my Course and Learning Opportunities*
in the UK for Teaching Quality and Student Experience*
Our Criminology and Criminal Justice degree will allow you to explore a fascinating array of questions from why people commit crime and how it affects society, to historical landmarks in the justice system and high-profile cases that have shaped the legal landscape.
*This course is part of a subject area ranked 1 st in the UK for Student Satisfaction in the Sociology subject area league table in the Complete University Guide 2026.
*This course is ranked top 10 in the UK for Teaching on My course, Learning Opportunities, Assessment and Feedback and Overall Satisfaction in the Sociology subject area league table in the National Student Survey 2025.
*This course is rated 1st in the UK for Teaching Quality and Student Experience in The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025.
The first year of our criminology degree provides you with an introduction to practice matters relating to working in the community justice system and understanding and engaging with offending behaviour.
The range of modules explored in year one provides knowledge and understanding of the causes of crime at a societal and individual level and explores the work of the agencies that make up the criminal justice system.
The second year is designed to build directly on the skills and knowledge acquired during year one.
You will study criminal law and in traditional lecturers and field trips where possible e.g.
to prison and court, you will learn about advanced issues in effective practice with particular types of offenders.
Criminological and research theory is explored to begin the process of developing your ability to think theoretically and critically about the practice of criminal justice.
In the final year, modules develop your abilities to apply theoretical and critical perspectives to criminal justice processes and practice.
Some degree of choice is also offered in relation to modules options.
The socio-political nature of criminal justice policy-making is explored and a critical lens is brought to bear on the criminal justice system.
You may then choose to explore how guilt and innocence might be negotiated in police and courtroom, the contribution forensic psychology might make to understanding crime, youth justice or multi-agency criminal justice response to crime.
Students will also complete their own research project (option to conduct primary or secondary data collection) which explores an area of interest to themselves under the supervision of one of the experienced criminology lecturers in the department.
A Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance (previously known as CRB) may be required for placement activity on optional Work-Based Learning module.
There is a variety of assessment methods for this course, including essays, presentations, case studies and examinations.
In year 3, you will produce a final-year dissertation, designed to evaluate your understanding and application of criminological concepts.
You will be required to do a research project on a topic of your interest.
This will be a secondary piece of research which draws upon current knowledge and research.
Flexible, accessible and inclusive teaching methods are utilised across the degree programme.
Students will attend face-to-face lectures three days a week.
Students are encouraged to participate in site visits to operational areas of the criminal justice system, which in the past have included visits to a crown court and a prison.
Youth Justice Service Probation Service Prison Service Police Force Community Rehabilitation Substance Misuse Services Victim Support Homelessness Services Voluntary / Third Sector Organi s ations Legal Service ( e.g Courts and Magistrates)
“WGU and the programme I undertook supported me to prepare for working within the criminal justice system because everything I was taught was relevant to the criminal justice system, from learning about changes in legislation, to the relevance of how a system is constructed.”
A high-profile Crime Scene Day learning simulation is held each year, with students from a range of courses acting out, witnessing, investigating and reporting on a high-profile crime on campus.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/law:
LL21
This course can take advantage of the Law Student Mentoring Network which helps to support students interested in pursuing a career in law and provide them with advice and support.
by the Solicitors Regulation Authority as a Qualifying Law Degree
you for the Solicitors Qualifying Examination 1 and 2 and Bar Training Course
Our Law degree provides an essential foundation for a successful career in law.
This accredited degree is recognised by the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA) as a Qualifying Law Degree (QLD) and focuses on both academic and professional preparations for the Solicitors Qualifying Examination (SQE) 1 and 2, as well as the Bar Training Course.
*This course is part of a subject area ranked top 5 in the UK for Student Satisfaction in the Law subject area league table in the Complete University Guide 2026.
* This subject area is rated 5 th in the UK for Satisfied with Teaching in the Law subject area league table in the Guardian University Guide 2025.
Thinking of a career in Law?
Hear from lecturers and students about our Law degrees at Wrexham University.
No DBS is required by the University but applicants must declare “relevant” criminal convictions that are not “spent” on the UCAS or direct application form.
Relevant criminal convictions are those for offences against the person, whether of a violent or sexual nature or for offences involving unlawfully supplying controlled drugs or substances where the conviction concerns commercial drug dealing or trafficking, offences involving firearms, arson or those listed in the Sex Offences Act 2003 or the Terrorism Act 2006.
Applicants can find useful information on what counts as a “spent” conviction on the following GOV.UK website.
Applicants who declare a relevant unspent criminal conviction will be contacted by letter by the Admissions Manager with a request to provide additional details.
This is so that a risk assessment can be undertaken and the matter considered under the Consideration of Criminal Convictions Policy and Procedure.
The full policy may be viewed here .
Students should be aware that those wishing to go on to practice law in England and Wales have to show evidence of good character under the SRA Assessment of Character and Suitability Rules full details of which may be found here .
Teaching for each module is typically delivered through in-person lectures.
Modules are assessed through a range of assessment methods, including:
Solicitor Barrister Legal research Civil service Charitable organisations Witness support services

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/professional-policing:
243H
additional qualifications
specialised policing facilities
Our Professional Policing degree equips you with the knowledge and skills required for a modern policing career.
Engage in scenario-based learning, lectures, and seminars led by experienced academics and former police officers, ensuring you're prepared to meet the demands of the 21st-century police service.
*This course is part of a subject area ranked:
National Student Survey, 2024
Watch to hear from students on our BSc (Hons) Professional Policing
In the first year, you'll be introduced to key concepts and principles in policing, developing foundational skills and knowledge required for the police constable role.
In the second year, you will build on foundational knowledge, delving deeper into specific areas of policing such as information management, digital policing, and the application of police powers.
In the third year, you will engage with advanced topics in policing, culminating in a dissertation project.
This year focuses on applying knowledge and skills in complex policing contexts, including multi-agency working and contemporary challenges.
Minimum entry requirements are:
96-112 UCAS points or equivalent e.g.
Pass in an Access to Higher Education programme with 15 level 2 credits, 45 level 3 credits to be graded following the rules of a combination as follows: 6 Distinctions, 33 merits, 6 passes
The applicant must demonstrate in their UCAS personal statement a readiness to engage in Higher Education and the motivation, in particular, to undertake a BA (Hons) Professional Policing degree.
OR
Entry to the degree is also possible where an applicant is able to demonstrate that prior and/or experiential learning will enable them to cope with the academic and professional demands of the programme.
Subject to the availability of places, applicants meeting either of these requirements would receive an offer of an interview.
At the interview, applicants’ readiness to engage in higher education and their motivation and presenting eligibility to undertake the Policing degree would be explored further.
You'll be taught through a combination of lectures, seminars, and scenario-based learning, including simulated policing encounters.
The workload includes a mix of theoretical and practical sessions, with opportunities for inter-professional learning.
Assessment methods comprise essays, exams, presentations, role-plays, and a dissertation project.
Graduates of this course can pursue careers such as:
A high-profile Major Incident Day learning simulation is held each year, with students from a range of courses acting out, witnessing, investigating and reporting on a high-profile crime on campus

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/early-childhood-studies:
BAEC
3 YRS (FT) / 4 YRS (PT)
Blended Learning
a range of contemporary topics
at each level of study in a range of settings
*This course is part of a subject area ranked top 5 in the UK for Student Satisfaction in the Education subject area league table in the Complete University Guide 2026.
Level 4 offers you the opportunity to build strong foundations in the field of education studies.
You will learn how to be a degree level student and prepare for and undertake your first 6 week placement.
Level 5 builds on the skills and knowledge you developed at level 4 by further specialising in the field of education.
At level 5 you are introduced to authentic work-based research and you will engage with your extended 8 week placement.
At level 6, the aim is to successfully complete your degree and apply your knowledge to practice.
You will explore the role of leadership in practice and plan your own professional development whilst out on a three-week placement.
You will also further develop your independent study skills by completing your final year dissertation.
The academic requirements for the course are:
For applicants without formal qualifications, work experience in appropriate areas will be considered on an individual basis.
Students wishing to join the programme on a part-time basis must also meet the following entry criteria:
Before applicants are offered an unconditional place on this degree, they will be required to complete a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance (previously known as CRB)
As a full-time student you will attend campus for up to 3 days per week which will include a mixture of classroom and online based learning.
Classroom sessions provide you with an opportunity to learn alongside your fellow students and are based in activity and discussion.
Online materials are used to prepare you for the classroom sessions and to provide follow-on work/research for you to complete in your own time.
As a part-time student you can use our flexible study mode to choose the right pathway through your studies for you.
You may choose to study one day per week in the classroom alongside our full-time students, you may choose to study online using our Virtual Learning Environment (Moodle), or you can choose a combination of both.
If you choose to study 100% online with us you will receive regular on-campus or online meetings with your tutors outside of work hours.
A range of assessment methods will be used throughout your studies and could include: case studies; handouts, posters, observations; portfolios; presentations, essays, reports and a dissertation at level 6.
Our assignments are chosen to help you develop the skills and writing techniques you will need for future employment or study.
Placement in practice forms an important part of your degree studies.
During your studies you will undertake 3 placements:
Level 4 - Professional Practice for Childhood and Education (40 credits).
You will attend placement for 2 days per week for 6 weeks (84 hrs).
At level 4 the purpose of the placement is for you to explore and experience professional competencies in practice.
Level 5 - Practice Informed Research (60 credits).
You will attend placement 3 days a week for 8 weeks (168 hrs).
At level 5 the purpose of the placement is for you to engage with authentic research ideas and to collect primary research data.
Level 6 - Leadership and Professional Development (40 credits).
You will attend placement 3 days a week for 3 weeks (63 hrs).
At level 6 the purpose of the placement is for you to observe leadership skills and to consider your own professional development in relation to future employment.
Our placements include (but are not limited to) schools; nursery settings; local authority settings, for example the Child Prevention and Support Service and Flying Start; third sector organisations, for example Home Start, Action for Children and Save the Family; and the private sector, for example Residential Homeless Support for Families and Residential Family Assessment Centres.
Part-time students will use their normal place of work to complete their placement hours.
You may choose to further your expertise through postgraduate studies.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/early-childhood-studies-with-foundation-year:
FYEC
a variety of contemporary topics
The academic requirements for the course are;
For students without the standard entry qualifications, it may be possible to take this course if you have additional life or work experience and can demonstrate an ability to engage with the academic challenges of the programme.
Candidates without standard entry requirements may be invited to interview.
Before applicants are offered an unconditional place on this degree, they will be required to complete a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance (previously known as CRB), to confirm their suitability for working with children, young people and vulnerable adults.
A range of assessment methods will be used throughout your Foundation Year to allow you to practice the academic skills required of a degree level student.
On successfully completing your Foundation Year, placements will start in the first year (level 4) of your main degree programme.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/education-studies:
BAES
opportunities at each level of study in a range of settings
Unlock your potential and make a difference in the fields of formal and informal education with our BA (Hons) Education Studies degree.
Our dynamic course is your gateway to a rewarding career dedicated to shaping the lives of children aged 3 to 11.
At level 5, you are introduced to authentic work-based research and you will engage with your extended 8 week placement.
At level 6 the aim is to successfully complete your degree and move into employment.
You will explore the role of leadership in practice and plan for your own professional development whilst out on a three week placement.
Students without the above entry requirements, who can demonstrate engagement with the sector, are welcome to apply and will be considered on an individual basis.
Before applicants are offered an unconditional place on this degree, they will be required to complete a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance (previously known as CRB) they are required to have an Enhanced Child DBS (with child barred check).
As a full-time student, you will attend campus for up to 3 days per week which will include a mixture of classroom and online based learning.
As a part-time student, you can use our flexible study mode to choose the right pathway through your studies for you.
The BA (Hons) Education Studies is based within the academic fields of Education, Sociology and Psychology.
It captures the widest context in relation to gaining employment within the children’s workforce, specifically relating to children aged 3 to 11 years.
This programme will provide you with a strong foundation of knowledge and skills relevant to wider employment whilst offering targeted knowledge and practical experience relevant to specific occupations such a teaching assistants , learning mentors and a range of support roles in schools, the police, local government and third sector (charity) organisations.
By studying with us on the BA (Hons) Education Studies you have access to an employment package which includes:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/education-studies-with-foundation-year:
FYES
gateway to a career working with children ages 3-11 years
At level 6, the aim is to successfully complete your degree and move into employment.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/primary-education-with-qts:
X123
112
S64
placements in both Wales and England
knowledge and understanding of national curricula from both Wales and England
Building upon Wrexham University’s long history of teacher training, local school links and expertise we have joined with St.
Mary’s, Twickenham to offer ‘Outstanding’ OFSTED rated teacher training.
This BA (Hons) Primary Education teaching degree will enable you to gain all the skills and knowledge required to teach in a primary school.
Thinking of a career in Education?
Hear from lecturers and students about our Education course at Wrexham University.
Grade 4/C or equivalent in GCSE English, mathematics and science are required.
GSCSE equivalents are offered by St Mary’s University.
UCAS points: 96 - 104 A Levels BCC-CCC BTEC BTEC Extended Diploma DMM-MMM
A satisfactory DBS and a successful completion of physical and mental fitness to teach.
Please apply to St Mary's University via UCAS for this course, Institution code: S64, Course code: X123, Campus code: G.
Teaching takes place in groups with a practical approach to learning.
Tutors model good practice in the use of ICT and use lectures, seminars, and group activities to stimulate and encourage you to become reflective practitioners.
Independent study is a key feature of your degree and is crucial to furthering your knowledge.
You will be assessed through essays, rationales, portfolios, lesson plans, presentations, resource innovation and one formal examination.
School experience is assessed against the government’s standards for the award of Qualified Teacher Status.
Graduates are very successful in securing teaching appointments at the end of their studies.
Many take up employment in one of our partner schools.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/aeronautical-and-mechanical-engineering-top-up:
Are you looking to complete your BEng (Hons) Aeronautical & Mechanical Engineering degree?
Our Top-Up Programme provides a structured and supportive pathway to help you transition smoothly into the final year of your studies.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/aeronautical-engineering:
BA22
teaching team
with companies such as Airbus, Raytheon and JCB
Merlin Flight Simulator and access to packages such as FLITE, RANT navaids trainer and Boeing 747
The key aim of the Aeronautical Engineering Degree is to develop intellectual and application skills through knowledge acquisition, problem solving, deductive skills, synthesis, analysis, and evaluation.
This also encompasses social and environmental implications.
You will have opportunity to transfer to an integrated-master’s degree course MEng Aeronautical Engineering at the end of your year 2 (level 5) study.
You can also choose to study this degree with a foundation year BEng (Hons) Aeronautical Engineering with Foundation year (4 years) or with Industrial Placement year BEng (Hons) Aeronautical Engineering with Industrial Placement (4 years)
Thinking of a career in Engineering?
Hear from lecturers and students about our Engineering degrees at Wrexham University.
You will develop an understanding of the fundamental concepts, principles and theories in engineering.
Acquire basic mathematic skills related to engineering and design problems.
Use CAD for engineering design.
Competence of working safely in engineering laboratories and workshops, and being able to conduct laboratory procedures, measurement and workshop practices under the guidance of a tutor.
You will build on the knowledge, concepts and skills acquired at level 4 in addition to more specialist knowledge, skills in engineering design and analysis.
More in depth in theories in mechanics, thermodynamics, propulsion, flight dynamics, avionics, control systems, structures and finite element analysis, etc.
Develop understanding in business and research methods.
You will acquire a critical understanding and application of the high-level concepts, principles and theories in engineering as well as a critical understanding and explanation of advanced topics in structural vibration, aircraft design and flight stability, and aerodynamics.
Use knowledge and skills acquired to do an individual project.
The academic requirements for the course are 96-112 UCAS tariff points at GCE A-level or equivalent, including Maths or Physics.
An open and friendly atmosphere enhances the students’ learning experience.
Strong links to local, national, and international companies ensure teaching is industry relevant and provides students with the best possible starting point into their engineering career paths taking on key roles in industry and public services.
The degree will develop your intellectual and practical skills to meet the future needs of a rapidly changing technology and business environment.
As well as continuing your professional development, the course prepares you for a career as a professional Engineer in industry, in roles such as:
Past students work for globally known companies, such as Rolls-Royce Derby, Airbus, Bentley Motors.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/aeronautical-and-mechanical-engineering-with-international-foundation-year:
with the industries such as Airbus, Raytheon and JCB
You will have opportunity to transfer to an integrated-master’s degree course MEng Aeronautical Engineering at the end of your year 3 (level 5) study.
You can also choose to study this degree without a foundation year BEng (Hons) Aeronautical Engineering (3 years) or with Industrial Placement year BEng (Hons) Aeronautical Engineering with Industrial Placement (4 years)

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/aeronautical-engineering-with-foundation-year:
FA22

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/automotive-engineering:
H431
teaching
to a specialist motorsport workshop
degree with opportunity for Catia Certification*
This honours degree has been designed for the automotive industry in response to the shortfall of mechanical engineers.
It is for those who have a strong interest in mechanical engineering and a clear desire to develop their knowledge and skills in automotive engineering.
The course fully explores the engineering, design, analysis and development of modern cars using various race cars as support for teaching.
It also puts emphasis on learning transferable skills applicable to many other industries.
You can also choose to study this course with a foundation year BEng Hons Automotive Engineering (with foundation year) UCAS Code: H331
The vast majority of the engineering base knowledge is presented/reviewed and expanded at this stage.
All lectures are followed by tutorials and practical/demonstrations to ensure that you are fully assimilating the information.
At this level, you will be encouraged to work and learn more independently.
We are not only preparing you to be a knowledgeable practitioner, but we are also preparing you to become a reliable and independent problem solver.
In this final year of the degree, the first semester is generally focused on developing specific automotive knowledge.
Your individual project will allow you to specialise further in a field of your choice.
At the end of this, you will be a graduate engineer ready for the industry!
UCAS code: H431
A broad range of assessment methods are used; these include task-based exercises, oral and poster presentations, essays and laboratory reports, and written exams.
Each module is assessed by a variety of methods, enabling students to display their full potential.
A project dissertation will form one of the final parts of your assessment.
Teaching methods include lectures, laboratory sessions, student-led seminars and guided research.
Independent learning is promoted through guided study or feedback given to students.
Our Student support section has more information on the help available.
In terms of particular needs, the University’s Inclusion services can provide appropriate guidance and support should any students require reasonable adjustments to be made because of a recognised prevailing disability, medical condition, or specific learning difference.
Our Careers & Employability Service is there to help you make decisions and plan the next steps towards a bright future.
The exciting range of career options open to you when you graduate includes working with car manufacturers and their supply network, in automotive research and development, in consultancy, engineering management, automotive design and in the motorsport industry.
There’s a national shortage of fully-qualified engineers in the automotive industry; with a degree in automotive technology, you’ll stand out from the crowd when it comes to finding employment.
Opportunities include (but are not limited to):

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/automotive-engineering-top-up:
Are you looking to complete your BEng Automotive Engineering degree?

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/automotive-engineering-with-foundation-year:
H331
degree with opportunity for Catia Certification
From studying the Foundation Year, learners will be able to develop with knowledge, understanding and skills of Engineering-based disciplines and their applications which help learners prepare for further years of study and success in engineering degree.
You can also choose to study this course as a three-year programme (without a foundation year) BEng (Hons) Automotive Engineering UCAS Code: H431
UCAS Code: H331
The exciting range of career options open to you when you graduate includes working with car manufacturers and their supply network, in automotive research and development, in consultancy, engineering management, automotive design and in motorsport industry.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/electrical-and-electronic-engineering:
H600
to a dedicated maths support centre
on practical as well as academic study
from the Institution of Engineering and Technology
From transport and renewable energy to aerospace and robotics, our Electrical and Electronic degree will position you at the forefront of new and emerging technologies in the engineering field.
Accredited by the Engineering Council, this course is designed to equip you with the skills and knowledge that top employers demand in this industry.
This course is also available with a foundation year BEng (Hons) Electrical & Electronic Engineering (with foundation year) UCAS Code: H603
A broad range of assessment methods are used; these include phase tests, written assignments, practical work on computers, a portfolio of work, logbooks, presentations and laboratory work case studies and CAD.
A combination of this work may form part of your assessment, alongside time-constrained exams.
Independent learning is promoted through guided study and feedback given to students.
Our Careers & Employability service is here to help you make decisions and plan the next steps towards a bright future.
The course equips you with a thorough knowledge and skills in engineering at the forefront of new and emerging technologies.
Graduates will be well placed to become subject specialists within the industry or to pursue research careers within academia.
There is a recognised shortage of qualified electrical/electronic engineers in the UK.
A qualification in the field will make you instantly attractive to employers as a result.
You will have the skills to contribute to the design and development of electronic systems and processes.
Employment opportunities exist in the aerospace industry in aircraft instrumentation systems (technician or engineer level) or in the armed forces.
External a ccreditation /recognition by Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Bodies (PSRBs) has to be renewed periodically for existing courses.
The details on the website are based on the accreditation of the previous or current version of the course, and the anticipated updates are made as soon as they are known.
The majority of courses that are still ‘subject to re- accreditation’ are approved as expected however, this is not guaranteed and should the accreditation not be approved as planned, or be significantly amended or delayed, you will be informed by the U niversity.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/electrical--electronic-engineering-top-up:
Are you looking to complete your BEng  Electrical & Electronic Engineering degree?
Our Top-up Programme provides a structured and supportive pathway to help you transition smoothly into the final year of your studies.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/electrical-and-electronic-engineering-with-foundation-year:
H603
This course is also available without a foundation year BEng (Hons) Electrical & Electronic Engineering UCAS Code: H600

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/industrial-engineering:
with the industry and local business
with curriculum contextualised to the workplace
Designed to meet the needs of people working in engineering, the FdEng Industrial Engineering course is delivered on a part-time basis to fit around employment.
It has been developed with employers from a variety of industries and incorporates a number of work-based modules.
You will achieve a foundation degree in only two years.
There is an option of a one-year top-up (Level 6) to obtain a BEng (Hons) in Industrial Engineering .
This means that the overall cost will be less and you will graduate with a full honours degree in only three years (Level 6 top-up subject to meeting entry requirements).
MECHANICAL PATHWAY
ELECTRICAL AND AUTOMATION PATHWAY
Our general requirement is UCAS tariff points of 48-72 but all applications are considered individually and we consider work experience, vocational training/qualifications, as well as motivation and potential to succeed.
An academic qualification in engineering at Level 3 e.g.
BTEC National Extended Diploma PPP will give 48 UCAS tariff points.
An HNC in the relevant field may enable you to join the 2nd year of the course via Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) or Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL).
Please state on your application form your preferred pathway after Industrial Engineering within the course title field.
Eg.
FdEng Industrial Engineering (Mechanical).
All applicants must be employed in an appropriate role/job function in industry.
Advice and guidance to applicants regarding their appropriate experience and their industrial background will be offered by the admissions tutor.
Personal experience is taken into account even if no formal education qualifications are held.
This foundation degree will not only cover the traditional theoretical aspects associated with engineering but also encompass new and emerging technologies that are crucial to maintaining efficiency in a competitive world market.
You will take part in practical laboratory work and work-based learning in your workplace.
Tutorial demonstrations and assessed practical work are also part of the course.
The course will develop your intellectual and practical skills to meet the future needs of a rapidly changing technology and business environment.
Apply for:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/industrial-engineering-top-up:
with industry and local business
with the curriculum contextualised to the workplace
Designed to meet the needs of people working in engineering, the BEng Industrial Engineering course is delivered on a part-time basis to fit around employment.
This one year top-up (Level 6) follows on from the FdEng Industrial Engineering and will enable you to obtain a BEng (Hons) in Industrial Engineering.
The modules you study in your top-up year will depend on the pathway you have chosen.
The programme will give you the knowledge and understanding of mathematical principles relevant to industrial engineering, demonstrate awareness of environmental implications and the need for sustainable development.
You'll conduct laboratory experiments to investigate engineering principles and design, construct and test devices and systems before preparing descriptive, interpretive and evaluative technical reports.
For the BEng Industrial Engineering routes, you must satisfy the entry criteria and admissions tutor by producing documentary evidence that you have achieved a qualification at level 5 or better in a relevant discipline and have the necessary background, having accumulated the equivalent of 240 HE credits with at least 120 credits at level 5.
Admission to the programme may specifically be gained if you can present evidence of one of the following:
BEng Industrial Engineering (Mechatronics).
Admission to the programme may specifically be gained by students who can present evidence of passing a Wrexham University FdEng in Industrial Engineering .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/industrial-engineering-design-electrical-degree-apprenticeship:
3 YRS (PT)
degree apprenticeship
to complement your full-time work
combining classroom tuition and on-the-job practice
Develop your career in industrial engineering with a degree apprenticeship course.
Gain academic knowledge whilst putting your new skills into practice.
The course:
*Subject to funding
Students will develop and apply the knowledge and professional skills developed within this programme of learning to their workplace.
Developed as a three-way learning partnership between the employer, the student and the academic programme team, this route will enable students to develop skills that will be in high demand in the future, meeting regional skills gaps.
By utilising the full calendar year and applying core tenants of work-based learning, students will achieve their award within the same period as a standard full-time student.
The standard entry requirements of the University for this programme are (for Level 4 entry):
Students are expected to be in a relevant full-time position and to apply relevant learning to their workplace through applied projects and utilising real-world examples within their assessments.
A degree apprenticeship gives you real work experience, alongside the knowledge and theory you'll get from studying a degree.
By allowing you to develop the skills and knowledge for specific jobs and careers it could kick-start your career and give you a strong CV tailored to the field you want to work in.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/industrial-engineering-design-mechanical-degree-apprenticeship:
learning combining classroom tuition and on-the-job practice
Our Careers & Employability service is there to help you make decisions and plan the next steps towards a bright future.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/low-carbon-energy-efficiency-and-sustainability-degree-apprenticeship:
degree apprenticeship for students working in Wales*
modules and assessments
to assess product, service and system sustainability
This course has been developed to meet the needs of local industry in this critical field.
The programme covers the key aspects of how to create systems, products and services that are sustainable and to limit adverse effects on the environment.
The first year gives you the foundation knowledge required for a career in engineering.
Key to this is the first project module in the course which enables you to implement the knowledge gained in your studies.
In the second year, you will focus more on the core subject of the degree with specific modules in sustainability and renewable energy.
The second capstone project requires you to undertake an environmental feasibility study in your workplace.
This industry-focused project will enable the business to see the progression of your knowledge and show how to make improvements to processes to increase sustainability.
The final year of the degree aims to further converge the content of the programme towards sustainability and efficiency and low carbon energy.
The final year projects act as a focus for all the studies.
It builds on the capstone projects in earlier years to fully implement a solution to improve sustainability and efficiency in your business.
The course is on one day per week for a full calendar year.
Assessment will be via essays, projects, work-based assignments, examinations, case studies and portfolios.
Teaching will be a blend of face to face provision, online content, tutorials, self-guided study and practical sessions.
Our Careers and Employability service is there to help you make decisions and plan the next steps towards a bright future.
Successful completion of these programmes can lead to a host of other qualifications and progression pathways including (but not limited to):

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/renewable-and-sustainable-engineering:
HH36
lecturers active in sustainability research
in the UK for Student Voice*
to local industrial companies including solar, hydro and wind energy sites
This degree tackles some of the biggest challenges facing mankind today - affordable energy, climate change, global warming and pollution control.
For students wanting to be at the forefront of new engineering and cost effective solutions that will help satisfy the need for renewable energy, this degree could be your next step.
This degree is at the forefront of new engineering and touches on the finance and politics of the coming model shift into clean energy and sustainability.
*This course is part of a subject area ranked top 10 in the UK for Student Voice, Assessment and Feedback and Learning Resources in the National Student Survey, 2024.
This course is also part of a subject area ranked Joint 3rd out of Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland for Overall Satisfaction in the National Student Survey, 2024.
Our course has a broad base in order to allow you to develop skills and the ability to contribute to the design of renewable energy systems and progress to meet future requirements, both within the UK and worldwide markets.
In year 1, you will develop an understanding of the fundamental concepts, principles and theories in engineering.
You will acquire basic mathematic skills related to engineering and design problems, and use CAD for engineering design.
You will also gain competence of working safely in engineering laboratories and workshops, and be able to conduct laboratory procedures, measurement and workshop practices under the guidance of a tutor.
Level 5 (year 2) will build on the knowledge, concepts and skills acquired at Level 4 in addition to more specialist knowledge, skills in engineering design and analysis.
More in-depth in theories in electrical power engineering, renewable energies, structures and finite element analysis, etc will be explored.
You will also develop an understanding of business and research methods.
At Level 6, you will acquire a critical understanding and application of the higher level concepts, principles and theories in engineering, as well as a critical understanding and explanation of advanced topics in composite materials, design, modelling/simulation, and advanced renewable technologies.
You will use the knowledge and skills you have acquired to do an individual project.
In addition, passes at GCSE in Maths and English/Welsh (First Language) at grade C/4 or above are normally expected.
A broad range of assessment methods are used.
These include task-based exercises, oral and poster presentations, essays and laboratory reports, and written exams.
Teaching methods include lectures, laboratory sessions, student-led seminars, field trips and guided research.
Independent learning is promoted through guided study or feedbacks given to students.
The career prospects of low carbon and renewable energy students are one of the brightest in this expanding, under skilled area.
Upon completion, you can go on to do an MSc in renewable engineering and related PhD.
Previous students are working in sustainability related jobs in government and industry (Renewables and low carbon business).
There is also considerable scope for entrepreneurial students to start their own business in this expanding sector.
This programme prepares students for a career in Renewable Energy and Sustainability related work.
Please see indeed.co.uk/Renewable-Energy-jobs to get an idea of the current opportunities available.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/renewable--sustainable-engineering-top-up:
Are you looking to complete your BEng Renewable and Sustainable Engineering degree?

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/renewable-and-sustainable-engineering-with-foundation-year:
HH3P
By Energy institute, IMechE and IEEE
This degree is at the forefront of this new engineering and touches on the finance and politics of the coming model shift into clean energy and sustainability.
Our course has a broad base in order to allow you to develop skills and the ability to contribute to the design of renewable energy systems and progress to meet future requirements both within the UK and worldwide markets.
In year 2, you will develop an understanding of the fundamental concepts, principles and theories in engineering.
Level 5 will build on the knowledge, concepts and skills acquired at Level 4 in addition to more specialist knowledge, skills in engineering design and analysis.
The academic requirements for the course are 48-72 UCAS tariff points at GCE A-level or equivalent.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/health-and-social-wellbeing:
207G
64
links with local employers
in the UK for Graduate Prospects*
The course explores how we can help people to live happier and healthier lives.
You will learn about what impacts the health and wellbeing of individuals, communities and societies, and about different solutions to address established and emerging issues.
*This course is part of a subject area ranked 1 st in the UK for Student Satisfaction in the Health Studies subject area league table in the Complete University Guide 2026.
*This course is part of a subject area ranked top 10 in the UK for Graduate Prospects in the Health Studies subject area league table in the Complete University Guide 2026.
Thinking of a career in Health and Wellbeing?
Hear from lecturers and students about our various Health and Wellbeing degrees at Wrexham University.
This year involves establishing your understanding of key concepts in the field of health, mental health and wellbeing, as well as developing the skills for studying in Higher Education.
This year consolidates and further develops your learning, helping you to expand and apply your knowledge, and to develop a toolbox of personal and professional skills for employment.
You also complete 100 hours of work-based learning which allows you to explore an area of personal and professional interest.
The general requirement for admission to the Diploma is 64 UCAS points at A level or equivalent – this includes relevant Access to Higher Education courses.
Applicants should be able to demonstrate the emotional and psychological maturity to work with vulnerable people and the resilience needed to cope with the demands in this sector.
Applicants do not require a DBS for the programme, although a DBS may be required for work-based learning according to the requirements of the provider organisation.
You will be taught using a variety of active learning methods, including discussions, case studies, lectures, quizzes, and forums.
Assessments on this programme are varied, allowing you to develop and showcase a range of skills.
They include portfolios, talks, essays, reflective writing, presentations, and an exam.
For each 20 credit module you will receive 36 active learning and teaching hours during year one (level four), and 30 hours at year two (level five), and will also be expected to complete independent study including key reading
The programme has strong links with the Learning Support services, to enable students to access a wide range of help to develop their skills for studying in higher education
Community health development Social prescribing A dvocacy Health improvement Third sector project work Wellbeing advisor Health education Support work Befriending and peer support Workplace health and wellbeing School and college health and wellbeing services

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/health-and-social-wellbeing-with-foundation-year:
207F
A foundation year is available for students who may not meet the criteria for entry to the 2-year route.
The foundation year introduces the student to the key study skills and foundational knowledge essential to successful completion of the Diploma
Please note: The foundation year can only be studied as a full time option.
The general requirement for admission to the Foundation Year is 48 UCAS points at A level or equivalent – this includes relevant Access to Higher Education courses.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/mental-health-and-wellbeing:
2C3B
by staff with expertise in both practice and research
This course explores how to help individuals and communities to live happier and healthier lives.
You will learn about mental health and wellbeing, inequality and the social determinants of health, links between mental health and the body, and cutting-edge approaches for promoting wellbeing.
A BSc (Hons) Mental Health & Wellbeing (with foundation year) is available for students who may not meet the criteria for entry to the 3-year route.
The foundation year introduces to the student key study skills and foundational knowledge essential to successful completion of a degree
Please note, the foundation year can only be studied as a full time option.
* This subject area is rated 1 st in Wales for Career Prospects in the Social Work subject area league table in the Guardian University Guide 2025.
During you r first year, you will establish an understanding of key concepts within the field of health, mental health and wellbeing.
You will also start your personal and professional development journey, and be supported to develop the key study skills to make your degree a success.
During your second year, you will deepen your learning of core concepts within the field of mental health and wellbeing, including a focus on health behaviours and prevention.
You will enhance your research skills, developing your own research proposal.
Completing 100 hours of work-based learning in a setting of your choice will continue your professional development.
In your final year , you will learn about contemporary approaches, theories, and practices in promoting mental health and wellbeing.
You will continue your professional development, completing 80 hours of work-based learning, developing a full CV, and enhancing your employability skills in readiness for graduate life.
You will also complete your own research project, becoming an expert in an area of interest to you .
The general requirement for admission to the degree is 96-112 UCAS points at A level or equivalent – this includes relevant Access to Higher Education courses.
Career prospects include:
Graduates can also pursue further study, including:
Employability skills are core to this programme, including:
The mental health and wellbeing landscape is changing rapidly, and we are proud to prepare students with the dynamism and creativity needed for this.
Graduates have gone on to work in a wide range of careers, including Social Prescribing, Charity/Third Sector Project Work, Recovery Work, Trainee Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner posts, and Mental Health Advocacy.
Several students have secured employment with their Work Based Learning Providers and also established their own Social Enterprises, including the multi-award winning Familiarisation Videos Ltd.
The BSc Mental Health and Wellbeing also has an alumni network meeting twice a year, so that students who have graduated can come together and share experiences and opportunities.
“Enrolling onto a degree is the first step to making that change and from level 3, right through to level 6, your place in that classroom is deserved.
I truly had 4 of the best years at Wrexham University and will forever appreciate the opportunity I was given to study.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/mental-health-and-wellbeing-with-foundation-year:
6YA2
48 - 72
This degree is ideal for anyone who is interested in the area of mental health and wellbeing.
You will study the social factors of mental health and wellbeing, the roots of inequality, the need for social justice for those experiencing mental ill-health and how the practice can channel the positive benefits of social connection to help individuals.
The BSc (Hons) Mental Health & Wellbeing degree is available for students who already meet the criteria for entry to the 3-year route.
This foundation year route introduces to the student key study skills and foundational knowledge essential to successful completion of a degree
During you r second year, you will establish an understanding of key concepts within the field of health, mental health and wellbeing.
During your third year, you will deepen your learning of core concepts within the field of mental health and wellbeing, including a focus on health behaviours and prevention.
The general requirement for admission to the degree is 48 - 72 UCAS points at A level or equivalent – this includes relevant Access to Higher Education courses.
Graduates have gone on to work in a wide range of careers, including Social Prescribing, Charity/Third Sector Project Work, Recovery Work, Trainee Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner posts, Mental Health Advocacy.
Several students have also established their own Social Enterprises, including Familiarisation Videos, and some have secured employment with their Work Based Learning Providers.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/media-production:
MP21
IT facilities
industry links
in our Creative Industries building, home to BBC Wales
This degree has been developed in close collaboration with our partners in the media industry.
We develop media products that are to industry standards, taking the course beyond standard lecture-based study.
Each year of the programme is designed to introduce new concepts, skills and theories and progression to the next level will leverage and develop core skills in a cumulative way.
In year one, you will look at and use the various technology that is used to create media.
You will gain a hands-on opportunity to use the studios and various production places.
In year two, there will be a focus on more advanced industry relevant components to give you the tools to create exciting media outputs.
In year three, you will be working in teams and engaging in single projects to create industry relevant media pieces.
The academic requirements for the degree are for at least 96-112 UCAS tariff points at GCE A Level or equivalent.
If you do not meet the entry requirements for the three-year bachelors degree you should consider the four-year degree.
There are a range of assessment methods used for this course including creating media productions, blogs, podcasts, work-based learning, portfolios, reports and presentations.
In addition to lectures and workshops, students on this course are encouraged to explore this vital facility for their own projects to enhance and support learning and development.
All assessments are project-based.
This course will give you the training and expertise to work within one of the many exciting areas of the media broadcast industries.
You will develop a variety of skills that will enhance your employability, including skills in:
Careers opportunities include:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/media-production-with-foundation-year:
MPFY
In year two, you will look at and use the various technology that is used to create media.
In year three, there will be a focus on more advanced industry relevant components to give you the tools to create exciting media outputs.
In year four, you will be working in teams and engaging in single projects to create industry relevant media pieces.
The academic requirements for the degree are for at least 48-72 UCAS tariff points at GCE A Level or equivalent.
Appropriate AS-Level and Level 3 Key Skills qualifications will also be taken into account

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/adult-nursing:
GM1Q
St Asaph, Wrexham
You may be entitled to a full NHS bursary to fund this course, including tuition fees and non-repayable bursary for living costs, if you are eligible and agree to work in Wales for two years after registration.
in the UK for Teaching Quality*
in the UK for Graduate Prospects *
Our fully funded, 12-week 'Fast-Track towards Nursing' course guarantees you an interview on one of our BN (Hons) Nursing degrees, whilst providing an opportunity to increase your knowledge and understanding of your chosen field of nursing.
Thinking of a career in Nursing?
Hear from lecturers and students about our Nursing degrees at Wrexham University.
Our Adult Nursing degree is designed to equip you with the knowledge and skills to pursue a rewarding profession in the healthcare field as a Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) registered adult nurse.
* This course is ranked 1 st in the UK for Student Satisfaction and J oint 1st in the UK for Graduate Prospect s in the Nursing and Midwifery subject area league table in the Complete University Guide 2026 .
*This course is rated 1st in the UK for Teaching Quality and Student Experience, and joint 1st in the UK for Graduate Prospects in the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025.
This course is also ranked top 10 in Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland for Overall Satisfaction in the Adult Nursing subject area league table in the National Student Survey 2025.
This programme has three core modules in each year of the programme.
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods to deliver the course.
For example, we use interactive lectures, online forums, case studies and simulation.
In year one, you will focus on the fundamental care skills required to practice as a caring, kind, compassionate professional who values and respects the individual needs of the patient, family and carers.
In year two, you will focus on the provision of evidence-based, compassionate and safe care for acute and chronically ill patients.
The focus will be upon the delivery of person-centred care and the promotion of healthy behaviours.
In year three, you will focus on coordinating and managing change, enhancing people’s health outcomes and personal and professional development to prepare you for becoming a registered nurse.
You must have at least five GCSE’s at grade C/4 or above including English, Maths (or equivalent) and evidence of IT skills.
Alternatively, you must have one of the following:
NVQ 3 (with evidence of English, Maths and ICT as above) or
Completion of either the ‘Access to Health’ or ‘Access to Nursing’ (from an accepted Further Education College approved by either Agored Cymru or OCN North West England (QAA approved) achieved at the following level: 112 UCAS tariff points.
In addition:
The Application process:
To apply for the March intake , please use ANJN .
(March intakes start from March 2023)
When applying, you will also need to select a campus.
Please select campus code W for Wrexham or campus code A for St Asaph.
The nursing admissions team will screen each online UCAS application submitted for a level of digital literacy.
One way of achieving this is that if you are shortlisted we will invite you to a selection event and you will be required to respond to the email invitation – this will assist us in measuring your digital literacy level.
Attending a selection event does not guarantee a place on the BN (Hons) Registered Nurse (Adult) programme so we recommend preparing beforehand to give you the best chance of success.
Preparation: Please read the NMC Code before attending your interview.
A literacy task will be conducted online prior to the interview.
The literacy task is a written activity focussing on the professional values of the nursing profession.
You will then be interviewed face to face on an individual basis where you will be required to answer some short questions to ascertain your knowledge and experience about a career in nursing.
The interview team will comprise university academic staff and either a Trust staff member or service user.
Please ensure you are familiar with the Teams software prior to your interview.
Satisfactory completion of the following:
Academic tutorial support including disability support are available with every module.
Career prospects are excellent with the current shortage of nurses in the UK.
Students have had a range of employment opportunities working as a staff nurse in NHS and the Private sector in both the acute and community settings.
On successful completion of the course students are registered with the NMC as registered adult nurse.
Wrexham University offer options for further study in relations to professions such as health visiting, school nursing, community nursing, advanced nursing practice, nurse prescribing courses, MSc, and PhD studies.
September 2025
Apply for Wrexham
Apply for St Asaph
March 2026

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/childrens-nursing:
CN22
Thinking of a career in Children's Nursing?
Hear from lecturers and students about our various Nursing degrees at Wrexham University.
Children's nursing is an active and purpose-driven profession with countless rewards.
A children's nurse keeps children, young individuals, and their families at the core of their actions, demonstrating care and compassion that makes a meaningful impact every day, regardless of its scale.
“Each day really does vary, and I love getting to work with such a supportive team of nurses, doctors and allied health professionals.
Your theory sessions will be delivered using a variety of learning and teaching methods utilising a blended approach, considering Wrexham University Active Learning Framework, including lectures, problem-based learning, asynchronous discussions, seminars and skills acquisition sessions.
Access to virtual learning environments such as Moodle and Safemedicate - a learning package to assist in the development of numeracy skills and medicines management, are integral features of your learning.
The programme builds in terms of academic level and professional responsibility as it progresses throughout the three years enabling you to become more self-directed in your learning with an emphasis towards the end of your programme on leadership and development as a registered nurse.
In year two, you will focus on law and ethics, care of the acute and chronically ill child, research and child-centred care.
In year three, you will focus on managing change, empowering children and family/carers, applied bioscience for complex care and personal and professional development to prepare you for becoming a registered nurse.
Note: Applications for 2025/26 are now closed.
Nursing values are integral to our recruitment process.
This is reflected in our interview criteria and will need to be reflected in your application to the programme.
Typical UCAS Offer: 96-112 points
You must have at least five GCSE’s at grade C/4 or above including English/ Welsh, Maths (or equivalent) and evidence of IT skills.
NVQ 3 (with evidence of English, Maths and ICT as above)
or
Completion of either the ‘Access to Health’ or ‘Access to Nursing’ (from an accepted Further Education College approved by either Agored Cymru or OCN North West England (QAA approved) achieved at the following level: 96-112 UCAS tariff points.
I n addition:
Application is Via UCAS
To apply for the September intake for BN Hons Children’s Nursing please use UCAS code CN22 When applying, you will also need to select a campus.
Selection will include shortlisting of application for interview.
One way of achieving this is that if you are shortlisted we will invite you to an interview and you will be required to respond to the email invitation – this will assist us in measuring your digital literacy level.
Attending an interview does not guarantee a place on the BN (Hons) Children’s Nursing programme so we recommend preparing beforehand to give you the best chance of success.
A literacy task will be conducted in-person prior to the interview.
The literacy task is a written activity centred around a topic in children's nursing that has captured your interest.
You will then be interviewed in-person on an individual basis, where you will be required to answer some short questions to ascertain your understanding of children's nursing and caring for children, young people and their families .
The interview team will comprise university academic staff and either a Health Board/placement provider staff member or service user.
This course is not currently available to those requiring a Tier 4 visa to study in the UK
You need to achieve a minimum of 2300 hours theoretical and 2300 clinical practice to enable registration as a children’s nurse with the Nursing and Midwifery Council.
You will be assessed by a variety of methods including:
Our Careers and Employability Service is there to help you make decisions and plan the next steps towards a bright future.
From finding work or further study to working out your interests, skills, and aspirations, they can provide you with the expert information, advice, and guidance you need.
A children's nurse prioritises the best interests of the child, acting as their advocate, listening to their needs, and safeguarding their health.
They collaborate with other healthcare professionals and can work in diverse settings, including world-famous children's hospitals, general hospitals, independent sector settings, and community or home-based care.
With this qualification, you can shape the future of children's nursing and pursue a career in various settings.
Successful completion of this degree programme will qualify you for registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a Children’s Nurse, allowing you to work in diverse healthcare settings, both in the UK and internationally.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/mental-health-nursing:
MH22
Embark on a rewarding journey with a Mental Health nursing degree, where you’ll have the opportunity to care for people of all ages, along with their families and carers.
At Wrexham University, we focus on equipping you with the essential knowledge and skills to become a confident graduate and NMC registered mental health nurse practitioner.
Thinking of a career in Mental Health Nursing?
In year two you will focus on law and ethics, emphasis on the holistic components of acute diverse and long-term mental health conditions, research and evidence-based care.
In year three you will focus on managing change, empowering service users and family/carers, applied bioscience for complex care and personal and professional development to prepare you for becoming a registered nurse.
Attending a selection event does not guarantee a place on the programme so we recommend preparing beforehand to give you the best chance of success.
You need to achieve a minimum of 2300 hours theoretical and 2300 clinical practice to enable registration as a Mental Health nurse with the Nursing and Midwifery Council.
Successful completion of this degree will enable students to be eligible to apply for registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
This means that once students become a registrant with the NMC, they can practice as a registered nurse.
Careers in mental health nursing can include:
Roles can include:
Registered mental health nurses, can expect a period of preceptorship to transition from a student nurse to registered practitioner (this is arranged by their employer).

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/nutrition-and-dietetics:
DT22
120
for Student Experience*
for Teaching Quality*
for Graduate Prospects*
Do you want to learn how to prevent, diagnose and treat nutritional problems as a registered dietitian?
This course is professionally accredited by the British Dietetic Association (BDA) and provides you with the opportunity to develop your knowledge and expertise by working with a diverse population across a range of settings.
*This course is part of a subject area ranked
in the Subjects Allied to Medicine subject area league table in the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide, 2025
* This course is rated 1 st in Wales in the Health Studies subject area league table in the Daily Mail University League Table , 2024 .
This year provides a grounding in the basic assessment of a patient across core areas in which dietitians work.
It includes an introduction to food and nutrition, anatomy, physiology and biochemistry, communication and professional practice.
YEAR 2 (LEVEL 5) This year builds upon knowledge and understanding in Level 4 to move towards management in core areas of nutrition and dietetics including complex conditions, research and evidence-based practice.
YEAR 3 (LEVEL 6) This year culminates in a dissertation research project alongside applying higher level knowledge and skills in a final clinical placement.
The academic requirements for the course are 120 UCAS tariff points at GCE A-level in Biological Science and Chemistry (or one of these plus Psychology) at minimum grade C.
Qualifications equivalent to A-Level will be taken into account, including (for example) 120 UCAS tariff points from an Access to HE Diploma or Level 3 BTEC (Science or Health Studies).
We will also normally expect applicants to have the following:
International entry requirements are outlined in the UK National Information Centre for global qualifications and skills as equivalent to the relevant UK entry qualification.
Further information can be found on our admissions pages.
In addition to the academic entry requirements, all applicants whose first language is not English or Welsh must demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to level 7 of the International English Language Testing System (no element below 6.5).
All applications are considered individually and on merit.
Students achieving fewer than the standard 120 UCAS tariff points will have their applications reviewed with consideration given to prior learning, experience and engagement with relevant bodies and organisations in line with the University’s widening participation philosophy.
All post-interview offers of a place on this degree will be conditional on a satisfactory Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check.
In addition, any acceptance onto the course is subject to Occupational Health Clearance.
The Nutrition and Dietetics degree is a full-time course (5 days a week needed for a combination of independent learning and lecturer-led sessions), and it is expected that you attend all sessions and complete all pre- and post-sessional preparation work and self-directed study.
This allows you to gain the most value possible from face-to-face teaching.
Assessment is varied and can include written academic work, exams, verbal presentations, practical objective structured clinical examinations (OSCE) and placement pass/fail.
Our Student Support section has more information on the help available.
In terms of particular needs, the University’s Inclusion team can provide appropriate guidance and support should any students require reasonable adjustments to be made because of a recognised prevailing disability, medical condition, or specific learning difference.
Wrexham University utilises the Active Learning Framework (ALF) which allows students to access learning and teaching more flexibly at times that suit them.
Practical Sessions and Placements
Practical sessions, simulation activities and placements form an important part of the teaching and learning for dietitians and develop the skills of how to do the job by putting the theory into practice.
You will be required to work autonomously, in pairs or in groups and will be encouraged to work with different students, both within your own cohort as well as students from other programmes, throughout the three years to support personal and professional development and inter-professional learning.
Professionalism in all aspects of the course is extremely important and you will learn about what it is to be a professional at an early stage in the learning and teaching.
Professionalism during practical sessions and simulations is pivotal as the clinical environment is being replicated.
You will be expected to adhere to uniform policy (for example: wear your hair up, be bare below the elbows and wear your practical uniforms) and health and safety/infection control procedures in preparation for your real-world practice placements.
Students in receipt of the HEIW NHS Bursary are required to work in Wales for the first two years of their career as a registered Dietitian.
Support to identify a suitable role within the NHS upon completion of the course will be provided.
Our Careers and Employability service is also available to help you make decisions and plan the next steps towards a bright future.
From finding further study to working out your interests, skills and aspirations, they can provide you with valuable information, advice and guidance.
Graduates will be eligible to apply for initial registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and for full membership of the British Dietetic Association (BDA).
Eligibility to Practice as a Dietitian
On successful completion of the Nutrition and Dietetics degree programme, you will be eligible to apply for admission to the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) register.
It is a legal requirement that anyone who wishes to practice using a title protected by the Health and Social Work Professions Order 2001 is on the HCPC Register, for more information, please see the HCPC website at www.hcpc-uk.org.
On successful completion of the programme, you will also be eligible to apply for full membership of the British Dietetic Association (BDA).
Students that do not complete the approved programme or exit with any aegrotat do not have eligibility to apply to the HCPC register and cannot practice as a Dietitian.
Awarded provisional accreditation for the first 3 years of the programme.
This will be monitored annually.
Following the graduation of the first cohort of students, full approval can then be achieved for the remainder of the validated period.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/occupational-therapy:
B930
3 YRS (FT) 4 YRS (PT)
for Teaching Satisfaction*
Our accredited Occupational Therapy degree blends academic excellence with practical experience.
With small cohorts, students receive personalised attention, enhancing their learning experience.
in the Subjects Allied to Medicine subject area league table in the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
*This course is part of a subject area ranked joint 1 st in Wales and top 10 in the UK for Graduate Prospects in the Counselling, Psychotherapy and Occupational Therapy subject area league table in the Complete University Guide 2026.
*This course is rated 4th in the UK for Satisfied with Teaching in the Health Professionals subject area league table in the Guardian University Guide 2025 .
Thinking of a career in Occupational Therapy?
Hear from lecturers and students about studying this degree at Wrexham University.
At this level, you will build a strong foundation in occupational therapy principles, focusing on self-awareness, professional ethics, and basic research skills.
You'll explore human function through occupation and begin your journey with practical placements to apply theoretical knowledge in real-world settings.
This level enhances your understanding of occupational therapy approaches and interventions.
You'll delve into evidence-based practice, overcoming occupational barriers, and addressing complex issues in diverse contexts.
Practical placements will further develop your skills, preparing you for advanced professional roles.
In your final year , you'll focus on compassionate leadership, innovation, and inter-professional relationships.
You'll engage in advanced research, evaluate complex practices, and undertake a significant practice placement.
This level prepares you for the transition from student to competent, reflective, and innovative practitioner.
On successful completion of all levels, you will be awarded a BSc (Hons) in Occupational Therapy and will be eligible to apply for registration as an Occupational Therapist with the Health and Care Professions Council.
This course is currently full for full-time enrolment.
Applications for part-time study will open for January 2027 entry on Monday 1st June 2026.
Maths and English/Welsh (First Language) GCSE (at grade C/grade 4 or above) or equivalent are also required.
Applications are welcomed from people who can present evidence of relevant life/work experience.
In addition, applicants are expected to demonstrate some insight into the role of occupational therapy.
Applications are considered individually and on merit, however, you must have:
All post-interview offers of a place on this degree, are conditional to the completion of a Disclosure and Barring Service (DB S) clearance .
Entry onto the programmes falls at different times of the academic year.
Entry to the 3-year full-time programme is in September and entry onto the 4-year part-time programme is in January.
The course is either a three-year full-time programme or a four-year part-time programme .
For full-time students , this would involve three days per week of taught content and then self-directed learning amounting to 35 hours of study per week in total .
For part time students , this would involve one day of taught content per week alongside self-directed learning amounting to 18 hours of study per week .
At three points in the year , part time students are expected to attend for three days of teaching in a week.
Placements for part-time students are conducted using full time hours.
The course is commended on the high value it attaches to supporting students in their studies and the quality of clinical placements.
You will be part of a small cohort of students.
The study is a mix of university-based lectures, group work, self-directed study at home and clinical placements with some modules being shared with other AHP lecturers and student groups.
There are a wide variety of assessments including:
We also use simulation of professional practice as a core component of our teaching in our new simulation facilitites and also using our simulation house `Ty Dysgu ’ which is loc ate d on site.
The course has also formed links with the University of St Augustine's in Florida and this has seen lecturers visit each other’s institutions and take part in teaching.
Students from St Augustine's have been to our Wrexham campus for shared sessions and there are plans for Wrexham students to be able to visit Florida .
We have also provided live sessions online to the students in the USA and this is a really valuable link in giving students a sense of the global reach of the profession.
Wide range of NHS services Social care Third sector organisations Private healthcare provision Start their own business in independent practice Prison services Education Research Social enterprise Management roles
“The degree is a blend of academic learning, with regular placements which enable you apply your learning in a supportive environment.
The variety of placement opportunities from traditional to emerging areas of work gives an insight into areas you may not have considered working in.”

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/operating-department-practice:
OD22
Thinking of a career in Operating Department Practice?
Hear from Programme Leader, Rob Evans about the course at Wrexham University
BSc (Hons) Operating Department Practice will qualify you to become a HCPC registered Operating Department Practitioner (ODP) and enable you to make a difference to people’s lives, working within teams of surgeons, anaesthetists, nurses, and more in the operating theatre, critical care, and emergency departments.
*This course is rated 4th in the UK for Satisfied with Teaching in the Health Professionals subject area league table in the Guardian University Guide, 2025 .
Programme leader, Rob Evans, to tell you about why you should come and study Operating Department Practice at Wrexham University.
Year one is an introduction to the main topics of Operating Department Practice, including clinical, professional, research and life sciences topics.
Year two will expand on topics which were introduced in the first year.
There will be greater complexity, and greater application to practice of an ODP.
Year three introduces you to expanding roles of ODPs, including Surgical First Assistance, Critical Care and Resuscitation.
You will also be prepared for practice by exploring elements such as audit, research, leadership, and management.
Teaching, learning and assessment will follow a blended approach with online content, videos, small group sessions and practical sessions.
We have a case study format throughout, relating concepts to the real-life environment.
The Active Learning Framework (ALF) will be used throughout each module, at each level.
There is a broad range of assessments, using practice, case study portfolios, presentations, and posters.
Assessment methods include:
Our ODP degree will give opportunity for you to be part of the Student Streamlining Project with NHS Wales and e nables access to HCPC register as an Operating Department Practitioner (subject to HCPC approval).
Career options open to students after completing the course include:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/paramedic-science:
PS22
3 YRS
in the UK for Student Experience*
If you wish to become a HCPC Registered Paramedic with a career in emergency and urgent care, making a difference to people's lives and contributing to the care within Welsh communities when they need it most, then this Paramedic Science degree course is for you.
“The simulation house on campus, Ty Dysgu is a great and unique learning opportunity for our students.
Our Paramedic Science students now have the opportunity to regularly put the degree's learning into practice in a realistic home environment, simulating the conditions they will likely be working in during clinical practice placements and once they graduate.”
Thinking of a career in Paramedic Science?
Hear from Programme Leader, Daniel Finnerty about our course at Wrexham University.
“On the course we work interprofessionally with the other allied healthcare courses, this allows us to build on our knowledge and interprofessional working throughout our studies.”
In partnership with WAST, placements will be provided across North Wales on emergency ambulances throughout the programme.
Alternative placements will include essential care for example care home and hospital ward areas, patient assessment areas such as Accident and Emergency departments and telemedicine placements within the Emergency Operations Centre and NHS 111.
Theory sessions will be delivered using a variety of learning and teaching methods utilising a blended approach, considering Wrexham University’s Active Learning Framework, including lectures, problem-based learning, asynchronous sessions, seminars, clinical skills and patient scenarios.
Self-directed pre- and post-session learning and resources will be available for you to fully comprehend topics covered.
The programme builds in terms of academic level and professional responsibility as it progresses throughout the three years enabling you to become more self-directed in your learning with an emphasis towards the end of your programme on leadership and development as a registered healthcare professional.
In year one, you will focus on the fundamental assessment, communication and clinical skills required to practice as a caring, kind, compassionate professional who values and respects the individual needs of the patient, family, and carers of all ages.
In year two, you will build upon your understanding of life sciences and patient assessment and management and explore service users’ individual needs in more detail.
You will also further develop your evidence-based-practice and research skills.
In year three, you will further reinforce your knowledge, skills and behaviour with the aim to become an autonomous registered paramedic with a sound understanding of leadership, decision making and evidence-based practice.
Entry requirements:
120 tariff points can be achieved from:
Suitable relevant health or social care experience is required.
Applicants to the BSc (Hons) Paramedic Science degree will need to hold a full category B driving licence with a maximum of three penalty points upon enrolment onto the course.
A provisional Category C1 licence will be required upon enrolment onto the course.
Applicants will require an Enhanced DBS and Occupational Health clearance.
Non-native English/Welsh speakers will require IELTS at 6.0 with no band below 5.5 as per standard Wrexham University English language requirements.
An offer of a place is subject to satisfactory interview criminal records declaration (DBS/Disclosure Scotland) and health check.
Although the use of a vehicle is not criteria for admission onto the Paramedic Science programme, students should consider how they will be able to travel to the clinical practice placements that are a requirement of the course.
Clinical placements will be throughout all the years of study with external healthcare providers across Wales.
Your term-time address will be considered during the allocation of placements however due to limited capacity and the importance of providing varied placement opportunities the nearest location is not guaranteed.
During the three years of study, you will change placement locations across Wales.
This is so you can experience the various locations and communities WAST care for.
It is reasonable to be expected to travel up to an hour to practice placements and when it is longer than an hour, or you think the travel is too strenuous, then you will be required to book accommodation.
During clinical placement blocks, you will be required to attend shifts like those of your mentors working for services that provide 24-hour care 7 days a week.
The Wrexham University lecturing team pride themselves on an innovative approach to teaching, you can expect a variety of teaching methods to be used for theory sessions to ensure you are always feeling engaged.
Paramedic Science students will regularly be practicing skills in a mixture of settings around campus to build confidence and prepare for real-world practice placements.
The equipment that students learn clinical skills with and use during scenarios is identical to the equipment students are expected to use during ambulance practice placements, providing a smooth transition from university to placement settings.
Simulation based learning provides students to work together as ambulance crews providing emergency care and develop clinical decision-making skills in a safe space.
Students can experience working together with different year groups to improve team working and clinical leadership abilities.
There are also exciting larger scale simulation events built into the programme involving other courses.
Imagine attending a simulated road traffic collision and working alongside the Professional Policing team to deal with the emergency scene or moving a patient having a medical emergency from the simulation ambulance and handing over to Nursing students in the simulation resuscitation department.
Collaboration with other healthcare students enables Student Paramedics to have a broader understanding of healthcare services and develop into confident and competent practitioners.
The paramedic science programme is a full-time course, and the delivery will be organised into blocks which will be either on-campus in Wrexham or practice-based placements across Wales.
During learning at the U niversity, students should anticipate on-campus timetabled activities Monday to Friday between 09: 30 and 16:00.
There will also be a required amount of self-directed study before and after taught sessions.
In concordance with the Regional Skills and Employment Strategy, this proposed curriculum ably provides key employer skills requirements (Leadership, Self-management, Decision Making and Problem Solving, Team Working, Professionalism, and Influence) and is set to meet the needs of the Welsh Ambulance Service Trust (WAST) within the North Wales region.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/physiotherapy:
PT19
by the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy
Thinking of a career in Physiotherapy?
Hear from lecturers and students about our degree at Wrexham University.
This course equips you with the knowledge and skills required by physiotherapists to work with people to identify and maximise their ability to move and function, work with people to promote, maintain and restore physical, social and psychological wellbeing, and assess and manage people who have a variety of clinical problems.
in the National Student Survey, 2024
This year provides a grounding in the basic assessment of a patient across core areas in which physiotherapists work.
It includes an introduction to professionalism, communication, clinical practice in the form of a placement and research.
You will be learning along side Occupational Therapy, Paramedic Science and Operating Department Practice Students.
This year builds upon knowledge and understanding in Level 4 to move towards management in core areas of physiotherapy including complex conditions and the development of evidence in practice.
This year culminates in a dissertation research project alongside applying knowledge in two large clinical placements and a transition to practice module.
The academic requirements for the course are 120 UCAS tariff points at GCE A-level with a minimum of grade B in Biological Science or Physical Education.
Qualifications equivalent to A Level will be taken into account, including (for example) 120 UCAS tariff points from an Access to HE Diploma or level 3 BTECs (Science or Health Studies).
We will expect applicants to normally have achieved a minimum of 5 GCSE passes (A*-C, or 9-4) to include Maths, Biological Science and English/Welsh (First Language).
All post interview offers of a place on this degree will be conditional on a satisfactory Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check.
The Physiotherapy degree is a full-time course (5 days a week needed for a combination of independent learning and lecturer-led sessions ) and it is expected that you attend all sessions and complete all pre and post sessional preparation work and self-directed study.
To ensure success on this programme of study, you will need to fully engage in the pre and post session preparation work.
This allows you to gain the most possible from face-to-face teaching.
Assessment is varied and is undertaken in the form of written academic work, practical objective structured clinical examinations (OSCE), placement pass/fail and VIVA – verbal examinations.
Practical assessments will take the form of case studies with models where you will demonstrate assessment and treatment skills along side demonstrating your theoretical knowledge.
Graduates of this course will be expected to fulfil the terms and conditions of the bursary if they have opted as they have a commitment to work in Wales for two years following graduation.
Following that , physiotherapists may work in a range of settings including :

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/speech-and-language-therapy:
SL22
for HCPC and RCSLT registration upon graduation
Set yourself up for a fulfilling career.
Make use of state-of-the-art healthcare equipment that transforms learning into a dynamic and immersive experience.
Thinking of a career in Speech and Language Therapy?
Hear from lecturers and students about our course at Wrexham University.
Teaching a balanced mix across the lifespan of paediatric and adults, this course equips you with the clinical and professional competencies making you eligible for registration as a Speech and Language Therapist.
* This course is rated 1 st in Wales for Career Prospects in the Health Professionals subject area league table in the Guardian University Guide, 2025.
*This course is rated 4th in the UK for Satisfied with Teaching in the Health Professionals subject area league table in the Guardian University Guide, 2025.
Programme leader, Lauren Salisbury, to tell you some more about the course, its career prospects and studying here at Wrexham University.
In the first year of study, you are introduced to the concepts of phonetics, linguistics, psychology, biology and human development that will underpin your studies on the rest of this course .
You will develop skills in research and professional practice .
You will undertake a pre-clinical in semester 1 and a clinical placement in a Speech and Language Therapy team in semester 2.
In the second year, you will build on the knowledge and skills you have learned in year 1 .
You will learn more about specialist areas of Speech and Language Therapy, and apply this knowledge to practice through lectures, seminars, simulation and placement.
In the final year of study, students consolidate their learning from the previous two years to integrate their understanding of the theories underpinning Speech and Language Therapy and their application to practice .
Students will complete 2 clinical placements in their third year, and have the opportunity to present their research projects at a local conference.
120 UCAS tariff points at GCE A Level or equivalent in relevant subject areas such as science, the arts and languages.
A minimum of 5 GCSEs (or equivalent), to include English/Welsh language, Maths and Science at grade C or above.
In addition to the academic requirements, all applicants whose first language is not English or Welsh must demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to Level 8 of the International English Language Testing System, with no element below 7.5
Wrexham University takes into account a variety of qualifications and experience when considering applications to our programmes.
If you are unsure if the qualifications you currently hold will be accepted for entry, or if you're not sure you'll achieve the required UCAS Tariff points, please contact us at enquiries@wrexham.ac.uk for further advice and guidance.
You will be taught through a blended learning approach, utilising in person teaching on our Plas Coch campus, online lectures and seminars, and set asynchronous work to complete in your own time.
Lectures take on a dynamic and practical approach, including group work and discussions, debates, creating resources, presentations and case studies.
Assessment takes many forms, including written assignments and exams, case based oral exams, placement-based vivas and portfolios.
In terms of particular needs , the University’s Inclusion Services can provide appropriate guidance and support should any students require reasonable adjustments to be made because of a recognised prevailing disability, medical condition, or specific learning difference
* all roles may be subject to additional training

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/sports-injury-rehabilitation:
12MG
This course will prepare you to excel in the dynamic field of integrated sports, injury rehabilitation, and the management of health conditions, as well as in specialised environments such as professional sports teams and health promotion initiatives.
Our aca d emi c team is h ere to inspire a nd empower learner s thr o ugh a com mit ment to ex c elle n ce in spo r t and exe rcis e scien c es.
We strive to create a dynamic environment that fosters innovative research and applied practice, forging strong partnerships with local and global communities.
By integrating enterprise and consultancy into our courses, we aim to enhance the quality of education and promote sustainable practices in sport, coaching, health and fitness.
Together, we will cultivate a culture of curiosity and collaboration, preparing you to lead and make impactful contributions to the field and beyond.
Interested in Sports Injury Rehabilitation?
Hear from lecturers and students to learn more about this degree.
At Level 4, the modules are designed to provide a strong foundation in the principles and practices essential for sports injury, health, and fitness.
These modules focus on developing core skills, theoretical understanding and practical techniques.
At Level 5, the focus shifts towards building competency in practical skills and applying theoretical knowledge to professional practice.
These modules aim to develop your ability to manage and rehabilitate injuries effectively while strengthening research and professional skills.
At Level 6, the focus is on preparing you to become an autonomous Graduate Sports Rehabilitator.
These modules are designed to consolidate knowledge, refine clinical skills, and develop the independence required for professional practice.
The academic requirements for the course are 112 UCAS tariff points at GCE A-level or equivalent.
You must have 5 GCSEs including English/Welsh (First Language), Maths and Science at grade C/4 or above.
In addition to the academic entry requirements, all applicants whose first language is not English or Welsh must demonstrate English language proficiency (evidence of good command of written and spoken English to IELTS 6.0 is required).
Evidence of recent relevant academic study if above has been gained more than 5 years prior to applicant commencement.
Demonstration of insight into the Sports Rehabilitator role in a variety of settings.
All applicants successful in being offered a place on the programme will be subject to satisfactory occupational health clearance due to the nature of clinical work and potential placements in an NHS/another healthcare setting.
This also includes a requirement for relevant immunisations prior to securing a place.
This is carried out between an occupational health provider through a service level agreement between the university and provider.
It may be beneficial and is recommended that students hold a full UK driving licence and use of a car as this will maximise practice placement opportunities throughout the duration of the course.
Before you are offered an unconditional place on this degree you will be required to complete a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance (previously known as CRB) , so that a check can be made on your suitability for working with children and vulnerable adults.
Professional Sports Clubs Self-employment in the private sector Partnership in a clinic or practice that offers Physiotherapy, Sports Rehab/Sport Therapy services Working as a healthcare or wellbeing practitioner Exercise rehabilitation roles in the Armed Forces Teaching

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/sports-injury-rehabilitation-with-foundation-year:
SIFY
For entry onto our foundation year programme, we require the following:
Applicants may enter the programme at various levels with Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) or Recognition of Prior Experiential learning (RPEL) in accordance with the University General Regulations.
All applicants successful in being offered a place on the programme will be subject to a satisfactory occupational health clearance, due to the nature of clinical work and potential placements in the NHS or another healthcare setting.
This is carried out between an occupational health provider through a service level agreement between the University and provider.
It may be beneficial, and it is recommended, that students hold a full UK driving licence and have the use of a car, as this will maximise practice placement opportunities throughout the duration of the course.
Before you are offered an unconditional place on this degree, you will be required to complete a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance (previously known as CRB), so that a check can be made on your suitability for working with children and vulnerable adults.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/counselling:
in Wales and top 10 in the UK for Graduate Prospects*
employability
qualified counsellors
As the demand for professional counsellors increases, particularly in the private sector, the Diploma in Counselling offers an opportunity to develop professionally and personally through an academic and experiential programme of study.
*This course is rated 2 nd in Wales in the Counselling, Psychotherapy, and Occupational Therapy subject area league table in the Daily Mail University League Table 2024.
Thinking of a career in Counselling?
Year one introduces the skills necessary to become an effective counsellor.
Core theory modules cover the development of the person-centred approach to counselling, and the conditions required practically, personally, professionally and ethically to put these into practice.
The core skills or practice modules aim to enable you to develop effective counselling skills and put these into practice with peers.
You will learn to analyse the levels of effectiveness of your own work and reflect on personal strengths and areas for development.
Year 2 (level 5) builds on and expands your portfolio of skills and knowledge.
In year 2 the clinical placement is undertaken, so you will be putting your skills into practice with clients in an agency setting.
In year 2 as well as lectures and seminars/workshops you will also attend personal development / self-care groups to enhance your self-awareness.
Normally qualifications at level 3 (BTEC, A-Level, Access courses, and Level 3 Counselling course completion) are an expectation.
Wrexham University also offers a Level 4 Introduction to Counselling course which you may be interested in.
Applications are always enhanced by relevant experience of working in a helping role – whether paid or voluntary.
Sometimes applicants who do not meet the usual requirements for entry to a degree level programme may be considered.
This is where they can demonstrate additional life/work-related experience and an ability to engage with the academic challenges of the programme.
A key requirement for joining the course is the emotional and psychological maturity to work with people in psychological distress and the resilience required to cope with the demands of this work.
In your application you should make clear your reasons for wanting to undertake the programme and what you believe the strengths you would bring to the role are.
Occupational health checks and DBS checks are conditions of a place on this course.
All applicants whose forms indicate that they may be suitable for the programme are invited to an information session, group activity and individual interview.
The course is taught face to face on campus, 1 day a week 9:00-4:30.
The day is split with taught theory lectures in the morning, and skills practice in the afternoons.
Classes are predominantly experiential meaning we teach from our own experience working with real clients.
All teaching staff are active counsellors, with their own professional counselling background.
The course is assessed in a variety of ways.
These assessments may be self, peer or tutor assessed, and include recordings and critiques of transcribed counselling sessions, live practice with peers (Triads), presentations, theory and reflection written assignments, case studies and portfolios of evidence.
Clinical supervisor and placement reports all form important parts of the assessment process.
There are no exams.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/psychology:
C800
by the British Psychological Society (BPS)
in the UK for Organisation and Management*
in Wales for Student Voice and Overall Satisfaction*
Are you fascinated by the behaviours and decisions that people exhibit?
If this sounds like you, then our BSc (Hons) Psychology degree is perfect for your inquisitive mind.
Studying human behaviour offers valuable insights into the mind and will provide you with a highly sought-after skills set by employers.
*This course is ranked 1 st in the UK for Organisation and Management and 2 nd in Wales for Overall Satisfaction, Assessment and Feedback and Student Voice in the Psychology subject area league table in the National Student Survey 2025.
Over the course of your first year, you will develop study and research methods skills that are key to the Psychology degree, whilst also learning and developing your understanding of key psychological theories and concepts.
In your second year, you will continue to develop your research method skills and apply them in different areas of Psychology.
During this year, you will complete some core modules that will build on the knowledge gained in the first year.
In your final year, you will design your own research project with supervision from the Academic team.
This year will see you complete the final core module, Social Psychology, and also allow you to choose optional modules to study based on your own preferences and interests.
You will take three optional modules:
The academic requirements for the course are 96-112 UCAS tariff points at GCE A-level or equivalent and a GCSE at grade C/4 or equivalent in Maths and English/Welsh (First Language).
A science would be an advantage but is not essential.
Applications are welcome from anyone who exhibits the ability and experience to cope with the demands of the programme.
There are arrangements in place for accrediting prior experience: entry to the degree is possible under the accreditation of prior and/or experiential learning.
A Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance (previously known as CRB) may be required for placement activity on optional Work-Based Learning modules.
You will be assessed via a variety of different assessment methods, including a combination of coursework, essays, portfolios, practical reports, presentations and in-class tests.
The course does not currently assess you via exams.
You will be required to do a dissertation as part of your final year assessment.
The degree will be taught through a combination of lectures, seminars, tutorials, practical classes, project work and computer-based exercises.
As a BPS accredited degree, this course will help to acquire transferrable skills including critical reasoning, quantitative and qualitative competency, and a deep understanding of scientific practice.
Alongside developing both essential and more specialist psychological knowledge across a broad range of disciplines, this degree can also lead to a variety of career opportunities including:
Our graduates have previously secured employment and successful careers as an assistant psychologist (CAPs), drug and alcohol practitioner, mental health and wellbeing transition officer, residential support worker, project worker (Barnardo’s), and with the police force.
Our optional Work-Based Learning module provides students with an opportunity to build on their practical experience and gain vocational employability skills.
Discover more about studying Psychology at Wrexham University from our staff and students.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/psychology-with-foundation-year:
1C47
by the British Psychological Socitey (BPS)
In year 2, you will develop study and research methods skills that are key to the Psychology degree, whilst also learning and developing your understanding of key psychological theories and concepts.
In year 3, you will continue to develop your research method skills and apply them in different areas of Psychology.
The academic requirements for the course are 48-72 UCAS tariff points at GCE A-level or equivalent and a GCSE at grade C/4 or equivalent in Maths and English/Welsh (First Language).
The course does not currently assess students via exams.
Our optional Work Based Learning module provides students with an opportunity to build on their practical experience and gain vocational employability skills.
A high-profile Crime Scene Day learning simulation is held each year, with students from a range of courses acting out, witnessing, investigating and reporting on a high-profile crime on campus

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/biomedical-science:
BS21
by the Institute of Biomedical Sciences (IBMS)
facilities and equipment
with Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board (BCUHB)
Our BSc Biomedical Science degree is designed in collaboration with Betsi Cadwaldr University Health Board (BCUHB) – NHS Wales.
Hence, the course will be delivered by university academics and hospital-based biomedical scientists.
In year one, we will provid e you with a solid foundation and introduction to the broad disciplines that underpin the subject of biomedical science, resulting in a strong understanding of the subject.
Year two of the course largely comprises specialist modules to give you the necessary knowledge in key areas of biomedical science.
You will also be introduced to research methodology and will have the opportunity to design and carry out a mini project, preparing you for the final year project .
The final year of study focusses upon topics at the forefront of current research in biomedical science and will further develop your critical and analytical skills.
A significant part of the final year is a 40-credit research project in which you will carry out an independent piece of research in an area of special interest to you.
The academic requirements for the course are 96-112 UCAS tariff points at GCE A-level or equivalent, including a science at level 3.
There will be a variety of learning and teaching techniques which include lectures, seminars, workshops, practical sessions and lab-based study, discussions, debates, group tutorials, case studies, problem-based learning, and visiting speakers.
The course is constructed on a modular basis such that you will study three modules within each semester.
Each module equates to 200 hours of study of which there is 24 -36 hours of contact time, with the rest of the time being dedicated to directed study.
Contact time decreases from 36 hours per module at level 4 to 24 hours at level 6, in line with the expectation that you will progress steadily towards becoming an independent learner as you progress through the course .
Assessment methods may include learning journals, group projects, portfolios, coursework, literature reviews, oral and poster presentations, case studies and laboratory reports, and exams/in-class tests.
A research project will form one of the final parts of your assessment.
Most assignments will involve electronic submission.
Qualifications:
This course provides preparation for undertaking the Institute of Biomedical Science Certificate of Competence (a compulsory requirement for being a registered Biomedical Scientist affiliated with the Health & Care Professions Council).
It prepares students wishing to undertake a career in research, teaching, medicine, dentistry or to pursue studies towards our MSc Biomedical Science degree, a PhD or Postgraduate Certificate in Education ( PGCE ).
Completion of this degree will also ensure employment opportunities outside of immediate biomedical science areas such as management and finance roles.
The BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science course is relevant and employer ready, utilising a partnership between Wrexham University and the Betsi Cadwaldr University Health Board (BCUHB).
It is accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Sciences (IBMS).
It is taught by an experienced team of academics, biomedical scientists and other health professionals with a range of subject and research expertise.
IBMS degree accreditation ensures that a degree course covers the academic components of the standards of proficiency at the required level, so we meet the Health and Care Profession Council (HCPC) standards of proficiency for biomedical scientists.
Students also receive a wide-ranging, research-informed scientific education and develop practical skills and experience that employers value.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/biomedical-science-with-foundation-year:
BSFY
In year two, we will provid e you with a solid foundation and introduction to the broad disciplines that underpin the subject of biomedical science, resulting in a strong understanding of the subject.
Year three of the course largely comprises specialist modules to give you the necessary knowledge in key areas of biomedical science.
The academic requirements for the course are 48-72 UCAS tariff points at GCE A-level or equivalent

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/forensic-science:
F412
by experienced forensic scientists and academics
in a variety of fields
cutting-edge forensic equipment
Learn the science behind crime scene investigation.
Gain hands-on experience in forensic analysis, laboratory techniques, and expert witness training.
With access to specialist forensic facilities, including Wales’ only decomposition research facility, you'll develop key forensic skills for a range of careers.
You can also choose to study this degree with a foundation year BSc (Hons) Forensic Science (with Foundation Year) (4 years) or with Industrial Placement year BSc (Hons) Forensic Science (with Industry Placement) (4 years)
Your first year introduces you to the fundamental principles of forensic science, including crime scene investigation, laboratory techniques, and legal procedures.
You will develop essential scientific and analytical skills, learning how to handle forensic evidence, interpret chemical and biological data, and apply statistical methods.
This year lays the foundation for advanced forensic techniques in later years.
In your second year, you will deepen your forensic knowledge, focusing on advanced laboratory techniques, forensic ecology, and the management of forensic evidence.
You will develop critical analytical skills, learning how to evaluate and interpret forensic data accurately.
Your final year focuses on advanced forensic techniques, professional practice, and real-world case studies.
You will develop expert witness skills, learning how to present forensic evidence in a courtroom setting.
A major research project will allow you to explore a forensic topic of your choice.
This summer, you can gain the fundamental scientific knowledge and skills needed to progress onto one of our Applied Science degrees, with our Science Summer School .
You will learn through a combination of lectures, practical lab sessions, workshops, and interactive seminars, ensuring you develop both theoretical knowledge and hands-on forensic skills.
Teaching is delivered through:
A typical week includes around 12-16 hours of scheduled teaching (lectures, labs, and workshops), with additional independent study and assessments.
Assessment is designed to mirror real-world forensic practice, ensuring you develop skills in scientific analysis, evidence handling, and legal reporting.
Assessments include:
Assessments are designed to be varied and engaging, ensuring you develop scientific, analytical, and professional communication skills relevant to forensic careers.
Forensic science – Analysing biological, chemical, and physical evidence in forensic laboratories to support criminal investigations.
You may specialise in areas such as DNA analysis, trace evidence, or forensic chemistry.
Crime scene investigation – Attending crime scenes to collect, document, and preserve evidence.
You will work closely with forensic laboratories and law enforcement agencies to reconstruct events and link evidence to suspects.
Toxicology – Identifying and analysing drugs, poisons, and toxins in biological and environmental samples.
Toxicologists work in forensic casework, pharmaceutical development, environmental monitoring, and drug safety.
Policing and forensic support roles – Working in law enforcement where forensic science training is beneficial.
This could include exhibits officers, who manage and maintain forensic evidence, fingerprint analysts, who specialise in fingerprint comparison and identification, or digital forensics teams, who recover and analyse electronic evidence from computers, mobile devices, and online sources.
Mortuary practice – Assisting forensic pathologists in post-mortem examinations, collecting forensic samples, and documenting findings for criminal investigations and medical research.
Quality control and laboratory science – Conducting scientific testing in food safety, environmental monitoring, medical diagnostics, and industrial quality control to ensure products and processes meet regulatory standards.
Anthropology and archaeology – Locating, excavating, and analysing buried and concealed forensic or historical evidence.
This includes searching for clandestine graves, excavating mass burial sites, or uncovering historical artefacts that provide insight into past civilisations or forensic investigations.
Analytical chemistry – Performing chemical testing for pharmaceuticals, materials science, environmental health, and forensic applications.
You may analyse toxic substances, pollutants, or chemical compounds used in industry and crime investigations.
Search dog handling – Training and deploying dogs to assist in locating human remains , missing persons, explosives, drugs, or environmental hazards.
Search dogs are used in law enforcement, forensic investigations, and disaster response.
Regulatory science and compliance – Ensuring industries such as healthcare, environmental protection, and forensic science adhere to legal and scientific standards.
This includes product safety, ethical compliance, and laboratory accreditation.
Science communication and public engagement – Translating forensic and scientific concepts for media, education, museums, consultancy, or outreach programmes.
You may work as a science journalist, forensic educator, or public engagement specialist, making complex topics accessible to wider audiences .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/forensic-science-with-foundation-year:
7F28
Our programme equips you to examine crime scenes, analyse evidence and present results in court as an expert witness.
From sharp force trauma to spectra, bones to bugs, get ready to develop your practical skills for an exciting scientific career.
Your second year introduces you to the fundamental principles of forensic science, including crime scene investigation, laboratory techniques, and legal procedures.
In your third year, you will deepen your forensic knowledge, focusing on advanced laboratory techniques, forensic ecology, and the management of forensic evidence.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/forensic-science-with-placement-year:
FSIP
Professional Placement: Gain real-world forensic experience through a structured work placement with an external forensic, law enforcement, or research organisation.
You will work on real cases or research projects, applying your forensic science skills in a professional environment.
You will also develop technical, analytical, and workplace skills, improving your employability and industry connections.
The module requires you to document your experience through a portfolio, progress reports, and reflective learning logs.
A DBS may be required for the placement component of the programme.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/social-work:
L500
in Wales for Teaching Quality*
in Wales for Career Prospects*
Our BA (Hons) Social Work course offers a detailed and dynamic perspective of social work, covering theoretical perspectives, underpinning values and ethics, legislation and social policy and the impact of poverty and practice in Wales.
*This course is part of a subject area ranked 2 nd in the UK for Student Satisfaction in the Social Work subject area league table in the Complete University Guide 2026.
*This course is part of a subject area ranked 1st in Wales for Teaching Quality in the Social Work subject area league table in the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025.
* This course is rated 1 st in Wales for Career Prospects in the Social Work subject area league table in the Guardian University Guide 2025.
'Outside In' is an innovative focus group, forming part of our Social Work degree in which members include those who’ve used social care and health services and who have expertise through experience.
Learn more about Outside In
Please note, Social Work students must be registered with Social Care Wales, which is the regulatory body for all Social Workers in Wales.
The first year of study encourages you to develop academic learning skills and initial understanding of core aspects of social work.
With a significant focus on co-production, this year will build your confidence in entering the professional world .
Year two builds on level four by expanding concepts and developing critical thinking.
Considering more complex ideas and theoretical frameworks, you will explore the impact of decisions and actions in practice.
The final year of study encourages you to engage in critical discourses around social work practice and the nuanced balance required of personal and professional identities and application of creative practice.
You must be fluent in written and spoken English or Welsh and possess qualifications in English/Welsh (First Language) and Maths - at least grade C/4 at GCSE or an equivalent level 2 qualification.
Relevant experience (employed, voluntary or personal) is essential prior to applying for the course.
Social Care Wales requires this to amount to a minimum of 360 hours.
The third entry requirement is that you are able to demonstrate an understanding of social work.
All post-interview offers of a place on this degree, are conditional to the completion of a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance so that we can assess your suitability for working with children and vulnerable adults.
In addition, acceptance onto the programme is subject to registration as a student social worker with Social Care Wales.
Please note: we only accept deferred entries for Social Work in exceptional circumstances.
You will need to speak with the admissions team if you wish to ask about the possibility of deferring.
Assessment is carried out in a variety of ways: presentations, essays, reflective learning logs, dissertation, and more.
Students are encouraged to undertake learning needs assessments in year 1 if needed – this will lead to the best form of learning support being offered to students on an individualised basis.
Effective social work is about an integration of theoretical and practice understanding.
Consequently the programme is taught in a range of ways and through various media.
Students can expect to experience straightforward didactic information giving, as much as interactive role playing and group work.
Demonstrating intrapersonal communication and team work skills are fundamentals of social work practice, so you are expected to actively participate and engage in all learning opportunities and styles.
The programme is typically taught on campus with online sessions being scheduled as and when required in accordance with the ALF.
It is a full-time course, with 3 days per week timetabled during periods of academic teaching and 5 days per week whilst students are on Practice Learning Opportunity (placement).
Practice Learning Opportunities span 140 hours (approximately 20 working days) in Year 1, 560 hours (approximately 80 working days) in Year 2 and 700 hours (approximately 100 working days) in Year 3.
Social Work is a highly desirable qualification which consistently achieves exceptionally high employment rates among graduates.
Although many registered social workers are employed by Local Authorities, many voluntary and third sector agencies and organisations employ social workers too.
There are a multitude of post-qualification programmes that graduates can continue their development through including specialised roles such as Approved Mental Health Practitioner.
There are regularly opportunities to progress through managerial structures in organisations too.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/youth-and-community-work-jnc:
L593
2026
study options
by Education Training Standards Wales
This is an exciting degree programme, specially designed for those wanting to work positively with children, young people, marginalised groups and communities.
Y ou can gain a professional Youth W ork qualification endorsed by Education Training Standards Wales which will allow you to register with the Education Workforce Council in Wales as a Youth Worker in the UK and further afield .
Thinking of a career in Youth and Community?
This is a course for those wanting to work within informal education, examining youth and community theory and developing your practice in working with young people and communities through participation, empowerment and partnership working.
There are opportunities to develop youth and community work skills internationally both in Europe and further afield; taking into account the impact of emerging trends in Welsh, UK, European and global youth policy and practice.
Your first year is all about learning about the key ideas that influence Youth and Community Work practice and becoming a practitioner .
You will then apply and evaluate these key ideas in practice whilst working towards developing your Youth Work National Occupational Standards competencies.
Your second year is all about learning about the ‘big’ ideas that influence society and Youth and Community Work practice .
You will then apply and start to think critically about these ‘big’ ideas in practice whilst working towards developing your Youth Work National Occupational Standards competencies.
Your final year is all about becoming a critically reflective practitioner and forming your professional identity as you prepare to become a graduate and professionally qualified Youth and Community Worker.
Applicants need to have completed a relevant L3 qualification.
Previous experience of 100 hours in a Youth and Community Work setting is required and must be evidenced .
This can be gained in voluntary or paid work within the field of youth and community work.
The programme team can advise students regarding volunteering and work experience opportunities if required .
All applicants considered suitable for the course will be interviewed, and those with disabilities or from relevant courses will automatically be offered an interview.
Many modules will require you to be working in, or have access to, a suitable youth and community work practice environment in order for you to contextualise your learning and complete the assessments.
You will also be required to complete an Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance (previously known as CRB) so that a check can be made on your suitability for working with children and/or vulnerable adults
The degree is delivered using a unique Hy-Flex approach to learning.
This means that students can join the classroom in person or join synchronously online to engage in the learning activities.
Sessions are also recorded for students to engage with alongside asynchronous online learning activities to scaffold the learning from the module.
Assessments are designed with the dual aims of supporting a student’s professional development and their academic understanding.
This builds knowledge and skill from a belief that being an excellent practitioner means not only working with people, but also being able to express yourself in a range of ways that includes writing reports, documents and essays based on the collection and analysis of evidence to build an argument.
Throughout the programme , and within individual modules, a variety of assessment methods are employed which seek to demonstrate equity with respect to the individual needs, learning styles and interests of students.
The forms of assessment are selected to ensure that they characterise the academic level of the modules, and are designed to enable students to explore the philosophies, concepts and theories underpinning youth work and community work, through the exploration and analysis of issues pertinent to these areas of social provision.
The transference of learning from one module to another is encouraged, and the core modules provide a focus for this.
As such, assessment methods on this programme are used to develop a student’s confidence and ability to carry out a range of transferable skills, which are considered useful in both academic work and professional practice.
Assessments on this programme will take on a variety of forms, including essays, presentations, reflections, portfolios and contributing to online forums.
Successful completion of this course leads to a JNC professional Youth Work Qualification, which is requirement for registration with the Education Work Force Council in Wales.
This is also the professional qualification required for most Youth Work jobs in England and Scotland.
You will complete 900 hours of placement on the course , which provides you with relevant work experience in the Youth and Community Work sector.
Graduates from the course work in a variety of settings from the local authority, voluntary and community sector, and education providers across England, Wales and internationally , including working in projects and services in the following areas:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/youth-and-community-work-jnc-with-foundation-year:
4KWS
In year two, you will study the values and principles of youth and community work, creative skills and group work, and develop a knowledge of safeguarding and multi-agency working.
In years three and four, you will build upon this learning, exploring politics and social policy, analysing informal education and developing skills in social research, international youth work, leadership and supervising others.
In your final year, you will also undertake a research project, and develop skills and values that demonstrate your ability to become a professional practitioner.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/coaching-sport-and-fitness-fdsc:
FDSF
your learning with Widnes Vikings Partnership
additional industry-based qualifications at a reduced cost
Our FdSc sports coaching degree has been designed to offer our students a hands-on approach to learning coaching skills and approaches whilst incorporating our outstanding geographical location within North Wales.
*This course is ranked top 10 in the UK for Teaching on my Course and Learning Opportunities and top 5 in the UK for Student Voice in the Biological and Sport Science subject area league table in the National Student Survey 2025.
Mae’r cwrs hwn hefyd yn safle 1af yng Nghymru ar gyfer Addysgu ar fy Nghwrs, Cyfle Dysgu, Asesu ac Adborth, Trefniadaeth a Rheolaeth, Llais Myfyrwyr, Boddhad Cyffredinol yn nhabl cynghrair maes pwnc Biolegol a Gwyddor Chwaraeon yn Arolwg Cenedlaethol Myfyrwyr 2025.
The FdSc degree is initially made up of a two-year study programme, with the option after the FdSc is completed to enrol on a 1-year top-up.
Completion of the top-up year will provide students with a full BSc (Hons) qualification.
In this year students are introduced to all the elements associated with sport and fitness .
Students gain an understanding of the link from theory to practice across a range of disciplines including C oaching, Strength and Conditioning , performance analysis and aspects of psychology and physiology .
You will have 36 hours of contact time per module.
There is an option to stay with us for an extra year to graduate with a BSc (Hons) undergraduate qualification .
For entry onto our degree programme, we require the following:
If you have educational records that are more than 5 years old, we will consider your application with a strong personal statement outlining relevant experience within last 5 years as a substitute, provided you have the relevant UCAS points.
The UCAS points may be counted from a wide variety of qualifications such as:
Applicants may enter the programme at various levels with Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) or Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL) in accordance with the University General Regulations.
Mature students with relevant experience are also welcome to apply and be considered on an individual basis .
Wrexham University is committed to supporting our students to maximise their academic potential and the introduction of our Active Learning Framework (ALF) helps deliver this commitment.
Grounded in the University’s values of being accessible, supportive, innovative, and ambitious, ALF will support flexible learning that makes the best use of spaces on Campus together with digitally enabled learning opportunities designed to be accessed anytime, anywhere as appropriate.
In addition, ALF embodies ways of teaching and learning that create and support a sense of belonging for students – critically important for us as a university that prides itself on being a supportive community.
Incorporating everything mentioned above, our teaching will use a combination of face-to-face and online techniques.
There are practical elements across all years that may include off-campus trips to environments that facilitate the learning experience.
On average , students will receive 16 hours of taught content through the delivery of ALF per week.
In addition , the university offer s workshops and support sessions in areas such as academic writing, effective note-making and preparing for assignments.
A wide range of assessment methods will be used to test your knowledge and understanding.
This includes essays, portfolios, practical sessions, reports, presentations, online discussions, and case study evaluations.
You will be assessed on your ability to describe, explain , and analyse sport / fitness coaching concepts .
This will be achiev ed through the investigation of previously published research, individually collected field-based data and specialist computer software and equipment .
If Level 6 study is taken, your time with us culminates in the submission of a n independent Learning opportunity ( dissertation project ) , in an area that supports your future aspirations.
Common graduate employment pathways include sport, leisure, tourism, management, education, research and health and fitness , including:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/coaching-sport-and-fitness-top-up:
C610
your qualifications to a full BSc degree
to cutting-edge equipment and facilities
Our BSc sports coaching top-up degree is a continuation of the FdSc degree, and has been designed to offer our students a hands-on approach to learning coaching skills and approaches whilst incorporating our outstanding geographical location within North Wales.
The content of the FdSc Sports Coaching degree and the top-up year draws on key principles within sport and fitness.
By ensuring consistency throughout the degree, you will discover an enjoyable and rewarding future career.
For entry to this Level 6 (top-up), you must satisfy the entry criteria and admissions tutor by producing documentary evidence that you have achieved a qualification at Level 5 or better in a relevant discipline and have the necessary background.
Admission to the programme may specifically be gained by students who can present evidence of passing a Wrexham University FdSc Coaching: Sport and Fitness degree .
A formal DBS is required for the programme.
Support with this is provided.
Grounded in the University’s values of being accessible, supportive, innovative, and ambitious, ALF will support flexible learning that makes the best use of spaces on Campus together with digitally enabled learning opportunities designed to be accessed anytime, anywhere as appropriate.
There are practical elements that may include off-campus trips to environments that facilitate the learning experience.
On average, students will receive 16 hours of taught content through the delivery of ALF per week.
In addition, the university offers workshops and support sessions in areas such as academic writing, effective note-making and preparing for assignments.
For the top-up year, your time with us culminates in the submission of an independent Learning opportunity (dissertation project), in an area that supports your future aspirations.
Common graduate employment pathways include sport, leisure, tourism, management, education, research and health and fitness, including:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/football-and-community-development-:
with Wrexham AFC Foundation
to professional facilities
qualifications embedded
This course combines your passion for football with positively impacting communities.
This foundation degree provides a unique blend of practical coaching skills, community engagement strategies, and industry knowledge, preparing you for exciting careers in football coaching, sports development, and community work.
You will gain a strong foundation in understanding the role football plays within the community.
You will gain practical coaching experience alongside theoretical knowledge, preparing you for careers in grassroots football, sport development, and community outreach.
This year also introduces essential academic and professional skills to support further study and career progression in the football and sports industry.
Change Maker in the Community: This module explores the role of sport in fostering community engagement, social cohesion, and individual well-being.
You will critically examine how sports initiatives contribute to societal development, community identity, and inclusivity.
Through a combination of theoretical study and practical application, you will gain insights into the symbiotic relationship between sport and the community.
Asset-Based Community Development: You will explore the key principles of Asset-Based Community Development so that you understand the theory and can apply it to your practice context.
Football Coaching for Player Development: This module aims to equip you with the knowledge, skills, and methodologies required to effectively coach football with a focus on individual player development.
It explores technical, tactical, physical, and psychological aspects of player growth, emphasising age-appropriate coaching strategies and performance enhancement.
Introduction to Management and Business: You will be introduced to some of the fundamentals of business, including organisational structure and the nature of modern business practices.
You will also acquire a broad understanding of management by exploring the skills and characteristics of effective managers and leaders, and techniques to successfully manage a team.
Health Inequalities and Social Justice: This module will enable you to recognise inequalities in health, mental health and wellbeing and understand their role in contributing to the social justice agenda.
It will provide knowledge and understanding of the nature and causes of health inequalities, discrimination, and marginalisation whilst discussing key policy and legislation.
Academic Discovery within the Sport Sciences: Within this module, you will explore key research methods, data analysis techniques, and academic writing conventions relevant to sports studies.
Through independent and guided research, they will enhance their ability to evaluate scientific literature, formulate research questions, and apply theoretical knowledge to real-world sporting contexts.
This year will build on the foundational knowledge, focusing on advanced engagement techniques, sport development strategies, and leadership in community football.
Through practical experience and industry engagement, you will develop the skills needed to design and implement football programmes that drive both player development and community growth.
This year prepares you for higher-level study or direct entry into careers in coaching, sport development, and community outreach.
Be the Change: Football in the Community: You will explore the role of football as a tool for social change, focusing on its impact on local and global communities.
You will also enhance your ability to design, deliver, and evaluate community-based football projects that promote inclusivity and sustainability.
Working with Communities: You will demonstrate personal and professional development by meeting the practice competencies required in the Youth Work National Occupational Standards Area F: Work with Communities.
Strategies for Health Improvement and Promotion: This module will provide knowledge and understanding of established strategies for promoting and improving health, mental health and well-being.
It will cover strategies such as social prescribing, health education and a ‘settings approach’ and discuss the strengths and limitations of these, as well as their application within specific populations.
Becoming a Coach: You will examine the pedagogical issues faced by sports coaches when delivering in specific contexts/environments.
Additionally, this module facilitates the development, understanding and application of reflective skills to enhance the development of personal and professional coaching practice.
Entrepreneurship and Innovation: This module aims to provide you with the opportunity to discover how ideas are developed, how entrepreneurship operates and an understanding of Innovation and entrepreneurship theories within a business context.
Sport Research Methodologies: From Theory to Practice: This module will enable you to develop critical understanding of the various research philosophies, ethical considerations, methods and analytic approaches that can be applied within a sport-related research area.
Mature students with relevant experience are also welcome to apply and be considered on an individual basis.
Our student support section has more information on the help available.
In terms of particular needs, the University’s Inclusion Services can provide appropriate guidance and support should any students require reasonable adjustments to be made because of a recognised prevailing disability, medical condition, or specific learning difference.
You will be assessed on your ability to describe, explain, and analyse sport/fitness coaching concepts.
This will be achieved through the investigation of previously published research, individually collected field-based data and specialist computer software and equipment.
If Level 6 study is taken, your time with us culminates in the submission of an independent Learning opportunity (dissertation project), in an area that supports your future aspirations.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/football-and-community-development-top-up:
2027
by Endorsement and Quality Standards Board for Community Development Learning (ESB)
The BA (Hons) Football and Community Development course is a great choice if you’re passionate about combining your love for football with making a positive impact on communities.
Whether you’re looking to coach, deliver impactful community programs, or progress into further studies, this course offers a solid foundation for your goals.
Admission to the programme may specifically be gained by students who can present evidence of passing a Wrexham University FdA Football and Community Development.
Support with this is provided .
You will be assessed on your ability to describe, explain, and analyse the role football plays within the community.
Graduates of the BA (Hons) Football and Community Development programme can pursue careers in various football, sport, and community-based roles, including:
Qualifications from the Football Association of Wales are also included.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/football-coaching-and-the-performance-specialist:
6M0Q
with the Football Association of Wales
additional industry-based qualifications
in the UK for Teaching on my Course and Learning Opportunities.
Our football coaching and performance degree has been designed to develop and enhance your current knowledge, reshape and update existing knowledge and provide an in-depth exploration of sports science within the game.
This course is also ranked 1 st in Wales for Teaching on my Course, Learning Opportunity, Assessment and Feedback, Organisation and Management, Student Voice, Overall Satisfaction in the Biological and Sport Science subject area league table in the National Student Survey 2025.
We’re not just about playing the game; we’re about fostering a culture of development, teamwork, and excellence both on and off the pitch.
Thinking of a career in Football Coaching?
Hear from lecturers and students about our Football Coaching and the Performance Specialist degree at Wrexham University.
Our football coaching degree enables you to develop practical coaching skills and an understanding of the coaching process at a youth and senior level.
You'll also develop an understanding of the extended elements of the coaching process, including how individual players and teams are prepared physiologically and psychologically to participate in football.
Modules are taught weekly and this will allow you to link academic theory to football practice.
As you progress through the degree you'll develop the personal, professional and academic skills required to personalise your learning to match your future career ambitions.
Throughout the degree, you will enhance your coaching profile by completing football-specific industry-recognised qualifications such as the FAW C Certificate and the FAW/UEFA B Licence.
*module for non-International students
**module for International students
The academic requirements for the BSc (Hons) Football Coaching and the Performance Specialist are for at least 96-112 UCAS tariff points at GCE A Level or equivalent.
Appropriate AS–Level and level 3 Key Skills Qualifications will be also taken into account.
Coaching experience or experience of working in coaching will be an advantage.
Before you are offered a place on this course you will be required to complete a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance (previously known as CRB), and pay the appropriate fee, so that a check can be made on your suitability for working with children and vulnerable adults.
These include practical assessments, examinations, essays, portfolios, reports, presentations, online discussions and case study evaluations.
You will be assessed on your ability to analyse coaching activities, use specialist video software, undertake field-based work and conduct independent research.
You will be expected to complete a dissertation as part of your final assessment.
Students will work towards a FAW (Level 2) C Certificate and (Level 3) FAW/UEFA B coaching licences as part of your degree, giving you additional qualifications that enhance employability within the football coaching sector.
Students will have the opportunity to gain applied experience working within a variety of football settings.
Extensive links with partners will provide you with the opportunity to develop vocational and industry-relevant skills.
Students will have access to the FAW National Football Development Centre, Colliers Park, which is complete with our performance analysis suite and full-sized FIFA quality 3G football pitch.
A degree in Football Coaching and Performance Specialist provides a variety of future opportunities for graduates.
Areas of work include:
“When I saw the opportunities Wrexham had to offer, my mind was made up.
As well as getting the degree, you also have the chance to get your FAW C licence (Level 2) and UEFA B Licence (Level 3).
You're taught by lecturers who have a vast amount of experience in different fields and years of knowledge in coaching.
The facilities are also a massive bonus; such as Colliers Park, which allowed us to use the best available equipment which really helped enhance our experience.”

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/football-coaching-and-the-performance-specialist-with-foundation-year:
6M0P
with football clubs and associations
This course also includes a foundation year to prepare you for further years of study.
Students starting the football coaching degree at the foundation level will develop an understanding of the coaching process, practical coaching skills and sports science disciplines involved in football.
You will develop personal, professional and academic skills which will enable you to transfer your newly gained knowledge of coaching and coaching science into the applied world of football.
Throughout the degree, you will enhance your coaching profile by completing football-specific industry-recognised qualifications such as the FAW Level 1 Football Leaders Award, FAW C Certificate and the FAW/UEFA B Licence.
The academic requirements for our foundation year are 48-72 UCAS points, although w e also take into account any work experience you have that is relevant to this course.
You will be assessed on your ability to analyse coaching activities, use specialist video software, undertake field-based work and conduct independent research.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/sport-and-exercise-science:
C606
by The Chartered Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (CASES)
Thinking of a career in Sport & Exercise Sciences?
Hear from lecturers and students about our Sport & Exercise Sciences degree at Wrexham University.
Our Sports and Exercise Sciences degree is designed to meet the needs and develop the employability of students wishing to pursue a career within the Sports and Exercise Sciences industry.
Learn more about CASES here .
A feature of the course is the practical application of theory to applied environments, to develop links with the sport and exercise industry at all levels from community to elite levels.
The content of the degree course draws on key sports science principles, through three specific disciplines: Sport Physiology, Sport Psychology and Biomechanics / Performance Analysis.
The programme is split over three years; Level 4, Level 5 and Level 6.
Students require 120 credits per year to progress and finally graduate.
In this year students are introduced to all the elements associated with sports science.
Students gain an understanding of the link from theory to practice across a range of disciplines including psychology, physiology, performance analysis and Strength and Conditioning.
Students in this year are encouraged to personalise their learning to a sport or sports of their choice.
Students establish a strong understanding of the link between theory and practice whilst developing vocationally relevant skills.
You will have 30 hours of contact time per module.
Opportunities exist to obtain externally recognised qualifications at this level, at no extra cost; Level 2 Gym Instructor, Hudl Sportscode Scripting Level 1.
In the final year, students explore an interest in one or more performance disciplines.
This specialism enables students to develop both personal and professional skills essential for employment in a sports-related industry.
You will have 24 hours of contact time per module.
Opportunities exist to obtain externally recognised qualifications at this level, at no extra cost; Level 3 Exercise Referral, Level 3 Personal Trainer & Hudl Sportscode Scripting Level 2.
If students have been out of education for >5 years or do not have a science, maths or sports background they must submit a personal statement to the programme team even if they have the required UCAS points.
Applicants may enter the programme at various levels with Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) or Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL) in accordance with the University General Regulations.
Formal DBS is not required for the programme, unless the student is required to have DBS clearance for the placement module during their second year of study.
Students will be responsible for their own satisfactory DBS clearance.
You can get more guidance and advice regarding entry requirements and applications here .
This includes essays, portfolios, practical sessions, reports, presentations, online discussions, case study evaluations and exams.
You will be assessed on your ability to describe, explain and analyse sport science concepts, use specialist video software, undertake lab-based work and conduct independent research.
Common graduate employment pathways include sport, leisure, tourism, management, education, research and health, including:
“I would 100% recommend studying at Wrexham, especially within the Sports Sciences department, as due to the smaller size of the department, the opportunity to be involved with extra events, internships, and experiences is excellent, plus the chance to speak to lecturers and other staff is much easier.
Above all, you feel that the staff know who you are, what you are about and genuinely care about how you are developing!”

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-courses/sport-and-exercise-science-with-foundation-year:
89C2
Our Sport and Exercise Sciences degree is designed to meet the needs and develop the employability of students wishing to pursue a career within the Sport and Exercise Sciences industry.
Wrexham University Chancellor, Colin Jackson CBE, talks about his career, why sport science benefits athletes and about studying our related degrees.
A feature of the course will be the practical application of theory to applied environments, to develop links with the sport and exercise industry at all levels from community to elite levels.
The content of the degree course will draw on key sports science principles, through three specific disciplines: Sport Physiology, Sport Psychology and Biomechanics / Performance Analysis.
The programme is split over four years; Level 3, Level 4, Level 5 and Level 6.
There are a variety of assessments across the foundation year – presentations, portfolios, electronic scrapbooking, and learning logs are just some.
Opportunities exist to obtain externally recognised qualifications at this level, at no extra cost; Level 3 Exercise Referral, Level 3 Personal Trainer & Hudl Sports code Scripting Level 2.
If you have completed an apprenticeship with Achieve More Training and do not have the necessary UCAS points, you will be subject to an interview process to assess suitability for the course.
Visit our application pages for more advice and guidance on entry requirements and applications.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/digital-skills-fundamentals:
10 weeks
Digital Skills is an umbrella term encompassing a wide range of competencies critical to navigating and excelling in today's digital landscape.
Whether you are new to digital tools or looking to strengthen your understanding, this course will guide you through essential concepts and practical applications.
You will study 10 modules to cover a broad range of Digital Skills.
Week 1 will be focused on Devices & Interfaces covering the use of computers, laptops, and mobile devices, operating systems and software navigation and customising device settings.
In week 2 we will look at Productivity & Organisation with topics including managing digital files and folders using productivity tools and techniques.
Moving on to week 3, we will be discussing Communication & Collaboration topics such as effective email communication, online collaboration tools and platforms, netiquette and digital etiquette.
In week 4 we will cover Information Literacy by evaluating digital information sources, implementing information searching and retrieval techniques, copyright and intellectual property considerations.
Week 5 Introduces Security and Privacy and how to deal with online threats and security risks, password management and data protection, digital footprint and privacy considerations.
Into week 6 we will explore Creativity & Multimedia by creating and editing digital media using a variety of software.
In week 7 we will begin our focus on the Microsoft suite, starting with word processing using MS Word.
Then in week 8 we will use MS Excel to work with spreadsheets.
In week 9 we will learn how to create, format and develop presentations for distribution and display using MS PowerPoint.
In the last week, we will work with PDFs and learn to cohesively digitally bind bodies of work in a universally compatible format
Students should have access to Microsoft 365 (Office)
Other than this, there are no entry requirements for this course; just an interest in the subject!
The booking for this course closes a week before the course start date.
This is an online module with an optional weekly Friday drop-in session for advice on the module and feedback on assessments.
The assessment for this module is 100% Coursework.
Each of the ten units in this course includes a hands-on, practical assessment designed to reinforce and apply the digital skills covered in that unit.
At the end of the course, the set of ten completed assessment tasks will be compiled into a cohesive themed handbook.
Free
Please note, short course prices are subject to review for 25/26 please contact shortcourses@wrexham.ac.uk if you have any queries.
Start Date: Friday 28th February  - Friday 16th May - Book Now

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/foundation-maths-for-stem-students:
3 weeks
This module introduces or provides a refresher for key mathematical concepts and techniques for you to succeed in your STEM studies at Wrexham University
If you are living in Wales you may be able to join one of our short courses for free, click below to find out more.
Suitable for entrants to part time provision at Wrexham University
Free for Wrexham University Level 4 STEM applicants
Do you live in Wales?
We have a number of funding opportunities available, please complete the form below to find out if you are eligible to study this course for free.
Apply now via this form .
Once you have completed your fee waiver application this will go to our funding team to process, and we will then contact you as soon as possible to let you know if you are eligible or not to have your fees waived..
If you are eligible, we will then contact you to let you know how to secure your place on the course..
* Please note the fee waiver is only available to students studying 30 credits or less in an academic year.
If you commence further study during this academic year, which will take you over 30 credits, this may result in the fee waiver being removed and you may be charged for the short course.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/additional-learning-needs-navigating-the-aln-framework-in-wales:
12 Weeks
The course is aimed at individuals currently working within or aspiring to join the childcare or education workforce in Wales.
Are you looking to enhance your knowledge and understanding of the new ALN Framework in Wales?
Do you want to stay updated on policy changes and best practices within the Welsh education system?
Consider enrolling on our Additional Learning Needs: Navigating the ALN framework in Wales short course.
Reasons to study:
This short course will develop students’ knowledge and understanding of the new ALN Framework in Wales, enabling them to stay updated on policy changes and best practices within the Welsh education system.
The course enhances and complements students’ professional skills, equipping them with the knowledge required to navigate the new policy landscape.
Focusing on the identification, assessment, and support processes outlined in the ALN Code, this course ensures students are well-prepared to meet statutory obligations while fostering an inclusive learning environment.
The course provides opportunities for reflective practice, enabling participants to critically evaluate their approaches and adapt to the challenges of implementing the new ALN system.
By the end of the course, students will be able to evaluate the effectiveness of contemporary legislation designed to support an identified ALN and justify a range of intervention/support strategies which promote inclusion and support for a child or young person (and their family) with an ALN.
The course will adopt a blended learning approach and will include:
The assessment for this course will be the completion of a Reflective Workbook covering the module Learning Outcomes.
Students will be assessed at Level 4.
Start Date: Monday 16th February 2026 - Book Now
Learners are able to engage with the online activities independently each week in their own time, with two live sessions that will take place on the following dates:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-screen-acting:
Through hands-on workshops run by experienced professional actors, participants will gain practical experience into the basics of screen acting techniques alongside an introduction to a range of different styles of scripts.
The course will help you in the creation of a professional portfolio, including a show-reel scene and headshot to kickstart your career opportunities in the TV and film industry.
Week 1: Introduction to Screen Acting
Week 2: Script Analysis and Character Development Week 3: Scene Work and Filming (Part 1) Week 4: Scene Work and Filming (Part 2) Week 5: Scene Editing and Analysis Week 6: Advanced Character Work and Filming (Part 1) Week 7: Advanced Character Work and Filming (Part 2) Week 8: Scene Review and Show-Reel Preparation Week 9: Portfolio Building - Show-Reel Scene Week 10: Portfolio Building - Headshots and Industry Preparation
The short course comprises of 10 X 2 hour face to face taught sessions with an additional 16 hours of asynchronous work set for students to undertake in their own time, including: script selection, script analysis and character development.
Performance rehearsal and self-evaluation/reflection will be expected within directed independent study.
£195.00 incl VAT
Start Date: Wednesday 8th January 2025 - Book Now
The sessions will take place every Wednesday from 6pm until 8pm - Wrexham Campus

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-performance-science-in-football:
8 weeks
Whether you're starting your journey or advancing your applied knowledge, this course provides the foundation to support player development and performance at all levels.
This course is delivered over 8 core topics, each focusing on a key element of performance science in football.
Students will engage with interactive content, short video lectures, and applied tasks each week.
Week 1: Introduction to the Platform Get oriented with the virtual learning environment, assessment format, and course expectations.
Learn how to navigate resources and engage with content effectively.
Week 2: The Demands of Football Explore the physical, technical, tactical, and psychological demands placed on football players at different levels of the game, supported by current research and match data.
Week 3: Developing Resilience in Football Understand mental toughness, coping strategies, and the psychological frameworks used to build player resilience in elite and grassroots football settings.
Week 4: Game Model Building & Development Learn how to design a team’s game model, linking tactical principles with player roles and performance outcomes.
Week 5: Injury Reduction Strategies Examine common football injuries, their causes, and evidence-based approaches to injury prevention and load management.
Week 6: Leadership and Culture for High Performance Football Study the influence of leadership styles, communication, and team culture in creating and sustaining a high-performance environment.
Week 7: Current Tactical Trends in European Football
Week 8: Football Nutrition and the Role of the Nutritionist Gain an introductory understanding of football-specific nutrition, fuelling strategies, and the role of the sports nutritionist in performance and recovery.
Bonus Topic: Competitive Football Training Periodisation (Optional Extension) A brief overview of how training is structured across a season to optimise player performance and manage fatigue.
This module follows a blended learning approach with an emphasis on active learning.
It is delivered entirely online via the university's virtual learning platform (Moodle).
The teaching methods include:
Workload and Levels of Teaching:
How Students Will Be Assessed:
Students will be assessed based on a combination of written and practical tasks:
Student Engagement Expectation:
There are currently no upcoming start dates for this course.
If you would like to be added to an enquiry list so you can be contacted when new dates are confirmed please register your interest.
***
Learners are able to engage with the online activities independently each week in their own time.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/active-listening:
The course represents an opportunity to take a key element from the counselling skill set and offer this to participants who could utilise it in their own working environment.
It gives participants a chance to focus on developing their listening skills in their environment with service users and colleagues.
Participants will:
Week 1:
Week 2 :
Week 3:
Week 4:
The course will be delivered over four half days for a total of 12 hours of classroom time via seminar/lecture, role play and working in triads.
There is an expectation that learners will engage in 188 independent learning hours making a total of 200 learning hours for the course.
£95
For current staff/students please contact shortcourses@wrexham.ac.uk to request a discount code for a reduced fee
If you would like to find out more about future dates for this course, register your interest.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/anaesthetic-care-in-practice:
10 weeks (including placement)
The module will give you the required qualification to care for patients during the anaesthetic induction, maintenance, and emergence during their perioperative journey.
Case study assessment and practical competencies
To apply for this course please contact postregadmissions@wrexham.ac.uk to request an application form.
Teaching will be a blend of theoretical and practical sessions, with some pre- and post-session work.
Assessment will be a combination of a 3,000-word case study assignment and practice competencies, which will be completed on placement in the clinical environment under the supervision of a practice educator.
£1,988
Start Date: Monday 22nd June 2026
The face to face sessions will take place every Monday from 9:30am - 16:00pm (TBC)

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/avid-pro-tools:
Are you interested in media production and looking to learn some new tech skills?
This instructive course developed by Wrexham University will teach you the ins and outs of the Avid Pro Tools software used for editing music and audio.
General fee: £195
For current staff/students/ please contact shortcourses@wrexham.ac.uk to request a discount code for a reduced fee
You will need to log in weekly to access the course content and undergo your studies.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/business-communication-skills:
This course offers a structured approach to support you and your organisation to tackle the current challenges of a rapidly changing business environment where business leaders are required to communicate effectively to avoid conflict and manage an agile organisational culture.
This course will cover the following topics:
Undertaking this course will require:
There are no entry requirements for this course; just an interest in the subject!
You will be required to complete an online discussion forum on each weekly topic.
The forums will enable you to reflect and demonstrate your learning.
Ongoing learning log and reflections on discussions for the different topics each week will combine to form the assessment.
£45
This course doesn’t have any fixed dates for the 2023/2024 academic year but is available upon demand.
If you would like to be part of a cohort for this short course, or if you would like to register a cohort from your workplace, please email us at enterprise@glyndwr.ac.uk .
The delivery of this short course can be flexible to meet your or your business’ needs.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/business-innovation-and-growth:
This course will develop your understanding of the importance of innovation in business and through exploring methods and strategies to inspire idea generation and entrepreneurship, we will look at tools that will enable you to apply this new knowledge within your own field.
This short course will take place over 8 weeks, with each week addressing a different aspect of business innovation and growth, as below;
This flexible course offers a blended approach to learning, combining the convenience of e-learning with the interaction of classroom training.
In person group sessions are held on the Wrexham campus providing an interactive platform for participating students to share their learning experience.
Material will be available on Moodle, and students will be able to access the content which will include recorded lectures, podcasts and articles, and study in their own time, although there is some expectation that they aim to keep up to date on a weekly basis.
(ie that tasks for week 1 are completed sometime within week 1).
This short course requires that the student can allocate 3 hours per week to their study, but there is no requirement to be online at a specific time.
Students will be required to complete an online discussion forum on each weekly topic.
The forums will enable students to reflect and demonstrate their learning.
The expectation for the total word count is 2,000 words.
There will be clear guidance given to students regarding student expectation and assessments.
Students will not be expected to use Harvard referencing, but will need to list their sources of information.
The assessments will be 8 x 250 word contributions to a discussion forum, and will involve either opinion based, research based or experience based tasks related to the weekly content.
It is advised that students complete one forum each week, and it should not extend their study time per week by more than 30 minutes
£75

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/business-operations-management:
Ready to supercharge your career and become the secret weapon of your organisation?
Our Business Operations Management short course at Wrexham University  is your ticket to mastering the art of efficiency and leadership in a world that's changing faster than ever.
Whether you're in the midst of a process or product pivot or just eager to future-proof your skills, this course will equip you with a practical toolkit to handle the toughest operational challenges.
Step up, stand out, and lead the charge in creating value that sets your business apart.
• Peer Networking with Fellow Professionals: Connect, share, and grow with a vibrant community of like-minded professionals.
Our course isn’t just about learning; it’s about building lasting relationships that can open doors and spark new ideas.
• Collective Learning: Dive into a collaborative learning environment where your insights matter.
Exchange perspectives, tackle real-world problems together, and enhance your understanding through shared experiences.
• Live Dialogic Forums: Engage in dynamic, interactive forums where you can ask questions, debate ideas, and get instant feedback.
These sessions are designed to be lively and thought-provoking, making learning fun and impactful.
Join us for an 8-week journey into the heart of Business Operations Management, delivered entirely online for your convenience.
Here’s a sneak peek at what you’ll explore:
• Introduction to Business Operations Management: Kick off with the basics and get a solid foundation in operations management.
• Process Flow and Capacity Management: Learn how to streamline processes and manage capacity to keep everything running smoothly.
• Lean Operations and Quality Control: Discover the secrets to eliminating waste and maintaining top-notch quality.
• Supply Chain Management: Understand the ins and outs of managing your supply chain for maximum efficiency.
• Risk Assessment and Mitigation: Equip yourself with the skills to identify risks and develop strategies to mitigate them.
• Toolkits and Techniques for Business Operations Planning: Get hands-on with practical tools and techniques for effective operations planning.
• Implementing a Business Operations Plan: Learn how to prioritize and allocate resources to bring your plan to life.
• Adapting to Evolving Risks and Opportunities: Stay agile and responsive to the ever-changing business landscape
If you would like to find out more about future dates for this course, please contact enterprise@wrexham.ac.uk
Bookings close 1 week before course start date.
Our flexible and engaging delivery method includes:
• 1 x Recorded Lecture Per Week: Access these at your convenience and revisit them anytime you need a refresher.
• Supporting Learning Materials on Moodle: Dive deeper with curated content, including TED talks, study guides, and recommended readings.
• 4 x Asynchronous Tutorials: Learn at your own pace with tutorials that fit your schedule.
• 4 x 2-Hour Dialogic Forums: Participate in lively discussions to reinforce your learning and get real-time answers to your questions.
Portfolio – Learning log and Journal
Join us at Wrexham University and make your mark in the world of business operations.
This isn't just a course—it's your launchpad to becoming an operational superstar.
Let’s do this!
No – but we will support individual who are involved in Business management and leadership
£195

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/career-development-skills:
If you're looking to develop and transfer your skills into another profession or have been affected by redundancy, this short course can help you take steps to find your next career move.
The short course will take place over 4 weeks, with each week addressing a different aspect of career development, as below.
Material will be available online via Moodle, and students will be able to access the content which will include recorded lectures, podcasts and articles, and study in their own time, although there is some expectation that they aim to keep up to date on a weekly basis.
The assessments will be 4 x 250 word contributions to a discussion forum, and will involve either opinion based, research based or experience based tasks related to the weekly content.
It is advised that students complete one forum each week, and it should not extend their study time per week by more than 30 minutes.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/ceramics-handbuilding:
Our 9-week evening class introduces you to the world of handmade ceramics.
Taught in small classes you will be guided through all aspects of hand-built ceramics, from preparing the raw clay through to finished glazed pieces.
This course will introduce you to some of the processes of Handbuilding ceramics.
Participants will be guided through a variety of ceramic techniques, from preparing the raw clay through to finished glazed pieces.
You will be guided to produce your own individual design ideas using experimental methods guided by demonstrations.
This course is subject to minimum participants and payments will be returned in full if the course does not recruit the minimum cohort.
The portfolio of work accumulated during the short course can be presented for assessment providing 10 HE credits.
This fee covers attendance and tutorage, including assessment and basic materials.
Additional cost may be incurred if participants choose to work with non-standard materials or at high volume or large format.
The sessions will take place every Tuesday from 6pm until 8:15pm for 8 weeks:
****

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/ceramics-throwing:
Our course takes you through the basics of preparing and centering the clay though to how to throw your own bowls and vessels.
Taught by professional ceramicists, you will have the chance to develop your skills and produce objects to use at home.
This evening class will introduce you to some of the processes of throwing ceramics on a potters wheel.
6pm-8:15pm once a week for 8 weeks - Regent Street Campus
******

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/change-management-and-organisational-change:
Ready to become the rockstar of organisational change?
Our Change Management and Organisational Change short course at Wrexham University is your backstage pass to mastering the art of transformation.
In today's chaotic business world, knowing how to manage change is not just a nice-to-have—it's a superpower.
Learn to navigate complex changes, lead with confidence, and equip your organisation with the tools to thrive in an ever-evolving landscape.
Say goodbye to obsolete practices and hello to dynamic, impactful change management.
Embark on an 8-week online adventure into the world of Change Management and Organisational Change.
Here’s a taste of what you’ll explore:
• Introduction to Change Management and Organisational Change: Get the basics down and understand the landscape of change management.
• Theories of Change and How They Inform Practice: Dive deep into change theories and see how they apply to real-world scenarios
• The Use of Self as an Instrument of Change: Discover how your own behavior and actions can drive change effectively.
• Explaining Individual Behaviour and Actions in Response to Change: Learn to understand and predict how people will react to change.
• Developing a Change Toolkit – Diagnosis: Equip yourself with diagnostic tools to assess the need for change.
• Developing a Change Toolkit – Implementation: Gain practical techniques to implement change successfully.
• Change Management and Organisational Change Practices: Explore best practices and methodologies for managing change.
• Evaluating Change and Its Impact on Organisational Outcomes: Learn how to measure the success of change initiatives and their impact on your organisation.
Our flexible, engaging delivery method includes:
• 1 x Recorded Lecture Per Week: Access these at your convenience and revisit them whenever you need a refresher.
• Supporting Learning Materials on Moodle: Deepen your understanding with curated content, including TED talks, study guides, and recommended readings.
• 4 x 2-Hour Dialogic Forums: Engage in lively discussions to reinforce your learning and get real-time answers to your questions.
No – but will support individual who are involved in Business management and leadership
On-Demand: Please email enterprise@wrexham.ac.uk to register your interest

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/cisco-networking-academy:
We live in an increasingly connected world, creating a growing need for technical skills.
The CISCO Networking Academy is designed to provide students with valuable technical skills which are in high demand by many employers in today's competitive job market.
The Academy programme combines instructor-led, online learning with hands-on laboratory exercises, where you can apply what you learn in class while working on dedicated computer networks.
Study the theoretical aspects of the programme at your own pace.
Each of the modules involves a practical element, so practical sessions, along with tutorial support for the theoretical material, are scheduled throughout the year.
The standard entry requirement for these programmes is an honours degree of at least 2:2 classification in a Computer Science related subject area, or equivalent in any science-based degree with a strong computing and/or engineering element.
In some cases, applicants with substantial commercial or industrial experience can be accepted, subject to interview and references.
You may also undertake one or two modules per year (classed as a short course).
Each award consists of four modules that are studied in sequential order.
After completing all 4 modules students will be suitably qualified to be able to sit the CCNA - Routing and Switching examination.
These comprise of two exams the 100-105 ICND1 and the 200-105 ICND2 .
These exams are external to Wrexham University, and will not form part of the course delivery.
£125 for one module (July - August)
£250 per year (2 modules)
£500 for all 4 modules (2 years)
For more information see our fees and finance pages .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/complexities-in-health:
11 weeks
The Complexities in Health module has been designed to align with the NMC SPQ standards (NMC 2022 updated 2024).
This module will:
The Complexities in Health module contains the following indicative syllabus:
Applicants will be NMC registered nurses with current professional registration, ideally in a community setting, or with an interest in community nursing.
WU adopt an Active Learning Framework (ALF) approach to teaching and learning .
This means that students are actively involved in learning and teaching is provided in a variety of formats drawing on the greatest learning potential.
With this in mind, the teaching team adopt a blended learning approach through a range of methodologies such as recorded lecturers, discussion forums, quizzes, case studies, group tasks, key readings, reflection and necessary learning activity will be available on the Moodle Virtual Learning Environment on a weekly basis.
There is an expected 30 hours of teaching and 155 hours of guided independent study., with 15 hours work based learning.
£500 at Level 7 (per 10 credits)
Complexities in Health is a 20 credit module.
Fund i ng can be sourced for this module for those working in a community setting within BCUHB and Powys LHB.
Start Date: Thursday 22nd January 2026

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/computing-summer-school:
Interested in learning about Cyber Security and the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Act?
This course covers cyber threats and security, what rights someone has in relation to their data, the legal basis an organisation will use to process personal data, Data Protection Impact Assessments, special category data and privacy.
The summer school is consists of three subject modules and one English module, (80 credits in total).
•    (ENG5B7) Research Methodologies, Level 5, 20 credits •    (ENG5B8) Emerging Technologies, Level 5, 20 credits •    (ENG5B9) Analytical Techniques, Level 5, 20 credits •    (LAN474) English for STEM, Level 4, 20 credits
Topics which will be covered on the course include:
Our courses are open to  students over the age of 16, whatever your background or country of residence.
The Summer School doesn't require you to have any previous knowledge of the topics, and therefore provides an ideal chance to discover a completely new subject or personal interest.
However, students on the Summer School should be at B2 level (or equivalent) in English language.
Option 1 (with accommodation):  £1500
Option 2.
(without accommodation): £1000
•    Cost includes  technical tuition and English language tuition, accommodation (option 1) , and x2 weekend activities.
•    Costs do not include: transportation to/from airport, food, extracurricular activities

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/confident-learner:
5 weeks
This course is designed to enable you to increase your confidence as you take the next step in undergraduate education - whether you are returning to study after a period away, just about to start at university or thinking about taking a professional or part-time course.
"I’m really enjoying myself and I am feeling so much more relaxed about everything now.
The lessons are really informative and the big confusing "referencing" worries are really starting to go away.
I can’t recommend the course enough.
I already feel like I have settled into uni life, regardless of the fact I only start in September."
– Helen Anderson , Confident Learner student, joined BA Hons Business (with foundation year)
By the end of the module learners will be able to:
This course is for anyone who:
Assessment One (Coursework 50%): During the module, students will produce a portfolio that demonstrates their competence in locating, evaluating and using information from a variety of courses.
They will be expected to write two short pieces of work (750 words) which enables them to present their views in a clear and coherent way, in line with academic conventions.
Assessment Two (Online Quiz MCQ 50%): Students will undertake an online MCQ quiz in order to demonstrate their skills in using appropriate conventions for citing and referencing sources.
If you have any questions, please email shortcourses@wrexham.ac.uk
Start Date:
The course is delivered over 5 weeks.
Lectures are pre-recorded, meaning you can access the material at a day and time to suit you throughout the week.
There are no live lectures to attend.
Please note: Individuals only need to book the course once, the different courses refer to different start dates and they all have the same content.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/confident-numeracy:
6 weeks
This course is designed to enable you to increase your confidence in using maths… whether you are returning to study after a period away, just about to start at university or thinking about taking a professional or part-time course.
If you would like to find out more about future dates for this course please contact enterprise@wrexham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/countdown-to-numeracy-in-nursing:
Please note that this short course is only available to either those who are holding offers for or are a current applicant to one of our BN (Hons) Nursing degree programmes .
Online examination.
Start Dates:
To request an application link, please contact shortcourses@wrexham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/creative-approaches-to-wellbeing:
9 weeks
You will gain an understanding of what wellbeing means, knowledge of some of the evidence behind the activities, as well as ideas to put into practice.
Across the weeks you will develop a reflective journal, helping you to consolidate what you have learned.
You don’t need to consider yourself as ‘creative’ or be good at art to take part.
This course is great for anyone who is working or volunteering with others in a helping capacity, or for artists/creatives who would like to find new ways to diversify their practice.
**Students will need to provide their own journal or sketchbook, and it is useful to have a few basic art materials such as pencils and pens
No previous study necessary.
Start Date: Thursday 9th October 2025 - Book Now
The face to face sessions will take place every Thursday from 15:00pm - 17:00pm  - Wrexham Campus

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/cyber-and-network-fundamentals:
Are you looking to start a career in Cyber Security?
Whether your just finishing college and looking to start your career or your looking for a change of career into the realms of cyber security, this course will give you the starting point to building your career in cyber security.
You will learn about the basic concepts of information security
COM466: Fundamentals of Information Security
This module provides an overview of security challenges and strategies of countermeasure in the information systems environment.
Topics include definition of terms, concepts, elements, and goals incorporating industry standards and practices with a focus on confidentiality, availability, and integrity.
COM481: Network Defence
The module provides students with a understanding of network security concepts, strategies, and techniques.
Its primary objective is to equip students with the knowledge and skills to identify, analyse, and mitigate network security vulnerabilities.
Students will learn about different types of threats, explore best practices for securing networks, and develop critical thinking through hands-on exercises and simulations.
The module aligns with industry best practices and prepares students for industry certifications, enhancing their career prospects and demonstrating their expertise in network defence.
Students will be taught through a combination of in-class taught sessions, practical lab sessions and online materials through the Virtual Learning Environment.
Students will be assessed through a combination of in-class assessments, coursework and building a portfolio of work over the duration of the programme.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/digital-youth-work-an-introduction-to-principles-and-practice:
12 weeks
The drive for youth workers to design and deliver digital youth work has increased since Covid-19.
Please note, this is an academic module and there is an expectation of 2-3 hours per week independent study.
There are practical elements and learning will be able to be applied to practice.
However, it is not a training course.
Current youth work experience and practice are an advantage in order to complete assessment activities.
Previous experience of studying at level 4 advantageous.
This course will run for 12 weeks, this includes 20 hours of scheduled learning and teaching hours with the tutor.
There will be a mix of materials that will be released on a weekly basis to work through at your own pace as well as live online tutorials and discussions.
This module supports the continuing professional development of professional youth and community workers, youth support workers and volunteers in the sector.
Completion of the module could lead to further study on the BA and MA youth and community work programmes at Wrexham University.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/drawing:
In this way, students will learn both how to achieve technical accuracy whilst developing an understanding that drawing is not entirely defined by the boundaries of mimicry.
Students will be introduced to the following:
Students will be assessed in their final week, producing a final piece of work accompanying an oral assessment of their progression and use of their acquired knowledge within their practical piece.
The assessment will be on a pass and fail basis.
Additional costs may be incurred if participants choose to work with non-standard materials or at high volume or large format.
The sessions will take place every Monday from 6pm until 8pm - Regent Street Campus

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/empowered-compassionate-practice-ecp-training:
This course addresses some challenging themes, such as work-related stress, vicarious trauma and human suffering, and learners will be invited to reflect upon these in their own experience.
As such, it is recommended that those who sign up for this course are feeling ‘well’ and open enough to do this at this point in time.
This course is not designed to function as a therapy for those suffering from work-related mental illness, and it is advised that anyone experiencing this seeks support through their workplace or GP ahead of applying for this course.
Learners will be provided with core content via recorded talks on the Virtual Learning Environment and encouraged to explore their personal views and practices in depth via guided reflections using a medium of their choosing (e.g.
journaling, meditation, or creative activities).
Facilitated discussion groups will be held at strategic points to enable learners to ‘check in’ and share how they are getting on.
Learners will be expected to produce a 500-word written reflection on each of the three learning outcomes (1,500 words in total).
The reflections should describe what has been learned and discuss personal views and practices, and how these may have changed or developed, in view of the research and theory presented.
The three learning outcomes are to:
Start Date: Monday 12th January 2026 - Book Now
Learners are able to engage with the online activities independently each week in their own time, with three live online sessions that will take place on the following dates (please note that these are not a compulsory part of the course, but simply a great way to connect with others and share and deepen learning):
•    Wednesday 28th January 2026 - 12:30pm-14:00pm •    Wednesday 25th February 2026 - 12:30pm-14:00pm •    Wednesday 25th March 2026 - 12:30pm-14:00pm

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/falls-prevention:
3 months
The module aims to educate falls champions to use tools and processes to support falls prevention and management from admission through to discharge.
This course will deliver key information which will help students understand and reduce the risks of people falling in hospital and at home.
This course will:
Students will be given a range of homework tasks throughout the learning weeks and will contribute to online fora in which they will be expected to discuss progress and innovative practice in their area.
Students should expect to study at home for several hours each week in between their study days in order to support their learning.
Students will be expected to perform a falls analysis over time in their workplace.
The only entry requirement is that you have a passion for reducing risk of patient falls in your clinical working environments.
Teaching will be both online and face to face, with lead lectures delivered by specialists in the field.
You will be supported throughout by the module leader and the wider university support networks including library services and study skills staff.
You will apply your knowledge to practice and undertake a practical assessment of your clinical environment, assessing it for risk of patient falls.
The online multiple choice exam will assess your learning.
FREE

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/fast-track-towards-nursing:
This course will increase your knowledge and understanding of your chosen field of nursing and will help prepare you for your interview on a BN (Hons) Nursing degree.
You can interview for either Adult Nursing, Mental Health Nursing, or Children’s Nursing.
You will be introduced to the diverse range of careers within the health sector in Wales and be taken through the ways an interprofessional workforce works together to achieve person-centred care.
We will help prepare you for higher-level study through improving your confidence in learning and numeracy.
This course will suit you if you have not previously met the entry requirements for an undergraduate nursing degree and if you have not studied in the past five years.
Previous evidence of Level 3 study (vocational or academic) will be required for this course.
This route is called the Fast-Track towards Nursing, and will comprise 3 individual short courses which each cover an important essential requirement of starting a full-time BN Nursing degree: A Day in the Life – an insight to careers in health (20 credits, Level 4) – a module that will introduce you to the diverse and varied careers available within the health sector in Wales.
The focus will be on the multi-disciplinary/ interprofessional workforce and how they work together to achieve person-centred care.
You will explore health professions and roles that support patient-facing areas within the health service.
The Confident Learner (20 credits, Level 4) – a module which prepares you for higher-level study and provides an alternative to the GCSE English Language requirement (if you don’t yet have this).
Countdown to Numeracy in Nursing (20 credits, Level 4) – a maths-based module, specifically designed for Nursing applicants, which can provide an alternative to the GCSE Maths requirement (if you don’t yet have this).
Start Date: Monday 22nd September 2025 – Apply Now
Previous Level 3 study, either vocational or academic.
The course will be delivered as blended and flexible learning, running over 12 weeks,  in preparation for the intake on to the undergraduate Nursing degree.
Please note the Children’s Nursing degree has a September intake only.
* Please note that you will not be required to declare any spent or unspent criminal convictions on your Fast Track towards nursing application, however, you would be required to declare these on the application to the BN (Hons) Nursing degree that you will be asked to submit during the Fast-Track for the next intake.
Please contact shortcourses@wrexham.ac.uk if you have any questions regarding this process.
The course will be delivered as blended learning using the University Active Learning Framework (ALF), running over 12 weeks.
The course has a flexible approach with on-campus days scheduled.
Assessment will consist of:
The Fast-Track is fully funded, and you will receive £1000 to support you whilst you are studying.
This sum will be paid as a single amount of £1000.
Please note that terms and conditions apply to this funding.
Please contact shortcourses@wrexham.ac.uk for further details.
Students are also offered the chance to gain experience with the local health board as a health care support worker, earning a salary under a flexible working contract.
The course will be delivered as blended and flexible learning, running over 12 weeks in preparation to apply for the undergraduate Nursing degree.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/french-a1:
13 weeks
Learning a new language can open many doors.
Whether you're looking to enhance your career prospects or immerse yourself in French culture when you travel, learning the language is a great choice.
This class is aimed at students who have no previous knowledge of the language
On successful completion of this course, students will be able to:
If you would like to find out more about future dates for this course please contact shortcourses@wrexham.ac.uk
The assessment consists of the tasks listed below:
£195 for non-Wrexham University students and staff
For current staff/students please contact shortcourses@wrexham.ac.uk to request a discount code for a reduced fee.
If you would like to find out more about future dates for this course, register your interest .
3 hours per week, delivered weekly as follows:
Monday Evenings – Face to Face on campus – 6pm - 8pm
Tuesday Evenings – Online – 7pm – 8pm

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/french-a2:
This course will to enable students to expand their already existing skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in the French language.
Students will need existing understanding of the French language.
If you're looking for a beginners class?
We also have a short course, French A1, which is suitable for those with no previous knowledge of the language.
£195 for non-Wrexham University students and staff.
TBC

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/fundamentals-of-community-nursing:
This module has been designed to align with the NMC SPQ Standards (NMC 2022).
The module provides the foundations for the development of a competent, accountable practitioner who will question their actions and decisions when providing care.
The Fundamentals of Community Nursing contains the following indicative syllabus:
The essence of this module is to learn through simulation and to apply the indicative syllabus above to your simulation scenarios .
You will learn through case scenarios and open discussion and will apply evidence-based practice to your clinical decisions.
Applicants must be NMC registered nurses with current professional registration
To apply for this course, please contact postregadmissions@wrexham.ac.uk to request an application form.
WU adopt an Active Learning Framework (ALF) approach to teaching and learning.
This means that students are actively involved in learning, and teaching is provided in a variety of formats drawing on the greatest learning potential.
With this in mind, the teaching team adopt a blended learning approach through a range of methodologies such as simulation, recorded lecturers, discussion forums, quizzes, case studies, group tasks, key readings, reflection and necessary learning activity will be available on the Moodle Virtual Learning Environment on a weekly basis.
There is an expected 20 hours of teaching and 80 hours of guided independent study.
Formative assessments:
Summative assessment:
Digital Group Presentation of the outcomes of a simulated scenario you have encountered within your capacity as a student within the field of community nursing.
You will be marked on your individual contribution and as a collective group.
Equal weighting will be given when marking your individual contribution and your participation in the collective group work.
Fundamentals of Community Nursing is a 10 credit module.
Start Date: Wednesday 1st October 2025

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/fundamentals-of-community-nursing-scphn:
Fundamentals of community nursing (SCPHN) Is a new course that has been designed to align with the new NMC SCPHN standards (NMC 2022 updated 2024).
When taken as a standalone module, has the potential to the Specialist Community Public Health Nursing Programme on successful application and interview process and being offered a place on the course
The module aims to introduce students to the context of specialist community public health nursing (SCPHN) when working with people in their own homes and within the wider community.
The student will be introduced to the proficiencies for leading autonomous SCPHN practice through exposure to a range of both facilitator and student led case-based scenarios and simulation.
The module will enable students to explore and apply relevant, legal, regulatory governance and policies to practice considering both global and UK policy and devolved Welsh legislature and policy.
Additionally, the student will reflect on their prior experience and skills examining how these inform and impact on future compassionate leadership, team working an problem solving in SCPHN practice.
During this module the student will be undertaking authentic simulations in the community house “Ty Dysgu”.
In groups you will be involved in the live simulation, but also in the direct observation which will be visually projected into the classroom setting.
This is facilitated by Wrexham University Simulation Team.
Fundamentals of Community Nursing (SCPHN) contains the following indicative syllabus:
The essence of this module is to learn through simulation and to apply the indicative syllabus above to your simulation scenarios.
Students will learn through case scenarios and open discussion and will apply evidence-based practice to their clinical decisions.
Students will be NMC registered nurses (Level 1) or midwives with current professional registration.
This module will be delivered via a ‘blended learning’ approach.
Directed study tasks, which may include activities such as recorded lectures, discussion forums, quizzes, case studies, simulations and group tasks, key readings, reflective activities, or other appropriate learning activities, will be made available on the Virtual Learning Environment.
There will be some shared learning with SPQ students.
The Flipped classroom approach will be utilised as far as possible to maximise the learning opportunities during synchronous sessions.
Timetabled ‘live’ seminars/ sessions may be held (either in a physical classroom or via an online platform), to facilitate discussion and debate and support students to progress with their learning.
These will be recorded when appropriate and made available on the VLE, encouraging deep learning by enabling content to be revisited and reflected upon at a time suitable for the student.
Formative assessment:
Digital group presentation demonstrating the justification, decision making and outcomes reached following a formative simulated SCPHN scenario in their field of SCPHN practice.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/future-leaders:
16 weeks
Our Future Leaders short course is the ultimate guide to successful leadership, cultivating confidence and strengthening the skills needed to lead.
Whether you’re just starting out in your professional career or you want to access the next rung of the ladder, this course offers an invaluable insight into what good leadership looks like and will support you in developing your leadership style and brand.
This course will draw on both academic concepts and own experiences to consider areas such as:
In addition, the course will encourage candidates to self-reflect on such topics as
The course is broken down into 9 different sessions, to include one assessed session.
The materials are introduced in live virtual workshops, with the opportunity for further study after each session.
1.
Introductory Session and Leadership Styles 2.
Leadership Philosophies and Motivation 3.
Coaching 4.
Performance Management and Influencing 5.
Organisation Structures and Governance 6.
Change, Resilience and CPD 7.
Group Assessment 8.
Reflective Practice and Communication Styles 9.
Personal Brand and Close Out Session
If you would like to find out more about future dates for this course please contact enterprise@glyndwr.ac.uk
The course consists of 4 assessed assignments which must be completed in order to receive the credits for the programme.
These have been designed to reinforce learning and to help you develop as a professional in your chosen field and will include the following:
£150 standard fee / £100 for Wrexham staff

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/games-access-concept-art:
6 Weeks
This fun and immersive course is a great introduction for anyone interested in learning to create concept art for video games, and also provides a taste of what we offer on our suite of computer games courses.
So come and have a go!

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/german:
Maybe you want to be able to communicate with relatives or to travel to Germany during your summer break, or prepare yourself for study in a German-speaking country.
Maybe a German exchange student sparked your interest, or you have a friend who recommended learning German.
Whatever the motivation, learning a new language is a great choice.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/green-social-prescribing:
This interactive and practice-focused course brings together both social prescribers and those providing ‘green’, nature based activities.
The blended teaching approach combines learning materials online that can be accessed at a time that is convenient to the participant with on campus workshops where learning can be discussed and applied.
This course offers the opportunity to not only gain a deeper understanding of the importance of green prescribing but also to enhance professional skills and attributes within a supportive environment.
There are no formal entry requirements for this course
The module will combine online learning with on campus workshops.
Participants should set aside 3 hours per week to complete asynchronous activities and a further 3 hours for the workshop.
There is a portfolio of activities which form the assessment including an online quiz, a learning log and action learning sets
4, 11, 18, 25 th of September
2nd October
Session times
14:00 - 17:00

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/improving-health-outcomes-through-health-visiting:
The Improving health outcomes through health visiting is a new course that has been designed to align with the new NMC SCPHN standards (NMC 2022 updated 2024).
This module aims to support students to develop an in-depth understanding of the factors influencing human growth and development, including the application of genomics.
It will build their ability to work in partnership with families, carers and other professionals, using and evaluating approaches to public health, health promotion, prevention and early intervention in health visiting.
Throughout the module students will draw on national public health frameworks to deliver developmental assessment and the early identification of atypical development, ill health or disability.
Within this module the students will:
The Improving health outcomes through health visiting module;
The Improving health outcomes through health visiting contains the following indicative syllabus
To capture this content the following subjects have been devised:
Students will be NMC registered nurses (Level 1) or midwives with current professional registration and must be employed within the SCPHN service
The teaching team adopt a blended learning approach through a range of methodologies such as recorded lecturers, discussion forums, quizzes, case studies, group tasks, key readings, reflection and necessary learning activity will be available on the Moodle Virtual Learning Environment on a weekly basis.
There is an expected 40 hours of teaching and 160 hours of guided independent study.
Formative assessment: Students will present a health visiting assessment with a plan for an aspect of health improvement.
Presentations will be made to a facilitated peer group with collective formative feedback
Summative assessment is a 4000 word  written case study.
The case study should be based on the health assessment and planned interventions aimed at reducing risk and improving health for a school aged child or young person.
The chosen case study should enable all module learning outcomes to be met.
Improving Health Outcomes through Health Visiting  is a 20 credit module.
Start date: Wednesday 7th January 2026
Please contact postregadmissions@wrexham.ac.uk to request an application form.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/improving-health-outcomes-through-school-nursing:
The Improving Health Outcomes through school nursing is a new course that has been designed to align with the new NMC SCPHN standards (NMC 2022 updated 2024).
This module aims to support students to develop person-centred and needs led school nursing practice.
Students will explore the factors influencing human development, including the application of genomics and with a particular focus on the school aged child and adolescent.
They will consider the use of strengths-based approaches to health promotion, prevention and early intervention in school nursing practice.
They will draw on national legislation, public health frameworks and evidence to provide school nursing assessments including the early identification of atypical development, ill health or disability for school aged children and young people.
Participation of children and young people in health decision making and service delivery will be considered at the heart of the decision-making process.
Within this course, you will:
The Improving health outcomes through school nursing contains the following indicative syllabus:
Improving Health Outcomes through School Nursing is a 20 credit module.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/improving-productivity-and-profitability:
The content for the course will be delivered over the course of 8 weeks and will broadly address the following:
The delivery for the eight week short course will include:
£50

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/independent-advocacy:
Blended Learning, Online
This module aims to provide students with the skills and knowledge to practice independent advocacy.
The skills and knowledge acquired through this course will be transferable, enabling students from a range of disciplines to employ the principles and practices of independent advocacy in a variety of settings.
At the end of this module, students will be able to:
An exploration of the purpose and principles of independent advocacy, such as :
Understanding the advocacy relationship, such as:
Maintaining the advocacy relationship, such as:
There will be two summative assessments for this module:
Students will work as a group to produce a presentation that analyses the key issues in developing an independent advocacy relationship and evaluates the key issues in maintaining this relationship.
Students will identify an issue relevant to practice and participate in a simulated meeting to demonstrate the application of independent advocacy principles and purpose.
Apply now via this form.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/intro-to-business-management:
This short course will help you understand and develop some of the key skills needed to become an effective business leader and will give you an understanding of the difference between good management and effective leadership.
Developing leadership and management skills are key to remaining productive and motivating yourself and your team.
Week 1 Introduction  (3 hours contact time)
Week 2 We are all different (3 hours contact time)
Week 3 Emotional Intelligence (3 hours contact time)
Week 4 – Manager vs Leaders (3 hours contact time)
Assessment included in the interactive discussions and forum engagement.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-anatomy:
This Introduction to Anatomy short course is an insightful, exciting and challenging exploration of the muscular and skeletal systems to understand the tissues beneath the skin.
You will quickly increase your knowledge to help you to better understand the human body, while demonstrating how it can apply to your discipline area or future studies.
Students will be provided with online resources to develop their knowledge of anatomy across the foot, ankle, hip, pelvis, spine, shoulder, elbow wrist and hand.
Interactive face-to-face practical sessions will be held to explore the upper and lower limb anatomy as well as for assessment preparation.
Assessed on an individual basis.
Teaching:
Asynchronous pre-recorded lectures
Practical face-to-face sessions
Quizzes
Self-directed learning
Assessment:
Assessment 1: Presentation – Students will be required to undertake a 15-minute
presentation using an anatomical model to demonstrate their knowledge of a specific joint.
Assessment 2: Portfolio – Students will be required to analyse their performance on the module as well as evidence of engagement in module materials.
Engagement:
36 hours learning and teaching
164 hours independent study
Start Date: Monday 15th June 2026 - Book Now
Face to face session dates:
Please note that the face-to-face contact dates are compulsory to attend .
They allow the online asynchronous content to be put into practice by working with others and exploring anatomical and digital models.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-arts-in-health:
8 Weeks
This short course is aimed at giving students an overview into the use of art in health work.
It is ideal for artists or healthcare professionals interested in studying for a Masters in Arts in Health, or those wishing to work with the arts in healthcare settings.
The course counts as a Level 5 qualification consisting of 10 credit modules, so a certificate or diploma in higher education is required for applicants.
We welcome interest from anyone who can demonstrate a commitment to the subject and the potential to complete the module.
Students will produce a portfolio of work to provide evidence of their understanding of the skills artists need to work in a safe and ethical arts in health environment.
The standard fee for this course is £95
The onlin e sessions will take place every Tuesday between 7pm - 9pm

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-bid-writing:
This module aims to give students an introduction to the process of identifying sources of funding, ensuring their organisation or project is funding-ready, and writing and preparing successful funding bids.
This is a much-needed skill in today’s economic climate for many projects and organisations within the youth, community and care sectors.
The course will cover topics such as:
There are no formal entry requirements for this course.
However, it would be beneficial to have experience of studying at Level 4 and above.
Experience of working in a youth, community or care practice environment currently, or in the past, would be desirable to assist with formative and summative assessment tasks.
Assessment for the module will take the form of:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-branding:
9 Weeks
Are you interested in learning how to improve the brand of your company or product to help you get ahead in business?
This course will introduce to you the fundamentals about what a brand is and will provide you with an opportunity to build an effective brand strategy for your own company or business.
The course will last for a duration of approximately 9 weeks on our Plas Coch Campus, with each week focusing on a different aspect of branding.
Topics covered will include:
Attendees will produce a portfolio of work throughout the course, culminating in a final project for presentation.
Standard fee: £250
Current Wrexham University students: FREE

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-british-wildlife:
Our ecologists and conservation experts will introduce you to the diversity and range of mammals, birds, amphibians and reptiles that live in Britain.
You will learn why Britain has the range of species it does and understand how this has changed over time with the introduction and extinction of many species.
Join the Universities ecologists and conservation experts on a virtual tour of the UKs wildlife.
No previous experience is needed.
Whether you're a budding naturalist or someone with a passion for conservation, this course welcomes all enthusiasts eager to explore and protect our local biodiversity.
Discover the distribution and ecology of these species and learn the characteristic features and signs that will help you identify them in the field.
You will be taken on a virtual tour of the local area to see a range of rare and endangered species.
You will discover which species live in the region’s fields, hedgerows and woodland, including dormice, red squirrels and badgers.
You will also learn about the internationally important sand dunes along the north Wales coast and learn about common and sand lizards, little terns and natterjack toads.
Learn with qualified and experienced instructors:
Sessions will be posted online each week and students can work through the material at their own pace.
Materials will include voiced presentations, videos, further reading and short quizzes to assess learning.
• Part A - Multiple choice questions - which will include questions relating to the ecology of flora and fauna.
This may include but not be limited to field signs, diet, behaviour, habitat requirements, characteristics (physical & behavioural) and distribution (including influencing factors)
• Part B - Online practical - students will identify a range of flora and fauna species from images and descriptions of field signs and specimens

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-business-sustainability:
Want to be a sustainability superhero?
Dive into our Introduction to Sustainability in Business short course at Wrexham University and discover how to run a business that makes the world a better place.
With the Well-being of Future Generations (Wales) Act as our guide, we’ll show you how to create long-term value by focusing on social, economic, environmental, and cultural well-being.
Forget business-as-usual—learn to innovate, collaborate, and lead with purpose in a way that benefits not just your bottom line, but your community and the planet.
• Well-Being Goal – Resilient: Discover how to maintain a biodiverse environment, support healthy ecosystems, and enhance social, economic, and ecological resilience.
• Well-Being Goal – Healthier: Explore ways to maximise physical and mental well-being and understand the impact of choices and behaviours on future health.
• Well-Being Goal – More Equal: Find out how to enable people to fulfil their potential regardless of socio-economic background and circumstances.
• Well-Being Goal – Cohesive Communities: Learn to create attractive, viable, safe, and well-connected communities.
• Well-Being Goal – Vibrant Culture and Thriving Welsh Language: Promote and protect culture, heritage, and the Welsh language while encouraging participation in arts, sports, and recreation.
• Well-Being Goal – Globally Responsible: Understand how local actions can make a positive contribution to global well-being.
If you would like to find out more about future dates for this course, register your interest
Our flexible, engaging delivery method includes: •    6 x Recorded Lectures: Access these at your convenience and revisit them whenever you need a refresher.
• 8 x Asynchronous Tutorials: Learn at your own pace with tutorials that fit your schedule.
• 2 x 2-Hour Dialogic Forums: Engage in lively discussions to reinforce your learning and get real-time answers to your questions.
• 8 x 30-Minute Podcasts: Listen to expert insights and practical tips on the go.
• Signposting to In-Depth Wrexham University Courses: Explore further learning opportunities on key sustainability topics like renewables.
The assessment strategy is an ongoing learning log.
Your reflections and discussions each week will combine to form the assessment.
We will support individual who are involved in Business management and leadership

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-climate-change:
Are you concerned about the future of our planet?
Ever wondered why more flooding and wildfires are reported on the news?
The course will be delivered over a 6-week block.
2 hours per week on campus (sessions will be recorded for students who are unable to attend or prefer to study at home).
Students should spend time each week completing self-directed study.
There are no entry requirements for this course.
The assessment for the course will be in the form of an automated online multiple-choice quiz testing knowledge and understanding of all aspects of the module.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-composites:
7 weeks
This online short course introduces composite materials, their applications in engineering and the benefits and challenges and will provide an overview of the technology and enable participants to develop their knowledge in this area.
This short course aims to:
Two multiple choice online quizzes.
Wrexham University staff/students/charitable organisations staff & volunteers = FREE

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-counselling:
As a profession, counselling has experienced tremendous expansion over the past 20 years with the growing recognition of the value of professional help and the support it can provide to people, both at home and in the workplace.
The course introduces what exactly counselling is, offering the opportunity to develop listening skills beneficial and applicable to a wide range of work and social settings.
Those interested in professional training as a counsellor, implementing counselling skills in other professions and those looking to enhance their self-development and listening skills will be equipped with the tools and skills necessary to succeed on their chosen path.
The course also gives an insight into the history of counselling and helps develop or refresh key interpersonal and counselling skills.
You may find it helpful to have some level 2 (GCSE) qualifications as study at this level will require both reading and writing skills.
Those thinking of applying will find it advantageous to have some work and life experience to help put the course into context.
Attendees come from a wide range of backgrounds and ages.
Diversity is welcomed.
Please note that you must be age 18+ in order to book a place on this course.
Booking closes 1 week before course start date.
Teaching may include presentations by staff, pair and small group work and whole class activities such as discussions of ideas, individual reading and study, small group listening skills practice and feedback, and observation of video where appropriate.
Assessment is at Level 4 and includes 2 aspects:
The course seeks to be beneficial for those who may be considering further professional training as a counsellor, people interested in considering the use of counselling skills in other professions and those interested in self-development and enhancing their listening skills.
The fee for the 10-week course is £295.
The face to face sessions will take place every Tuesday from 6pm until 9pm - Wrexham Campus

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-coworking:
Coworking in these unprecedented times can be challenging albeit immensely productive!
If you would like to find out more about how you could benefit from coworking and the key principles behind it, this course could be for you!
This course will explore the following topics around Coworking:
Virtual Presentation

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-cyber-security:
If you would like to be part of a cohort for this short course, or if you would like to register a cohort from your workplace, please email us at enterprise@glyndwr.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-digital-marketing:
Digital marketing expertise allows you to find employment in almost any sector.
Our digital marketing short course will allow you to get ahead of the competition and cover integral aspects of digital marketing including SEO (search engine optimisation), PPC (pay-per-click) advertising, web analytics and content marketing.
• Build your own digital marketing plan, based on an organisation of your choice (typically your employer).
• Guided discussion using online forums and tutor support • Utilise a range of digital marketing tools, social media planning, and analytics and measurement.
• Digital Conversions & The Sales Funnel • Digital Customer & Persona Development • Insight Tools & Keyword Planning • The Online Customer Journey • Conversion Rate Optimisation (CRO) • Digital Tools – SEO (Search Engine Optimisation & PPC (Pay Per Click)
If you would like to find out more about future dates for this course, please contact eneterprise@wrexham.ac.uk
You will be required to undertake a project of building a digital marketing plan, based on improving digital marketing performance for a chosen organisation.
The plan mirrors the weekly content and is based on a practical template provided.
Each section of the template relates to a specific area of the syllabus and learning objective.
You will work on this document week by week, and upon finishing the course, you will have completed a practical plan based on your chosen organisation.
The minimum expectation for the improvement plan word count is 1500 words.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-dog-behaviour-and-training:
Please note that we are unable to permit students to bring their own dogs in for the sessions .
All of the dogs who will be assisting at the practical sessions are full y trained and risk assessed .
The practical sessions not only focus on dog skills but they are also an opportunity to look at practical training skills too.
For current staff/students/ NCAR volunteers please contact shortcourses@wrexham.ac.uk to request a discount code for a reduced fee
Start Date: Friday 26th September 2025 - Book Now
This course will start on Friday 26th September 2025 with sessions on the following dates:
*****

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-graphic-design:
Are you interested in learning about the ins and outs of graphic design?
In this short course at Wrexham University, you will be given an introduction in the basic concepts of graphic design, as well as learn how to use creative software packages like the Adobe Creative Suite.
The course will take place over a period of approximately 9 weeks on our School of Creative Arts 49-51 Regent Street, with a different topic covered for each week:
Students will produce their own final project in the form of either a logo, editorial piece or poster brief.
This will demonstrate their understanding of the Adobe Creative Suite and how to devise an effective graphic design strategy.
Price for Wrexham University staff and students: FREE

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-mental-health:
This course is designed to help you develop your understanding of mental health and mental wellbeing.
It will explore how mental health problems impact on people, and what we can do to help individuals and communities to feel better.
This online course will be delivered in a flexible way, to allow people with competing demands on their time to learn at a time that is most convenient for them.
Materials will go live on the virtual classroom on Monday, and participants can then work through these during the week at times that will suit them best.
There will also be opportunities to take part in four 'live' sessions across the course, which will be on Thursday evenings at 6pm - 7.30pm on campus:
Attendance however is not mandatory, and sessions will be recorded for anyone who is unable to participate live.
Students will complete a portfolio of work across the module.
The portfolio will include:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-photography:
This is a short course offering an affordable and enjoyable introduction to digital photography and post-production processes.
This course is useful if you have a good digital camera and are looking to explore the creative potential of its functions and recognise the benefits of this complex and adaptable piece of equipment.
This course will introduce you to some of the principal functions of your camera and how to over-ride automatic and semi-automatic programmes that many cameras employ, to explore the creative potential of your exposures.
The digital revolution has enabled old darkroom techniques to be replicated on the computer screen, and some more complex image manipulation to take place, as you are challenged to use your photographic skills to express ideas and concepts
The face to face sessions will take place every Wednesday from 6pm until 9pm - Regent Street Campus

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-printmaking:
This course will introduce you to some of the processes of printmaking at the School of Creative Arts, Wrexham University.
Participants will learn intaglio and relief printmaking, monoprint, woodcut, collagraph, drypoint and linocut.
You will be guided to produce your own individual design ideas using experimental methods guided by demonstrations of print in practice.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-programming:
This course is ideal to broaden your technical computing skills by exploring an introduction-friendly programming language.
It's aimed at building your confidence in programming and will cover key aspects such as structure and syntax before covering programming and computational fundamentals.
Take this course as an intro or as a platform for exploring future study options in the area of Computing and programming.
This course will cover a range of topics such as:
Assessment: The assessment for this course will be coursework pieces that focus on individual areas of expertise within programming and IDE activities.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-social-work:
Considering a career in social work?
Develop your understanding of professional social work education and practice with this introductory short course.
This course is especially useful to:
There is no formal entry requirements and applicants who would like to informally discuss their suitability can email Helena.Barlow@wrexham.ac.uk .
Teaching and assessment is at level 4 and there will be 36 hours teaching and 164 hours of independent study time totalling 200 hours.
Students will submit a single mini-portfolio document, the details of which will be explored as part of the course
Start Date: Tuesday 4th February 2026 - Book Now
Session Dates:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-speaking-in-public:
Glossophobia, or the fear of public speaking, is one of the most common phobias felt by people all over the planet.
However, public speaking is ultimately the backbone of any successful exchange.
Without the ability to speak clearly and confidently in front of an audience, you won’t communicate your ideas and opinions as effectively.
The ability to speak confidently in public (and enjoy it!) can be transformative.
In this introductory course, we explore the 'key pillars' that lie behind effective public speaking and provide practical tools and techniques that will allow you to stand up in front of a crowd - and do yourself and your ideas justice.
On completing this course, you will:
The course is delivered online and is self-directed.
It comprises:
The assessed element of the course is a recorded presentation, where you will present your personal action plan for building and applying your public speaking skills in the future.
f you would like to find out more about future dates for this course, register your interest .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-speech-and-language-therapy:
This ‘Introduction to Speech and Language Therapy’ course will join a suite of Allied Health Professional (AHP) ‘Introduction to’ courses, offered at Wrexham University.
They have the primary aim of widening participation and access onto healthcare courses for students from traditional and non-traditional routes.
This seven week, online course covers preparatory knowledge and skills to support an application to study Speech and Language Therapy or an application to a related healthcare course as it covers healthcare values and gives an overview of student life here at Wrexham University.
The course will be delivered by registered and practising Speech and Language Therapists from the local health board.
It would appeal to applicants whose strengths include good communication, team working and interpersonal skills and a desire to work in the profession or healthcare sector.
Completion of the course would be a valuable asset on the ‘relevant experience’ section of an application to the BSc in Speech and Language Therapy.
It would also provide the opportunity to meet the teaching staff and find out more about the course, career, the university and student life.
The course engages students throughout using the Active Learning Framework and blended learning approach.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-teaching-and-training:
This course is designed to equip learners with knowledge of the key concepts and principles associated with effective teaching and learning.
Throughout the course, learners will develop knowledge of the necessary skills to teach or train within their own context.
In addition, students will demonstrate consideration of the key characteristics associated with effective adult educators and evaluate barriers to learning which may be faced by post 16 students.
As part of this course, learners will engage in reflective practice to develop their own lines of argument and make sound judgments in accordance with basic theories and concepts associated with learning, teaching, and assessment.
By the end of this course, participants will be able to select and review appropriate teaching, learning, and assessment strategies that are tailored to their own context.
Any qualification at Level 3 or above.
Students will take part in 5, two-hour, active learning workshops (on campus) and will complete 6 online workbook tasks.
Students will therefore be expected on campus once every two weeks.
Students will be assessed, at Level 4, by a portfolio of work.
Start Date: Tuesday 27th January 2026 - Book Now
Learners are able to engage with the online activities independently each week in their own time, with five face to face sessions that will take place at Wrexham Campus on the following dates:
Start Date: Tuesday 5th May 2026 - Book Now

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-the-operating-theatre:
This course provides insight into the unique environment of Theatre Departments.
This includes the perioperative journey that patients embark on for their operation, the standards and values that underpin our care of patients, and the roles of different professions within this highly skilled team of care-providers.
There will be specific focus on the roles and responsibilities of Operating Department Practitioners in this area, and their expanding scope of practice within, and outside of, the Theatre Department.
The assessment will consist of a written assignment exploring the roles and responsibilities of Operating Department Practitioners in relation to patient care.
Start Date: Tuesday 14th October 2025 - Book Now
The online sessions will take place every Tuesday between 15:00 - 17:00, with one session (date to be decided) to take place face to face at the Wrexham campus.
Start Date: Tuesday 24th March 2026 - Book Now

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-the-paramedic-profession--:
This course will provide an insight into the values and philosophy of the paramedic profession.
Students will be introduced to some of the key modern concepts related to paramedic practice, the role of the paramedic, and wider issues associated with delivering paramedic care in contemporary health and social care systems.
Students will also:
All sessions will be held on campus on Thursdays from 09:30am until 12:00pm, apart from the asynchronous ones listed below:
A minimum number of 10 participants is required for the course to run.
Please note that you must be age 16+ in order to book a place on this course.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-walking-football:
Walking football is simply football without running!
Playing the game at a more feasible pace eliminates barriers and provides greater accessibility to the sport.
It is available to participants who wish to continue to engage in football, but who may have previously been forced to stop playing the game they love due to age, injury etc.
The popularity of the sport is ever-increasing and this short course looks to provide individuals with further guidance with regards to facilitating walking football sessions for various social groups.
Week 2:
Week 5:
Week 6:
There are no pre-requisites for this course.
Every week you will be able to access the online course content via our virtual learning environment, Moodle.
Portfolio:
Oral Assessment

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-web-design:
Students will understand the key concepts of website design including domain registration, hosting and software and considerations around search engine optimisation (SEO).
The key concepts of website build are covered including templates and e-commerce.
Students will leave with an actionable, applied web design brief template.
Students will be required to undertake a project of building a website design project, based on improving digital marketing performance for a chosen organisation, typically their organisation.
The minimum expectation for the improvement plan word count is 1,000 words.
The delivery of this short course can be flexible to meet your or your business’ needs

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-wellbeing:
3 Days / 3 Weeks
This should help in understanding quite how many people, and areas, can make a difference to people’s health.
You will gain an understanding of what wellbeing means, knowledge of some of the evidence behind health promotion activities, as well as ideas to put into practice.
This course is great for anyone who is working or volunteering with others in a helping capacity, or for anyone looking to diversify their practice.
Topics on this module will include:
Start Date: Wednesday 14th January 2026 - Book Now
This course will run for 3 Days.
The face to face sessions will take place on:
Start Date: Friday 22nd May 2026 - Book Now
This course will run for 3 Weeks.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-writing-and-illustrating-childrens-books:
This course will introduce you to the various stages of the Design Thinking Process around what makes a good picture book for children.
It will encourage creative exploration and experimentation of a range of media and techniques within the writing and illustrating children’s picture books.
Critical discussion will take place during and at the end of assignments with group critiques and individual tuition forming the basis of ongoing formative assessment.
A body of work presenting the design development and production will be presented at the end of the module.
Students will be assessed on their exploration of generating ideas for stories and the relationship of text and image in their solution to storytelling.
This should be supported by documentation of the working methods and contextual influences that the student has become aware of and used during the course of the module.
Start Date: Tuesday 3rd February 2026 - Book Now
The face to face sessions will take place every Tuesday from 6pm until 8pm - Regent Street Campus

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/italian:
With 65 million speakers worldwide Italian has official status in Italy, Malta, San Marino, The Vatican and Switzerland.
Whether you're looking to enhance your career prospects or immerse yourself in Italian culture when you travel, it a great language to learn.
The assessment consists of the tasks listed below: • conversation skills: using 3 short role-plays of everyday nature and free discussion • writing skills: a short text, for example, a postcard or a letter • reading skills: read and understand a short text and answer questions in English • listening skills: listen to audio material and answer questions about the material in English
£150 public fee
£50 for Wrexham University students and staff

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/japanese:
Learning any new language is a fun and rewarding experience.
And learning Japanese is no exception.
Studying Japanese means learning a language that is so different from English that it will make you rethink your most basic assumptions about the way language works.
There are no entry requirements for this course; just an interest in the subject.
Bookings will close one week before the course start date.
For current staff/students please contact shortcourses@wrexham.ac.uk before you book your place to request a discount code for a reduced fee.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/jewellery:
Want to learn the skills to make your own jewellery?
This class will guide you through the craft of designing and producing beautiful bespoke pieces from cutting and forming metal, adding textures and decorative features and how to make simple earrings and bangles through to a final project.
This course will introduce you to the process of designing and making your own jewellery, including generating design ideas, forming, shaping and texturing metals, and also simple stone setting.
Materials will be provided to learn the techniques and complete the project.
If you wish to work in precious metals and stones these are expected to be purchased separately.
The materials supplied are brass and copper and basic tools are supplied too.
Students will need to bring their own supply silver and gemstones if you wish to work in silver.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/launching-a-start-up-business:
2024
Wrexham University proudly presents our dynamic short course, "Launching a Start-Up Business." Get ready to embark on a transformative journey that equips you with essential skills to bring your entrepreneurial vision to life.
Unlocking Business Ideas: From concept to reality, learn how to shape your ideas into tangible business ventures.
Launch Presentation: An overview of the course details Stage One: Business Idea Generation: Learn how to develop ideas Stage Two: Business Planning: Create a robust business plan that stands out on Stage Three: Marketing: Develop compelling marketing strategies Stage Four: Finance: Master financial projections for sustained success Stage Five: Pitching Masterclass: Prepare your captivating pitch on Stage Six: Pitch to Stakeholders: Present your vision and receive feedback.
In between every weekly session, you'll complete independent work, including a short business plan, marketing plans, and a financial forecast.
The course culminates in preparing a ten-minute pitch.
Join us in nurturing the spirit of entrepreneurship at Wrexham University's "Launching a Start-Up Business" short course.
Whether you're a student with bold dreams or a graduate seeking new horizons, this course is your opportunity.
To learn more, email enterprise@wrexham.ac.uk If you are not a student or graduate but would be interested in taking this course at a later date, please also email enterprise@wrexham.ac.uk to be added to a waiting list.
Ignite innovation.
Fuel your dreams.
Enroll today!
No late enrollments will be accepted.
Funding options are available for business in Wrexham, Denbighshire and Flintshire, please contact enterprise@wrexham.ac.uk to find out more.
For current students / graduates please contact enterprise@wrexham.ac.uk to request a discount code for a reduced fee.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/leading-organisations-in-times-of-global-emergency:
The aim of the course is to engage with our local and wider community on succeeding in times of crises, such as the current COVID-19 situation.
This course will highlight how industry and academia have a collaborative role to play in delivering success for the community as a whole.
A 250 word assessment on the discussion forum.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/management-of-diabetes:
This module aims to develop competency and critical application of strategies that address the complexity of caring for the person with diabetes through the use of current theory, evidence-based practice and technological advances.
It is designed to upskill nurses in the management of diabetes.
The module is practical and interactive, covering aspects of diabetes management such as medication, insulin, dietary approaches, foot care, retinopathy and blood glucose monitoring.
The course is suitable for any post registration nurses who care for patients with diabetes including practice nurses, community hospital nurses, district nurses and ward nurses.
Students must have 2 years post-registration experience as a Registered Health Care Professional in an unscheduled or scheduled care settings.
Essay
Management of Diabetes is a 20 credit module
Start Date: TBC
The module is delivered over 5 consecutive days (1 week) on campus via face-to-face delivery.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/managing-hr-in-business:
This course is designed to offer students a real insight into the world of Human Resource Management (HRM) and its relevance in today’s business.
It is an ideal course for those who wish to know more about HRM before pursuing it as a means of longer-term study.
For more information, contact Emma Taylor, Lecturer in HRM and Module Lead taylorem@glyndwr.ac.uk .
Assessments are via a range of methods, all of which are designed to be business-related and learning-outcome driven.
This includes the fees for the course only.
Any books or other learning materials students wish to purchase will be at their own cost.
The University library has access to relevant learning materials.
Students are not required to be a member of the CIPD to undertake this course.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/mandarin:
Whether you're looking to enhance your career prospects or immerse yourself in Chinese culture when you travel, learning the language is a great choice.
This class is aimed at students who have no previous knowledge of the language.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/mentoring-introduction-to-principles-and-practice:
This course aims to develop an understanding of the key concepts associated with effective mentoring, consider the skills and attributes of effective mentors, and evaluate the outcomes of positive mentoring relationships.
Indicative content will include:
An exploration of the key concepts and principles of effective mentorships, such as:
Skills and Qualities of effective mentors:
Understanding the mentoring relationship:
Students will work to prepare a 10-minute poster presentation explaining the key concepts and principles of mentoring.
This will include an academic poster of 1000 words, followed by a 10-minute presentation.
The presentation will be recorded by the student and uploaded to the virtual learning environment.
Students will work individually on a case study scenario and will be asked to analyse the skills required to develop an effective mentoring relationship and to evaluate the outcome of the mentoring relationship in the case study scenario.
Being an effective mentor is a great skill for those wishing to study further on Youth and Community Work, Social Work, Education and Families and Childhood programmes.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/minor-illness-assessment-and-management:
Poster presentation
Minor Illness Assessment & Management is a 20 credit module.
Start Date: Wednesday 15th April 2026

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/minor-injuries-assessment-and-management:
The aims of this module are:
Minor Injuries Assessment & Management is a 20 credit module.
Start date: Wednesday 14th January 2026

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/motivation-and-engaging-your-team:
Are the people within your business your main asset?
Do they give you that competitive advantage over others in your sector or field?
The short course will take place over 4 weeks, with each week addressing a different aspect of motivation and engaging your team, as below;
(ie that tasks for week 1 are completed sometime within week 1)
In person group sessions are held on the university campus in Wrexham providing an interactive platform for participating students to share their learning experience.
The expectation for the total word count is 1,000 words.
It is advised that students complete one forum each week, and it should not extend their study time per week by more than 30 minutes.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/notorious-crimes-and-criminals:
Are you fascinated by some of the most notorious crimes in history?
If you want to learn more about how certain crimes have changed the criminal justice landscape, this short course is for you.
You will study nine notorious crimes and criminals, such as: Myra Hindley, Timothy Evans, John Worboys and more.
The course will look at how these notorious cases have framed debates about criminal justice.
You will gain an understanding of how crimes may be investigated and of the possible aims of sentencing.
This is due to the sensitive and often graphic nature of the crimes covered.
The assessment will consist of students completing written online contributions each week.
Start Date - Monday 20th October 2025 - Book Now
Start Date - Monday 23rd February 2026 - Book Now
All learning content will be uploaded to Moodle on Monday each week.
Students can work through the content in their own time, at their own pace.
At the end of the short course, those who wish to continue their studies with Wrexham University will have the opportunity to attend the campus for a 'next steps towards studying' session.
This is an optional session.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/occupation-for-health-and-wellbeing:
Wrexham, Online
This short course aims to help you to understand how what we do as human beings impacts our health and wellbeing.
You will apply the principles to yourself and others.
Concepts such as occupational engagement, occupational balance and the ‘dark side’ of occupation will all be explored and related to current trends in occupational therapy practice.
Concepts such as occupational engagement, occupational balance and ‘dark’ occupations will all be explored and related to current trends in occupational therapy practice.
The course will consist of:
Start Date: Monday 22nd September 2025 - Book Now
The online sessions will take place every Monday between 19:00pm - 20:15pm
Start Date: Monday 5th January 2026 - Book Now

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/oil-painting:
This course takes oil painting back to the very basics focusing in the early weeks on the fundamental skills of painting such as mixing colours, surfaces & brush choice.
A Fine Art theory will be included to allow for both technique and theory to develop in unison.
There will be a time of discussion at the beginning to allow for group bonding and sharing of the previous weeks' homework.
This will be followed by practical exercises and more detailed skill sessions in theory.
The sessions will take place every Tuesday from 6pm until 8pm - Regent Street Campus

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/online-and-telephone-counselling:
Since the COVID-19 pandemic, Counselling and Psychotherapy has undergone significant changes in the way practitioners work with clients and in supervision, moving from predominately face-to-face contact, to now offering a range of online and telephone options.
The Online and Telephone Counselling course at Wrexham University aims to give participants the theoretical understanding of working in these different formats as well as the practical skills required.
Over the 10 week period we cover the following topics:
These modules will be suitable for qualified Counsellors, who are wishing to develop their abilities working with clients through non-face-to-face means.
The module spec outlines the allocated teaching/self-directed learning.
For each module there is 30 hours teaching which is made up of the live seminars, recorded lectures and tutorials.
There is also 170 hours guided study which is made up of study tasks, discussion forums, additional reading and student assignment writing.
Each module has 2 assessments- one 2500 written assignment on either ethics or assessments when working online and over the phone.
And a second 500 word reflective piece on their experiences working online/phone.
The submission dates for these are outlined in the module handbooks which have been uploaded to Moodle.
£695

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/performance-management:
Understanding the strategic use of performance management to promote and improve employee effectiveness is a key skill in an era where organisations are undergoing big, complex changes in a business environment where so much of what was certain in terms of business models, market forces and required talent capabilities have been rendered obsolete.
Ongoing learning log and students reflections on discussions for the different topics each week will combine to form the assessment.
The minimum expectation for the total word count is 2,000 words.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/population-health-challenges:
10 Weeks
This level 7 course aims to equip the registered nurse with specialist knowledge of epidemiology, demography, and social determinants of health.
It will facilitate a critical assessment of health needs, maximising health promotion and empowerment of service users.
The course will cover:
Applicants must be a Registered Nurse and have the ability to study at level 7
The assessment is a 15-minute Presentation and oral summary.
Directed study tasks, which may include activities such as recorded lectures, discussion forums, quizzes, case studies, group tasks, key readings, reflective activities or other appropriate learning activity , will be made available on the Virtual Learning Environment on a weekly basis.
Timetabled ‘live’ seminars/ sessions may be held (either in a physical classroom or via an online platform), in order to facilitate discussion and debate and support students to progress with their learning.
These will be recorded when appropriate and made available on the VLE, encouraging deep learning by enabling content to be revisited and reflected on at a time suitable for the student.
Population Health Challenges is a 20 credit module.
Start date: TBC

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/preparing-for-academic-success:
4 Days
Develop critical thinking skills while becoming an autonomous learner and enhance your confidence in your ability to study.
This is a part time stand-alone module is a 20 credit module at Level 6, aimed at students wishing to return or progress to higher level study.
The contact time with tutors and access to Higher Education resources lends itself to increased confidence in studying/writing at Level 6 or beyond.
You will study:
The assessment (3000-word essay) asks the student to undertake a critical review of contemporary evidence on a narrow topic within their professional/academic field.
This requires the student to access and evaluate salient literature and to apply this to their specialism.
Demonstration of academic writing skills and presentation of the assignment will all be assessed.
**
Assessment Submission Date: Monday 20th July 2026
Cost: Free of Charge
The course is delivered over 4 days on the following dates:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/principles-of-wound-care:
5 days (1 week)
in consultation with clinical leads in North Wales enabling you to explore a wide range of themes within the field of wound care
to work collaboratively to benefit the patient.
in open discussion about some of the positive elements of wound care and more challenging elements
This module was developed in consultation with local experts to enhance access to specialist wound care education in the region and includes:
Clinical case studies are used to support learning and create effective discussion and debate.
This is a part-time stand-alone module aimed at students wishing to gain greater knowledge in the field of wound care.
The core elements of wound care will be explored through a variety of teaching styles and outside specialist speakers will be accessed to encourage wider learning.
Pre-requisites:
This is a part-time course for any registered healthcare professional wanting to develop knowledge and skills to enhance wound care in their clinical environment.
Booking is subject to numbers.
There is a maximum of 40 places for this course.
This will include a blend of lectures, workshops, discussion groups and online material to explore.
The classes will be delivered from 9am-4pm, with 4-5pm reserved for tutorial support for module students.
Learning support is endorsed from the start of the module, with an introduction to the Virtual Learning Environment (Moodle).
You are encouraged to access further support as needed from the Academic Skills Tutors, Digital Learning Facilitators and our Academic Support Librarians.
The assessment is via a wound care training portfolio for a specific clinical environment (3500-4000 words depending on the level of the module) which will include:
The assessment will be submitted approximately 4 weeks after the end of module delivery.
This module is linked to the employability of registered nurses and AHPs.
It is highly relevant to staff working in secondary care (hospitals) and primary/community care settings.
It is also becoming increasingly relevant to paramedics and those working in prehospital care to prevent hospital admissions.
This module may also be accessed as a negotiated module towards a much bigger MSc programme.
Principles of Wound Care is a 20 credit module.
Start Date: Monday 20th April 2026

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/printmaking-at-home:
Looking for things to fill your time?
Why not try your hand at printmaking and get a head start on designing your own cards, prints for fabric etc.
This course will introduce and utilise four different techniques including:
Each method will involve an introduction to the technical process, a brief exploration of historic and contemporary practices and a video with accompanying technical sheet.
1 week will be spent on each technique and you will be sent a starter pack of basic equipment when you book onto the course.
Throughout the course you will create an individual portfolio of work to demonstrate your understanding of the techniques you have learnt and display examples of the practical work you have carried out.
The format of the portfolio is up to you and can take a number of different formats for example videos, photographs, drawings or a Powerpoint presentation and must also include evidence of the following:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/return-to-nursing:
6-12 months
to the full Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) register.
academic and clinical practice elements of returning to the nursing workforce.
for Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning to potentially reduce the minimum clinical practice hours required.
This module enables previously NMC registered nurses to re-examine their role and professional responsibilities as they prepare to return to the full register.
The students will explore contemporary themes in modern nursing/healthcare, underpinned by relevant evidence.
Clinical/practical skills will be refreshed in preparation for their renewed role in the clinical workplace.
The RTP module offers a flexible and accessible approach to empowering students to renew their confidence in providing patient-centred care in the field of Adult Nursing.
This module also provides RTP students access to a clinical placement to enable them return to the clinical environment in a supportive and supervised manner.
Our Practice Partners will arrange the placement and we will involve the student with these arrangements to ensure they have a placement that can be flexible with their personal circumstances.
The practice placement is fundamental to developing and achieving all the identified practical nursing and clinical skills necessary to return to the register.
† Nurses working on the Temporary NMC Register during the Covid-19 pandemic or other suitable applicants.
The Return to Practice (RTP) nursing programme is formed of a single 40 credit Level 6 module with multiple core components:
All applicants are subject to a robust entry criteria including:
Teaching and learning will be conducted through a variety of methods:
All students will have a nominated Programme Leader/personal tutor to support them, and a Practice Assessor in the clinical workplace.
All elements of the programme must be successfully completed for the student to return to the NMC full register and pass the programme:
Students who successfully complete the RTP programme are able to apply for many Registered Nurse (Adult) posts available across Wales.
Previous students have progressed to posts within both primary and secondary health settings, as well as continue their academic studies in specialist areas of practice available through our postgraduate programme of courses.
Employability opportunities for Registered Nurses are varied and our local Practice Partner (BCUHB) welcomes applications from our successful students.
Tuition fees and a bursary are provided by the Welsh Government to cover some living costs available for most students (domiciled in Wales).
For students residing in other parts of the UK, our standard undergraduate fees apply.
Start Date: W/C 10th November 2025

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/science-summer-school:
4 Weeks
Interested in gaining the fundamental scientific knowledge and skills expected of a student entering a science degree?
This course covers the principles and applications of science, practical techniques for work in the laboratory, and the investigative skills needed for further scientific study in higher education.
On completion of the course, you will have the opportunity to go onto one of our Bachelor’s degree programmes in Applied Science such as Forensics or Biomedical Sciences.
This programme will introduce you to the general concepts and basic principles of natural science, the philosophy behind scientific research and the history of its development.
It will enable you to gain an understanding of how science and technology influence and are influenced by contemporary society.
You will develop theoretical and practical knowledge of key laboratory methods in biology and chemistry, particularly safe working practice in laboratory techniques and equipment.
You will also plan and execute a laboratory or field experiment and develop your data interpretation and presentation skills.
The summer school consists of three subject modules for all students and one English module for international students (80 credits in total).
Our courses are open to students over the age of 16, whatever your background or country of residence.
However, international students on the Summer School should be at B2 level (or equivalent) in English language.
UK Students:
Without accommodation - £295
International Students
Without accommodation - £1250
UK Students: •    Option 1 (with accommodation):  £795 •    Option 2 (without accommodation): £295
Cost includes technical tuition and personal protective equipment.
Costs do not include food or extracurricular activities.
International Students: •    Option 1 (with accommodation):  £1750 •    Option 2 (without accommodation): £1250
Cost includes technical tuition, personal protective equipment, English language tuition and 2 x weekend activities.
Costs do not include transportation to/from airport, food, extracurricular activities
*These courses are often in popular demand with a maximum of 30 places available, offered on a first come, first served basis.
However, if a course does have insufficient students registered it will not be offered.
In such an event, any registered students will be offered an alternative programme or given a full refund of any fees paid.
Monday 4th August 2025 - Friday 29th August 2025

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/social-media-planning:
A strong digital presence gives your business a platform to engage with your consumers.
Our Social Media Planning short course will guide you in working towards supporting your broader business goals with a refined approach towards your social media.
Learn how to navigate your way around running multiple successful platforms and explore best practices around how to utilise a range of digital marketing tools and analytics and measurement.
Keep on top of your digital presence and learn how best to plan and strategize your social media platforms.
• Build your own social media marketing plan, based on an organisation of your choice (typically your employer).
• Guided discussion using online forums and tutor support.
• Utilise a range of digital marketing tools, social media planning and analytics and measurement.
• Social Media Planning • Persona Development • Content Marketing • Introduction to SEO (search engine optimisation)
You will be required to undertake a project of building a practical social media marketing plan, based on improving digital marketing performance for a chosen organisation, typically your organisation.
The minimum expectation for the improvement plan word count is 500 - 1,000 words.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/spanish-a1:
And learning Spanish is no exception.
In fact, of all the languages you can learn, Spanish is an especially great choice.
Spanish is the official language in over 20 countries around the world.
So it'll open doors whether you want to work, travel or live abroad.
For current staff/students please contact shortcourses@wrexham.ac.uk before you book your place to request a discount code for a reduced fee
Start Date : Tuesday 16th September 2025 - Book Now
The face to face sessions will take place every Tuesday from 17:30pm - 20:30pm - Wrexham Campus

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/spanish-a2:
This course will enable you to expand your already existing skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in the Spanish language.
You will need existing understanding of the Spanish language.
We also have a short course, Spanish A1 , which is suitable for those with no previous knowledge of the language.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/the-enquiring-mind:
This course provides key information pertaining to research, methodology, epidemiology and critical analysis.
The Enquiring Mind contains the following indicative syllabus:
Applicants must be NMC registered nurses with current professional registration and either be employed within a community setting or wishing to apply for the District Nursing programme in the future.
The Enquiring Mind is a 10 credit module.
Start date: Wednesday 1st October 2025

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/therapeutic-story-work:
The aim of this module is to promote understanding about how stories and storytelling can be a fundamental way in which people make sense of their lives.
It aims to examine the therapeutic use of stories and storytelling.
It therefore seeks to promote practice skills focusing on stories and storytelling activities in therapeutic work with children.
The module provides students with an opportunity to learn about practice-relevant techniques in a well-supported teaching and learning environment.
This module is delivered via blended learning consisting of 9 teaching weeks.
This means that the group will mainly meet for a 1 hour interactive synchronous session on Thursday mornings between 9 and 10am via Teams.
Plus a two hour weekly asynchronous teaching session which can be accessed by the student any time to suit their weekly schedule.
The only change to this pattern is on the final session which is three hours and will take place at the University.
These sessions will include coursework assessment and a ten minute presentation which will take place on week 9.
Please note that this course will not be running in the 2024 / 2025 cycle
If you would like to be placed on an enquiry list for future updates, please register your interest.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/train-the-trainer:
This short course has been designed to improve your organisation’s processes and business growth, enhance employee performance, improve your workplace culture and to introduce a structured approach to support individuals to facilitate behaviour change by using training experiences to promote and improve employee effectiveness.
In today’s ever-changing marketplace, the importance of job training has never been greater.
Workforce training is an indispensable way of keeping your organisation competitive as well as strengthening skills your workforce needs or currently possess to succeed.
You will be required to complete an online discussion forum on each weekly topic which enable you to reflect and demonstrate your learning.
Ongoing learning log and reflections on discussions for the different topics each week will combine to form the final assessment.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/using-performance-analysis-in-sport:
This module provides students with the knowledge to integrate performance analysis within their teams.
It will give students the opportunity to develop skills that will provide invaluable within their organisations but is also transferable to alternative sporting environments through the use of industry standard software applications and processes.
The assessment for this module is project based.
The student will be provided with a scenario and game footage.
Students will demonstrate their ability to create a performance analysis system and code a game based on their system design.
They will be expected to critically analyse the performance, and based on the analysis, provide appropriate feedback mechanisms to inform the coach.
A duration of 3 hours has been allocated for completion of the project.
£99

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/working-together-to-safeguard-self-and-others:
This course is delivered by a combination of our Social Work, Social Care and Youth Work teams and is suitable for those individuals who do not necessarily have to undertake the regulatory training but need to have an awareness of safeguarding and multi-agency working in reference to safeguarding and other policy/legal requirements.
As per professional endorsement guidelines, students will need to attend at least 80% of taught sessions.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/wu-certificate-of-continuing-education-in-supervision:
22 weeks (including placement)
The Certificate in Supervision is an exciting new course delivered at Wrexham University, as part of a developing programme of CPD.
Drawing on the BACP supervision training curriculum, this qualification will be led by teaching staff with over 20 years supervision experience.
A combination of theory and practice, encompassing the latest research,
The course will enable you to:
This Certificate is composed of two modules.
The theory module will give you an understanding of the:
The practice module will enable you to:
All applicants whose forms indicate that they may be suitable for the programme are invited to an interview.
Start Date: Thursday 16th October 2025 - Apply Now
The teaching will be a mix of lectures, seminars, skills workshops, experiential and creative tasks, presentations, audiovisual material, and placement.
The teaching of online and telephone supervision will be taught online.
You will be assessed by 4,000-word assignment and poster presentation.
Evidence of learning will also be assessed via a portfolio of the clinical supervision placement, to include no less than 15 hrs of supervision practice and 5 hours of supervision of the placement supervision.
£1,600 (£800 per module)
Weeks 1-4 - Face to face sessions on campus - Wrexham - Thursday - 9:00am - 16:00pm
Weeks 5 - 6 - Online sessions - Thursday 9:00am - 16:00pm
Weeks 7-16 - Placement
Weeks 17 - 22 - Face to face sessions on campus - Wrexham - Thursday - 9:00am - 16:00pm

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/leadership-for-wellbeing-pgdip:
curriculum, co-created by experts and partners
and supportive teaching and learning strategy
assessment briefs that simulate 'real life' activities
Wellbeing is central to public service leadership.
Personal wellbeing is essential for sustainable and effective leadership, and leaders need to drive change toward systems of wellbeing where people and planet are properly cared for.
This unique degree equips learners with the advanced knowledge and skills to realise personal, public and planetary wellbeing goals within complex and dynamic systems .
Learners will study three core modules and self-select a further option module aligned to their interests / needs.
Two modules will be studied in the first year and two in the second to ensure a well-paced and manageable workload.
To study this programme, applicants will normally have attained an undergraduate degree in a relevant subject area, achieving a minimum of a 2:2.
Those without an undergraduate degree, or a degree not in a relevant subject area, may be considered for the programmes if they have appropriate (at least 3 years) experience in the field of public service leadership, and be able to demonstrate the skills and qualities necessary to study at postgraduate level.
All applicants will be required to undertake an ‘entry discussion’ with the Admissions Tutor (or nominated person) for the subject area.
The discussion will check applicants’ suitability for their chosen programme and also offer support and guidance regarding modes of study and postgraduate study requirements.
A Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check is not required on entry to this programme.
However, if either a learners’ Work Based Learning (WBL) or research involves regulated activity with adults or children a DBS of suitable level and type will then be required.
This will be checked and undertaken as part of the WBL / research process.
This course employs a flexible learning and teaching strategy whereby learners can make their own decisions about how and when to engage with the sessions and activities.
Learners can self-select to engage with the programme via one of three modes of study:
Most postgraduate study is undertaken alongside other commitments, so it is important that learners choose the best route (full or part time) and award (MSc or PgDip) to suit their needs and availability.
For this part time PgDip programme, it is recommended that learners are prepared to routinely spend a minimum of 1 day per week studying.
Please note that the expected time commitments may vary slightly throughout the academic year, with some additional time required to complete assessments and WBL hours.
This programme adopts a compassionate assessment strategy, whereby four core principals ensure the provision of meaningful, learning-orientated and high-quality assessments that give due consideration to learners’ wellbeing:
As part of the ‘Inner and Outer Work for Professional Development and Social Change’ module learners will be required to undertake 30 hours of ‘inner’ and / or ‘outer’ Work Based Learning (WBL).
Learners will self-select how the 30 hours are allocated between the two forms of work, focusing exclusively on one type if they wish to.
To ensure learners are suitably guided and supported through their WBL hours, they will be required to develop a learning contract for approval by the Module Leader.
Learners will either be allocated, or personally identify, a mentor to oversee their WBL hours.
The exact process for this will depend upon the WBL chosen by the learner and learning contract developed.
For any outer work undertaken, learners will self-select the organisation(s) with which they undertake their WBL hours to enable them to meet their personalised development needs and goals.
Learners will receive support from the University and programme team where appropriate to secure their WBL opportunity(ies).
In cases where learners wish to undertake their hours within their current place of work, this will be permissible.
Graduates may currently work or go on to work in many different settings, including local or national government, the Civil / Public service or third sector, or National Health Service.
Graduates of the course would be well-placed to pursue careers in any of the following areas:
All fees are subject to any changes in government policy, view our postgraduate fees .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/photography:
1YR (FT)
with many creative organisations, galleries and industries.
near the incredible landscapes of North Wales.
in the UK for teaching quality (Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024).
The MA Photography course facilitates an in-depth exploration of each student's personal area of work, emphasising creativity, professionalism, craftsmanship, and technical excellence.
Locating Practice _Photography- The ‘LOCATING’’ component in the MA Photography program seeks to achieve three primary goals in the context of photography.
Initially, it guides students in examining the essential technical, conceptual, and theoretical aspects of photography through in-depth exploration of materials / techniques / modes, contextual research, and analytical critique.
This process is intended to enhance their proficiency and comprehension of the photographic medium.
Secondly, the module aims to position and express each student's photographic practice within the extensive domains of history, culture, politics, and ontology.
This entails developing a keen awareness of the broader contexts that influence their artistic pursuits.
Questioning Photographic Practice- ‘QUESTIONING’ is a module, that focuses upon refining your photographic practice by integrating it into dynamic philosophical debates and cultural discussions surrounding the wider notions of image making.
By embracing conceptual risk-taking and experimenting with media that challenge conventional techniques, the module aims to disrupt habitual technical approaches and questions aesthetic and technical assumptions.
Additionally, it aims to aid the development of a language for analysing the connection between photography and cultural identities, histories, politics, environments, and contemporary societal issues.
Within this exploration, there will be a specific emphasis on enhancing your analytical writing, verbal articulation, and critical discussion skills.
These skills will establish a strong foundation for engagement in photographic-based image-making, fostering a nuanced and well-informed approach to the evolution of your practice.
Articulating Practice _Photography- The " ARTICULATING " module, students will concentrate on constructing a unified body of photographic work while honing the skills necessary to present it to the public.
The focus will be on embedding each student's photographic practice within the broader contemporary art world and culture, accomplished through refining writing, verbal expression, and exhibition curation abilities.
The module strives to equip students for launching a sustainable photographic practice post-graduation by delving into portfolio development and diversity, crafting professional documents, writing and submitting applications, exploring cultural and commercial funding streams and conducting career research.
We currently require an initial degree in a relevant subject, classified as First Class or 2:1, or evidence of recent activity in the subject equivalent to these classifications as determined by interview.
The Learning and teaching strategy for the Photography programme aligns with the Active Learning Framework (ALF), incorporating key employability skills and managing both onsite and online delivery effectively.
The emphasis is on real world learning opportunities, allows for the development of practical, intellectual, and professional skills required in the Photographic industries.
You will be taught via a range of Lectures, seminars and practical workshops from both academic and technical staff.
The Photography M.A programme offers a wide landscape of career pathways upon graduation.
Not only does this course ready graduates to work as professional photographers and film makers and the wide varieties of genres available to these practitioners, but also allowing for development into the wider creative industries.
This programme is designed to help improve students’ employability, as it will equip them with the skills needed when working in art and design interdisciplinary practices, such as:
Upon completion of the M.A Photography course, graduate also have the opportunity to  progress on to further PHD study.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/film-making:
1 YR (FT), 2 YRS (PT)
industry work experience
with Avid and Blackmagic (DaVinci Resolve)
The MA Filmmaking course equips you with both practical and theoretical knowledge essential for the film industry.
This approach ensures that you graduate job-ready, meeting industry demands.
An undergraduate degree with at minimum a 2:2 level in a related subject.
In lieu of the latter, applicants can submit a record of related professional experience and/ or a professional portfolio of work.
Most of the teaching will be face-to-face in studio and classroom spaces.
Methods of teaching and learning also utilise a blended approach including synchronous and asynchronous activities.
Many members of the teaching team are industry active, and are able to bring insights into working life within the Creative Industries.
The programme utilises the principles of the University’s Active Learning Framework (ALF) and student learning and success will be effectively supported through using the Moodle VLE, Microsoft Teams, and other online resources.
We have lots of professional clients who visit and utilise our production facilities, and often these activities afford students learning opportunities.
The course home is the CIB (Creative Industries Building) which we share with BBC Wales.
The CIB is a well-equipped Media production facility with equipment that can support cutting-edge and professional Film Making production and learning.
There are also some extra-curricular courses that run periodically within the academic year and afford the opportunity to gain professional qualifications from Avid and Blackmagic.
Assessment is mainly undertaken through the production of various film making related artefacts.
There are also opportunities to develop communication skills through oral and written presentations.
Film Making Cinematography Screen Writer Sound for Film Media Producer Content Creator Sound Editor Film Editor

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/painting:
painting skills and techniques through medium-specific specialisation.
your art work with opportunities to exhibit both on and off-campus.
This innovative MA painting course focuses on enabling painters to evolve as self-reflective, critical artists engaging with current and emergent issues.
The course provides an in-depth exploration specifically of painting's rich material and conceptual history.
The MA Painting course has a 3-module structure allowing logical progression through defining, expanding, and articulating your practice via painting.
Locating (Core) - The Locating module is the critical foundation of the MA Painting program.
Through intensive material exploration, contextual research, and analytical critiques, students will scrutinise the fundamental technical, conceptual, and theoretical dimensions of painting practice.
The module focuses on positioning each student's work within the broader contexts of art history, culture, politics, and philosophy.
Students will cultivate a critical language to articulate the complex relationship between painting, identity, and society.
Questioning (Core) - The Questioning module focuses on strengthening students' painting practice by situating it within philosophical debates and cultural discussions surrounding the evolving nature of the medium.
Students will take conceptual risks and push conventional techniques through material experimentation that challenges traditional definitions of painting.
The Questioning module equips students to effectively engage with contemporary painting discourse through both visual and written formats.
Articulating (Core)- The Articulating module focuses on developing a cohesive body of painting work to exhibit publicly, situating students' practices within the contemporary art world.
Together with this, students will refine skills in writing, verbal articulation, exhibition curation, and professional documentation to effectively communicate the significance of their artistic vision.
The Articulating module ensures students can proficiently navigate and articulate their work in professional arts settings.
All applicants to the MA Painting programme are required to submit a portfolio as part of the application process.
Portfolios are typically comprised of 10-15 images of your strongest, most relevant work, but can also include additional media elements such as video, writing samples, documentation of exhibitions, etc.
The portfolio submission allows applicants to demonstrate their talents, creative thinking, technical skills, and artistic motivations visually.
Reviewing applicants' portfolios gives our teaching team deeper insight into prospective students' potential to positively contribute to and successfully undertake this specialised postgraduate programme.
Teaching and assessment on the MA Painting programme takes diverse forms aligned with a practice-based curriculum.
Over the course of the programme, you will engage in a diverse range of teaching and learning approaches including tutor guidance and peer collaboration.
You will produce practice based studio work and keep reflective journals documenting your creative progress, artistic analyses and developing understanding of painting histories and theories.
Your participation in routine critiques and self-reflective writing foster critical and philosophical thinking about your growth.
Exhibitions of select works allow you to publicly present resolved pieces for review.
In addition, you will submit summative written elements contextualizing your practice within critical frameworks.
Diverse career paths (galleries, museums, curation etc)

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/applied-psychology:
1 YRS (FT) 2 YRS (PT)
With your supervisor, you will also be able to plan and carry out your own research project.
Applied research methods - This module aims to provide you with the knowledge and confidence to approach, quantitative and qualitative analyses in the context of applied research methods at an advanced level.
The module will provide you with an overview of historical and philosophical issues within psychology with particular focus on issues related to applied research.
You will develop knowledge and understanding of advanced approaches to quantitative and qualitative analysis appropriate for applied research.
The module will enable you to appraise evidence, develop research designs and discuss practical issues in a variety of research contexts.
You will develop a critical understanding of ethics and research conduct and will gain an appreciation for current debates in research.
Therapeutic approaches - This module will increase your understanding and knowledge of the philosophical underpinnings and theoretical underpinnings of a variety of therapeutic approaches.
The module will also familiarise you with different therapeutic practices in various models of therapy.
You will also develop increased insight into the complexity, benefits, and challenges of therapeutic practice.
Psychopathology across the lifespan - during this module you will develop your understanding of psychological, behavioural, neurological, and developmental disorders which may present during different stages throughout the lifespan.
You will also be encouraged to critique the nature of psychopathology and how it is approached and managed by clinicians.
This module will also enable you to critique the role of social, cultural, and economic factors within development and management of different psychological disorders/conditions.
Contextual and contemporary practice - This module will develop your understanding of different applied psychological professions, including the ways in which they are similar and distinct from one another.
You will also gain an understanding of the evolution and development of these professions from their inception to contemporary practice.
The module will also revisit classic psychological theory and approaches (such as psychodynamic, person-centred, cognitive-behavioural, the biomedical model) and how they may have impacted upon different applied professions.
You will be encouraged to think about how practice may continue to evolve and consider what underpinnings will be relevant to different applied professions within the future.
Professional development - this module will focus on your professional development and enhancing employability within applied psychology and/or research sectors.
You will explore and develop strategies for analysing and evaluating experience in a practical setting and gain insight into expectations regarding professional ethics and behaviour.
Further to this, you will develop practice of continuing professional development and lifelong learning.
Assessments in psychological practice - This module is intended to provide you with an overview of psychology assessments within applied settings.
You will be introduced to a range of methods for collecting information within applied psychology settings.
The module will equip you with knowledge of the theoretical underpinnings of assessment, different functions, and ethical considerations.
You will also consider how different assessment may inform clinical practice, and research, within applied psychology professions.
Research project - This module aims to enable you to make an original contribution to the field of relevant psychology by designing, undertaking, and reporting (both written and oral) on a piece of research.
The aim is to develop your research skills and report writing skills along with a level of expertise in their chosen area of investigation.
Applicants will need to have completed and passed a undergraduate degree in Psychology.
at a minimum of a 2.1 grade
Ideally, applicants will have at least a 2:1, although students with a 2:2 will also be considered where there is evidence of extensive relevant experience.
Lectures - you will have both in-person and pre-recorded lectures during the MSc Applied Psychology to develop your knowledge and understanding of the subject area.
Seminars - you will also have seminars for your taught modules to further consolidate your knowledge and understanding.
This will include class discussion and engaging with materials prior to sessions (such as online lectures, or specific resources such as journal articles).
Depending on numbers on the programme, seminars may take place in smaller groups than the cohort has in total, to allow for discussion.
Workshops - you may engage with workshops to further support your subject-specific and practical skills.
This may involve working in the Psychology lab, or utilising computer-based software to enable you to further develop your analysis skills.
This will also enable you to enhance your knowledge of psychometric tests and assessments in applied psychology.
Guided independent study - you will be guided to take part in further reading for your modules, along with being given formative tasks to complete to enhance your knowledge and understanding, along with developing your professional skills by allowing you to work independently.
You may also be asked to complete tasks in small groups, but independent of your lecturer to enhance your group-work.
Work-experience element - as part of the professional development module, you will be required to complete work-experience within a related field.
This could be academic, research, or applied in focus.
This will allow you to reflect on your experience, improving your professional, practical, and employability skills.
Assessments - the programme adopts a range of assessment methods to ensure you improve your skills in different areas.
Written assignments may take the form of essays, literature reviews, reflections, and critical appraisals which develop your intellectual skills.
Presentations are also used to develop your ability to disseminate information to a wide range of audiences.
Portfolios allow you to complete small pieces of work throughout the module which will develop into a complete portfolio of work.
This course would be ideal for support roles within applied psychology (such as assistant psychologists).

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/adult-childrens-or-mental-health-nursing-msc:
2 YRS (FT)
A full NHS bursary, including tuition fees and a non-repayable bursary for living costs, is available for this programme if you are eligible and agree to work in Wales for 18 months after registration (subject to change).
with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) upon successful completion of the course
delivering care in a range of practice learning environments on placements
and apply your prior care-giving experience towards your clinic al hours
Nursing is a rewarding profession, caring for individuals throughout their lifespan.
This Nursing Master's Degree is made up of theory and practice based learning, and aims to provide you with the professional disciplinary knowledge for your preferred field of nursing – adult, children’s or mental health.
It will give you the opportunity to:
Modules listed below are generic but include field-specific content in Adult Nursing, Mental Health Nursing or Children’s Nursing.
You will partake in separate teaching groups for the subjects identified on the module specification , depending on which specialism you choose to follow .
If studying on the PGDip in Adult, Children's or Mental Health Nursin g , the Innovations in Practice module will be taught and studied at level 6.
Part One
Part Two
Part Three
Please note: the course is not open to international students.
A health related undergraduate degree of 2:2 or above is required for this course.
Additional qualifications needed include:
A portfolio of evidence which enables you to include and demonstrate prior graduate learning is needed.
This may include knowledge, skills, values, caring behaviours and care experience equivalent to one year of a nursing programme, through 500 hours of theoretical and 500 hours of practice learning (these verified hours will form part of the mandatory 2,300 theoretical hours and 2,300 practice learning hours).
You will be required to complete all of the part one ‘All Wales Practice Assessment Document’ prior to commencement of the MSc Nursing degree during the 500 practice hours, and as part of the requirement you will need to identify a placement area (clinical/voluntary) which can support the verification of the 500 practice hours together with names of a practice supervisor and practice assessor.
You will then be interviewed face to face on an individual basis where you will be required to answer some short questions to ascertain your knowledge and experience about a career in nursing .
Attending a selection event does not guarantee a place on the course, so we recommend preparing beforehand to give you the best chance of success .
Before you are offered a place on this course you will be required to complete a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance (previously known as CRB), and pay the appropriate fee, so that a check can be made on your suitability for working with children and vulnerable adults.
MSc Mental Health Nursing
MSc Adult Nursing
The application deadline for the March 2026 intake is Friday 5th December 2025.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/adult-childrens-or-mental-health-nursing-pgdip:
with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) upon successful completion of the course
This Nursing Postgraduate Diploma is made up of theory and practice based learning, and aims to provide you with the professional disciplinary knowledge for your preferred field of nursing – adult, children’s or mental health.
Modules listed below are generic, but include field specific content in Adult Nursing, Mental Health Nursing or Children’s Nursing.
If studying on the MSc in Adult, Children's or Mental Health Nursing , the Innovaions in Practice module will be taught and studied at level 7.
You will be required to complete all of the part one ‘All Wales Practice Assessment Document’ prior to commencement of the postgraduate nursing diploma during the 500 practice hours.
PGDip Mental Health Nursing
PGDip Adult Nursing

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/advanced-clinical-practice:
of practice learning with a focus on the four pillars of advanced practice.
from a medical or clinical mentor throughout the programme.
are in paid work or study 15 months after graduating*
The programme aims to enable experienced professionals to:
Having studied 60 credits in year one, students may exit with a Postgraduate Certificate.
Having studied 120 credits in years 1 & 2, students may exit with an end award of Postgraduate Diploma.
To be accepted onto the programme, candidates must:
N.B.
If undertaking Non-Medical Prescribing, further admissions criteria apply which will supersede those above (contact the programme lead for further information).
If undertaking Mentorship in Practic e or Learning and Teaching in Practice, students must satisfy the pre-requisites for these modules (contact the programme lead for further information).
Students without a first degree who are accepted to the programme will be able to take the Non-Medical Prescribing module (where eligible), but may only take this at Level 6 (in accordance with Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Body (PSRB) requirements).
Advanced Clinical Practice students will be assessed in a variety of ways.
Assessment methods include academic assignments, case studies, poster presentations and examinations.
As the programme is concerned with learning in practice, all students have a clinical portfolio which is completed as they progress through the modules.
All students are required to have a DSMP and a mentor in order to support learning and assessment in practice.
Students can book appointments with academic skills tutors dedicated to helping you deal with the practicalities of university work.
On successful completion of the Advanced Clinical Practice/Advanced Clinical Practice (Therapies) course, students will be eligible to apply for advanced practice roles in a variety of settings.
In Wales, students will be eligible to use the title ‘Advanced’ on completion of the MSc.
As it is validated by the relevant PSRBs, on completion of the Non-Medical Prescribing module students will be able to record this qualification with their professional body (NMC, HCPC, GPhC).

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/applied-biomedical-sciences:
to state-of-the-art equipment at the Maelor Academic Unit of Medical & Surgical Sciences (MAUMSS)
learning with face-to-face teaching supported by online learning.
the skills & knowledge needed to pursue a research-based career in academic biomedicine.
The MRes Applied Biomedical Sciences Research programme has been designed to serve biomedical, medical, and life sciences graduates wanting to embark on a Masters of Research degree focusing on human health and disease.
The programme provides an opportunity for in-depth study in all of the major disciplines covering biomedical science, as well as current regulatory frameworks, information communication technology and research methods.
Topics of focus will include clinical chemistry, cellular and histopathology, haematology and transfusion as well as microbiology and immunology.
The focus of most of the modules will be on understanding the biology of disease, concepts underlying disease pathogenesis, and the use of current biomedical science applications in the screening, diagnosis and management of disease conditions.
To be considered for the programme, a candidate must hold one, or several of the following qualifications:
Prospective students may also apply for the Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) against specific modules, in accordance with Wrexham University regulations.
Students undertaking a research project (dissertation) that entails working in an area other than their usual place of work must obtain a relevant DBS.
Students undertaking a research project (dissertation) who may be working with patients, vulnerable people and children must obtain an enhanced disclosure.
Please note: T his programme does not satisfy the requirements of Post Graduate International Visa Applications.
Students are assessed through a series of coursework projects throughout the course.
This includes laboratory reports, clinical reviews, poster or oral presentations, case studies, essays or data manipulation exercises.
The valuable knowledge gained on this programme will make you attractive both to employers in the health, pharmaceutical and related industries, and to major academic research centres.
The practical skills you will aquire in design, performing and analysing experiments are highly transferable to a wide range of scientific areas.
Students on this programme will be well-placed for careers in biomedical and clinical research, teaching, or to pursue further studies towards a PhD, or graduate entry medical degree.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/applied-clinical-research:
on clinical research and training to enhance careers within the NHS and health sector.
the skills & knowledge needed to pursue a research-based career in clinical medicine and healthcare.
The MRes Applied Clinical Research programme has been designed to serve healthcare professionals working in fields such as nursing, audiology, midwifery, physiotherapy, psychology and radiology, and medical sciences graduates wanting to embark on a Masters of Research degree focusing on human health and disease.
This programme provides an opportunity for an in-depth study in all of the major disciplines covering biomedical science, as well as current regulatory frameworks, information communication technology and research methods.
Topics of focus include clinical chemistry, cellular and histopathology, haematology and transfusion as well as microbiology and immunology.
The focus of most modules will be on understanding the biology of disease, concepts underlying disease pathogenesis, and the use of current biomedical science applications in the screening, diagnosis and management of disease conditions.
To be considered for the course, a candidate must hold one of the following qualifications prior to the commencement of the programme:
Prospective students may also apply for the Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) against specific modules in accordance with Wrexham University regulations.
Students will be assessed via a series of coursework projects throughout the course.
This could be in the form of laboratory reports, clinical reviews, poster or oral presentations, case studies, essays or data manipulation exercises.
This course is predominantly aimed at health professionals from a range of disciplines who wish to enhance their skills and knowledge in clinically focused research.
It is aimed at those who wish to pursue clinical/academic research careers, such as research nurses, clinical trials coordinators and principal investigators.
The course provides comprehensive training in research, providing an excellent foundation for students who wish to go on to study for a PhD.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/art-interdisciplinary-practice:
your knowledge and expertise in multidisciplinary, interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary art practice.
so that you acquire a deep understanding of the necessary skills required to work within creative, professional and academic contexts.
research strategy that crosses many disciplinary boundaries and develop practice both individually and collaboratively.
As growth in the sector continues, the creative industries offer many thriving career opportunities.
We have developed this course to equip you with a balance of research, analytical and innovative skills ready for employment within the chosen area of your art practice.
You will undertake four core modules, each worth 30 credits, followed by a dissertation project worth 60 credits.
Overseas students can submit their portfolio and statement of intent digitally if they are unable to visit the university in person.
This will then be followed up by a virtual face to face interview via, Skype, TEAMs, Zoom or equivalent.
All applicants are expected to hold a good and relevant initial degree, or provide a portfolio of their own work, demonstrating equivalence to an initial degree.
Assessment will be conducted through coursework (typically a portfolio), including evaluations of the practical work for each module.
Many graduates have commenced careers as:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/arts-in-health:
1YRS (FT) 2YRS (PT)
in collaboration with Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board’s Arts in Health and Wellbeing Co-ordinator.
to undertake work-based learning in a designated healthcare environment.
to dedicated studio spaces in a traditional art school setting.
As services are pushed into the community to relieve pressure on acute health service provision, artists are becoming more and more valuable to the delivery of social healthcare.
This course offers an innovative way of meeting the challenges of finding solutions to a range of public health issues and promoting publicly funded arts organisations.
Students will study four taught core modules worth 30 credits each, followed by a dissertation project worth 60 credits.
All applicants are expected to hold a good and relevant initial degree, or provide a portfolio of their own work, demonstrating equivalence to an initial degree.
Assessment will be conducted through a series of coursework (typically a portfolio), including evaluations of the practical work for each module.
Our student support page has more information on the help available.
This course will equip students with the employable skills artists need to work in healthcare, and enable them to work in the growing field of arts and health within hospital or community settings.
Employment opportunities can be found within arts, health and the third sector, including community arts projects.
Funding opportunities for arts in health will be the focus of one of the modules, and self-employment or studying for a research degree are other options students may wish to pursue.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/biomedical-science:
by the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS)
in partnership with Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board (BCUHB)
to state-of-the-art equipment at the Maelor Academic Unit of Medical & Surgical Sciences (MAUMSS)
Developed in collaboration with Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board (BCUHB), this course gives students the opportunity to develop their research skills, explore specialist areas, and complete an independent research project integrating the study of the biology of disease, including modern concepts and applications of biomedical science.
The MSc Biomedical Science programme provides an opportunity for in-depth study in all of the major disciplines covering biomedical science, as well as current regulatory frameworks, information communication technology and research methods.
To be considered for the course, candidates must meet one or more of the following criteria prior to the commencement of the programme:
Students will be assessed through a variety of coursework projects, which may include laboratory reports, clinical reviews, poster or oral presentations, case studies, essays or data manipulation exercises.
The programme creates wide-ranging opportunities for employment in fields such as hospital pathology laboratories (NHS and private sector), biomedical and pharmaceutical industries, or public health laboratories.
It provides preparation for the Institute of Biomedical Science Higher Specialist examination, Advanced Practice in Biomedical Science, and those aspiring to achieve middle and senior management positions within the NHS.
Students on this programme will also be well placed for careers in research, teaching, or to pursue studies towards a PhD or graduate entry medical degree.
“The course is a great choice for anyone wanting to learn about medical laboratory sciences, clinical diagnostics and research.
It is a well-structured programme, organised and lead by friendly, helpful and experienced academic and healthcare professionals, who use their expertise to educate and provide an excellent learning experience for the students.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/community-specialist-practice-district-nursing:
by a team of professional nurses.
by the Welsh Government.
with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) after successful completion of the course.
Broaden your understanding and develop a critical awareness of the role and responsibility of key aspects of district nursing, including the coherent and detailed knowledge at the forefront of care.
Students who wish to continue their studies on completion of the Post Graduate Diploma to gain the MSc Community Nursing Specialist Practice may undertake a dissertation module.
All applicants must meet the following criteria:
Graduate entry An honours degree in nursing or related subject awarded by an approved degree awarding body within the previous 5 years.
Evidence of successful level six or seven academic within the previous 5 years.
Non-graduate entry Non-graduate A qualification or pass degree in nursing or midwifery or related subject
and Evidence of successful level six or seven academic study undertaken within the previous two years.
District Nursing students are assessed in a variety of ways over the course of their studies.
Assessment methods include academic assignments, case studies, poster presentations, resources, individual and group presentations.
As the programme is about learning in practice, all students have a clinical portfolio which is completed as students’ progress through the modules.
All students are allocated a p ractice supervisor and assessor within practice , who will assess your competency against the NMC Specialist Practice Standards for District Nursing.
In terms of particular needs, the university can provide appropriate guidance and support should any students require reasonable adjustments to be made because of a recognised prevailing disability, medical condition, or specific learning difficulty.
On successful completion of the Community Specialist Practice Programme, the District Nursing qualification will be recordable with the NMC.
This coveted qualification will enable you to apply for Band 6 roles within District Nursing and will increase opportunities within Community Nursing as a whole.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/composite-materials-engineering:
1 YR (FT)  2 YRS (PT)
to Advanced Composite Training and Development Centre (ACT&DC) with Airbus
with IMechE, IET & RAeS
from industrial and research backgrounds
The MSc Composite Materials Engineering programme will equip you with the knowledge in manufacturing and characterisation of composite materials and engineering design.
Normal entry requirements for full-time and part-time intake will be one:
Normally, the applicants who applied through entry points (b) and (c) will be required to attend an interview.
This is not always possible, e.g., for overseas students, in which case the application form and ‘home’ tutor’s recommendations will be used to decide suitability; phone, internet and video conferencing may also be used.
Places on the programmes will be offered based on applicants’ background qualifications and, where appropriate, experiences.
According to the Regulations for Wrexham University: ‘Taught master's Degrees’, it is possible for a non-graduate to be admitted to candidature provided that:
Irrespective of a candidate’s entry qualifications, the student must provide evidence to the satisfaction of the interview panel of his/her ability to complete academic work of the required standard to successfully complete the scheme of study proposed.
You will be assessed throughout your course through a variety of methods including portfolios, presentations and, for certain subjects, examinations.
The learning and teaching methods adopted reflect the QAA Master’s degree characteristics descriptors in the following ways:
The programme provides opportunities for formative, diagnostic and summative feedback.
The assessment methods used reflect the needs of the student group and allows for the knowledge and learning outcomes of the programme to be tested as well as allowing for the development and assessment of practical and transferable skills.
Where assessed group work is undertaken, you will be expected, through the production of meeting notes and action plans, to demonstrate that you have contributed equally to the task.
This element of personal contribution will determine your overall module assessment.
i.e., not all students within a group should expect the same mark.
It is promoted through guided study or feedback given to students.
We also offer workshops and support sessions in areas such as academic writing, effective note-making and preparing for assignments.
The MSc Composite Materials Engineering programme facilitates the need for a range of diverse industries at local, national, and international levels, to provide them with potential future employees of the highest calibre.
The programme has been devised to give you opportunities to demonstrate your relevant technical expertise, innovation, commitment, and sound judgment.
Thereby producing students who are Engineering professionals and a sought-after asset to future employers.
Previous students are either in full-time employment or pursuing a PhD.
The course equips you with thorough knowledge and skills in engineering at the forefront of new and emerging technologies.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/computer-game-development:
1 YR (FT) 2.5 YRS (PT)
with industry representatives through regular guest lectures, seminars and events.
a strong games/media business plan along with leadership & management skills.
with the latest tools and technology in a specialist studio dedicated to design & production.
This course delivers the expertise required to professionalise the design and development of technical elements for highly polished game projects.
The course facilitates graduates in games programming, AI design, game design, game engines, and game-based research to build a professional technical portfolio with an enhanced specialist skill set.
The programme has a strong technical focus with emphasis on professional quality throughout.
Areas covered include professional 3D modelling and sculpting skills, with respect to 3D topology and optimisation of assets to ensure fitness for purpose.
Other topics of focus will include the design and development of game applications, along with an understanding of modern publication and distribution processes.
You will learn to analyse and optimise game applications with respect to technical performance and user experience.
In addition, modern development and problem-solving strategies for artificial intelligence within games will play an important role.
The standard entry requirement for this programme is an honours degree of at least 2:2 classification in a Computer Science related subject area, or equivalent in any science-based degree with a strong computing element.
Applicants with substantial commercial or industrial experience, or graduates coming from non-computing backgrounds may be accepted, subject to interview and references.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/computer-science:
department in future and emerging technologies.
to a wide range of latest hardware and software.
to qualify for CISCO accreditation.
The MSc Computer Science degree aims to build upon the knowledge acquired at undergraduate level and provide students with advanced skills and expertise in specific areas of computer science.
It will allow students to delve deeper into specific areas of computer science, such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, and data science, and engage in research to contribute to the advancement of knowledge in computer science.
Using advanced theories students will be able to solve complex problems, lead software development projects and address real-world software engineering challenges.
The MSc Computer Science programme aims to build upon the knowledge acquired at undergraduate level and provide students with advanced skills and expertise in specific areas of computer science.
Students will study 6 core modules of 20 credits each, followed by a 60 credit dissertation, making a total of 180 credits.
The standard entry requirements for these programmes are an honours degree of at least 2:2 classification in a Computer Science related subject area, or equivalent in any science-based degree with a strong computing and/or engineering element.
This dynamic approach not only imparts industry-relevant skills but also empowers students to elevate their work to new heights when possible.
Assessments in computer science at the university level are designed to evaluate students' understanding, application, and proficiency in various aspects of the discipline.
Personalised Support
The department follows a well-established open-door approach, actively interacting with students, alumni, and industry stakeholders.
One obvious advantage of a Computer Science master’s degree is that students become more employable.
Employability Features Built into the Course:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/computer-science-with-advanced-practice:
20 months
This course aims to provide you with an opportunity to apply your knowledge and skills in a real-world environment.
The Advanced Practice route will build upon the standard MSc programme to provide you with the opportunity to enhance personal and professional development in preparation for entry into the job market.
In addition to practical and professional skills gained during their Advanced Practice placement, students will also be able to :
The MSc Computer Science (with Advanced Practice) programme aims to build upon the knowledge acquired at undergraduate level and provide students with advanced skills and expertise in specific areas of computer science.
For information about the university’s entry requirements for EU/international students, please visit our international section .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/creative-media-production:
professional media industry credits
industry work experience opportunities
based at the Creative Industries Building, home to BBC Wales
We are unique in that we can offer you extensive work experience opportunities which include leading some areas of the media projects that pass through our media production spaces.
This degree will enable you to develop your skills to Masters level and gain academic credit for activities that are going to support your career development including:
Thinking of furthering your career in Creative Media?
Hear more about the pathways available at Wrexham University.
Ideally a 2.2 undergraduate degree in a Media production related course.
The selection process may also involve interview and portfolio review of media work.
In the absence of a first related degree, selection will be based on interview regarding prior industry / media experience and a review of an existing portfolio of work.
Teaching delivery will be synchronous and asynchronous activities including Lectures, workshops, seminars, tutorial based activities and work placement activities.
Assessments include opportunities to demonstrate written and oral presentations skills, create media production tools and outputs, and also demonstrate leadership and team working skills.
(Essay, Report, Blogs, Portfolio of work, interactive online industry facing CV document.
This course will give you the training and expertise to work within one of the many exciting areas of the media industry.
With extensive work experience opportunities available on this course, you will be ready for a variety of careers in the professional media industry, depending on your chosen pathway, including:
For UK students , apply now for September 2025:
International students who wish to apply for the September intake will only be accepted through our International Application System Centurus which is separate to the application forms listed above.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/criminology-and-criminal-justice:
of the course is delivered online.
modules studied.
active lecturers deliver the programme.
This MA Criminology and Criminal Justice programme is designed to offer students, with or without a first degree in Criminology and Criminal Justice, the opportunity to progress academically and professionally within the field.
The programme integrates theory, social research, skills and professional experience, preparing students with critical thinking skills for employment in the workforce in criminal and community justice related settings.
It aims to:
We require an undergraduate degree classification of 2:1, but a 2:2 will be considered.
We will also consider applicants with relevant experience.
Applicants who live abroad are welcome to apply.
Each module (except the Research Project) will require students to complete a 4,000 word essay.
In Trimester Three, students will be required to complete a 10,000 word Research Project.
The MA Criminology and Criminal Justice programme allows students to reach their vocational aspirations, making them stand out to a wide range of employers attached to the fields of:
With further postgraduate study, career paths open to graduates may include counselling psychology, forensic psychology, social work or teaching and research.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/cyber-security:
from research-active professionals
curriculum
facilities including our Cyber Innovation Academy
This course aims to build upon the foundational knowledge acquired at UG level, providing you with advanced expertise and specialised training in the field of cybersecurity.
You’ll graduate with the knowledge and skills necessary to navigate complex challenges, drive innovation, and contribute to the advancement of knowledge in the field.
The MSc Cyber Security program aims to expand upon the foundational knowledge and skills obtained during undergraduate studies, offering students advanced expertise and speciali se d training in the realm of cybersecurity.
Its main goals include deepening students' comprehension of intricate cybersecurity concepts, nurturing critical thinking and analytical abilities, and honing their capacity to devise and execute secure systems and strategies.
By integrating advanced coursework, research endeavo u rs, and hands-on exercises, the program strives to cultivate graduates capable of proficiently analy s ing and mitigating risks, crafting resilient security frameworks, spearheading incident response and forensic inquiries, and making well-informed decisions to safeguard sensitive data and vital infrastructure.
The standard entry requirements for these programmes are an honours degree of at least 2:2 classification in a Cyber Security related subject area, or equivalent in any science-based degree with a strong computing and/or engineering element.
Additionally, every student is assigned a personal tutor, fostering regular meetings, while additional personalised support is extended to part-time students through the Virtual Learning Environment (VLE).
One obvious advantage of a Cyber Security master’s degree is that students become more employable.
Jobs include, but are not limited to :

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/cyber-security-with-advanced-practice:
The MSc Cyber Security with Advanced Practice course aims to provide you with an opportunity to apply your knowledge and skills in a real-world environment.
The course will build upon the standard MSc programme to provide you with the opportunity to enhance personal and professional development in preparation for entry into the job market.
The MSc Cyber Security (with Advanced Practice) program aims to expand upon the foundational knowledge and skills obtained during undergraduate studies, offering students advanced expertise and speciali se d training in the realm of cybersecurity.
This course is open to international students only .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/data-science-and-big-data-analytics:
in real-world case studies
from strong industry connections
This course aims to develop graduates who are experts in the field of data science.
The course covers a wide range of topics, including machine learning techniques, implementation and evaluation of data science approaches, tools, and techniques, analytical aspects of big data, finding patterns in data, making meaningful data-driven conclusions.
The MSc Data Science and Big Data Analytics program aims to cultivate graduates who possess expertise in the field of data science.
Encompassing a broad spectrum of subjects, the program delves into areas such as machine learning techniques, implementation and assessment of data science methodologies, utili s ation of analytical tools, and exploration of big data analytics.
Normal entry requirements for full time and part time will be one of:
Assessments in Data Science and Big Data Analytics at university level are designed to evaluate your understanding, application, and proficiency in various aspects of the discipline.
One obvious advantage of a Data Science and Big Data Analytics master’s degree is that students become more employable.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/design-interdisciplinary-practice:
We have developed this course to equip you with a balance of research, analytical and innovative skills ready for employment within the chosen area of your practice.
Students will study four core modules each worth 30 credits, followed by a final design project worth a total of 60 credits.
We currently require an initial undergraduate degree in a relevant subject, classified as First Class or 2:1, or evidence of recent activity in the subject equivalent to these classifications as determined by interview.
Applicants may also provide a portfolio of their own work, demonstrating their knowledge of design and their own artistic ability.
In terms of particular needs, the university Inclusion team can provide appropriate guidance and support should any students require reasonable adjustments to be made because of a recognised prevailing disability, medical condition, or specific learning difference.
This programme will equip students with many employable skills to enable them to pursue successful careers in the creative industries, working in art and design interdisciplinary practices as varied as:
Previous graduates have found roles as self employed artists/designers, lecturers, illustrators, special needs facilitators, theatrical prop makers and game designers.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/education-wales:
Online, Wrexham
programme to meet the needs of teachers in Wales.
by the Welsh government, with funding opportunities for teachers working in Wales.
professional learning for teachers in Wales, in line with national priorities.
The National MA Education (Wales) is a truly transformative and sector-leading programme for educational professionals in Wales, from early career teachers to senior leaders.
Plus 2 optional modules (all 20 credits):
Generic pathway
ANL pathway
Leadership pathway
Curriculum pathway
Equity in education pathway
The information listed in this section is an overview of the academic content of the programme that will take the form of either core or optional modules.
Modules are designated as core or optional in accordance with professional body requirements and internal academic framework review, so may be subject to change.
Applicants must have Qualified Teacher Status (primary or secondary) to be eligible for this programme.
In addition to the direct application form, applicants for this programme are required to complete the National MA Education (Wales) Supplementary Application Form OR the Recognition of Prior Learning Application Form , if claiming RPL with your application*.
This completed form should be emailed to admissions@glyndwr.ac.uk on completion.
Due to the complexity of the application and funding application process for the National MA Education (Wales), we will endeavour to communicate whether your application has been successful as soon as possible, but at this point we are not able to provide a detailed timeframe for response.
If you have any questions about the status of your application at any time, do please contact us at enquiries@glyndwr.ac.uk .
*If you wish to claim RPL (Recognition of Prior Learning) for this programme, please see the National MA Education RPL guide .
More information can be found on the National MA Education Wales website .
Assessments are all coursework-based and will be submitted at the end of each module.
Wherever possible, assignments have been designed to complement the working contexts and schedules of full-time teachers.
The course includes approx 200 hours of study per 20 credit module, of which 22 will be contact hours.
Learning will be a blend of online and face-to-face teaching, through a series of lectures, seminars, group activities and individual projects.
Students on this course will join students on the same course at 6 other HEIs.
There will be peer-to-peer support hosted on the WG Hwb, alongside all the regular USW support services and mechanisms.
This course is for educational professionals who have already embarked on their career.
Completion of the National MA Education (Wales) offers the following pathways:
The degree supports professionals working at all levels within educational contexts to develop their research knowledge, skills, and understanding.
This will be so graduates can evaluate, analyse, and reflect on their current educational practice, informed by relevant international research and key theoretical ideas.
This course has been designed to support the retention of all education professionals, especially teachers in Wales.
It will also build the capacity for change in terms of the broader aspirations of the sector, during a time of national change in Education.
The National programme has also been developed to increase system-wide leadership capacity across educational settings and specialisms.
This degree programme equips students with the knowledge, skills and flexibility needed for the contemporary mental health and wellbeing sector.
MA EDUCATION (WALES) MA EDUCATION (WALES) ADDITIONAL LEARNING NEEDS MA EDUCATION (WALES) CURRICULUM MA EDUCATION (WALES) EQUITY IN EDUCATION MA EDUCATION (WALES) LEADERSHIP

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/emergency-nursing:
with local NHS clinical partners
by subject area specialists
education u sing both low and high fidelity simulation
The Postgraduate Certificate in Emergency Nursing programme will extend your knowledge and skills within the Emergency and urgent care settings.
The three core level 7 modules are designed to enhance your ability to provide evidence based, gold standard emergency care to the patients in your care.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/emergency-practitioner:
by subject area experts
education in a high-fidelity environment
The overall aim of the programme is to prepare the emergency practitioner for their autonomous role in their chosen setting in the Emergency Department, Minor Injuries Unit, Urgent Care Centre or within the ambulance service.
The programme will prepare the practitioner to develop professional practice, to ensure service improvement and innovation and to develop the practitioner’s competence and confidence to deliver autonomous care to both minor injury and illness presentations in a variety of settings.
The modules you will study will be as follows:
A ll applicants are expected to be currently employed in a role * within the NHS.
In addition, they must have been registered with NMC or HCPC for 2 years and have a current DBS as part of their role.
* T he applicants can be nurses, paramedics and physiotherapist s .
T hey would be expected to be working in emergency care, prehospital care, minor injuries units, urgent care centres, walk in centres and/or prison environments

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/engineering-automotive:
to specialist equipment and various vehicles
from experienced professionals and experts in the field
The MSc Automotive Engineering programme contains a set of key modules covering the essential aspects of modern automotive engineering.
This provides a solid background for a successful career in the automotive engineering sector (manufacturers, OEM, R&D) or in motorsport.
The knowledge and the skills delivered in the MSc Automotive Engineering course are transferable to other engineering fields.
The programme provides the opportunity to combine practical aspects of automotive engineering as well as simulation-based projects using industry-relevant software.
An open and friendly atmosphere enhances your learning experience.
Strong links to local, national, and international companies ensure the standard of teaching is industry relevant to provide you with the best possible starting point for your professional career paths.
Normal entry requirements for full-time and part-time intake will be one of:
According to the Regulations for Wrexham University: ‘Taught master’s Degrees’, it is possible for a non-graduate to be admitted to candidature provided that:
The programme is informed and guided by the Active Learning Framework (ALF), which incorporates a blended learning approach.
This approach is a key part of the delivery and involves teaching, learning support, and the delivery of online sessions.
The embedding of ALF provides students with a more flexible approach to their learning and is fundamental in giving all students equal opportunities to succeed.
The learning and teaching methods adopted to reflect the QAA Master’s degree characteristics descriptors in the following ways:
This is promoted through guided study or feedback given to students.
The MSc Automotive Engineering programme facilitates the needs of a range of diverse industries at local, national, and international levels, to provide them with potential future employees of the highest calibre.
The programme has been devised to give you opportunities to demonstrate their relevant technical expertise, innovation, commitment, and sound judgment.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/engineering-electrical-and-electronic:
software tools such as VEE, MULTISIM and MATLAB used extensively.
The MSc Electrical and Electronic Engineering programme covers design, modelling, and test algorithms for complex electrical and electronic assemblies.
Software development is an integral part of a modern electronic engineers’ role and to support this, software tools such as VEE, MULTISIM and MATLAB are used extensively in the course.
The usage of electronic, automation and motor drive systems has grown immensely over the past few years in both industrial and domestic applications.
This domination is based on recent advances in power electronics, electric motors, and control engineering.
It has been observed that almost half of the global electrical energy is consumed today by electric derives and automation systems.
Electrical and Electronic engineers are also involved with advanced industrial control including design, software programming and control of embedded systems using microcontrollers and microcomputers.
The telecoms for mobile phone applications requires electronic engineers to provide the development, implementation and maintenances of advanced communication systems and devices.
There are also many roles for them in the energy industries, for example, designing and running complex control systems such as those needed to run the National Grid or to control a nuclear power station.
Normal entry requirements for full time and part time intake will be one of:
Normally, the applicants applied through entry points (b) and (c) will be required to attend for an interview.
This is not always possible, e.g., overseas students, in which case the application form and ‘home’ tutor’s recommendations will be used to decide suitability; phone, internet and video conferencing may also be used.
The embedding of ALF provides students with a more flexible approach to their learning and is fundamental in giving all students equal opportunity to succeed.
The MSc Electrical and Electronic Engineering programme facilitates the needs for a range of diverse industries at local, national, and international levels, to provide them with potential future employees of the highest calibre.
Previous students are either in full time employment or pursuing a PhD.
Graduates will be well placed to become subject specialists within industry or to pursue research careers within academia.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/engineering-mechanical-manufacture:
state-of-the-art commercial software
We aim to ensure that the MSc Engineering (Mechanical Manufacturing) comprises fit-for-purpose teaching and research experience to provide a solid background for a career in the engineering and manufacturing industry sector.
The Government is focusing heavily on boosting the UK manufacturing industry; failure to meet demands for engineering skills could cost the UK £27bn a year.
58% of all new jobs will be STEM related, and the number of those studying for degrees in science, engineering and technology must increase by over 40% on current levels if demands are to be met.
Of all STEM skills, those in mechanical and manufacturing engineering are becoming increasingly highly valued.[1]
[1] A.
Kumar, N.
Randerson, and E.
Johnson, “The state of engineering, Engineering UK 2015.
[Online].
Available: https://www.engineeringuk.com/media/1466/enguk-report-2015-interactive.pdf
The MSc Engineering (Mechanical Manufacture) programme facilitates the needs for a range of diverse industries at local, national, and international levels, to provide them with potential future employees of the highest calibre.
The programme has been devised to give you the opportunities to demonstrate your relevant technical expertise, innovation, commitment, and sound judgment.
Graduates will be well placed to become subject specialists within industry, or to pursue research careers within academia.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/engineering-renewable-and-sustainable-energy:
the future of renewable energy and it’s risks and benefits
The MSc in Engineering (Renewable & Sustainable Energy) provides an up-to-date overview of climate change, its causes, consequences, and solutions.
Energy economics and markets are examined together with socio-economic, energy security and political issues.
Energy reduction measures are also analysed.
The option renewable technology and energy storage examines all the major renewable energy sources (wind, solar, hydro River, tidal and wave) and how the energy can be assessed, predicted, modelled, and used or stored.
The future of renewable energy will rely on innovative forward-thinking businesses, politicians, engineers, and managers and as such this programme also encourages creativity and entrepreneurship to produce solutions to real world problems.
To meet the 2050 carbon reduction targets to control climate change most countries have signed targets to transition from traditional fossil fuel energy sources to renewable and sustainable energies.
This specialism offers a graduate a chance to access this exciting, growing and highly innovative field.
According to the Regulations for Glyndŵr University: ‘Taught master's Degrees’, it is possible for a non-graduate to be admitted to candidature provided that:
The MSc in Engineering (Renewable and Sustainable Energy) facilitates the needs for a range of diverse industries at local, national, and international levels, to provide them with potential future employees of the highest calibre.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/football-science-and-coaching:
from Football experts who are UEFA A and Pro License qualified
to publish your dissertation to the annual CASES student conference
in our advanced football facility at Colliers Park
If you have a deep love for football and want to immerse yourself in the sport academically and professionally then this is the course for you.
Football is a global sport, and a master’s degree can help enhance your knowledge on a global scale.
The football industry offers diverse career paths, including coaching, sports management, marketing, and sports psychology.
A master's degree can provide the necessary qualifications and skills.
Studying in a football-focused program allows students to connect with industry professionals, coaches, and fellow enthusiasts, which can be invaluable for future job prospects.
The program typically covers various aspects of the sport, including player development, tactics and analytics, equipping students with a well-rounded understanding of the industry.
This course is:
Our aca d emi c team is h ere to inspire a nd empower learner s thr o ugh a com mit ment to ex c elle n ce in spo r t and exe rcis e scien c es .
Together, we will cultivate a culture of curiosity and collaboration, preparing you to lead and make impactful contributions to the field and beyond.
A 2:2 bachelors degree, a DBS may be needed for work in applied clinical settings.
A mixture of lectures, workshops, practical’s, pitch side, off-site visits and lab sessions are fundamental methods of teaching on the programme.
The types of assessments vary from: posters, social media posts, presentations, businesses pitches, portfolios, project work and much more.
The Sport and Exercise Sciences dept champions real-life authentic assessments, ensuring what students do as part of their degree can be translated into employment.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/football-science-and-coaching-intensive-pathway:
1 YR (FT) 2 YR (PT)
industry recognised qualifications
with WAFC and the FAW
If you have a deep love for football then this is the course for you.
This programme includes your football coaching licenses free of charge, ensuring you gain industry recognised qualifications alongside your masters degree.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/game-art:
at a multi-UK-award winning games development centre (UK Games Academic of the Year 2020, Student Hero Award 2020 – Grads in Games).
for conceptual designers, character and environment artists, technical artists, game designers and consultants in one the fastest growing industries in the creative digital sector.
to take skills to a level required to access higher game art and design positions within studios, and develop advanced reflective practice and entrepreneurial skills needed to progress in the modern games and digital media industry.
This course delivers the expertise required to professionalise the production of artistic elements for highly polished game projects.
The course facilitates graduates in character production, environmental design, 3D design software, game engines, and game-based research to build a professional art portfolio with an enhanced specialist skill set.
Areas covered include advanced character and creature design along with professional 3D modelling and sculpting skills.
You will also enhance your knowledge of 3D topology and optimisation of assets, to ensure that the products and content you create are game-ready.
You will also have the opportunity to work in multi-disciplinary teams, to analyse and design unique game prototypes that explore the impact of design decisions on user experience.
The standard entry requirement for this programme is an honours degree of at least 2:2 classification in a Games, Arts & Design or Computer Science related subject area, or equivalent in any science-based degree with a strong creative digital element.
Applicants with substantial commercial or industrial experience, or graduates coming from non-Computing backgrounds can be accepted, subject to interview and references.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/international-business-and-data-analytics-management:
1 YR (FT) 3 YRS (PT)
by academics and industry experts.
and subject focused assessments.
advanced practice module available.
The MSc International Business and Data Analytics Management programme provides the foundations to achieve future management potential within the chosen business field to students who have little or no business work experience.
The programme is structured to give you the opportunity to study subject areas through your chosen pathway, while also engaging with core modules across the programme, which allows breadth of diversity, inter-connection and enrichment amongst studies, both in the classroom and the wider student community.
The MSc programme incorporates distinctive areas of knowledge, skills and mind-set traits which contribute to effective performance at a management level within an organisation.
Module content, delivery and assessment develops the individual profile of the learner, enabling greater confidence and marketability as a professional.
Advance your studies at postgraduate level and build a career in an international business and data analytics management role.
The modules studied on the MSc International Business and Data Analytics Management programme actively encourage you to apply theory and modelling tools to acquire and expand your innovation, creativity, problem-solving and judgement skills to evaluate, assess and make justified business and financial decisions and reasoning within key business and data analytics areas, focusing on real world scenarios, discussions, debates and complex challenges.
You will develop a depth of knowledge through the analysis of theory to practice, enabling you to build specialised and in-demand skillsets, as you explore current and future areas within international business and data analytics management, equipping you with the knowledge and tools needed to enhance your prospects and make a professional impact on your future career.
Taught modules
Subject Specific modules
Optional modules
Dissertation Modules
Advanced Practice Placement
If completing with Advanced Practice you will complete a 12-week internship in addition to the above.
All business MSc programmes are offered with an additional advanced practice module which provides you with the opportunity for increased credits through undertaking a 3-month internship in a company.
This helps provide you with fantastic future employability opportunities and the chance to use the knowledge gained during your taught programmes in real life projects.
(The university does not secure placements and it is your responsibility to organise this).
Applicants will normally be expected to hold a good first honours degree (2:2 or above in any subject), or international equivalent.
A non-graduate qualification, which the University deems to be of satisfactory standard for the purpose of post-graduate admission.
Applicants may be a recent graduate, who has achieved their honours degree, and wishes to continue to post graduate studies to elevate their career opportunities.
Where necessary, or as part of the University’s policies and processes, applicants may be subject to additional selection criteria
These figures are intended as a general guide.
Each application is considered individually.
International entry qualifications are outlined on the National Academic Recognition and Information Centre (NARIC) as equivalent to the relevant UK entry qualification.
In addition to the academic entry requirements, all applicants whose first language is not English or Welsh must demonstrate English language proficiency.
European students are able to provide this evidence in a number of ways (please see https://glyndwr.ac.uk/International-students/academic-entry-requirements/ for details), including IELTS.
International students require a UKVI Approved Secure English Language Test (SELT) (please see https://glyndwr.ac.uk/International-students/English-language-requirements/ for details).
How you will learn
The learning and teaching strategy of the programmes is based on the acquisition of new or modified knowledge, behaviours, skills, and values which lead to the empowerment of learners with the confidence to participate, critically and creatively, in the study of their subject area.
This is supported by drawing on emergent business issues to enable students to experience, at first hand, the subject material in a manner which is closely related to business and management practices.
Delivery of teaching will be a mixture of formal and informal approaches including lectures, tutorials, group debates, and experiential learning which will be integrated and supported with the use of technological developments to provide additional flexibility, variety and access to a wider range of resources and materials supporting the Active Learning Framework from the university.
Contact hours for the programme will be through formal lectures and tutorials of approximately 3 hours per module per week.
How you will be assessed
You will be assessed through a range of contemporary methods such as essays, reports, strategy plans, portfolios, reflections, Vlogs, posters, and presentations which aim to create confident learners when they move into the workplace.
Advice, guidance, and feedback from formative and summative assessment will be provided as a mechanism to acquire and develop learning skills and understand sound academic practice, using, wherever possible, the cross programme virtual learning environment.
Master of Science (MSc) or Master of Science (MSc) with advanced practice.
For all the International MSc routes, the following applies in relation to exit awards:
Students who have 120 credits and 60 credits from their advanced practice module but choose not to continue the programme will exit with the following award:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/international-business-and-finance-management:
The MSc International Business and Finance Management programme provides the foundations to achieve future management potential within the chosen business field to students who have little or no business work experience.
The programme is structured to give you the opportunity to study subject areas through your chosen pathway, while also engaging with core modules across the programme, which allows a breadth of diversity, interconnection and enrichment amongst studies, both in the classroom and the wider student community.
The MSc programme incorporates distinctive areas of knowledge, skills and mindset traits which contribute to effective performance at a management level within an organisation.
Advance your studies at the postgraduate level and build a career in international business and finance management.
The modules studied in the MSc International Business and Finance Management programme actively encourage you to apply theory and modelling tools to acquire and expand your innovation, creativity, problem-solving and judgement skills to evaluate, assess and make justified business and financial decisions and reasoning within key business and finance areas, focusing on real-world scenarios, discussions, debates, and complex challenges.
You will develop a depth of knowledge through the analysis of theory to practice, enabling you to build specialised and in-demand skillsets, as you explore current and future areas in international business, finance and financial markets, accounting, investment and banking, equipping you with the knowledge and tools needed to enhance your prospects and make a professional impact on your future career.
Taught Modules
Subject Specific Modules
Optional Modules
If completing with Advanced Practice, you will complete a 12-week internship in addition to the above.
This helps provide you with fantastic future employability opportunities and the chance to use the knowledge gained during your taught programmes in real-life projects.
International Business and Finance Management (with Advanced Practice) - Apply Now
(The university does not secure placements and it is the students’ responsibility to organise this).
A non-graduate qualification, which the University deems to be of a satisfactory standard for the purpose of post-graduate admission.
Applicants may be recent graduate, who has achieved their honours degree and wishes to continue to postgraduate studies to elevate their career opportunities.
International entry qualifications are outlined on the National Academic Recognition and Information Centre (NARIC) as equivalent to the relevant UK entry qualification.
European students are able to provide this evidence in a number of ways (please see https://wrexham.ac.uk/international-students/international-academic-entry-requirements/ for details), including IELTS.
International students require a UKVI Approved Secure English Language Test (SELT) (please see https://wrexham.ac.uk/International-students/English-language-requirements/ for details).
This is supported by drawing on emergent business issues to enable students to experience, at first-hand, the subject material in a manner which is closely related to business and management practices.
Advice, guidance, and feedback from the formative and summative assessments will be provided as a mechanism to acquire and develop learning skills and understand sound academic practice, using, wherever possible, the cross programme's virtual learning environment.
Master of Science (MSc) or Master of Science (MSc) with advanced practice
Students who have 120 credits and 60 credits from their advanced practice module but choose not to continue the programme will exit with the following award: PG Diploma International Business and Finance Management with Advanced Practice.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/international-business-and-supply-chain-management:
The MSc International Business and Supply Chain Management programme provides the foundations to achieve future management potential within the chosen business field to students who have little or no business work experience.
The programme is structured to give you the opportunity to study subject areas through your chosen pathways, while also engaging with core modules across the programme, which allows breadth of diversity, inter-connection and enrichment amongst studies, both in the classroom and the wider student community.
Advance your studies at postgraduate level and build a career in an international business and supply chain management role.
The modules studied on the MSc International Business and Supply Change Management programme actively encourage you to apply theory and modelling tools to acquire and expand your innovation, creativity, problem-solving and judgement skills to evaluate, assess and make justified business and financial decisions and reasoning within key business and supply chain areas, focusing on real world scenarios, discussions, debates and complex challenges.
You will develop a depth of knowledge through the analysis of theory to practice, enabling you to build specialised and in-demand skillsets, as you explore current and future areas within international business and supply chain management, equipping you with the knowledge and tools needed to enhance your prospects and make a professional impact on your future career.
MSc International Business and Supply Chain Management - Apply Now

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/international-business-management:
The MSc International Business Management programme provides the foundations to achieve future management potential within the chosen business field to students who have little or no business work experience.
Advance your studies at post graduate level and build a career in international business management role.
The modules studied on the MSc International Business Management programme actively encourage you to apply theory and modelling tools to acquire and expand your innovation, creativity, problem-solving and judgement skills to evaluate, assess and make justified business and financial decisions and reasoning within key business areas, focusing on real world scenarios, discussions, debates and complex challenges.
You will develop a depth of knowledge through the analysis of theory to practice, enabling you to build specialised and in-demand skillsets, as you explore current and future areas in international business, equipping you with the knowledge and tools needed to enhance your prospects and make a professional impact on your future career.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/international-health-services-management:
The MSc International Health Services Management programme provides the foundations to achieve future management potential within the chosen business field to students who have little or no business work experience.
The programme is structured to give you the opportunity to study subject areas through their chosen pathways, while also engaging with core modules across the programme, which allows breadth of diversity, inter-connection and enrichment amongst studies, both in the classroom and the wider student community.
Advance your studies at postgraduate level and build a career in an international health services management role.
The modules studied on the MSc International Health Services Management programme actively encourage you as the student to apply theory and modelling tools to acquire and expand your innovation, creativity, problem-solving and judgement skills to evaluate, assess and make justified business and financial decisions and reasoning within key business and health service areas, focusing on real world scenarios, discussions, debates and complex challenges.
You will develop a depth of knowledge through the analysis of theory to practice, enabling you to build specialised and in-demand skillsets, as you explore current and future areas within international health services management, equipping you with the knowledge and tools needed to enhance your prospects and make a professional impact on your future career.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/international-hospitality-and-tourism-management:
The MSc International Hospitality and Tourism Management programme provides the foundations to achieve future management potential within the chosen business field to students who have little or no business work experience.
Advance your studies at post graduate level and build a career in an international hospitality and tourism management role.
The modules studied on the MSc International Hospitality and Tourism Management programme actively encourage you to apply theory and modelling tools to acquire and expand your innovation, creativity, problem-solving and judgement skills to evaluate, assess and make justified business and financial decisions and reasoning within key business and hospitality and tourism areas, focusing on real world scenarios, discussions, debates and complex challenges.
You will develop a depth of knowledge through the analysis of theory to practice, enabling you to build specialised and in-demand skillsets, as you explore current and future areas within international tourism and hospitality, equipping you with the knowledge and tools needed to enhance your prospects and make a professional impact on your future career.
MSc International Hospitality and Tourism Management (with Advanced Practice) - Apply Now

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/international-human-resource-management:
The MSc International HRM Management programme provides the foundations to achieve future management potential within the chosen business field to students who have little or no business work experience.
Advance your studies at the postgraduate level and build a career in an international human resource management role.
The modules studied on the MSc International HRM Management programme actively encourage you to apply theory and modelling tools to acquire and expand your innovation, creativity, problem-solving and judgement skills to evaluate, assess and make justified business and financial decisions and reasoning within key business and HR areas, focusing on real-world scenarios, discussions, debates and complex challenges.
You will develop a depth of knowledge through the analysis of theory to practice, enabling you to build specialised and in-demand skillsets, as you explore current and future areas within international Human Resources, equipping you with the knowledge and tools needed to enhance your prospects and make a professional impact on your future career.
MSc International Human Resource Management (with Advanced Practice) - Apply Now
This is supported by drawing on emergent business issues to enable students to experience, first-hand, the subject material in a manner which is closely related to business and management practices.
Advice, guidance, and feedback from the formative and summative assessments will be provided as a mechanism to acquire and develop learning skills and understand sound academic practice, using, wherever possible, the cross programme virtual learning environment.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/international-marketing-management:
The Master's in International Marketing Management provides the foundations to achieve future management potential within the chosen business field to students who have little or no business work experience.
The programme is structured to give you the opportunity to study subject areas through your chosen pathways, while also engaging with core modules across the programme, which allows a breadth of diversity, interconnection and enrichment amongst studies, both in the classroom and the wider student community.
Our MSc International Marketing Management programme incorporates distinctive areas of knowledge, skills and mindset traits which contribute to effective performance at a management level within an organisation.
Advance your studies at the postgraduate level and build a career in an international marketing management role.
The modules studied in the MSc International Marketing Management programme actively encourage you to apply theory and modelling tools to acquire and expand your innovation, creativity, problem-solving and judgement skills to evaluate, assess and make justified business and financial decisions and reasoning within key business and marketing areas, focusing on real-world scenarios, discussions, debates and complex challenges.
You will develop a depth of knowledge through the analysis of theory to practice, enabling you to build specialised and in-demand skillsets, as you explore current and future areas within international marketing management, equipping you with the knowledge and tools needed to enhance your prospects and make a professional impact on your future career.
Subject-Specific Modules
Dissertation Module
All MSc programmes are offered with an additional advanced practice module which provides you with the opportunity for increased credits through undertaking a 3-month internship in a company.
MSc International Marketing Management (with Advanced Practice) - Apply Now

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/leadership-for-wellbeing:
You will study four core modules and self-select a further option module aligned to your interests / needs.
If studying full time, all modules will be completed within one academic year, and if studying part time , three modules will be completed in the first year and two in the second.
For this MSc programme, the following is recommended with regard to the minimum amount of time that should be committed to studying.
Please note that the expected time commitments may vary slightly throughout the academic year, with more time required to complete assessments, WBL hours and research activities:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/learning-and-teaching-in-higher-education:
1YR (PT)
for new teachers looking to enhance their skills and knowledge in the profession.
your approaches to effective practices in a higher education context.
to gain professional recognition as a fellow of the Higher Education Academy (FHEA).
The programme is delivered over the course of one academic year at Wrexham University.
The two modules are aligned to the UK Professional Standards Framework (UKPSF) and enable participants to reflect upon their own practice, learn from sharing practice with others and develop a deep understanding of the educational models that support learning and teaching in higher education.
Applicants will normally be expected to have an undergraduate degree in their own discipline and access to regular teaching in a higher educational institution.
Assessment is 100% coursework.
Students on the course must be employed within the HE sector and have a substantive teaching role.
Completion of the full award (PG CERT Learning and Teaching in Higher Education) will enable participants to gain professional recognition as fellows of the Higher Education Academy (FHEA) at Descriptor 2 of the UKPSF, which is the sector standard required of teachers in higher education.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/ma-youth-and-community-work-jnc-top-up-:
to upgrade your PG Diploma in Youth and Community Work to a Masters
research that will have implications for youth work policy and practice
study through our HyFlex approach
The MA Youth and Community Work (JNC) (Top Up) course is an opportunity for youth and community workers who already hold a Post Graduate Diploma in Youth and Community Work with a JNC professional qualification, to return to study and gain a full Masters award.
NB: course fees do not include the cost of weekend residential activities.
The cost of transport and accommodation is to be met by the student
You will complete your dissertation across the whole academic year
The focus will be on completing the dissertation module which will require you to design and undertake your own research into an area of youth work policy and practice.
This will involve appraising existing research in the field of study, applying for research ethics, justifying your research design, collecting and analysing data, and making valid recommendations to enhance the youth and community work profession.
NB: due to the blended delivery, and part time nature of this programme, it does not meet the requirements for international postgraduate student visas
The programme is delivered using a unique Hy-Flex approach to learning.
For this programme, you will be required to complete:
Young Carers Care Leavers and Young People in Care Young Offenders Hospital Youth Work Mental Health Youth Homelessness and Housing Youth Sports and Health Development Youth Clubs and Street Based Youth Work Child Sexual Exploitation Outdoor Education Community Development Mentoring and Advocacy Young People who have disabilities

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/mba:
enables you to investigate, analyse and propose solutions to a business problem.
teaching based on contemporary business issues.
a portfolio of management skills and enhance your future career prospects.
An MBA continues to be the flagship qualification for postgraduate business students seeking to increase their subject knowledge, build a portfolio of management skills and enhance their future career prospects in a competitive and increasingly global arena.
The MBA suite consists of a number of routes, all of which encompass three core topics that provide the foundation for a successful business, namely strategy, finance and leadership.
We would normally expect a good first honours degree (2:2 or above) plus two years’ postgraduate experience.
Exceptionally, applicants without a first degree who can evidence extensive relevant experience of more than two years in a relevant professional role(s) may be considered.
Such applicants may be subject to additional selection criteria at the university’s discretion.
For all successful applicants, emphasis will be placed on the need to work intensively and consistently throughout the course with a commitment to high attendance and the meeting of all deadlines.
The taught modules will be assessed predominantly through individual or group assignments.
However, several modules will have an examination as part of the assessment procedure.
You must pass all of your modules to attain 120 credits and progress onto the dissertation stage.
To be awarded the MBA, successful completion of the dissertation is required, and 180 credits attained.
You will be required to submit your dissertation in the autumn following assessment in May.
Upon progression to the dissertation stage, you will be allocated a supervisor to advise on the construction and progression of your dissertation.
Module code & title
Assessment type
Assessment loading
Implementing Strategies
Oral Assessment 100%
3,500 words
Integrated Communications
Presentation 50% Report 50%
20 mins 200 words
Financial Insights and Business Intelligence
Essay 50% Report 50%
2,000 words 2,000 words
Contemporary Leadership Themes
Case Study 50% Presentation 50%
2,000 words 20 mins, 2,000 words
Emphasising the Environment
Coursework 100%
Evaluating Risk and Decisions
Coursework 60% Reflective Practice 40%
2,500 words 2,000 words
Creative Change and Innovation
Case Study 50%                Presentation 50%
2,500 words 20 mins, 10 mins questions
Research Methods/Dissertation
Dissertation 100%
18,000 words
The programme is delivered through a series of six or eight taught subject specific modules over two trimesters.
Whilst there is a theoretical element within each module, the focus is on contemporary business issues and problems to provide case studies, and the opportunity for critical debate to enhance knowledge and practical application.
Students also study research methods and submit a research proposal at the end of trimester two.
They are encouraged to select a research topic of a contemporary nature, related to business and management, which has potential value and relevance to future career aspirations.
During the third semester, students complete a dissertation which involves a research element and attendance at a series of individually arranged supervision meetings.
The full-time programme delivery is timetabled over two or three days per week, which provides flexibility for students who are working and can be completed over a 12-month period, provided satisfactory progress is made through the modular delivery.
Our part-time route extends the programme to two years and requires attendance for one or two days per week during teaching weeks.
Full-time and part-time students will be taught together to enhance the richness of the learning environment in several areas, including the opportunities for networking, communication and group work.
Students will typically be expected to attend a three hour block per week devoted to each module.
This will consist of a lecture and a tutorial to enable skills development and application.
The majority of the modules have two assignments which students will be required to complete in order to progress through the programme.
The career direction of MBA students is both diverse and specialised, however roles requiring effective planning and undertaking of projects is strongly evidenced, together with enhanced responsibilities and the management of a team or group where leadership skills and decision making are clearly required.
Other roles may be more focused on a specialism such as human resources, marketing, finance and accounting.
Past students have gone into roles including:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/msc-counselling:
by experienced practitioners
refurbished counselling simulation suites
in an experiential way
The MSc Counselling will equip you with the knowledge and skills to work within the role of a professional counsellor.
You will be taught theory of Counselling, and how this relates to client work, with a strong emphasis on working ethically and professionally in the field.
You will cover a variety of modules, introducing you to the theory of Person-Centred Counselling, alongside skills practice and personal development groups.
You will be introduced to research methods for counselling research and begin to formulate your ideas for your final research project.
In your second year of study, you will continue to develop your understanding of counselling theory.
In this year, you will begin your Counselling placement and start to accrue your 100 client contact hours.
You will also continue to develop and complete your final research project .
These assessments may be self, peer or tutor assessed, and include recordings and critiques of transcribed counselling sessions, live practice with peers (Triads), presentations, theory and reflection written assignments, case studies and portfolios of evidence.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/msc-strength--conditioning:
to UKSCA
delivery through a blended learning approach
This course is for those passionate about pursuing careers in sports performance, coaching, or rehabilitation.
This include graduates from Sports Science, Sports Injury Rehabilitation, Physiotherapy or related undergraduate courses who are looking to specialise further.
The entry requirements for this programme are 2:2 or above in any undergraduate degree.
International entry qualifications are outlined on the UK National Information Centre for global qualifications and skills (UK ENIC ) as equivalent to the relevant UK entry qualification.
In addition to the academic entry requirements, all applicants whose first language is not English or Welsh must demonstrate English language proficiency .
All applicants successful in being offered a place on the programmes will be subject to a satisfactory DBS clearance undertaken by Wrexham University.
A DBS may be required for the placement component of the programme where the placement involves regulated activity working with vulnerable Children and/or Adults.
This will be checked as part of the placement process, identifying where required , the appropriate type and level of DBS.
Where required, the relevant DBS will be conducted prior to commencement on the placement.
The type and level of DBS check required will be confirmed to you during the DBS application process.
Failure to declare a conviction, which is subsequently revealed by a DBS check may result in exclusion from the programme.
The nature of declared convictions is taken into consideration following our Consideration of Criminal Convictions Policy & Procedure.
In line with the Universities Disciplinary Procedure for Students, all students are required to disclose a criminal record acquired during the student’s enrolment with the University.
Our MSc in Strength and Conditioning offers a dynamic learning experience that combines theoretical knowledge with practical application.
Students will engage in interactive lectures, seminars, and hands-on workshops to develop a deep understanding of S&C principles.
Benefit from a mandatory 150-hour placement, applying your skills in real-world settings under the guidance of qualified professionals.
Practical skills will be evaluated through in-class assessments, presentations and potentially video or in-person analysis of coaching techniques.
Critical thinking and self-reflection will be fostered through assignments requiring analysis of research or case studies, as well as reflective writing exercises.
This program is designed to equip you with the expertise and experience needed for a successful career in Strength and Conditioning.
The programme further supports and enhances students’ continued professional development by giving them the opportunity to attain the Level 4 Strength and Conditioning Coaching qualification (free of charge) alongside the degree course.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/non-medical-prescribing-for-nurses-pharmacists-and-allied-health-professionals:
Varied
a systematic, evidence-based and reflective approach to clinical decision making in prescribing practice.
the critical thinking and decision-making skills required to prescribe safely.
modules specific to your profession
Our non-medical prescribing modules enable you to develop the competence to practice safely and appropriately in relation to professional standards set by Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC), General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) or Health Care Professional Council (HCPC).
Programmes available to study include:
The Independent/Supplementary prescribing for nurses (V300), Independent prescribing for pharmacists, Supplementary Prescribing for Allied Health Professions and Independent and Supplementary Prescribing for AHP modules provide an educational programme for Nurses, Midwives or Specialist Community Public Health Nurses, Pharmacists and Allied Health Professions to prepare them for recording as non-medical prescribers by their respective professional bodies (NMC, GPhC and HCPC).
The module is delivered at undergraduate (Level 6) for nurses and post-graduate (Level 7) for nurses and post-graduate (Level 7) only for Pharmacists and Allied Health Professionals.
The above programmes are all 40 credit module either at Level 6 or Level 7 and are delivered on a part-time basis.
The programme consists of 400 hours of student effort and consists of 26 theoretical sessions
and a minimum of 78 hours of clinical placement practice learning for Nurses and 90 hours for Pharmacists and Allied Health Professionals.
Independent/Supplementary prescribing for Nurses* (V300), (*includes Midwives and SCPHN)
For nurse, midwives and specialist community public health nurse applicant must meet ALL of the following criteria:
• Valid registration on Part 1, 2, and 3 of the Professional Register maintained by NMC.
• Have at least three years’ post-registration clinical nursing experience as a practising nurse, midwife or specialist community public health nurse and be deemed competent by your employer to undertake the programme.
Of these three years, the year immediately preceding application to the programme must have been in the clinical field in which you intend to prescribe, e.g.
Neonates, mental health.
Part-time workers must have practised for a sufficient period to be deemed competent by their employer.
• Have appropriate experience in the area of practice in which they will be prescribing; the employing organisations will assess and confirm the appropriate experience AND competency in areas of practice.
The NMC require employers to undertake an appraisal of a registrant’s suitability to prescribe before they apply for a training place.
This includes the applicant’s ability to diagnose in their area of speciality and appropriate numeracy skills.
• Applicants may enrol on a clinical assessment diagnosis and treatment module which starts in Semester 1 (October) prior to accessing the prescribing module in Semester 2 (January).
Independent prescribing for Pharmacists
For pharmacists you must meet ALL of the following criteria:
• Applicants are registered as a pharmacist with the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) or in Northern Ireland, with the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland (PSNI) • Applicants are in good standing with the GPhC and/or PSNI and any other health care regulator with which they are registered.
• Applicants must have an identified area of clinical or therapeutic practice in which to develop independent prescribing practice.
• They must also have relevant clinical or therapeutic experience in that area, which is suitable to act as the foundation of their prescribing practice while training.
• Applicants must have a designated prescribing practitioner (DPP) who has agreed to supervise their learning in practice for a period of at least 90 hours of learning in practice.
• Opportunities are provided that enable NHS, self-employed or non- NHS employed registrants to apply for entry onto the approved prescribing programme.
• Confirm that the necessary governance structures are in place (including clinical support, access to protected learning time and employer support where appropriate) to enable students to undertake, and be adequately supported throughout, the programme.
• No record of prior learning will be considered on this programme as University Regulations do not allow RPL/RPEL on part of a module.
• Applicant selected to undertake a prescribing programme has the competence, experience and academic ability to study at the level required for that programme.
• On application, they must ensure that the Designated Prescribing Practitioner has training and experience appropriate to their role.
The Designated Prescribing Practitioner must have agreed to provide supervision, support and shadowing opportunities for the student for a minimum of 90 hours of supervised practice, and be familiar with the GPhC’s requirements of the programme and the need to achieve the learning outcomes.
For nurses
• For level 6 Nurses and Midwives must provide evidence of being able to work at level 6, e.g.
possession of a relevant diploma and/or may be asked to submit evidence of relevant experience and/or study.
• For level 7 (Nurses, Midwives and SCPHN), all applicants must hold a degree.
• Nurses, Midwives and SCPHN who will be prescribing for children must have a Designated Prescribing Practitioner who is experienced and competent in prescribing for children.
• An offer of a place on the Independent Prescribing programme is conditional upon a DBS disclosure being deemed satisfactory by Wrexham University.
• All proposed Designated Prescribing Practitioners will have their professional registration practice status confirmed.
• Complete a Non-Medical Prescribing application form and Wrexham University Generic Application Form.
• Complete a NMP Short placement educational audit form as part of the application process.
• Have the confirmed agreement from the Trust’s Non – Medical prescribing lead or equivalent in order to undertake the course (This will be done on the application form and checked at interview).
• There is no compensation allowed on this programme.
• All short listed applicants must attend an interview.
Admission Criteria for Independent and Supplementary Prescribing for Allied Health Professions and Supplementary Prescribing for Allied Health Professionals module:
All physiotherapists, chiropodists/podiatrists, radiographers, dieticians and paramedics must meet all of the following criteria:
• Be registered with the Health Professions Council as either a physiotherapist or a podiatrist/chiropodist or a radiographer • Paramedics must be an advanced practitioner • Be professionally practising in an environment where there is an identified need for the individual to regularly use independent or supplementary prescribing • Normally have 1 years of clinical experience since registration.
• Be sponsored by their employing organisation • Have a Practice Educator who has agreed to provide for the duration of the programme: - opportunities for the student to develop competence, - supervision, support and practice assessment • The Practice Educator must be recognised by the employer as having experience in the relevant field of practice and attended preparation for the Practice Educator role • Have the ability to study at a minimum academic level 7.
• Have a satisfactory enhanced DBS clearance.
• Have confirmation from his/her clinical manager that he/she is competent to take a history, undertake a clinical assessment and diagnose in their area of speciality.
• Complete an application form for interview.
• The selection process will include an interview for all short-listed applicants.
• All applicants must attend a panel interview with representative from academia and service.
• All applicants must complete an educational audit form.
Applicants are advised to review the ‘Preparation for Prescribe Toolkit’ before applying to the programme.
This introduces the student to the use of online resources and also the concept of active learning.
This is a free online implementation toolkit for non-medical prescribers.
It is available on the following link: https://www.surreytoolkit.uk/
You will need to apply to the health board for a commissioned place to study on the programme.
Private Sector, Non–NHS applicants can apply directly to the university, but available places will depend on the number of commissioned places.
Independent and Supplementary Prescribing for Nurses, Independent Prescribing for Pharmacists and Independent and Supplementary prescribing Allied Health Professionals, Supplementary Prescribing for Allied Health Professionals.
There is one intake a year starting in January and is taught every Tuesday for 26 weeks.
Contact postregadmissions@wrexham.ac.uk for an application pack.
All students are interviewed by the Programme Leader or Deputy Programme Leader and the Medicines Management lead (this is a Pharmacist for Pharmacist applicants) from the employing organisation for their eligibility for the programme and any supportive evidence is confirmed at interview.
The student’s place on the programme cannot be confirmed until all evidence of entry requirements have been checked by a member of the programme team.
In addition, because of the requirement for practice-based learning, all students should be working in a role which requires them to meet the learning outcomes of the programme.
i.e.
in a position which requires a level of autonomy, or in a role working towards this.
Standards for the education and training of pharmacist independent prescribers
Practice Assessment Document including initial student profile, learning contract, record of practice hours, reflective log of practice hours, mid-point review, Clinical Management Plan, Service user and carer feedback, Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE) in practice, Achievement of RPS Competencies, personal formulary drugs from within the individual practitioner’s scope of practice and confirmation of achievement.
You will complete supervised practice experience (78 hours for Nurses, 90 hours for Pharmacists and Allied Heath Professionals (12 days)) of learning in-practice with the Practice Supervisor and Practice Assessor for Nurses, Midwives and SCPHN, Practice Educator for Allied Health Professionals and Designated Prescribing Practitioner for Pharmacists.
You will also undertake an Unseen Examination Part 1 Numeracy test (pass mark 100%) and Unseen Examination Part 2) 20 MCQ/short answer question (pass mark 80%).
Successfully complete the programme and you’ll be able to record your qualification with your respective professional body.
Apply for clinical posts in a range of areas of practice that requires a non-medical prescriber.
You’ll also be able to improve your performance, and enhance patient care in the role in which you are already working.
This course is now open for January 2026 entry.
If you wish to apply, please contact postregadmissions@wrexham.ac.uk for an application pack.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/pgcert-compassionate-leadership:
in collaborative, interprofessional learning
to reflect your area of practice.
of specialist knowledge in health-related disciplines.
The PGCert in Compassionate Leadership is designed to contribute towards a core national workforce strategic theme.
To demonstrate compassionate and collective leadership across the NHS Wales and Social Care by 2030 (HEIW and Social Care Wales 2020).
This award consists of three modules of the MSc Professional Practice in Health.
In this course, you will complete three modules.
The modules will cover a range of subjects and are carefully structured to allow you the opportunity to develop your critical thinking with the focus on developing your personal and professional self.
You may alternatively decide to study MSc Professional Practice in Health , where you will complete the following modules:
Every module across both programmes are available as standalone.
Each application will be considered individually and on its own merits.
The Programme Leader will make the final admission decision.
The entry requirements for the PGCert Compassionate Leadership are drawn up in accordance with the University’s regulations.
In a case where there is lack of clarity or a need to gain deeper insight into a candidate’s suitability for the programme of study, an informal interview with the candidate may be required.
This may be undertaken face to face, or via an appropriate online platform.
This will allow the candidate an opportunity to provide evidence to the satisfaction of the interview panel of their ability to complete academic work of the required standard in the subject area, and to complete successfully the scheme of study proposed.
In addition, candidates who are not able to demonstrate evidence of recent academic study (within the last 5 years) may be made a conditional offer, requiring the student to undertake the Preparing for Academic Success (Level 6) module prior to commencing the Masters level programme.
Students successfully completing Preparing for Academic Success can apply for the credits to receive Advanced Standing in lieu of the Negotiated Module in year 2 of the programme.
Assessments will be designed to ensure that students reflect their area of practice and professional expertise in summative and formative work, and that there is evidence of emersion and developing expertise commensurate with Masters level study.
Appropriate academic assessors will be allocated to facilitate this.
Assessment methods include, but are not restricted to: Written Assignments, Reflective Portfolio, Presentations, and Reports.
This course assists health care professionals to develop within the NHS Agenda for Change careers and employment framework, with achievement of Masters level study being a key attribute of those wishing to progress through Band 7 and above roles.
Emotional intelligence, communication, and leadership will be threads throughout all modules, with compassionate leadership being an indicative learning thread.
This is both to reflect the developing professional, the requirement of evidence of masters level study for those pursuing Band 7 (and above), and the importance of developing a sustainable and resilient workforce.
This will enable students to explore both academic and professional progression and aims to increase the future employment options of students undertaking the programme.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/primary-postgraduate-certificate-in-education:
1 YR (FT) / 15 MONTHS (PT)
Gain Qualified Teacher Status as part of the programme.
for employment in both Wales and England
knowledge and understanding whilst making links between educational theory and practice in a research active community.
St Mary's University, Twickenham has been recognised as one of the highest quality providers of training for primary school teachers in the country, and their education courses have been judged by Ofsted to be ‘outstanding’.
St Mary’s have franchised this successful programme to enable students to study at Wrexham University.
Hear from Principal Lecturer, Karen Rhys Jones, on our part-time pathway option.
Contemporary Issues in Primary Education (Level 7) seeks to enhance trainees’ development as reflective practitioners by providing opportunities to reflect critically and analyse their own development as a teacher and learner.
Within this module, elements of educational theory, the impact and importance of reflection and collaboration and the merits of values-led practice are explored.
This leads trainees to develop an understanding of how personal and professional knowledge is constructed, advanced, and enhanced through reflection and practice.
The Emergent Teacher as Reflective Practitioner (Level 7) seeks to enhance trainees’ development as reflective practitioners by providing opportunities to reflect critically and analyse their own development as a teacher and learner.
Within this module, students can identify an area of enquiry which connects theory, reflection and practice.
Identifying and exploring an area of self-selected enquiry will allow students to develop an understanding of how personal and professional knowledge is advanced and enhanced through reflection, engagement with scholarly literature and practice.
A Professional Studies module unites university work with time spent in school developing links between theory and practice.
This module aims to support trainees in the achievement of Qualified Teacher Status.
This is done by providing trainees with the knowledge, skills and understanding needed to be an effective primary practitioner.
Emphasis is given to the cycle of planning, teaching, assessment, and evaluation.
The course addresses the importance of the learning environment, behaviour for learning and achievement for all including those with Special Educational Needs and Disabilities and those from diverse backgrounds.
The Core Curriculum - as English, Mathematics and Science are all core subjects in the National Curriculum it is essential that students build upon their own subject knowledge and understanding in each of these key areas in order to teach these subjects effectively in the primary classroom.
Throughout the module, students will have opportunities to develop their understanding of how to use assessment to inform teaching and learning in these three core subjects.
Building a Broader Curriculum module which aims to develop trainees’ discrete knowledge, understanding and skills in all foundation subjects.
It aims to help trainees explore and experience the inter-linked nature of learning in the primary school.
Subjects include art, computing, design and technology, drama, geography, history, modern foreign languages, music, physical education, and Religious Education.
Welsh and Curriculum for Wales 2022, for educational practitioners* (*short course).
Additional Module: Welsh and Curriculum for Wales 2022 for Educational Practitioners: The module recognises the importance of Welsh language to Wales and reflects the Welsh Government target of one million Welsh speakers by 2050.
It also recognises language as a tool for teaching and learning across the curriculum and the contribution a language can make to children’s development.
The importance of cultural input and the opportunities offered by a cross-curricular approach are introduced to make the learning of Welsh more accessible and appealing to students who do not have skills in the language themselves.
Applicants will need a Grade 4 / C in GCSE English, Maths and Science to be considered for the course (equivalency tests are also acceptable and available).
They should also have an undergraduate degree with a minimum classification of 2:2.
You will also need a satisfactory DBS and a good level of physical and mental fitness to teach.
Please be advised that the start date for the Primary PGCE is 31st August 2023.
Applications are made through the Department for Education's (DfE) application system.
Students will get to teach and learn alongside creative, reflective and dynamic practitioners who are passionate about teaching children.
The programme encourages you to increase your understanding of teaching and learning processes in order to develop and maintain the high levels of enthusiasm, ability and passion necessary within the teaching profession.
Teaching will take place in interactive sessions.
Tutors model good practice in the use of ICT and use lectures, seminars and group activities to stimulate and give you the confidence to be professional teachers.
Assessments are used to ensure that you understand and can apply the knowledge you have gained whilst on the course - both in schools and on campus.
This is done through a range of methods:
Assessment is ongoing and tracked against the Teachers Standards.
High standards of attendance, punctuality and participation are required from all course participants.
Assessment will be ongoing while students are on school placements.
Many take up employment in one of our partnership schools and go on to inspire and mentor other students.
The application deadline for the 2025 intake has now passed and applications for 2026 intake will open in the autumn.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/professional-art-practitioner:
1 YR (FT) or 2 YR (PT)
entrepreneurial skills and receive support for your first year of professional practice.
the key design principles and the working methods necessary to respond to and resolve design problems.
with live commissions with the support of our team and continue to garner recognition and professional success at national events, commissions and exhibitions.
We will support you in developing your experience, using variety of materials to create high-quality objects that push boundaries, whilst working creatively and ethically.
Students will study four core modules worth a combined total of 180 credits:
Engagement, Immersion and Practice: This module aims to ground and position students, introducing c omplex terminologies in the field.
Practice and Application : In this module, students will focus on production methods and refining their products to meet market expectations and limitations.
Advanced Professional Practice : Students are expected to apply for identified exhibition and selling opportunities, and produce work of appropriate standard for these events.
Practice and Entrepreneurship : This module focuses on high-quality production that evidences the application of skills and intelligence necessary for professional practice.
Alongside the practical work, students produce a written report critically reflecting on their creative output including professional, progress and business planning.
We currently require an initial degree in a relevant subject, classified as 2:2 or higher, or evidence of recent activity in the subject equivalent to these classifications as determined by interview.
All applicants are expected to hold a good and relevant initial degree or provide a portfolio of their own work to demonstrate their knowledge of the subject and their artistic ability.
Students will be assessed through a series of coursework (typically a portfolio), including evaluations of the practical work for each module.
Graduates from our programmes gain employment locally, nationally and in some cases, worldwide.
Self-employment and freelance employment are a particular strength within the area, with a high percentage of our graduates going on to start their own workshop businesses supplying galleries and retail outlets.
This degree extends your understanding of the professional sphere whilst also developing your creative practice.
The course will mentor you on how to show your work at a variety of national and international venues, it will help build your marketing strategies, and teach you how to sell to the public.
The Professional Art Practitioner MA provides a variety of future opportunities for graduates.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/professional-graduate-certificate-in-education:
1YR (FT) 2YRS (PT)
of face-to-face and online teaching with our Active Learning Framework
academic staff in the post-compulsory education sector
hours teaching placement
Have you ever considered training to become a teacher in the post-compulsory sector?
This wide and varied sector includes colleges, universities, charities, private companies, the NHS, independent education settings, and specialist education settings.
This course will provide you with the skills and knowledge to be a teacher in this exciting field.
“Wrexham was a fantastic place for me to learn and develop as a teacher.
The course covered a wide range of information that gave me the knowledge to understand teaching and prepare for life in the education sector.
I am now working in a role I love and I am able to use the information I learned to continue to develop my practice.”
Whether studying towards a Level 5 (L5), Level 6 (L6) or Level 7 (L7), each pathway contains the same content.
The modules have been designed to fully prepare you to teach in the post-16 sector.
Level 5 - Certificate in Education (PCET): Applicants must hold at least a level 3 qualification in their subject discipline.
Level 6 - Professional Graduate Certificate in Education: Applicants must hold a degree.
Level 7 - Postgraduate Certificate in Education: Applicants must hold a degree with a classification of First or 2:1.
Applicants are required to have an up to date DBS in place before they start the programme and must have access to an appropriate teaching placement.
You will undertake practical-based assignments throughout the course.
The course team is responsive to creative use of assessment strategies that facilitate and support students’ styles of learning.
Tutor, mentor and peer observations are integral to the programme.
Assessment strategies include:
The full-time route, comprising of the Professional Graduate Certificate in Education and Postgraduate Certificate in Education , will take place over one year.
You will attend university for one day each week for ‘taught delivery’ classes throughout the academic year.
This will be supplemented with online self-directed study.
The part-time route, comprising of all three routes , will take place over two years.
You will attend a blend of face-to-face lectures on campus (50%) and engaging ‘live’ online classes (50%).
These sessions will take place between 2-5pm.
Three 20 credit modules will be completed in year one and three 20 credit module will be completed in year two.
In addition to attendance and study at the university, you will need evidence that you have completed 100 hours of independent teaching across the duration of the one year full-time or two-year part-time programmes.
Post-compulsory education and training is a rapidly developing and expanding area which, through the requirement of an endorsed professional teaching qualification, is establishing clearly defined career progression routes within the sector and opportunities for further advanced study.
Graduates typically go on to work in schools, colleges, universities, community and healthcare education settings.
APPLY FOR:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/professional-practice-in-health:
The MSc Professional Practice in Health enables professionals from a variety of health disciplines and workplaces to come together to learn.
The overall aim of the course is to provide a comprehensive, modern and dynamic programme for students seeking to develop their career within the increasingly diverse area of health.
During this course, y ou will study part-time over three years, achieving 60 Level 7 credits in each year.
This will comprise of three 20 credit taught modules a year over the first two years, and the dissertation (60 credits) on the third.
Compassionate Leadership in Practice : This module aims to introduce you to the behaviours of compassionate, collective, and inclusive leadership practices, through developing a critical understanding of the core concepts, facilitators, barriers and enablers to embedding compassionate leadership within a workplace culture.
Research Designs and Methods : The module aims to enable you to make choices about appropriate methodologies when undertaking a quality improvement, innovation, or research project.
You will critically appraise a range of project designs from different perspectives to gain understanding about traditional research methodologies for practice, and apply knowledge, skills and attributes of good research enquiry to prompt future practice developments .
You may alternatively decide to study PGCert Compassionate Leadership , where you will complete the following three modules:
The entry requirements for the MSc Professional Practice in Health are drawn up in accordance with the University’s regulations.
Candidates must satisfy/hold one, or a combination, of the following conditions:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/psychology-conversion:
learning with a mix of flexible self-directed study at home and on-campus teaching experiences
to state-of-the-art facilities
This programme has been designed for those who hold an undergraduate degree that is not in psychology, but who wish to change direction and study or pursue a career in psychology.
As a student of this programme, you will study 6 core taught modules advised by the British Psychological Society, focusing on a range of key areas which are normally covered in undergraduate psychology degrees.
Alongside the above modules, you will also complete an academic research project with the support of a supervisor, and explore conceptual and historical issues in psychology.
The order of the modules you study is dependent on the year you start your course.
Students will study three modules per academic year, and complete their research project alongside their second-year modules.
Applicants will need to have completed and passed a bachelor’s degree in any subject prior to enrolling on the programme.
Ideally, applicants will have at least a 2:1, although students with a 2:2 with relevant work experience will also be considered.
Applicants will need to demonstrate a keen interest in learning about key psychological theories and possess the ability to undertake a piece of research.
We welcome people from a range of different subject backgrounds to apply.
Successful applicants will be invited for an interview, which can also take place via an online video conferencing platform such as MS teams if you do not live locally to the university.
Students will be expected to attend three teaching days and a May Day on campus each year.
During this contact time, students can meet each other to build a student community, interact with lecturer’s and receive face-to-face tuition and tutorials and gain experience of formal lectures and seminars.
Study at home will include reading, the completion of set assignments, the viewing of webinar material and engagement in online forum discussions.
Assignments include the completion of essays, reports, poster presentations, oral presentations and coursework.
This course would be ideal for those who wish to progress onto formal training to become a psychologist, or who wish to pursue a career in academia in psychology.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/public-health-mental-health-and-wellbeing:
Health services in the UK face unprecedented demand, and there is a real need to invest in public health, mental health and wellbeing and move to systems of wellbeing where the health and prosperity of people and planet are the highest goal.
This unique degree equips learners with the advanced knowledge and skills to guide and support individuals, communities and nations to live happier and healthier lives.
Learners will study four core modules and self-select a further option module aligned to their interests / needs.
If studying full time, all modules will be completed within one academic year, and if studying part time t hree modules will be completed in the first year and two in the second.
Those without an undergraduate degree, or a degree not in a relevant subject area, may be considered for the programmes if they have appropriate (at least 3 years) experience in the field of public health, mental health and wellbeing, and be able to demonstrate the skills and qualities necessary to study at postgraduate level.
Th is programme employ s a flexible learning and teaching strategy whereby learners can make their own decisions about how and when to engage with the sessions and activities.
Most postgraduate study is undertaken alongside other commitments, so it is important that learners choose the best route (full or part time) and award (MSc or PgDip ) to suit their needs and availability.
For th is MSc programme, the following is recommended with regard to the minimum amount of time that should be committed to studying.
This programme adopts a compassionate assessment strategy, whereby four core principals ensure the provision of meaningful, learning- orientated and high-quality assessments that give due consideration to learners’ wellbeing:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/software-engineering-with-advanced-practice:
newly equipped facilities including computer labs, research centres and collaborative spaces
the course reflects the latest advancements in computer science and industry-relevant skills
allowing you to apply theoretical knowledge in practical settings
The MSc Software Engineering with Advanced Practice course aims to provide you with an opportunity to apply your knowledge and skills in a real-world environment.
The MSc Software Engineering (with Advanced Practice) course aims to offer you an advanced comprehension of software development principles, methodologies, and practices.
Its principal objectives include enriching your expertise in the design, development, and management of intricate software systems.
The course endeavours to deepen your grasp of fundamental areas like software architecture, project management, quality assurance, and testing.
Through a blend of theoretical coursework, research endeavours, and hands-on assignments, the course seeks to graduate individuals equipped with advanced proficiency in diverse programming languages, software engineering tools, and lifecycle methodologies.
Additionally, the course places emphasis on nurturing critical thinking and problem-solving skills, empowering students to analyse and tackle complex software engineering dilemmas.
Modules
The standard entry requirements for these programmes are an honours degree of at least 2:2 classification in a Software Engineering related subject area, or equivalent in any science-based degree with a strong computing and/or engineering element.
Assessments in software engineering at university level are designed to evaluate your understanding, application, and proficiency in various aspects of the discipline.
One obvious advantage of a Software Engineering master’s degree is that students become more employable.
Jobs prospects include, but not limited to:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/specialist-community-public-health-nursing:
with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) after successful completion of course.
is made up of theory and practice-based learning.
This programme of study is made up of theory and practice based learning, and is grounded in public health practice.
This allows registered nurses and midwives to enhance their professional skills to a specialist level in one of the two routes offered.
Successful completion of the course enables you to register on Part III of the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) register ad practice as a specialist community public health nurse.
The course also includes the Community Nurse Prescribing (V100) programme (integrated in the Specialist Practice modules), which you will be able to record with the NMC.
This 52 week full-time programme comprises 22.5 weeks of theoretical study and 22.5 weeks of learning in a practice setting, under the supervision of a practice teacher and specialist mentor.
The full-time route comprises of two days of attendance at Wrexham University, two days in practice and one study day per week during term time.
The course is funded by the Welsh Government, and entry onto the programme is through joint application and interview by the sponsoring NHS Trust and Wrexham University.
Assessment is via written assignments, reflections, presentations, poster presentation, Objective Structured Clinical Examination ( OSCE ) , and Practice Assessment Document ( PAD ).
It may also be beneficial for individuals looking to pursue public health nursing as either a health visitor or school nurse, to try and spend some time shadowing a current health visitor or school nurse in order to find out more about what the role entails.
SCPHN nurses have been known to go onto such roles as:
Please contact postregadmissions@wrexham.ac.uk for September 2026 enquiries .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/sport--exercise-sciences-clinical-exercise-science:
a BACPR level 4 cardiac exercise instructor qualification
Applied Clinical Experience in Hospitals/out-patient settings
in a CASES accredited Physiology Laboratory
This course enhances students understanding of the relationship between physical activity and health outcomes, particularly in clinical populations.
This specialised program equips you with the skills to design and implement exercise interventions for individuals with chronic diseases, disabilities, or rehabilitation needs.
A mixture of lectures, workshops, practical’s, lab sessions and off-site visits are fundamental methods of teaching on the programme.
With further training:

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/sport--exercise-sciences-sport-performance-science:
a Level 4 Strength and Conditioning qualification at a reduced cost alongside your degree
This course will equip you with the skills necessary to provide expert advice to athletes, teams, and organisations, enabling them to optimise performance and prevent injuries.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/youth-and-community-studies-advanced-practice:
your area of academic interest in youth and community work.
delivery through a blended learning approach.
from tutors with experience of conducting research in the field.
The MA Youth and Community Studies course is designed for practitioners who already hold a JNC professional qualification, or for those who have previously studied youth work, community development or youth studies, and would like to progress their studies at postgraduate level.
Throughout the programme, and within individual modules, a variety of assessment methods are employed which seek to demonstrate equity with respect to the individual needs, learning styles and interests of students.
Assessments on this programme will take on a variety of forms, including essays, presentations, portfolios and contributing to online forums.
Graduates from the course work in a variety of settings, including working in projects and services in the following areas:
This programme does not satisfy the requirements of Post Graduate International Visa Applications
Due to the part time nature of this programme, and the method of delivery, this programme does not satisfy the requirements for obtaining a Post Graduate International Visa to study and reside in the UK.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-courses/youth-and-community-work-jnc:
a JNC professional youth work qualification
from tutors with experience of conducting research in the field
The MA Youth and Community Work (JNC) programme provides a unique opportunity to obtain a JNC professional youth work qualification, allowing students to register with the Education Workforce Council in Wales and practice as a youth worker throughout the UK and further afield.
NB: The JNC professional qualification is gained after successful completion of Year 1 & 2.
The academic entry requirements for the course are a good honours degree or appropriate professional qualification.
Previous experience of 200 hours in a youth and community work setting is required and must be evidenced.
The programme team are able to advise students regarding volunteering and work experience opportunities if required.
You will also be required to complete an Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance (previously known as CRB) so that a check can be made on your suitability for working with children and/or vulnerable adults.
NB: This programme does not satisfy the requirements of Post Graduate International Visa Applications.
This builds knowledge and skills from a belief that being an excellent practitioner means not only working with people, but also being able to express yourself in a range of ways that includes writing reports, documents and essays, based on the collection and analysis of evidence to build an argument.
Throughout the programme, and within individual modules, a variety of assessment methods are employed which seek to demonstrate equity and respect to the individual needs, learning styles and interests of students.
As such, assessment methods on this programme are used to develop a student’s confidence and ability to carry out a range of transferable skills which are considered useful in both academic work and professional practice.
Assessments will therefore take on a variety of forms including essays, presentations, portfolios and contribution to online forums.
You will complete over 300 hours of placement on the course which provides you with relevant work experience in the Youth and Community Work sector.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/blog/posts/what-to-expect-from-an-open-day-at-wrexham-university-:
Our staff and student ambassadors will be on hand to guide you throughout your day.
Find out more about your chosen course by chatting with your future lecturers or discover student life by spending time with our current students - there’s always a friendly face to be found.
To give you an idea of what to expect before you arrive, we have made note of some of the activities you can get involved with.
Read our guide to make the most out of an open day:
When you arrive to Campus, please enter the car park from the Mold Road entrance (front entrance) as opposed to the Plas Coch entrance due to barrier enforcement.
Once you arrive on campus and enter via the main entrance, you will be greeted by friendly staff members who will help you sign in, just so we know who you are.
You will then be directed to our welcome desk where you will be informed on any talks occurring throughout the day.
Feel free to ask about any subject-specific events here, the times these take place can vary between each open day so it’s always good to check.
If you are wanting to visit our Northop campus, where our Animal Science degrees are taught, we have a free minibus you can hop on.
Our Regent Street bus, which will take you to our School of Creative Arts , will also be available.
Ask our friendly team for any additional information on the bus timetable at the welcome desk on the day of your visit, as timings between open days may vary.
Kickstart your day with a Welcome talk delivered by our Vice-Chancellor and/or Deputy Vice-Chancellor.
In this brief session, you’ll be introduced to Wrexham University’s core values, learn about our vibrant North Wales location, and discover the exciting momentum driving us forward.
During the open day, we will host a Student Services presentation that provides an overview of the support available to you during your studies.
This session covers a range of services, including academic support, mental health resources, and career guidance, to ensure you have everything to need to succeed both academically and personally whilst studying with us and beyond.
At approximately 11:10, we will host a student services presentation.
This presentation will cover a range of topics to provide you with an overview of the support available to you during your studies at Wrexham University.
The Understanding Finance talk will provide you with a clear and helpful overview of funding options through Student Finance Wales and Student Finance England.
This session covers essential information about tuition fees, maintenance loans, and grants, helping you understand the financial support available to you.
It’s a great opportunity to get your questions answered and feel confident about managing your finances while studying at Wrexham University.
Take part in a campus tour, which occur every half hour, to get a feel for the University and see where you will be studying.
This will give you the chance to see some of the progress we have made in our facilities - and there are even more to come.
Starting at The Study, you’ll visit our classrooms and labs which we have recently invested in.
You’ll see our new social spaces like the B hive , where you can relax or complete group projects in a dynamic environment.
Our new labs, study rooms and social spaces are part of our campus developments .
We are investing £80 million into our students’ future by enhancing all of our campuses to ensure they have the best facilities and learning environment.
Ask your tour guide any questions you can think of, they will be happy to answer them.
During the open day , we will host a range of academic talks which will allow you to speak with our knowledgeable academics and learn more about what our courses entail.
These talks cover our education, health and wellbeing, nursing, paramedic science, criminology, physiotherapy, speech and language therapy, art and design, occupational therapy, operating department practice, business, nutrition and dietetics, social work, sports injury and rehabilitation courses, and much more.
Speak with our friendly staff or ambassadors to learn more about the specific timings of these talks on the day.
Chat with our support services to find out what we have available to support you as you study with us.
Careers and employability will be able to tell you about your career prospects for your chosen course and the ways you can enhance your employability through learning.
You will also have the opportunity to learn about becoming a 'Student Ambassador' for our University, and earn money while you learn.
Our student’s union , WSU, will be on hand if you’d like to find out more about the fun societies and sports teams available for you to join.
Discover the ins and outs of living on or near campus with our accommodation team.
As a university, we also pride ourselves on our dedication to inclusion .
As such, an inclusion rep will be on hand for you to discuss any concerns or challenges you may be anticipating before going to university.
There will be a representative to assist with international students if you would like to discuss any processes or requirements with them.
You will also have the opportunity to speak with our Library and IT department to learn about the extensive resources that are accessible to our students
Finally, we will have an admissions team on site to provide you with any queries you have regarding your next steps and the application process, along with a short courses representative who can tell you more about the short courses we have available and how - where relevant - short courses can support you in your application for an undergraduate degree at Wrexham University.
After chatting with accommodation services, you have the option of going to our halls of residence to see what we have on offer.
On your way, why not check out our flight simulator that you can experience throughout the day?
There’re also some fantastic science experiments that you can observe in our brand new labs.
Make sure you keep an eye out for upcoming open days – we look forward to welcoming you soon!

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/campus-tours:
We understand how important it is to get a feel for university life before making your big decision.
That’s why we offer a variety of campus tours designed to suit your needs.
Our campus tours are led by students from our Applicant Support Team (AST),  offering a relaxed and accessible way to explore Wrexham University.
These tours are designed to ensure every visitor feels comfortable, including those with neurodiverse needs.
During your tour, you will:
Our Open Days offer a more in-depth look at life at Wrexham University.
Join us to explore our courses, discover our facilities, and see why Wrexham University could be the perfect place for you.
If you have any questions about our campus tours or need help booking your visit, we’re here to help!
Email us and our team will be happy to assist you.
Alternatively, you can chat to one of our current students, who will be happy to share their experiences and answer any questions you may have.
We look forward to welcoming you to campus soon!

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/about/campus-developments:
Our £80m strategy aims to enhance the local region and all of our campuses to ensure that our students have the best facilities and learning environment.
Read more about our plans and developments in our Estates and Learning Environment Strategy .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/fees-and-funding/undergraduate-fees:
From 2025/26, Wrexham University’s tuition fees will be £9535* per year for a full-time undergraduate degree course.
You do not have to pay any money upfront if you are eligible to take a tuition fee loan from the Student Loans Company.
You may be eligible for loans to help you pay your tuition fees and living costs; our student funding section has more information regarding what financial support packages may be available.
The fees listed on this page are applicable to home students, if you are an international student please refer to our international fees .
* All fees are subject to any changes in government policy
In line with the Welsh government's maximum permitted undergraduate fee, full time undergraduate students will pay £9,535 per annum fee.
Your fee for your first year will be stated in your offer letter.
Fees for subsequent years of study will increase as permitted by the Welsh government.
The Student Loan Company (SLC) will increase the amount able to be claimed for tuition fees for anyone affected by this increase.
For further information, please see our full time undergraduate student fee FAQs .
*Foundation Year embedded in either a Bachelor's Degree or a Foundation Degree.
Please note all fees listed above are for UK students and per annum unless otherwise stated.
If you are a returning or repeat-year student, your fee will be £800 per 10 credits.
If you are an international student, please visit our international fees page.
If you would like further advice and information about the exact fees and funding that will be available to you, please see our undergraduate and postgraduate funding pages.
You should be aware of our ‌fee regulations which provide an overview of when fees are due, along with the policies and procedures of the university.
This can be found via the link below:
Student Tuition Fee Regulations 2021-2022
Student Tuition Fee Regulations 2022-2023
Student Tuition Fee Regulations 2023-2024
Student Tuition Fee Regulations 2024-2025
Student Tuition Fee Regulations 2025-2026
All students should be aware that how the University student fees are determined is outlined in the Fee and Access Plan.
This also outlines how the University uses relevant elements of that fee in both the promotion of equality of opportunity and access to higher education and in particular in regard to under-represented groups.
Fee and Access Plan 2022/23
Fee and Access Plan 2023/24 and 2024/25
Fee and Access Plan 2025/26 and 2026/27

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/fees-and-funding/undergraduate-funding:
You may be eligible for funding support to help you pay your tuition fees and living costs.
Students From Wales applying via - STUDENT FINANCE WALES in 25/26
All Welsh students studying at Wrexham University will be eligible to apply for a maximum of £12,345 (£10480 if living at home) in funding support which will be provided through a mixture of grants and loans.
Every eligible student will be able to claim a minimum grant of £1,000 from the government.
Find out more here .
Students from England
Students from Scotland
Students from Northern Ireland
Students from the Isle of Man
Students from the States of Jersey
Students from the States of Guernsey
Partial Loan Cancellation for Welsh Students
Since 2010/2011, Welsh students who had received a maintenance loan from Student Finance Wales (SFW) and were a full-time student could have up to £1,500 cancelled from their loan balance by the Welsh Government.
Students who received a loan for living costs from SFW qualify for the £1,500 cancellation once they make their first repayment.
The reduction will be applied to the balance of their student loan by the Students Loan Company when they start repaying.
To be eligible, you have to be:
Students will not get the maximum cancellation if they pay before they have received their full entitlement of maintenance loan i.e.
if they are assessed for £1,500 maintenance loans or have received 2 payments totalling £1000.
However if they make a repayment before the 3 rd payment, they will only have a cancellation of £1,000.
Full information on this can be found on the Student Finance Wales website.
Depending on personal circumstances, students with dependents may be eligible for the following support grants:
Adult Dependants’ Grant
Students from Wales
Parents’ Learning Allowance
Childcare Grant
Support grants for students from Scotland are different, please see here for information.
Our friendly and supportive FMAT team has years of experience helping students and is fully up to date with the latest funding information.
Whether you're studying full-time or part-time, we can advise you on the funding options available and ensure you’re receiving everything you're entitled to through a financial health check.
We also offer budgeting support , including practical money-saving tips and one-to-one budgeting meetings with an adviser.
All enquiries are treated with strict confidentiality.
To access this bespoke funding advice either
*This service is an information sharing platform and by registering, this does not commit you to enrolling on a course at WU.
Welsh Language Standards Compliance Statement
All documentation relating to the application for a grant, bursaries or financial assistance to individual applicants (students or individual members of academic staff), is published in Welsh and English.
Applications can be submitted in Welsh and are treated no less favourably than applications submitted in English.
If it is necessary to interview individual applicants for grants or financial assistance, interviews are held in Welsh for applicants who applied in Welsh, using simultaneous interpretation if required.
If an application for a grant or financial assistance is submitted in Welsh, we inform the applicant of the outcome of our decision in Welsh.
When making a decision in relation to the award of a grant or financial assistance we consider the effects such an award or assistance would have on the opportunities for the applicants and others to use the Welsh language and ensure that our decision would neither reduce opportunities for persons to use the language nor cause adverse effects.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-fees:
Here at Wrexham University, we have a tiered fee structure, which means that the fees you pay depend on the degree which you choose.
We offer both full and part-time study routes.
You may be able to borrow up to £17,489 to study at taught masters level.
See our Postgraduate Funding section for more information.
All fees are subject to any changes in government policy.
* Total course fee.
Wrexham University Online Postgraduate Taught *
Intake
2025/2026
Wrexham University Online Programmes
£500 per 15 credit module (£6000 for full programme)
Intake Start Date
Credit Value
Cost per Module*
Monday 8th September 2025
All Modules (Less Dissertation)
15
£500
Dissertation
30
£1,000
Monday 3rd November 2025
Monday 12th January 2026
Monday 9th March 2026
Monday 4th May 2026
Monday 29th June 2026
45
60
*Fee levels for future intakes during 2025/26 are currently under review and may increase.
Revised fees will be published as soon as these are approved and will be applicable from a specified entry point in the 2025/26 academic year.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-funding:
Welsh Students applying via - STUDENT FINANCE WALES
You could get a mixture of a loan and a grant to help with your course costs.
How much you get depends on your household income.
The maximum amount of funding available is a non means tested loan of up : £19,255 for 2025 to 2026
This table shows how much you could get based on examples of household income:
To be eligible you must:
More information for Welsh Students
English Students applying via - STUDENT FINANCE ENGLAND
The maximum amount of funding available is a non means tested loan of up to £12,858 for 2025 to 2026
To be eligible for a loan, you must:
More information for English Students
To check if you are able to get student finance for your course here at Wrexham University, please contact our Funding & Money advice team .
For more information about our postgraduate programmes, see our postgraduate courses section or visit one of our postgraduate open evenings .
The university offers a Postgraduate Alumni scholarship scheme for taught postgraduate study in the academic year 2025/26 * .
To be eligible for the alumni scholarship, the prospective student must meet the entry requirements for their chosen postgraduate programme of study and be in receipt of an unconditional offer for entry on to that programme, to have firmly accepted that offer and to have met all entry requirements.
The following fee-waiver is available to Wrexham University graduates who wish to undertake a full or part-time postgraduate taught degree programme at Wrexham University.
NB: This is not applicable to students studying at franchise, partner institutes or online courses.
MPhil, PhDs and PGCEs are not eligible.
How to apply: Applicants who meet the Postgraduate Alumni Scholarship criteria and have received a conditional or unconditional offer of a place on a postgraduate programme of study will automatically have the alumni scholarship applied following enrolment.
If you have any questions about the process, please see contact admissions@wrexham.ac.uk .
Deadline for applications is 31st August 2025
Terms and conditions apply, please see PG Scholarship T&Cs for more information.
Employer Sponsorship
Many graduates take up postgraduate study directly after completing their first degree.
However, there is always the option of deferring your further study to a later date - this way you may even be lucky enough to work for an employer who is able to pay for - or at least partially fund your course, particularly if the course is relevant to your career progression.
An employer-sponsored postgraduate course can be an ideal arrangement - you will be given the opportunity to achieve a qualification that will improve your ability to do the job and will open up your career prospects, and your employer will benefit from a better-qualified, more productive and better motivated employee.
Key Things to Agree With Your Employer:
Educational Charities and Trusts

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/international-students/international-fees:
Course Fees
Course
2024-25
Fee
2025-26
International Foundation Year
£12,500 (for students with an IELTS score of 5.5 overall with no less than 5.0 in each subskill) - 1 year International Foundation Year £11,900 (for students with an IELTS score of 5.5 overall with no less than 5.5 in each subskill) - 4 Year Inter-grated Foundation Programme leading to Level 6 qualification
Undergraduate
£11,750
Postgraduate
MA/MSc
£12,500
MBA
£13,000
MSc with Advanced Practice
£13,500
Standard programme fee + £1,000
MBA with Advanced Practice
£14,000
MSc with Pre-Masters
£15,000
Standard programme fee + £2,500
MBA with Pre-Masters
£15,500
PhD
* Generous International Scholarships (for UG/PG) are available to applicants
Please visit the web page for International Foundation Year Fees.
Please visit the web page for more information on the Extended Master module Please visit the web page for more information on the Advanced Practice module
The international student fees mentioned above, cover the tuition fees only and do not cover accommodation charges or living costs.
All international undergraduate tuition fees are paid annually for the duration of the course and remain the same throughout the degree programme.
At Wrexham University, we know that our international students often get caught out by annoying transfer fees when paying their tuition fees.
We don't think that's fair, so we've teamed up with Flywire to help you pay your fees without wasting precious funds on additional fees or charges.
This online system makes it easier and cheaper for you to pay your student fees and accommodation if paying from a non-UK bank account or card.
You can make a card payment or bank transfer payment via Flywire.
Pay your fees online using Flywire
For information on how to use Flywire, please visit our Funding FAQs .
If you are unable to pay via Flywire, please contact us via email at international@wrexham.ac.uk , quoting your application reference number.
You should be aware of our fee regulations which provide an overview of when fees are due, along with the policies and procedures of the University.
This can be found via the link below:‌

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/study:
We give you the chance to transform yourself, develop marketable skills, build your career prospects and form lasting relationships.
See why Wrexham University could be the perfect place for you to study.
From state-of-the-art labs to spaces to chill out.
Find out more about applying to Wrexham Unversity.
“'It's been life-changing for me.'”

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/study/why-wu/study-abroad:
Studying abroad is exciting, challenging and always rewarding.
It will boost your personal development, increase your confidence and give you unique experiences.
The EU’s Erasmus+ programme provides grants for Wrexham Glyndŵr University students to follow part of their course in another country, usually for one semester.
Study abroad opportunities are available in Art & Design (Bulgaria, Finland, France, Netherlands, Poland) and in Criminology (Sweden), and Youth & Community Work students can undertake placements abroad (countries agreed individually).
Erasmus Policy Statement
Erasmus Charter for Higher Education 2014 - 2020
For more information, please contact erasmus@glyndwr.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/study/why-wu/return-to-study:
We believe that age should be no barrier to undertaking a degree; in fact returning to education in later life can have a distinct advantage because of the skills, motivation and experience that you bring with you.
There are a number of reasons that mature students decide to return to education; from career progression to a simple personal interest.
Whatever your reason for wanting to study at Wrexham Glyndŵr University, we recognise that your needs may be different from that of an 18-year-old school leaver, so we hope that the following information will help you to find the right pathway.
You can study full time or part-time at university as a mature student, even if you don’t have traditional qualifications – you can also apply for funding .
The amount you get depends on your family situation and the type of course you’re doing - you may get extra help if you have children.
“As a mature student I was really nervous about starting university, but all of my lecturers and the university staff made us feel so at ease and welcome, they're so inclusive and I don't feel like the odd one out.”
Course entry requirements vary - some may require professional qualifications or relevant work experience.
Others may need:
If you do not meet the standard entry requirements for our three year degree programmes, you may wish to consider undertaking a foundation year.
Whether you have non-traditional qualifications, want to study a subject that is new to you or have had a break from education and wish to return this 'kick-start' year will provide you with an opportunity to access a full honours degree.
Our foundation programmes are typically four-years long, allowing an additional year to gain the skills and knowledge that are needed for degree level study.
Once you have successfully passed the foundation year, you automatically progress onto the first year of your chosen degree programme.
"I found out about the foundation year here and have never looked back.
I wanted to do something for myself now that my children are in full-time education and the course fits perfectly around family life."
- Rebecca, Accounting & Finance student

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/blog/posts/perfect-personal-statement:
If you’ve ever searched the depths of the internet to find tips on how to write your university application personal statement, then you’ll know that there’s plenty of advice out there.
You'll find hints, tips, guidelines and worksheets designed to aid you in your quest to produce 4000 characters, delightfully and delicately arranged to guarantee you a place (or at a least an interview) at your dream university, on your dream course.
If you’re looking for the 'perfect' personal statement though, this piece of advice is probably the one you should start with...
This doesn’t mean that your own personal statement can’t be the perfect fit for your application and for your university choices - it absolutely can.
But what you shouldn’t get bogged down with is worrying that you haven’t followed every single top tip out there.
It takes Google 0.75 seconds to pull up almost 8 million ‘Perfect Personal Statement’ search results (way to go, Google!) but believe me, it’ll take you an awful lot longer than that to go through them all and condense all that advice into a coherent personal statement that has the desired effect.
And that’s not counting the amount of time you’ll waste being distracted by pictures of cats...
A far better plan is to just concentrate on a few top tips and a few things to avoid, which we have handily condensed for you right here!
The basic purpose of the statement is to tell universities why you want to study their course and why you’d be good at it.
Don’t get bogged down in all of your extra-curricular activities and forget to tell us what you actually want to do!
This might sound odd – surely you need to keep to a limit?
Well yes, you do eventually, but initially you’ll benefit from just writing a load of thoughts down in some form of vague order that gives all the reasons why you’d be a fantastic fit on your chosen course.
When you’ve exhausted your list, take a character count and then you’ll know how much you need to cut down.
You’ll find it easier getting rid of stuff than putting it in.
Paragraphs add to your character count, but they also make it much easier to read than a wall of text with no breaks.
Universities will read hundreds of statements, so help us out and make yours a little easier to digest.
Spelling mistakes, grammar errors, little slip ups; these are all avoidable and show a lack of attention to detail, which in turn can make us question how much effort you’re going to put into our course.
Get the statement proofread by someone you trust before you press ‘submit’.
UCAS have worked really hard to make sure their systems make it as easy as possible for you to get the technical bits of your statement right.
Check out their handy step-by-step guide available here.
We want to hear your words, not someone else’s.
Even worse is a random quote with no explanation: ‘ We must all face the choice between what is right, and what is easy!’ Lovely, but what does that say about YOU?
It's easiest just to avoid quotes all together.
Universities reading your UCAS form will know what you’re studying at college, so don’t tell us you’re doing 3 A levels in History, English, Art etc.
Apply the ‘so what?’ principle: what have you learnt from these A Levels that make you a strong university candidate?
Asking several people for input can do more harm than good.
If you take everyone’s advice on board and make all the changes they suggest, your statement can become generic, confusing and not at all personal to you.
Get any help that your college offers, and when it’s finished get it proofread, but make sure that the statement is ultimately ‘yours’.
Certain sentences will inevitably turn up in more than one personal statement.
We expect this, and it isn’t a problem.
But UCAS have a sophisticated method of checking the originality of all personal statements submitted to them.
If they find too many similarities with other statements they have on record, they will let all of the universities you have applied to know.
Don’t be tempted to lift some paragraphs from the sample statements that are scattered around the internet.
It’s just not worth it.
At Wrexham  University, we see thousands of personal statements during the course of a cycle.
They are varied, interesting and often unique - and that’s the way it should be.
Don’t try to make yours too perfect, just make it perfect for you.
We can’t wait to read yours soon!
No longer will you be faced with an anxiety-inducing blank page.
If you apply to study from September 2026 onwards, personal statements will be replaced with three mandatory questions.
The questions are:
If you are currently working on your statement for September 2025, these might still be beneficial for you to consider incorporating into your statement.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/study/apply/application-faqs:
UCAS is short for Universities and Colleges Admissions Service.
It is the central organisation that processes applications for full-time undergraduate courses at UK universities and colleges.
All applications for admission to full-time degrees, DipHE and foundation degree courses must be made online through UCAS.
You can choose to apply to UCAS for up to five different courses.
Fees:
2025 entry -  £28.50 for up to five choices.
2026 entry -  £28.95 for up to five choices.
Deferring your place for a year may be possible, depending on what course you are applying for.
We do not accept deferred applications for Occupational Therapy, Physiotherapy or Social Work, for example.
If you wish to defer your application for any of our other courses, please contact us at enquiries@wrexham.ac.uk to discuss your options.
As part of its continuous quality assurance and enhancement, the University has new and updated courses in development.
The details of these courses are in the process of being finalised and are awaiting their turn in the approval cycle, known as the 'validation' process.
As soon as the programmes are validated, the details of the course will be confirmed.
The majority of new courses that are still 'subject to validation' are approved by their validation process.
However, this is not guaranteed and should the course not go ahead as planned, or be significantly amended, you will be informed by the University and assistance will be provided to those who have been offered a place to find a suitable alternative course, either at Wrexham University or at another establishment.
When a course is revalidated, it must also be reaccredited.
Accreditation also has to be renewed periodically for existing courses.
The majority of courses that are still ‘subject to re-accreditation’ are approved as expected, however this is not guaranteed.
Should the accreditation not be approved as planned, or be significantly amended or delayed, you will be informed by the University.
The course will still run, but assistance will be provided to those who have been offered a place to find a suitable alternative course, either at Wrexham University or at another establishment if applicants do not wish to continue without accreditation.
Some of the University’s courses are also accredited by external bodies, known as PSRBs – Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Bodies.
Accredited courses from some organisations give you the chance to become a member of that professional body as a graduate, and some give you the opportunity to become professionally qualified in certain fields, such as social work or nursing.
Once a course is validated, the University can apply for accreditation, but this must be approved by the PSRB through its own processes and cannot be guaranteed, so we do not advertise any new accreditations until they have been secured for the first time.
On the online application form, you will only be asked the question about criminal convictions if you are applying for a course that requires a DBS.
To find out whether or not the course you are applying for requires a DBS check, see the entry requirements for the course or contact us on enquiries@wrexham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/subject-area/business-degrees:
Our courses emphasise the development of both personal and professional skills through a variety of modules.
Our Business School’s strong industry connections ensure you have the experience and knowledge to meet current and future market demands.
Register your interest View our courses
Take a virtual tour or plan a visit with one of our upcoming events.
Also interested in other subject areas?
Explore all of our career focused courses.
Our great facilities don't end here, take a look at all our campus' have to offer.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/visit/discovery-days:
You have the opportunity to meet our friendly staff and students, learn something new, and discover what the next step of your learning journey could be.
Our lecturers and student ambassadors will take you through interactive activities on the day relating to the course you could apply to in the future.
Discover more at Wrexham University by gaining some hands-on experience of what it’s like to be a university student at one of our Discover Days.
Upcoming Discovery Days:
Make sure to get in touch with us via Recruitment@wrexham.ac.uk if you have any questions about the day.
Have we missed a course you’re interested in learning more about?
No need to worry as we currently offer Taster Days where you can request a tailored experience as a one-off visit.
We would be able to organise a set of activities for you to gain the same experience as a Discovery Day, but the day would be completely tailored to your needs.
This offer is strictly for schools and colleges , if you are wanting more information about booking a Taster Day for your students, then make sure to contact Recruitment@wrexham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/subject-area/sport-degrees:
Kick-start your career with our sports degrees, designed with employability in mind.
Enhance your learning with innovative facilities and professional partnerships to help you gain industry-level experiences.
Our degrees will help you develop insight, understanding and the necessary skills suitable for working in the diverse Sports field.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/careers:
All our courses are jam-packed with opportunities to gain hands-on experience in your field of study.
Linked to the University’s Skills Framework, the University Careers and Employability Service provides expertise, resources and opportunities, accessible 24/7 for potential students, current students, and graduates, through our ASK: Careers and Employability Portal .
Our services to Employers, Recruiters and Voluntary Organisations provide a direct link to a motivated workforce of students and graduates, recruitment and business development opportunities.
Find out more about what we offer, meet the team and how to contact us.
Our 24/7 accessible portal provides access to the Careers and Employability’s full range of services for potential students, current students, graduates, and employers.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/nhs-funding:
If you choose to study one of our many NHS courses here at Wrexham University, you can choose to fund your studies through one of 2 ways The NHS Wales Bursary Scheme and/or Student Finance
To receive funding from the NHS Wales Bursary Scheme, students will need to commit to working in Wales for 2 years following the completion of their course.
We recommend that students who choose to participate in The NHS Wales Bursary Scheme should review the Terms and Conditions provided by NHS Wales.
The BN course is a three - year degree which requires students to work in Wales for two years after qualifying.
The Graduate Diploma/ MSc course is a two - year programme, which as a requirement of 18 months in which to work in Wales, after qualifying.
This bursary is NOT limited to Welsh students, all students are eligible as long as you are able to commit to working in Wales after completing the course.
Students residing in England who wish to study in Wales should apply via the NHS Wales website and not via England NHS funding.
From 2024/25, eligible students from Wales will be able to access the full rate maintenance loan instead of the reduced rate maintenance loan alongside their NHS Bursary.
The maintenance loan will be non-means tested.
EU students who commence their courses on or after 1 August 2021 must have obtained either settled or pre-settled status in the UK through the EU Settlement Scheme in order to be eligible for funding through the NHS Bursary Scheme.
Those assessed as Overseas Fee Payers will not be eligible for the NHS Bursary.
To check, please visit https://www.ukcisa.org.uk/Information--Advice/Fees-and-Money/Wales-fee-status .
For International applicants, please visit https://wrexham.ac.uk/international-students/courses/international-nursing-courses/
For further details visit the NHS Wales website or see the Bursary Scheme FAQs below.
Learn more about the funding options available
If you are willing to make a commitment to work in Wales for a duration of two years after completing your studies, you will qualify to receive the NHS Wales Bursary Scheme.
This includes a non means tested reduced rate of maintenance loan from Student Finance.
Welsh Government bursary available if you commit to working in Wales for 18 months post qualifying with MSc.
Once you have accepted an offer from your preferred university, it is advisable to promptly submit your application for the NHS bursary .
The latest date for applying for funding is suggested six weeks after commencing the course.
You still need to record your intent to study and register your OPT OUT of NHS funding decision on the NWSSP Student Awards Services Welsh Health Education Registration System.
If you are OPTING OUT after 10 weeks of enrolling on to your course , you will need the Funding & Money Advice Team (FMAT) to support you with this process.
If you fail to register via the System, you will not be eligible to access and apply for the full student finance entitlement.
You can apply for support towards the cost of your Tuition Fees and living expenses by applying online via the relevant Student Finance websites.
What you are entitled to will depend upon your individual circumstances and any previous study .
For more information regarding what funding is available please see our Fees and Funding section.
Even though you are not receiving the Bursary, you can still access the NHS support system for covering travel and accommodation expenses related to your placements.
If you have previous study within Higher Education and wish to access student loans and grants, it is advised that you contact our Funding & Money Advice Team (FMAT) and complete your details on their enquiry form or email funding@wrexham.ac.uk to discuss your circumstances before applying for your funding.
*Not all places are eligible for NHS funding
Tuition Fees in academic year 25/26 are covered in full by the NHS so no tuition fee payment is required.
The NHS provides financial support through various options.
One is a non-means tested NHS grant, which amounts to £1,000.
Another option is a means-tested NHS bursary, which can reach up to £4,491.
The amount of bursary you receive depends on the duration of your course and your household income.
Furthermore, students who meet certain requirements can apply for additional supplementary grants.
These grants are means tested and include:
The NHS Wales Bursary Schemes, administered by Student Awards Services, offer financial support to healthcare students enrolled in NHS-funded courses in Wales .
If you are considering a professional career in health care and would like to know more about the financial support you will get during your training, then please contact: • Bursary Enquiries - Tel: 02920 905380 • Email: abm.sas@wales.nhs.uk
You can apply for the funding on the NHS Wales Bursary Scheme website
Students will need to ensure they register and apply within 10 weeks of the start of their course to be considered for a bursary.
After this time, you will need the Funding & Money Advice Team (FMAT) to support you with this process.
After the 10-week deadline, in normal circumstances you will not be able to change funding route.
However, in exceptional cases your application to change funding route will be considered.
If you would like to change funding route, please ask your university to email HEIW.EdCommissioning@wales.nhs.uk with a rationale as to why you would like to change.
Any such cases will then be considered on a case-by-case basis and HEIW will inform you of their decision.
Students who apply for the NHS funding are also able to access a non-means tested Maintenance Loan via Student Finance, of up to £11,345.00 (Wales) or £2,753.00  (England).
To access the loan, students must submit applications to Student Finance Wales, Student Finance England, or your local funding body.
It is important to note that students who have prior educational experience or already possess a degree qualification are still eligible to receive this loan.
Other funding may be available.
The availability of Disability Student's Allowance (DSA) depends on the individual circumstances of the student.
For more guidance on this matter, students can seek additional advice from our disability team .
If you are required to complete additional years to complete your course due to academic failure, this is not funded by the bursary, and you will need to source alternative funding yourself.
There is provision to apply for additional support on a case-by- case basis, if the reasons for repeating a year are not due to academic failure for example, ill-health.
You should speak to your course lead & the Funding & Money Advice Team (FMAT) for advice before applying to Student Awards Service.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/blog/posts/9-reasons-students-love-wrexham-university:
Here are 9 reasons why our students love it here so much....
We have an extraordinarily friendly and supportive community.
Our small campus means we are a close-knit group and our students love the safe, village-like vibe at Wrexham University.
No huge class sizes meaning no getting lost in a sea of faces.
You will be known by name rather than a number - every person here matters.
Our cosy and modern halls are just a stone's throw from our main campus too.
The perfect place to call home.
Now more than ever, one of the biggest concerns facing students is the cost of going to university.
With affordable accommodation and the city offering great value nights out and living costs, Wrexham University's pocket friendly-prices are an added bonus.
Plus, our Student Funding and Money Advice team are on hand to offer expert financial support.
Moving away from home for the first time can be daunting; we get it.
That's why we're always on hand to help if you need it.
From our friendly teaching staff who operate an open-door policy, to our learning skills’ teams and free counselling service, students tell us that they feel cared for and supported at Wrexham University.
Our student support services are available before and during your study journey with us – make the most of them, they’re here to help you.
If you love your food, there's lots to tuck into in Wrexham.
The city is a melting pot of cultures and the wide choice of cafes, delis, restaurants, take-aways and food makers reflects this - something that gets a big thumbs up according to our students.
Think artisan Polish bakeries, Portuguese tapas, Mediterranean mezes, hearty pub grub, street food and award-winning contemporary fine dining.
It's time to dig out those elasticated trousers.
We are passionate in our belief that higher education should be accessible to everyone - no matter their gender identity, sexuality or background.
As a university we have an active LBGT+ society and there are a number of local support and social groups which our students tell us makes them feel welcome and free to be themselves.
Our home is your home.
Fine out more about what pride means to us .
Being the largest city in north Wales, it's no surprise that Wrexham has a lively nightlife scene.
On campus there's our Students’ Union bar and Glyn’s, offering tasty and affordable food options.
Venture into the city centre and you'll find it comes alive after dark; from clubs and cocktail bars to traditional pubs, sports bars and live music venues.
So, whether you want to grab a pint while watching the footy with your mates or let your hair down after a long day studying by dancing 'til dawn, you'll find everything you need to make your student experience an unforgettable one.
Our main campus is home to everything that students need - from a library and study areas to a gym and well-known coffee shop.
It's also a quick 10-minute walk to the city centre, full of shops, bars and restaurants, meaning no expensive daily transport costs.
And, if you do want to explore further afield, bus and rail links are even closer, based just a a short stroll away from campus.
As locations go, our students tell us it's pretty hard to beat with the best of both worlds on your doorstep.
Discover Wrexham to find out more.
We can't not talk about the amazing culture on our doorstep either.
In the city centre there are a growing number of galleries, museums and arts venues, including the award-winning Ty Pawb which has hosted work from iconic artists like Antony Gormley and Grayson Perry.
Plus, there is a annual busy line-up of events and festivals.
Think Wales Comic Con, Wrexham Feast and Wrexham Carnival of Words as well as international music festival, FOCUS Wales.
We're also surrounded by world-class historic attractions, such as Erddig Hall, UNESCO World Heritage site, Pontcysyllte Aqueduct, and not one, but three of the Seven Wonders of Wales.
We’re proud of our place in the world.
Wrexham's world-famous football club is located right next to our main campus, and its owners - Hollywood stars Ryan Reynolds and Rob McElhenney - have attracted a host of famous fans.
From David Beckham and Will Ferrell to Jack Whitehall and Blake Lively, who knows who you might bump into on campus , or your local?!
Come and discover our campus and city for yourself - check out our latest dates for open days and subject events .
Sound like somewhere you’d like to study?
Explore our undergraduate , postgraduate or short courses .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/about/campus-developments/completed-projects:
Our teaching spaces have been completely renovated, with excellent Audio Visual (AV) equipment, accessible workstations and clean designs.
From classrooms and lecture theatres to our SCALE-UP rooms and Moot Court room, each space has student learning at its heart.
Following our successful Health Education and Improvement Wales (HEIW) bid to deliver new Allied Health courses in addition to existing ones, we’ve developed a Health Education & Innovation Quarter (HEIQ) to include a Healthcare Simulation Centre, equipped with a purpose built inspection room and advanced audio and visual technology that enables our students’ work to be monitored by trained professionals.
We've created a number of social/learning spaces for our students, staff and visitors.
Amongst these is the B Hive, The Gallery and The Study, designed with both staff and students in mind to encourage interaction, collaborative working and new campus wide culture.
Our brand-new science labs, with bespoke fit for purpose laboratory furniture and equipment in high quality, digitally enhanced spaces, are the perfect space to enable our students to thrive.
The £5m Colliers Park National Football Development Centre delivers accessible, high-class training facilities for young players and the wider football workforce in North Wales.
The facility includes two top quality grass pitches, a FIFA quality 3G pitch, plus an education facility for students on the Sports Science and Football Coaching degree courses to use.
Our Veterinary Nursing Clinical Suite based at our Northop campus gives our Veterinary Nursing students the opportunity to gain key experience in clinical settings in preparation for their future careers.
Wrexham University School of Art has been upgraded and its key features faithfully maintained.
Wrexham School of Art is home to our Shed Space: a commercial space for graduates and a vibrant community spot for students to speak with alumni and tap into their knowledge and experiences.
Our Biomechanics and Performance Sciences Lab contains state-of-the-art facilities, offering our students the chance to develop specialist employability skills using equipment from applied settings that are common in elite sport.
Tŷ Dysgu/Learning House is our residential home right on campus.
This versatile space, which is also used for our annual Major Incident simulations with local emergency services, can stage a variety of scenarios for students to work independently, or interprofessionally, with other disciplines.
Our Cyber Innovation Academy (CIA) aims to create a leading centre for cyber security capability development in the region.
The CIA, which features a Cyber Escape Room, provides our students and external colleagues with access to innovative facilities for learning and practical training in protecting computer operating systems, networks, and data from cyber-attacks.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/campuses-and-facilities/wrexham-campus:
Our Plas Coch campus on Mold Road is home to the majority of the university's courses.
The campus is a mix of Grade II listed buildings, modern 21st century facilities and state-of-the-art education centres.
It’s just a 10 minute walk from the town centre, a 5 minute walk from Wrexham General Railway Station and is easily accessible by road.
Library
The library, based in the Library and Student Support Centre, houses hundreds of thousands of journals, electronic resources and books, as well as providing plenty of quiet study and group work areas.
The university has computer suites conveniently located across campus and there are specialist labs for computing, engineering and art and design students.
Student Support and Students' Union
Also in the Library and Student Support Centre, you will find most of our student support services.
Support is also on offer from the Students’ Union , where you can enjoy many of the university's social facilities, including the student bar, Glyn's.
Little Scholars
If you need childcare in order to study, we also have an on-campus nursery, Little Scholars .
The Study and The Gallery
We have two modern and welcoming social learning spaces: The Study and The Gallery.
Both are colourful, stylish and practical, with great lighting, comfortable seating, air conditioning and plenty of three-point and USB charging sockets.
The Study has several booths with comfortable leather sofas, tables, acoustic panels and monitors that students can hook their devices up to in order to work collaboratively on PowerPoint presentations, videos or other creative projects.
The Gallery is equipped with state-of-the-art technology and features a rolling programme of artwork.
Student-Centred Active Learning Environment
Our Student-Centred Active Learning Environment (SCALE-UP) room uses cutting-edge technology and design to improve the student experience.
The B corridor and its teaching spaces have been refurbished too - all these developments are part of our £60m Campus 2025 commitment to ensure excellent facilities for our students.
Centre for the Creative Industries
The Centre for the Creative Industries provides a focal point for creative industries activity, promoting greater interdisciplinary collaboration and involving subjects as diverse as art and design, computing and engineering.
The home of BBC Cymru Wales in Wrexham, the centre features state-of-the-art TV and radio studios, 3D workshops, design studios, IT suites, Apple training suites and post-production audio and visual facilities.
Sports Centre
You can play a variety of sports, use the gym or take a class at our Sports Centre.
William Aston Hall
William Aston Hall is an entertainment venue that attracts regular acts from retro musicians such as Belinda Carlisle, Alexander O’Neal and Boyzlife, to big-name comedians including Dave Gorman, Jason Byrne and Rhod Gilbert.
Language Centre
Our modern Language Centre forms the hub for our international student community.
We offer intensive and pre-sessional English language courses for non-native speakers to improve their fluency level, and a Summer School programme to help international students prepare for University study before they formally start their degree course in September.
Just five minutes down the road from Plas Coch is the School of Creative Arts , the hub for the university's art and design courses.
Our historic Grade II building in Wrexham town centre oozes character and encourages your imagination and ingenuity.
The school has a dedicated studio and workshop spaces for a host of artistic disciplines.
It also hosts The Art Shop, which stocks a wide range of art and design products at reasonable prices.
Part of our Campus 2025 expansion is the £5m Colliers Park National Football Development Centre .
The centre benefits Welsh football both nationally and locally, by delivering accessible, high-class training facilities for young players and the wider football workforce in North Wales.
The new facility includes two top quality grass pitches, a FIFA quality 3G pitch, plus off-pitch support facilities such as activation areas, learning suites and changing facilities.
Wrexham Glyndŵr University also has a state-of-the-art education facility incorporated for students on the Sports Science and Sports Coaching degree programmes to use.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/campuses-and-facilities/northop-campus:
At Wrexham Northop Campus, we know what it takes to enhance our students' education.
Our unique approach to learning, top-quality facilities and community vibe, makes us more than just a campus - it's a life experience.
The enriched learning environment provided at the Northop Campus has helped countless students get ahead in their education.
Situated in the rural village of Northop, the campus reflects the backgrounds and cultures of the local areas, specialising in the teaching of Equine Science, Animal Behaviour, Welfare and Conservation and Veterinary Nursing.
Northop plays host to around 100 students per year, creating a community where everyone grows together and learning is provided in a much more interactive and intimate way.
Our Veterinary Nursing clinical suite based at our Northop campus gives our Veterinary Nursing students the opportunity to gain key experience in clinical settings in preparation for their future career.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/optic:
A place for high tech start-ups and small businesses to develop and grow.
With all the services you need on-site, allowing you to concentrate on your business.
The perfect venue for meetings and conferences in North Wales.
OpTIC has a large conference room and various meeting areas ready for your next event.
Embark on the first step towards a fulfilling career by studying one of Wrexham University’s Nursing degrees.
Our state-of-the-art nursing suite facilities provide a practical hands-on learning environment to support students throughout their studies.
Glyndŵr Innovations Ltd (GIL) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Wrexham University established in 2015 as a limited commercial company
Working in collaboration with industry partners to develop new products and processes for a wide range of industrial applications.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/campuses-and-facilities/sport:
Wrexham University is home to a wide variety of top-class sporting venues, providing excellent facilities for anyone who wishes to continue playing sport whilst they study - or perhaps trying something for the first time.
Our facilities, including our fitness suite, sports hall and water based astro turf pitch are available to students, staff and the general public.
For more information on hiring our facilities, please contact sports.bookings@wrexham.ac.uk or call 01978 293275.
The Sports Centre houses a 1000sq.
m.
hall, with a top-quality maple strip sprung floor.
The facility complies with national competition standards for badminton, netball, basketball, volleyball and futsal.
We also have provision for table tennis, pickleball and matting for martial arts.
Our Fitness Suite is open to students, staff and community users with trained staff on-hand to offer support and advice when required.
It has a cardio room including bikes, treadmills, cross trainer and rowers and a weights room with resistance equipment including an Olympic bar and a selection of free weights.
This exceptional floodlit facility has been host to many an international event including EuroHockey Nations Trophy (men), International Test matches, Junior Celtic Cup Tournament and is home to Wrexham Hockey Club (Junior, Men & Ladies).
The facility is also used by many local community football teams for their evening training sessions under the floodlights.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/campuses-and-facilities/food-and-drink:
There are also a number of vending machines located across the sites to provide quick refreshments on the go.
Being the campus where most courses are based our Plas Coch site hosts the largest amount of options to purchase food and drink items.
United Kitchen is our main dining area, which offers everything from breakfasts, “Grab & Go” snacks, sandwiches, salads and a variety of traditional and modern hot meals.
Special dietary requirements are catered for including halal, vegetarian, dairy-free and gluten-free meals, and themed meals and barbecues take place at regular intervals.
Other outlets at Plas Coch are:
Also on site is our Restaurant 1887, a great venue for a special meal out and very popular at graduation – reservations are required for the restaurant.
Room 23 is based at the School of Creative Arts in Regent Street serving a selection of snacks and drinks.
There are also two outlets at our Northop Campus, the Northop College Refectory and Celyn Café.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/students-union:
Wrexham Students’ Union is here to represent you and your voice.
We strive to make your student experience the best it can be.
What matters to you, matters to us!
Every student at Wrexham University is automatically a member of the Students' Union.
It is here that you can vote and stand in the SU elections, access our advice service, and join a society or sports team.
Visit our website for more information: www.wrexhamglyndwrsu.org.uk .
The SU reception and shop is available for all your merchandise and signposting needs.
We sell a variety of WGSU hoodies, t-shirts and bags as well as stationary essentials.
You can book an appointment with our advice centre there, or get any information about the Union, as well as signposting to relevant University departments.
If you have any questions with regards to our shop items or SU services, you can drop us an email at union@wrexham.ac.uk .
Glyns is a relaxed space on campus where you can meet a friend, have something to eat and drink or find a space to catch up on some studying.
You can find us in the Students’ Union building on the Plas Coch Campus.
At Glyns, you can expect a wide selection of alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks along with tasty and affordable food options.
The space is flexible and is designed to support student-led events.
So if you have an idea for an activity that you want to host in the space, just drop us an email or come in and see us on campus.
Societies are a great way to meet new people with similar interests and are also an excellent excuse to try something brand new.
Here at WSU, we have a wide range of clubs and societies , from LGBT+ and Health and Wellbeing to TWP racing and Equestrian societies.
We're also always looking to diversify what we can offer our students.
With new societies being set-up all the time, we are sure that there will be something for everyone.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/accommodation/student-accommodation:
ON CAMPUS / LARGE FLAT SOCIALISING SPACE / ALL BILLS INCLUDED / UNLIMITED FREE WIFI / 24/7 SECURITY / ONSITE LAUNDRETTE /  ONSITE MAINTENANCE / FREE PARKING/ WALKING DISTANCE TO SHOPS AND TRAIN STATION / ONSITE RESIDENTIAL SUPPORT / GREAT COMMUNITY FEEL / PART OF UUK CODE OF PRACTICE
At WSV, we understand the importance of having a space that feels like home.
Our en suite rooms offer privacy, with the perfect balance of relaxation and productivity.
We like to think of each room as being a fully furnished, blank canvas, ensuring you have room to grow and make your mark with your own personal touches, whilst giving you everything you need to thrive academically.
APPLY NOW!
Our rooms with accessible en-suites are located in a flat with low-level kitchen work surfaces & accessible storage.
WSV is renowned for our inclusive and vibrant community, where friendships are forged, and memories are made.
Our flats provide a large socialising space - an area of opportunity to connect with like-minded individuals who share your passion for learning and great life experiences.
CONTRACT
PAYMENT REQUIRED TO ACCEPT ROOM OFFER
INSTALMENTS
51 week contract (Sept – Sept)
£250.00
3 instalments (Oct, Jan & April)
40 weeks contract (Sept – July)
Semester 1 (18 weeks, Sept – Feb)
Full payment
N/A
Semester 2 (21 weeks, Feb – July)
*** IF YOU REQUIRE AN EARLIER ARRIVAL DATE, PLEASE EMAIL accommodation@wrexham.ac.uk OR CALL 01978 293344 WITH THE SPECIFIC DATES AND WE WILL CHECK AVAILABILITY***
CHECK OUT OUR ACCOMMODATION OFFERS
WSV Accommodation office is open 08.30 / 16.00, Monday to Friday - Call us to book a tour or pop in on one of our Open Days.
Virtual interior walk through a WSV flat
Virtual exterior walk around WSV
Show round Video
Location matters, and WSV delivers!
Nestled at the heart of our campus, you'll never have to worry about getting to class on time.
Enjoy easy access to state-of-the-art facilities, libraries, and all the academic resources you need to excel.
Plus, with local shops, restaurants, entertainment venues, nightlife and excellent rail and bus connections just around the corner, you'll have everything you need right at your fingertips.
Don't miss out on the chance to experience your student lifestyle to its fullest.
Spaces fill up fast at Wrexham Student Village, so apply today!
Embrace the journey, embrace the experience, and embrace a future filled with possibilities.
If you are interested and have your student ID number, please go to APPLY NOW
You will need to register first if you haven’t already and then put in an application for accommodation, it is then we advise you to put down any preferences you have, these can also be inputted into the notes section of the application if there is not a box for your preference.
We can’t guarantee you’ll get them, but we’ll try our best to accommodate.
Applying for September - Once we have verified your application and sent you out a room offer (expect this mid-August), you will then have 14 days to accept the room and at that point you’ll either have to pay a £250.00 prepayment if you’ve selected a week contract or the full payment for a semester 1.
(Note, the card details used to pay the prepayment for the week contracts, will be stored in our system, and will then be used to pay the instalments of accommodation fees later).
Applying for Semester 2 - Once we have verified your application and sent you a room offer (Expect this January), to accept your offer you’ll then have to pay the full payment of semester 2.
We open applications in March for the following academic year.
Add your email to our mailing list and you'll be the first to know when we officially open them.
OPEN APPLICATIONS MAILING LIST
Our rooms are so popular that, unfortunately, not everyone who applies will get a place.
We, therefore, work to a system that gives out rooms to those who need them the most.
This means that priority is given to students entering their first year of study who:
Or students who:
Returning students may apply for university accommodation for any surplus rooms that may be available.
We operate a fair allocation policy that does not discriminate on grounds of race, colour, religion, ethnicity, sexuality, age, gender or disability.
If you have a disability or long-term medical condition and you require adjustments it is essential that you contact the Residential and Campus Life team accommodation@wrexham.ac.uk prior to submitting an application to discuss your specific requirements.
We can only make you a room offer once we are able to confirm that appropriate accommodation is available and reasonable adjustments can be made.
We may be able to offer you accommodation for the duration of your course but again this will need to be considered and agreed prior to making a booking.
Please be aware due to possible changes in the portfolio this may not be the same accommodation each year
If you have a personal support worker who will be enabling you to live independently at university, we can also provide a room for them (the full cost of this room will be payable).
To ensure you receive the appropriate support with your studies, it is recommended that you contact the Inclusion Team and inform them of your disability and the adjustments you require.
Further information about the team including their contact details is available at https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-support/inclusion/
Unfortunately we cannot guarantee your preferred room type or guarantee your allocation preferences, as places are subject to availability, but we do try our best to accommodate everyone's wishes as best we can.
If we are unable to offer you your requested room type, your application will not be affected, instead we will offer you the closest match we have available.
If you have a preference that is not one of our boxes to tick, please input your request into the notes section of your application.
We do not allocate on age, gender or religious belief
You can purchase bed and kitchen packs ready for your arrival, online via the links –
We suggest holding off bringing an iron, ironing board and a toaster, until you have arrived and seen what other residents have brought.
Recommended:
TV licence (if watching in your own room).
- Wrexham University
Sorry, but we do not allow the following in your BEDROOM:
You are permitted to have your own television in your room, but please check if you are required to hold a licence for this.
The television licence for the TV in the communal kitchen area is paid for by the University.
The following items are prohibited throughout the accommodation and university buildings:
March
June & July
August
** NOTE ** The card you use to pay the prepayment will be the card that we use to take accommodation fee instalments out of.
September
Get directions to Wrexham Student Village
As a parent, guardian or someone with care responsibilities, it can be an exciting and scary time when your child/ward starts university.
Please be assured our Residential and Campus Life Team will do everything we can to support their transition into University and independent living, whilst giving them a fantastic life experience.
ADULTS - GDPR
Please be aware that we class your child/ward as an adult and therefore, due to data protection, we cannot discuss anything about them with you unless we gain their permission first.
We cannot discuss any specific details such as their room, flat or postal address, neither can we confirm that they are even a student here.
However, if you do have any queries or concerns, don’t hesitate to contact us; but be mindful that we are limited as to what we are able to discuss with you.
PREPAYMENT - ACCEPTING A ROOM OFFER
Once we have verified your child/wards application and sent them a room offer, they will then have 14 days to accept the room and at that point they'll either pay a £250.00 prepayment if they've selected a week contract or the full payment for a semester.
ARRIVALS WEEKEND
Students will be sent a booking slot form after they have accepted their room offer, these slots work on a first come, first served basis.
Arrivals will be able to unload in the parking bays directly outside WSV.
Each slot is 30 minutes, after which, residents will be asked to move vehicles to the larger carpark to make room for others to unload.
PLEASE STICK TO YOUR SLOTS - ARRIVING EARLY OR LATE MAY MEAN THAT YOU HAVE TO WAIT.
MAKE A DAY OF IT
If you’re helping your child/ward move in, why not make a full day of it and see what else Wrexham has to offer while you’re visiting?
Here’s a few of our favourite suggestions of things to do before and after you say goodbye.
- Make a day of it
PARENTS STAYING OVER
Residents are welcome to have guests, but a ll overnight guests MUST be approved by the accommodation office, 1 guest to stay at one time, are limited to 2 nights and are not to be left unattended.
If we cannot identify a visitor, they will be told to leave accommodation.
Please take a look at Premier Inn Wrexham which is a 6 minute walk from the accommodation.
Wrexham University has committed to the Universities UK Code of Practice for the Management of Student Housing in respect of its accommodation sites at Wrexham Campus.
The code aims to promote best practice over a range of management activities including; health and safety standards, maintenance and repair regimes, environmental quality, landlord and tenant relationships, student welfare and anti-social behaviour.
A complaints procedure external to the University exists in respect of breaches of the code, should any complaint not be resolved through the Residential and Campus Life team or Wrexham University complaints procedures.
More information regarding the UK Codes of practice can be found here .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/accommodation/summer-stays:
ALL BILLS INCLUDED / UNLIMITED FREE WIFI / 24/7 SECURITY / ONSITE LAUNDRETTE /  ONSITE MAINTENANCE / FREE PARKING / WALKING DISTANCE TO SHOPS, TRAIN STATION AND HOSPITAL
SINGLE EN-SUITE
Contact us accommodation@wrexham.ac.uk or call 01978293344
SINGLE PLUS EN-SUITE
WHAT’S INCLUDED
Full use of the fully fitted kitchen & living area are in place for your arrival, however, all personal items & food etc.
will need to be provided by yourselves during your stay, and each room is allocated numbered cupboard space in the kitchen.
Please be aware that each flat has roughly 7 bedrooms who share the kitchen/lounge facilities and you may be joining guests who have already arrived.
DIRECTIONS
OUT OF HOURS ARRIVAL
If arriving after 16.00pm or at weekends our security team are on duty in Wrexham Student Village and will happily issue your keys.
Please note that security staff are available 24 hours.
If security staff are not in the office upon arrival, please call 07764687909 and they will come and meet you.
PARKING
To apply for free parking with us - register your vehicle Car Registration Form
Please see WU Campus Map .
Wrexham Student Village is no 12 and we have two car parks, a drop off and main car park that provides ample spaces.
LAUNDRY
There is a laundry room available 24 hours per day and the code for access can be found on the notice boards in the kitchen area and in the RESIDENTS HANDBOOK
Our accommodation provides privacy whilst being part of a community, high-speed internet, and is located in the heart of Wrexham, in walking distance to everything you need.
We’re in an ideal spot for those taking summer courses or preparing for upcoming exams.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/accommodation/wsv-residents:
WELCOME
Dear Resident
On behalf of the Residential and Campus Life team, I would like to offer you a warm welcome to Wrexham University student accommodation.
We hope you enjoy your stay with us and have an enjoyable and successful academic year.
This page provides some general information that you may find useful, together with general codes of conduct on how residents should behave whilst staying in Wrexham University accommodation.
Please read this information, it is important that you comply with the University’s rules and regulations.
Wrexham Students’ Union will be out and about the Wrexham Campus to offer support and advice to students and information on various social activities.
This will be an excellent opportunity for you to meet new friends and socialise.
The Students’ Union team are in the building numbered 5 on the CAMPUS MAP .
During your stay, if you require any further information, then please do not hesitate to contact your Residential and Campus Life team accommodation@wrexham.ac.uk
I wish you every success with your studies.
Yours sincerely
Glyn Smith - Residential & Campus Life Manager
BEFORE YOU ARRIVE
To apply for FREE parking - please register your vehicle Car Registration Form
We have two car parks on either side of WSV accommodation.
Please be considerate when parking vehicles and refrain from parking outside the spaces allocated.
This includes:
Wrexham University does not accept any responsibility for damage, accident or loss and use of the car parks is at your risk.
Wrexham Village has a secure bike storage rack located outside John Neal building.
Please note that your bicycle should be securely locked when left, Wrexham University does not accept any liability for loss or damage.
Bikes and motorcycles are not permitted inside the accommodation blocks, any found will be a breach of your Terms and Conditions of Residency.
Motorised disability vehicles are permitted in selected halls but please check with the Residential and Campus Life team for charging the vehicle.
Please show respect for these appliances and the persons using them.
Arriving on arrivals weekend – Please complete the arrival slot form that should have been sent via email to you.
It works on a first come, first served basis.
Each slot is 30 minutes , after which, residents will be asked to move vehicles to the larger carpark to make room for others to unload.
Please report to the accommodation office (to the right, as you enter WSV, the office is sign posted.
It's in between John Neal A & B blocks) Have your arrival email on hand to show your accommodation team and we will issue your key.
Arriving outside of arrivals weekend
Keys will be available from the - Accommodation office 01978293344 Located to the right, as you enter WSV, the office is sign posted.
It's in between John Neal A & B blocks.
Open between 09.00am & 16:00pm Monday to Friday.
If arriving after 16.00pm or at weekends our security team are on duty in Wrexham Student Village and will happily issue your key.
If security staff are not in the office upon arrival, please call the following number and they will come and meet you: Security - 07764687909 or 07764687910
Please have your arrival email on hand to show your accommodation team and we will issue your key.
You will have picked up your room key on arrival.
Your room key card is your responsibility, please DO NOT give your room key to anyone else.
Please be aware that all bedroom doors are self-locking so please keep your room key on you to avoid being locked out.
Replacement key cards are £2.00 and you can pick one up from the accommodation office, you can pay online
It's also an opportunity for you to highlight any areas that need addressing so that we may organise maintenance to be completed.
You will be sent the link to our online Inventory forms via email When you accepted your room offer here at WSV, you agreed to:
You will need to complete a bedroom inventory and your flat will have to submit an inventory for your lounge.
The lounge inventory should be completed by the resident residing in a room with the smallest number in the flat.
Both Inventories need to be submitted within two weeks of arrival.
Sorry, but we do not allow the following in your bedroom:
You are permitted to have your own television in your room, but you are required to hold a licence for this.
The following items are prohibited throughout the accommodation:
WIFI is available, and all rooms have internet connection points.
You have been provided with an internet cable when you arrived, and we recommend you use this to receive the best service.
WIFI Connection
Wired Connection
Report an issue:
Contact ASK4 direct - Support.ask4.com
The Residential and Campus Life Office/Reception and Security cannot assist in any IT problems.
SPEED
Wired Speed: Up to 250Mb/s download.
4Wireless Speed: Up to 250Mb/s nominal download.
SPEC
4Wireless shall be provided over the 2.4 and 5GHz wireless bands, enabling 802.11ax (Wi-Fi 6) compatible wireless devices.
No.
of Authorised Devices: Unlimited.
REPORT A WSV MAINTENANCE ISSUE HERE
Please be aware that reports logged outside of office hours will not be seen until the next working day.
High Priority Jobs will be seen within 24 hours.
Medium and Low Priority Jobs will be seen within 10 working days.
If you are reporting a High Priority Job outside of office hours, please call security - 07764 687910 or 07764 687909
Please note that you are responsible for keeping your room and kitchen areas clean and tidy.
(There is a rota in the kitchen to assist with this in Wrexham Village).
All our flats have a vacuum cleaner for you to use, please change the bags regularly.
If you find a fault with any appliance, please report it.
The communal areas (halls, stairs, corridors etc) within the accommodation blocks will be kept clean by a team of cleaners.
Security provide 24/7 Support at WSV - 07764687909 / 07764687910
WHEN TO CONTACT SECURITY
SAFE
The university has introduced a ‘Safe’ word for students to say to university security staff should they find themselves in a vulnerable or uncomfortable situation.
This enables them to seek additional support from security staff without alerting the person they are with.
The safe word is PEARL – on saying this the security team will realise you need assistance
PERSONAL SAFETY Please inform accommodation if you are leaving accommodation for more than a week to avoid any unnecessary concern.
Also consider;
WSV CCTV
Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) is in operation at the Accommodation and some areas of the University Campus.
Body cameras are worn by all security staff on patrol and record audio and visual data.
In the unlikely event that you are a victim of/or witness a crime on university premises please ensure you report it to the Security Team
Under GDPR regulations you are not permitted to have domestic or private CCTV systems within the accommodation.
The University aims to provide a safe and supportive environment for students to study and interact with other students, staff and visitors, and where staff can work free from any sexual misconduct and violence.
Sexual misconduct and violence refers to a broad spectrum of behaviours that cannot be divorced from other types of gender based violence including, but not limited to, intimate partner violence or domestic abuse, coercive and/or controlling behaviour, and stalking.
What is sexual Misconduct: Sexual Misconduct and Violence is defined as any unwanted conduct of a sexual nature which occurred in person or by letter, telephone, text, email or other electronic and/or social media Domestic abuse and coercive or controlling behaviour is defined as any incident or pattern of incidents of controlling, coercive, threatening behaviour, violence or abuse between those who are, or have been, intimate partners or family members regardless of gender or sexuality.
What is consent: Consent is the agreement by choice where the individual has both the freedom and capacity to make that choice.
Consent cannot be assumed on the basis of a previous sexual experience or previously given consent, or from the absence of complaint, and each new sexual act requires a re-confirmation of consent as the foundation of a healthy and respectful sexual relationship.
What to do in an emergency On Campus If you are on campus, the emergency services needs to be contacted via the Security team, who will guide them to the right location: Call Security on 07764687909 or 07640687910.
Security may call the on-call member of University staff, and can contact emergency services if necessary.
Always inform Security as soon as possible if you have called 999 from the University so that they can assist.
Off Campus Call 999 to access emergency services
What to do in a non-emergency Where there is no longer an immediate threat to an individual’s safety or after any necessary emergency response has taken place, an individual may choose to get medical support, visit a sexual assault referral centre or visit a sexual health clinic follow the incident.
An individual may also wish to make a report to the police, where they do this, they must notify the University if they also file a report under this procedure, so that an investigation by the police can take precedence.
Disclosure and/or Report Disclosure and Reporting are separate actions that the Reporting Party may choose to take Following a Disclosure, the Reporting Party will be given their reporting options along with information on resources for specialist support.
The University recognises that the Reporting Party may require time and reflection before making a decision.
The Reporting Party will be given the option and support to do one or more of the following: • report to the Police; • report to the University under the University’s Sexual Misconduct and Violence Policy; • make no report of the incident; and/or • receive advice on the support that is available.
For further information see the Sexual Misconduct and Violence Policy
Your postal address should include the following to ensure it gets delivered correctly: -
*Your Name*
Wrexham University
Wrexham Student Village
*Your Block*
*Your Room number*
Mold Road
LL11 2AW
Parcels and packages for Wrexham Student Village residents will be delivered to the Post Room by Main Reception in University (see below for map or what 3 words for location), you will need to ask for your letters/parcels and provide ID as proof of identity.
Please contact reception@wrexham.ac.uk or 01978290666 to check if you have post/parcels
Mail can be collected during the following times:
10:00 – 12:00 // 14:00 – 15:00 - Monday – Friday
POST ROOM LOCATION
WU Campus Map – WSV is number 22 and main campus reception is number 7
What3words - ///list.just.early
Watch HOW 2 videos and access appliance manuals here
MAPS
CAMPUS MAP .
Wrexham town map
TRAIN
BUS
TAXIS
WSV VALUES
ACCEPTANCE - At WSV we accept people for who they are, even when they're different from you, or you don't agree with them.
Respect in your relationships builds feelings of trust, safety, and wellbeing.
KINDNESS - It can be as simple as smiling at a fellow resident, knocking on someone’s door, or eating lunch with someone.
It's the small gestures that keep our community connected.
CONSIDERATION & CONSENT - Be aware of your impact on others, take care not to inconvenience or harm others.
Any form of bullying will not be tolerated and will be challenged accordingly.
This includes misuse of social media and chat groups.
It is a criminal offence to share private materials, either photos or videos, of another person, without their consent with the aim of causing embarrassment or distress.
By calling WSV your home and becoming part of our community we hope this helps you strive for more and focus on the results you're looking for.
We hope WSV creates a sense of belonging, acceptance, understanding and becomes an inspiration for you, creating memories and life experiences whilst you're with us.
GROUPS
We have a WSV Community Facebook group, you will have been sent the link to this private group with your arrival information.
- The aim is to provide an opportunity to get to know each other before you arrive, stay connected whilst you’re here, participate in activities/events whilst you stay with us, and is a tool we can use to communicate information to each other throughout the year.
CONNECTIONS
Glyn's bar (Student Union) WgSU Societies Umii - Download Umii for iPhone Download Umii for Android
TalkCampus - Your student email address will give you free access, just download TalkCampus from the app stores or using the following link
Students can also access a TalkCampus Clinical Helpline to gain confidential support with their mental health any time of the day or night.
Download TalkCampus via the app store.
LIVING WITH OTHERS - GET TO KNOW EACH OTHER
Whether you’ve all lived together in previous years or have never met before, getting to know each other will make it much easier to live together.
You don’t have to be the best of mates, as sometimes some people just aren’t right for you, but forming some kind of relationship will make your day to day living so much easier.
SHARING FRIDGE SPACE
ADDRESSING CONFLICT
Don’t ignore conflict - While it can be tempting to bottle up feelings like anger and frustration by not rocking the boat, conflict-avoiding tendencies can take a toll on your mental health.
Leaving conflicts unresolved leads to pent-up frustration and a greater sense of loneliness that can build up over time.
Communication is key to addressing conflict - Ask the individual(s) involved for a meeting and b e clear what you intend to convey to the other individual(s)
During the meeting, remember these tips:
STUDENT TO STUDENT TIPS
Keeping noise at a level that does not interfere with the study, sleep or comfort of other residents.
In particular between 23.00pm and 08.00am each day.
Laundrette - You will have be given a laundry card with your key card when you arrive, full instructions on how to use it are provided on the back of the card.
How to wash your laundry
The laundry building is in the carpark, facing the 2 accommodation blocks; it is open 7 days of the week, 24 hrs a day.
To access the laundry building, please follow the instructions: Enter the code in your residents handbook on the keypad and turn the handle anticlockwise.
Toping up your laundry card:
You are required to provide your own washing powder
The washing facilities are the sole responsibility and operated by Circuit Managed Laundry Systems.
If you find a fault with a machine, please report it to the telephone number on the posters within the laundrette: -
Report a machine fault and/or get a refund - Circuit Laundry - 0800 092 4068 .
CATERING
United Kitchen located in the main building.
Our main dining area offers everything from baguettes, sandwiches and salads to pasta and pizzas, breakfasts, and snacks to complete main meals.
A range of themed days are also held throughout the year together with various promotions and “Meal Deal” offers.
Daily Service Times (Term time only): Monday to Friday 09:00am to 13.30pm
Café Bar 45 located by reception in the main building.
A Costa branded coffee bar in the heart of the campus, offering everything from breakfast pastries, homemade muffins and traybakes to generously filled baguettes, toasties or paninis with a frothy cappuccino.
Opening Times (Term time only): Monday to Thursday 8.00am to 4.00pm and Friday 8.00am to 3.00pm.
Bean Machine located in the Library and Student Support Centre.
This Starbuck’s café offers a wide range of speciality hot and cold beverages.
Sandwiches, panini’s toasties and “Grab & Go” confectionery and snacks.
A small selection of daily essentials like toothpaste, plasters, etc will also be available.
Opening Times (Term time only): Monday to Friday 09.30am to 3.00pm
WU Sports centre
Our sports centre is situated at the heart of Wrexham University’s Wrexham campus.
It is one of the premier sporting venues in North Wales and has hosted several major sporting events.
https://www.glyndwr.ac.uk/en/Sport/Venues/Indoorfacilities/
Study spaces
Too many distractions in your rooms?
Get yourself to one of the study spaces on campus.
The first floor of the library is a study zone for individual or quiet group work.
The second floor of the library is a quiet zone which allows individual study with minimal disturbance.
Refill stations
We have provided free drinking water stations for a number of years but in a bid to promote our stations and encourage people to use them, we are now part of the refill app and our free water refill stations across campuses are logged with them.
Communal garden
what3words location: ///joined.enjoy.assume
Open 09.00 / 17.00 daily
Library and Student Support Centre
What3words location: ///hands.galaxy.chief
Monday to Thursday – 08:45 / 20.00
Friday – 08:45 / 17.00
Saturday – 10:00 / 15.00
Sunday – Closed
learningresources@wrexham.ac.uk
LOCAL GP’s
Strathmore – 28 Chester Road - 01978 352055
Plas y Bryn – Chapel Street - 01978 351308
Hillcrest Medical Centre – 86 Holt Road - 01978 788287
St George’s Crescent Surgery - 01978 290708
EMERGANCY DENTAL SERVICE
Emergency treatment will be given at: - Wrexham Dental Centre, Grove Road, Wrexham, LL11 1DY
For an appointment telephone NHS direct on 0845 46 47
If you are aware that one of your flatmates is ill, please report this to the Residential and Campus Life team/reception as soon as possible and they will advise how to get help.
SHOPS
Wrexham has several retail parks and a high street full of the top retailers.
Eagles Meadow is a new complex with additional new department stores.
There are also the traditional markets both indoor and outdoor, with visiting French markets and the farmers markets held regularly.
The nearest shops to the main campus are: -
FOOD
Chemist
Boots on Plas Coch Retail Park
Electrical & Tech
Phone cards
Sainsbury’s on Plas Coch Retail Park
Cash point - on Plas Coch Retail Park
Restaurants
Plas Coch Public House, Frankie and Benny’s and Sainsbury’s all on Plas Coch Retail Park.
Bars
Parks
Banks
Gym’s
Entertainment
Wrexham University works in partnership with Theatre Clwyd to offer a wide variety of entertainment, from rock concerts to ballet, comedians to choirs in the William Aston Hall.
https://williamastonwrexham.com/
Storage –
Wrexham University Residential and Campus Life team is committed to providing good value student accommodation, in a clean, safe, and friendly environment, delivered by a team of helpful and approachable staff offering a professional and efficient service at all times.
GENERAL ENQUIRIES
All Accommodation enquiries are handled by the Residential and Campus Life team.
The Residential and Campus Life team in Wrexham Village is situated in John Neal and can also be reached by email accommodation@wrexham.ac.uk
When dealing with enquiries the team will:
If we fail to meet our standards:
Whilst the quality of our service standards are internally monitored, we would also like to ask that if your dealings with the Residential and Campus Life team has not met these standards, please contact Glyn Smith - Residential & Campus Life Manager - G.smith@wrexham.ac.uk
OUR GUARANTEE OF QUALITY
This standard covers the provision of Residential and Campus Life to all customer groups who use Wrexham University Accommodation.
Service Level Agreement
1/ Staff will be polite, helpful, and courteous to customers.
2/ Staff will observe the requirements of health, safety and hygiene policies and ensure the environment is safe and secure for all customers.
3/ Staff will respect the privacy of the resident (subject to compliance of Conditions of Residency)
4/ Staff will promptly report any faults or repairs to the Maintenance Team.
Work will be carried out during reasonable hours to minimise disruption.
5/ All staff will wear appropriate uniform and name badge so they are easily identified by customers.
6/ Prices/tariff will be available upon request.
7/ Room tariffs will be compared against other universities and local competitors on an annual basis in order to benchmark value for money offered.
8/ All furniture, furnishings and fittings will be purchased from reputable suppliers and will comply with BS standards.
9/ Communal areas in the accommodation will be kept clean and tidy and hazard free.
10/ Customers will be notified of any amendments to the service by written notification.
11/ Accommodation surveys will be undertaken to measure customer satisfaction and results will be available upon request
12/ The day-to-day administration of all accommodation is carried out in a professional manner.
To achieve our aims, the following assessments are in place:
SURVEYS
We conduct 2 Surveys that provide students the opportunity to comment on our facilities and service so that we can develop, enhance, and deliver our products and services based on their feedback and expectations.
The first survey is held in November after the students have settled into their accommodation, and an end of year survey is conducted in May to establish whether any improvement measures implemented have resulted in an improved service.
FIRE BLANKETS
We provide, maintain, and monitor fire blankets in line with current legislation.
We check equipment on a weekly basis and put it through an external audit each year.
The label on each item tells you when the last external audit was carried out.
SMOKE DETECTORS/ HEAT SENSORS
You should familiarise yourself with the whereabouts of smoke detectors (in flat corridors and stairs) and heat sensors (in room and kitchen).
It is a disciplinary offence (and a criminal offence) if you deliberately interfere with the sensors, as this could cause serious harm to yourself and others.
Kitchen doors MUST always remain closed even whilst you are cooking.
The sensors in the hallways are smoke detectors and will be activated by smoke.
It is therefore essential that kitchen doors are not held or wedged open.
The sensors in the kitchen are heat sensitive, so won’t be activated by smoke.
Do not leave cooking unattended
FIRE DOORS/ SECURITY DOORS
Fire doors must be kept closed at all times , and it is a criminal offence to wedge them open for any reason.
Your bedroom door is also a fire door.
Security doors and common access doors are also Fire doors and therefore should also be kept closed.
If you find a fire door wedged open it is your responsibility to close this door.
If you find a door constantly wedged open, please report this to the Residential and Campus Life team/Reception as soon as possible.
PAT TESTING
Please see our Health and Safety Policy Page 30 for information.
FIRE EVACUATION PROCEDURE
We hold fire drills at least three times per year and Fire alarms are sound tested weekly.
You will need to familiarise yourselves with our fire evacuation procedures – there is a copy on the main notice board in your block, you need to identify your fire assembly point and take part in the drills.
You are expected to always comply with evacuation procedures and to leave buildings whenever a fire alarm sounds and make your way to the designated assembly point.
Please do not assume it is a drill: the consequences could be serious.
Failure to comply with the procedure will result in a charge being imposed.
NO SOMKING - INCLUDING VAPES
It is the policy of Wrexham University to promote the health and well being of its students, staff, contractors, visitors, and other users by providing a healthy and smoke free environment.
Accordingly, all University premises including Student Accommodation are smoke-free with smoking being prohibited throughout the entire residence.
There is no smoking permitted within a 5-metre distance from the entrance to buildings.
It is against the law and students are responsible for complying with this policy, (a copy of which can be obtained from the Residential and Campus Life team/reception) and any breaches of the policy will constitute an offence under the University’s student disciplinary procedures and a breach of your conditions of occupancy.
DRUNGS AND/OR LEGAL HIGHS
The use/supply of drugs/Legal Highs is strictly prohibited within residences.
Any student found in possession, dealing, or using drugs will face disciplinary procedures and possible eviction from their accommodation.
The police will be informed which may result in an arrest.
NOISE
Please be considerate of noise levels when using communal areas both internal and external especially during the quiet hours.
Repeat offenders will be challenged using internal disciplinary procedures
THREATS
Not to harass or threaten to harass (including harassment on grounds of age, gender, sexual orientation, religion, belief, race, culture, disability or lifestyle), using violence or threaten to use violence, or verbally assault any person.
STUDENT IDENTITY CARDS
As a student of Wrexham University you will be issued with a Student Identity Card.
These will be available to pick up from the library, from Monday 26th September.
You may be asked to show your ID card for a number of reasons these include;
All guests MUST be approved by your accommodation office.
You are responsible for the safety of your guest and take full responsibility for their conduct.
You are liable for any damage they may cause whilst visiting WSV as per your contract.
All residents are permitted 1 guest to stay at one time, are limited to 2 nights and are not to be left unattended.
Instructions on how to book a guest
WSV guest etiquette.
We encourage all students to be actively involved in the carbon footprint of Wrexham University.
Students are required to recycle into the bags/bins provided and take them to the recycling points.
Recycling point in Wrexham Village is next to Laundrette.
Recycling should be 'clean waste' meaning items that can be cleaned should be (ideally using leftover washing up water), labels should be removed and items that are able to be squashed/flattened should be.
WHAT GOES IN WHAT BIN?
General waste bin
You can put any household waste that can’t be recycled or composted in your black/blue household waste bin, such as…
Please don’t place carrier bags in any of the communal recycling bins.
This will cause contamination, and your recycling bin may not be emptied.
Wrexham Council
Room inspections – Happen twice a year.
You will be notified when room inspections are due.
You do not need to be present for the inspection if you don’t wish to be.
Things that students fail on:
Lounge inspections – We will not inform you that lounge inspections are being carried out.
Things to keep on top of so your flat passes inspection:
Please ensure you use the correct plugs and voltage for the UK, this is 230/240v.
Please ask at your Residential and Campus life team if you are unsure.
DO NOT LEAVE ANY DEVICES UNATTENDED WHEN BEING CHARGED
FIRE SAFETY Fire evacuation drills are conducted periodically by the Residential and Campus Life Team; please ensure you evacuate the building every time you hear the alarm.
Failure to do so will result in a charge being issued.
Please remember misuse of fire equipment is subject to charges and replacement costs, University disciplinary procedures and/or criminal prosecution.
One of the biggest causes of university fires is leaving cooking unattended, especially late at night whilst under the influence of alcohol.
So take care in the kitchen and get a takeaway or make a sandwich if you are feeling peckish after a night out!
YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
It is a legal requirement every student, member of staff or other person working or living in Wrexham University has to make sure they don’t create hazards for themselves or others, except where it is unavoidable.
(Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1974).
Everyone working or living here needs to take responsibility for keeping all passageways, stairways, exits and fire exits clear of obstruction.
The University will impose a charge to anyone tampering with equipment that is installed for health and safety reasons e.g.
fire alarm, fire extinguishers, all charges are payable immediately, charges can be either individual or communal i.e.
all residents of a flat.
RECOMMENDATIONS
For your protection there are automated detection systems within the residences.
These are very sensitive and can be triggered by:
You agree to adhere to all fire regulations and respond to fire alarms.
The fire regulations can be found under the General Codes of Conduct in the Residents Handbook It is everyone’s responsibility to take care and keep your kitchen and bedroom areas clean & tidy – good housekeeping reduces the risk of fire and keeps fire exits accessible.
On hearing the alarm Leave the building by the nearest, safest exit every time the alarm is activated.
Close all windows and doors behind you, if it is safe to do so.
DO NOT stop to collect personal belongings.
Never re-enter the building until told to do so by a member of university staff.
DISCOVERING A FIRE If the alarm is not already sounding make your way to the nearest break glass point (usually located next to a fire exit) and sound the alarm & evacuate calmly Please familiarise yourself with your nearest fire assembly point.
Please note fire extinguishers are only to be used by those trained to do so.
Never use water on a flammable liquid fire.
If the emergency services have not already been called dial 999 and ask for the fire and rescue services.
FIRST AID Each building should display details of its designated First Aider who will deal with minor incidents.
(Please ask the Residential & Campus Life Team for the procedure).
Alternatively contact the Security team, who are all First Aid trained.
Numbers to be found on the health and safety notice boards in each block entrance.
If however you are in a position of having to deal with a casualty yourself, your priorities are to:
LEGIONELLS The University has a programme in place to minimise Legionella bacteria in the water systems.
You have a part to play in this, if you do not use your taps or showers for longer than 7 days you should run the taps for a period of 2 minutes, taking care not to inhale.
If you are away for longer you need to inform the Residential and Campus Life team who will arrange for the taps to be flushed in your absence.
EMERGANCY PROCEDURE If you need to report an emergency such as Fire or Accident the University has an emergency phone line:
They then have procedures in place to get the relevant emergency service to you as quickly as possible.
If you have dialled 999 and requested the emergency services make sure you also inform the Security team who will be on hand to assist and direct the services to the relevant area.
Remember to give as much information as possible when calling the emergency services: L.I.O.N L ocation – the address you are at I ncident – what has happened, extent of injuries O ther – any other information, you may need more than one emergency service N umber – how many people
Wrexham University is proud of its continual improvements to reduce its carbon footprint and waste.
Keep up to date with the university sustainability - Think Green
Work together by...
Your bedroom radiators are partly controlled by the thermostat on the wall in your kitchen.
Meaning that, If the kitchen thermostat is turned down, your bedroom radiators (no matter what setting you turn them to) will only reach the temp set on the kitchen wall thermostat, and will turn off when they reach that temp.
If you wish to turn the heating down in the kitchen, please use the control on the radiator(s) and not the thermostat.
If you have any problems with your heating this should be reported as a maintenance fault as soon as possible.
Please DO NOT cover any heating equipment as this is extremely dangerous.
If you wish to dry any clothing, then you must use the laundry facilities provided!
Temporary washing lines are not allowed.
During the summer months the heating throughout WSV will be turned down to save energy.
I FEEL UNWELL
Visit https://111.wales.nhs.uk/
If you need to speak to someone, contact your doctor or call 111 to seek medical advice
In order to speak with a doctor you must be registered at one of the local surgeries (see list above).
Please phone for an appointment.
When to use a Hospital - The hospital service is for emergency care only.
It must NOT be used instead of a doctor.
Accident and Emergency Care
If it is an emergency requiring an ambulance: You must contact Wrexham University reception on 293333, or the security team on 07764 687910 / 07764687909, they will arrange for assistance.
Telephone an Ambulance by dialling 999 and give as much Information about the emergency as you can and contact Security for help to direct the ambulance.
Contact the Ambulance service by dialling 999 as above.
Inform security on 07764 687909 or 07764 687910.
Please use Ambulance service only in an emergency.
There could be a charge for improper use of this service.
The nearest accident and emergency service is the Maelor Hospital Wrexham 01978 291100
MENTAL HEALTH SUPPORT
You can access mental health support by calling 111 & pressing 2
Emergencies
If you require any emergency services, please ring 999 directly.
We also ask you to inform security of the incident so they can be prepared for emergency vehicles arriving.
Please remember that the hospital emergency department (A&E) and ambulance services are for serious life-threatening conditions that need immediate medical attention.
ACCOMMODATION
accommodation@wrexham.ac.uk / 01978293344
SECURITY
security@wrexham.ac.uk / 07764687909
WSV MAINTENANCE
REPORT A WSV MAINTENANCE ISSUE HERE wsvmaintenance@wrexham.ac.uk / 01978313926
MAIN CAMPUS RECEPTION
For any questions relating to post and parcels reception@wrexham.ac.uk / 01978290666
ASK
Is located on the ground floor of the Library and Student Support Centre and is the place to go if you would like professional support.
Staff here will listen to your enquiry and refer you to the relevant service or help you to refer yourself through a ‘self-serve kiosk’.
You can also access these same services by self-referring via the ‘Access Student and Campus Life’ tile on the Intranet.
ask@wrexham.ac.uk
ACCOUNTS
For questions about your account/payment accountsreceivable@wrexham.ac.uk
WSV INTERNET - ASK4
support@ask4.com / 01143033232
WSV LAUNDRY - CIRCUIT
www.circuit.co.uk / 08000924068 / 01422820040
ACADEMIC SKILLS
Offer 1-2-1 support covering a wide variety of academic skills learningskills@wrexham.ac.uk
FUNDING & MONEY ADVICE
Money and funding advice and support funding@wrexham.ac.uk
CAREERS
Help looking for part-time and volunteer opportunities careers.centre@wrexham.ac.uk
CHAPLAINCY
A listening ear chaplains@wrexham.ac.uk
INCLUSION
Support with dyslexia, one to one tutor support and DSA inclusion@wrexham.ac.uk
STUDENTS UNION
Meet friends, join societies/sports teams, fellow student advisors.
union@wrexham.ac.uk
WREXHAM POLICE STATION
101
EMERGANCY SERVICES
999
TV Licensing students toolkit .
Purchase their licence on our website .
In addition we can also support you in resolving any individual TV Licensing queries.
If you do any of the above without a valid licence, you risk prosecution and a maximum penalty of up to £1,000, plus any legal costs and/or compensation you may be ordered to pay.
It’s the law!!
Know the facts.
SEPTEMBER
OCTOBER
NOVEMBER
DECEMBER
JANUARY
MARCH
APRIL
MAY
JUNE/JULY
All room moves are subject to availability and need to be organised through your accommodation office.
Moves are charged a cleaning fee of £50.00 and this will be added to your accommodation account after you’ve moved.
Don't forget to complete another inventory form for your new room.
DEPARTURE INFO
**Please keep in mind our WSV pantry, for items that aren’t worth taking home, but may be useful to fellow WSV residents.
Non-perishable, unopened items only please**
On departure, please drop your key off with us in the accommodation office before you leave.
The accommodation office will be manned 08.30 – 16.00, Monday – Friday.
If you intend on departing outside of office hours, please drop your key off with security (office on the corner of entrance to Wrexham Student Village, next to John Neal block B) or through the security letter box if no one is there.
All your belongings must be kept in your room.
Unfortunately, there is no additional storage space.
Please do not block the hallways or corridors, these are needed for fire evacuation.
Your contract covers you fully for the stated weeks, so you are not required to vacate your room during the holidays.
All property is left at your own risk.
We do not accept responsibility for frozen food lost because of a freezer breakdown or power cut, so your insurance policy should also cover food damage and loss.
With this in mind do not allow ice to build up in the fridge-freezer - it is the student’s responsibility to clean them.
The great news is that we include insurance for all the students who live with us, by partnering with Endsleigh, the No.1 student insurance provider.
Ahead of arriving, spend a couple of minutes confirming your cover by registering with My Endsleigh.
CONFIRM YOUR COVER
STORAGE
Unfortunately, we don’t have storage facilities at WSV
Seven seas worldwide
Thomas Brothers - removals and storage- WREXHAM
Big padlock - storage WREXHAM
Wrexham storage container - WREXHAM
Store first Storage WREXHAM/ELLESMEREPORT
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Most complaints can be resolved easily and informally by discussing them with the relevant member of staff and we recommend you try and seek an informal solution as soon as you experience a problem by reporting your grievance to the Residential Life Team.
However, if an informal resolution is not possible, then you should refer to the University’s Student Complaints Procedure available on the Student Portal at Student Administration.
Students should seek support from the Students’ Union Advice Centre where an advisor can offer support at the Informal stage, discuss the options The Student Guide 2022-23 Page 10 available and provide guidance on the Student Complaints Procedure.
Students studying at partner institutions should follow the partner’s complaints policy in the first instance.
DOORS
Fire doors MUST be kept shut at all times and must NOT be held open by any means.
Fire doors which are found wedged open will result in disciplinary action being taken with up to £100 fine
Wedging fire doors open = up to £100.00 Fine
Damage to fire door = Charged at cost price
Damage to internal door – Charged at cost price
TAMPERING WITH FIRE SAFETY EQUIPMENT - £50.00 Fine
It is a criminal offence to temper with fire alarm system, smoke sensors, fire break glass, extinguishers etc.
Anyone found causing such damage will be reported to North Wales police and will face prosecution and immediate eviction from WSV with a fine of £50.
LOST/STOLEN ROOM KEY - £2.00
ROOM MOVES - £50.00
Room moves are charged a cleaning fee of £50.00.
Changing rooms without authorisation will result in both parties being fined £50.00 each.
CLEANING CHARGES - £50 fine and hourly rate.
If your bedroom or communal area has been found to be in an unacceptable state, you will have been given 24 hours to amend it, if it is not amended, external cleaning charges will be imposed.
DAMAGE TO THE ACCOMMODATION
Your accommodation should be left as found.
Damage to the decorative finish or any part of the accommodation, including damage caused by neglect or misuse.
You agree to not put anything on your walls - If work is required to rectify damage to your bedroom or kitchens, you will be charged at cost price for parts and labour.
UUK CODE OF PRACTICE
Wrexham University has committed to the Universities UK Code of Practice for the Management of Student Housing in respect of its accommodation sites at: -
The code aims to promote best practice over a range of management activities including Health and Safety Standards; Maintenance and Repair Regimes; Environmental Quality; Landlord and Tenant Relationships; Student Welfare and Anti-Social behaviour.
More information regarding the UUK Codes of practice can be found on: - http://uukcode.info/

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/discover-wrexham/sport:
Wrexham, along with the rest of Wales, is extremely passionate about its sport, which is one of the defining features of this part of the world.
Not only is this reflected in the sport and leisure offered at Wrexham University, but the region itself is home to professional and semi-professional sports clubs which offer up some great entertainment for sports fans.
There will be ample opportunities to take part and perhaps try something completely different, whilst making some great friends in the process.
So whether you're an active participant or you're just happy to support from the comfort of your seat, Wrexham and the local area has something for everyone.
Football
Wrexham Football Club is the lifeblood of the town.
Every home game, played at the Wrexham University Racecourse Stadium, is met with eager anticipation.
The club currently plays in the Blue Square Bet Premier, one tier below the English Football League, and attracts average attendances of 3,000-4,000.
The stadium hosted international football for the first time in 1887, making it the world's oldest international football stadium still in use today.
You can pay at the turnstiles for most of the club's home games, with single matches priced at £18 or less for adults.
Several smaller clubs in the region play in the Welsh Premier League, while local league football is plentiful at weekends.
Rugby League
North Wales Crusaders play in Betfred League 1, a third-tier competition in the division below the Championship.
They are the only professional rugby league club in North Wales, although the sport is growing in popularity.
The Crusaders are based at the Queensway Stadium in Wrexham.
Horse Racing
Bangor-on-Dee Racecourse , situated within Wrexham County Borough just 6 miles from the town, held its first jump meeting in 1859.
Now, it holds at least one meeting a month for 11 months of the year.
The course offers a different racing experience to the glitz and glamour at Chester Racecourse .
Chester's Roodee course is the oldest racecourse in Britain and holds frequent race meetings during the summer.
The average crowd at Chester Races is over 22,000, with its flagship May meeting which kicks off the season usually selling out.
The journey from Wrexham to Chester takes around 20 minutes by car or train.
Ice Hockey
Deeside Dragons are the only ice hockey team based in North Wales.
The club plays its home games on Sunday evenings at Deeside Ice Rink, a 30 minute drive from Wrexham in the town of Queensferry.
The club compete in the National Ice Hockey League North Two.
Motor Racing
Each Autumn, the region plays host to Wales Rally GB , an important event in the World Rally Championship.
There are various routes which encircle the Wrexham area, and you can visit the main hub of the action which takes place at Deeside Service Park, just a short distance away from Wrexham University.
North Wales is home to numerous top-class sports facilities, providing an excellent location for anyone to continue playing their own sport while they study...or maybe even try something new.
The Wrexham University Sport Centre is both a student and community facility, featuring a gym, sports hall and several outdoor sports pitches, including an international standard hockey pitch.
Athletics
The track and field facilities at Queensway Leisure and Activity Centre are used for championship events and were even used by the Lesotho Olympic team for their training ahead of the London 2012 Olympics.
Wrexham Athletics Club trains at the centre every Tuesday.
The facility also has a gym, sports hall, squash court and outdoor five-a-side football pitches.
Hockey
The North Wales Regional Hockey Stadium is a water-based international FIH accredited facility located on the University's Wrexham campus.
It's floodlit and holds 200 spectators.
The pitch has hosted several international hockey matches involving Wales and was the venue for the men's EuroHockey Nations Trophy in 2009.
Wrexham Hockey Club (Junior, Men & Ladies) and Northop Hall Hockey Club (Men) play at the stadium.
Swimming
Waterworld is Wrexham's main aquatics centre.
It has a 25m, six-lane competition pool, plus a slide and bubble pool.
It's also home to a health suite and fitness centre.
The centre is used by Wrexham Swimming Club.
Golf
Situated in a rural part of the country, the Wrexham area isn't short of golf clubs.
Wrexham Golf Club and Clays Golf Centre and are both located within a few miles of Wrexham town centre.
Tennis
Wrexham Tennis Centre sits next to Wrexham University's main campus.
The facility was established in 1990 to provide a centre of excellence and develop up-and-coming tennis talent in North Wales.
It has seven indoor and seven outdoor full-size tennis courts and is a Lawn Tennis Association High Performance Centre.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/discover-wrexham/attractions:
There's no shortage of things to do in and around Wrexham and the surrounding areas to keep you occupied.
Whether you're looking for historic sites, shopping or something a little more active, you certainly won't get bored.
Open year-round, the Xplore!
Science Discovery Centre is designed to inspire young people about science through its collection of hands-on exhibits, live shows and themed days.
Staff from the centre work extensively with local schools and the University to further promote the take-up of science, technology, engineering and maths in education.
Tenpin Bowling can be found in Eagles Meadow with a state-of-the-art ten-pin bowling alley, featuring 24 lanes, a Take 10 diner, licensed bar, pool tables and amusements.
Tŷ Pawb is Wrexham’s community, gallery and arts hub.
There are shops, places to eat and drink, a bar, art galleries, a theatre and spaces for musical performances.
Regular events include gigs and concerts, record fairs, film showings, comedy nights, jobs fairs, art exhibitions, theatre shows and arts and crafts events.
Waterworld is the local leisure centre offering aquatic fun and games.
The impressive layout of facilities includes a 25 metre, 6-lane competition pool with spectator seating for 300, learner and function pools, a 65-metre slide, which is great for the family, as well a relaxing bubble pool and rapids river ride.
The Snowdonia National Park boasts vast areas of natural beauty and unique scenery.
The park covers 838 square miles, and is home to Mount Snowdon, which, at 3,560ft, is the biggest mountain in England and Wales.
North Wales is also blessed with more than 200 miles of coastline, and a great number of blue flag beaches, all within easy reach.
Staying in North Wales, head over to nearby Deeside to try your hand at Go Karting , or challenge yourself at the Boardroom climbing centre .
Nearby Chester Zoo houses over 12,000 animals and 400 different species.
It is regularly named as the best zoo in the UK and has been ranked seventh in the world by TripAdvisor.
Also across the border in Cheshire you'll find Delamere Forest , full of beautiful walks, segway tours, cycling and home to the Go Ape treetop ropes courses.
If shopping's your thing (and you've already shopped out Wrexham town centre and Eagles Meadow !) head over to Cheshire Oaks Designer Outlet in Ellesmere Port to find designer items at bargain prices.
While you're in the area, try out one of the trampoline parks, play some adventure golf or explore the Blue Planet Aquarium .
One of the seven wonders of Wales, the steeple of St Giles Church can be seen from across the town centre.
Did you know you can climb to the top to enjoy the fantastic view of the town it gives you?
Tower Tours only happen during the fairer months, and you’ll need to book, but it’s well worth the effort!
Call Wrexham Tourist Information Centre for more information 01978 292015.
Thomas Telford's notable and striking Pontcysyllte Aqueduct is a World Heritage Site situated just a few miles from Wrexham.
The Grade I Listed building is the longest and highest aqueduct in the UK and was completed in 1805.
It attracts hundreds of thousands of visitors each year.
18th-century Erddig , three miles from Wrexham town centre, is one of Britain's finest historic houses.
Maintained by the National Trust, it holds events year-round, including an annual apple festival, Christmas markets and outdoor plays in the summer.
Wales is known for its castles, and North East Wales is no exception.
Nearby Chirk Castle dates from 1310 and the reign of Edward I and features a medieval tower, dungeons and expansive gardens - plus a segway experience .
Conwy Castle , on the North Wales coast, is a dark stoned fortress built for Edward I, by Master James of St George.
The castle is amongst the finest surviving medieval fortifications in Britain.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/discover-wrexham/entertainment:
Bars and Pubs
The nearest bar is Glyn's, at the Students' Union building.
Beyond campus, the town centre area has a huge selection of pubs ranging from traditional real ale houses to more modern bars showing live sports, all within a short walk of each other.
Wrexham's student scene has really come of age over the past few years, and there are some great club nights to enjoy.
Atik is North Wales' largest nightclub venue.
Capable of hosting more than 1600 people in two rooms, the club's various theme nights regularly feature the UK's top DJs and PAs.
If you want to freshen up your nightlife away from Wrexham, Chester is the nearest stop, just over the border in England.
Regular bus and train services run to the city and a taxi won't be too expensive if you're clubbing together with your friends.
Live Music
William Aston Hall is the largest theatre and concert venue in Wrexham and can be found right here on our main campus.
The 900-seat venue is designed to accommodate a range of entertainment events, and regularly hosts huge names from music, comedy and theatre.
The Racecourse is the home ground of Wrexham Football Club but it hosts gigs too - the Stereophonics are the latest band to play at the ground.
Each year students and lecturers from our Creative Media courses get involved with Focus Wales , an international, multi-venue music festival featuring performances from more than 100 bands across the town.
Film and Theatre
Odeon Cinema at Eagles Meadow in Wrexham town centre has 8 state of the art screens, including 3D, to provide the ultimate in picture and sound quality.
You’re guaranteed a great view so you can sit back and enjoy all the latest releases.
You can get great discounts with your Student ID too!
As well as the William Aston Hall, there are a number of theatre venues in the surrounding area.
Clwyd Theatre Cymru is Wales' most popular drama house.
The theatre has its own production company which delivers a varied programme of plays to audiences every year, including a sell-out musical Christmas pantomime.
Clwyd Theatr Cymru also hosts touring theatre, music concerts and contemporary film.
The Stiwt is located closer to the University in Rhos and hosts a similar mix of live performances and films.
The theatre received a multi-million pound refurbishment in the late 1990s and is now a key community facility for the people of North East Wales and beyond.
Amateur theatre has strong representation in Wrexham through the Grove Park Theatre .
The theatre is based in the town centre and showcases productions performed by the theatre's own amateur dramatics group.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/blog/posts/11-things-every-new-student-should-do-in-wrexham:
If you’ve just arrived in Wrexham and are adjusting to uni life, first of all, welcome!
We hope you have a fab time here!
Secondly, getting used to a new area can take some time, but we’ve put together a list of things that we think are ‘must-dos’ for any students to get the most out of your time here in Wrexham during freshers week and beyond!
Watching Wrexham at home is a must while you’re here at uni.
Soak up the atmosphere at one of the oldest international football grounds in the UK and you never know, you might become a Wrexham fan for life!
The Freshers Fair is your opportunity to check out all of the University’s clubs, societies and opportunities all in one place – plus there’s always some freebies to be had!
Wrexham is home to plenty of places to enjoy a night out – whether you’re after some chilled drinks with friends or a big night out partying.
If you’ve got a head for heights, take a trip 15 minutes outside of the city centre to the Pontcysyllte aqueduct .
The aqueduct itself is 126ft tall and is a World Heritage Site.
Wrexham also has a number of great art and culture spots – including Wrexham Museums , Un Deg Un and Ty Pawb all right in the city centre.
Our Students’ Union is a great place to chill out after a lecture or drop by for one of the SU’s events throughout freshers week.
Each spring, hundreds of bands arrive in Wrexham for the Focus Wales international showcase festival.
You can even catch a number of gigs on campus!
Wrexham has two brilliant National Trust sites – Erddig and Chirk Castle –  for you to have a look around, but there are also lots of other great areas to go for long walks and see how beautiful our county is!
As one of the oldest lagers in the UK, from its beginnings in 1882 to its revival in 2010, Wrexham Lager is full of history - so it’s definitely worth sampling our very own tipple while you make Wrexham your home for the next few years!
Our Plas Coch campus is also home to the William Aston Hall , where you’ll be able to catch comedians, musicians and stage shows.
There’s always loads on, so take a look!
Most importantly, enjoy yourself!
University is such a great time in your life, studying the topics you’re passionate about, making amazing new friends and experiencing lots of new things – so make the most of it – 3 years go by so quickly!

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/blog/posts/our-chosen-hidden-gems-of-wrexham-on-and-off-campus:
The up-and-coming energy of the city is reflected in the developments we have on campus, as well as the new and obscure places around Wrexham.
We have put together a guide for you to find the hidden gems on and off campus as you study with us, or if you want to explore more of the city as you visit the university for an open day.
Communal Garden
A quiet retreat away from the hustle and bustle, the communal garden behind the primary teaching spaces on our Wrexham campus, provides a breath of fresh air away from the traditional learning environment.
Nature has taken over this corner of our campus for you to enjoy a serene view of seasonal flowers, a little pond, and visiting dragonflies.
The garden is located by the Bevan Building, and you can refer to our for more details of where to find it.
Catrin Finch Centre Café
Treat yourself to a Starbucks drink in the new café just on the edge of the university.
You may not have noticed the new café in the Catrin Finch Centre, which you will find closest to the campus exit, leading to Wrexham General train station and Wrexham student village.
Switch up your normal routine and visit this out of the way spot to get your caffeine hit before lectures.
Restaurants and bars
Wrexham has been ranked in the top three best and cheapest nights out in the UK.
The city has a lot to offer, including delicious food and an exciting nightlife.
Gusto d’Italia - Hidden away amongst the stalls and café’s in Ty Pawb, this Italian restaurant offers delicious and authentic Italian food.
The Drunk Monk - A micro craft beer bar in Wrexham high-street, the Drunk Monk offers a wide selection of over 80 canned, bottled and keg craft beers.
They also host events and quiz nights and describe themselves as being “very chilled in atmosphere and with customer service”.
ThaiDine - This brand-new Thai restaurant in the middle of Wrexham describes itself as a “a true hidden gem, offering a delightful fusion of traditional flavours and modern flair”.
Located on Bridge Street, why not treat yourself to a fancy dinner when you visit us for an open day or if you get a great result on an assessment?
William Aston Hall - Wrexham’s largest theatre and concert venue is located on campus for you to enjoy.
Theatr Clwyd works in partnership with the university, and hosts comedy events, music, and a variety of live performances, with student discounts available on certain events.
We recommend keeping an eye out of what’s coming up, so you can discover what’s on at Wrexham, and you won’t miss the exciting shows on your doorstep when you get here!
Xplore !
- Adult learners with families can take advantage of the activities going on at Xplore Science Centre in the middle of Wrexham City centre.
Kids can find “science, exploration, and fun” when they visit with their families, or at one of their many events .
Outdoor activities close to Wrexham
Pontcysyllte Aqueduct - You will find the “most eye-catching UNESCO heritage site” only a 17-minute drive away from Wrexham.
Walk along the “stream in the sky” and take in the breath-taking Welsh scenery.
Park in the Past - Swim, paddleboard, canoe - this lake, which has been converted from an old Quarry, has it all!
The Park comprises of 120 acres of woodlands and wetlands, a 35-acre lake and the River Alyn.
A full-scale Roman Fort, along with a Celtic village, is in the works at this location as part of their “innovative heritage and conservation project that aims to create a totally unique heritage attraction and vital community resource”.
Plas Power Woods - A fantastic place if you fancy a walk through some woodland or a wild swim.
A 10-minute drive away from Wrexham centre, you can park in Nant Mill and walk through the woods over the road to connect with nature, and it’s only a stone’s throw away from the city.
Be part of the community at Wrexham and explore our courses , as well as our up-and-coming city.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/blog/posts/how-to-spend-48-hours-in-wrexham:
From retail therapy, history and culture to amazing food and unforgettable nights out along with world-renowned countryside and adrenaline sports, our city might be small but it certainly packs a punch.
Here are a few of our fave ways to spend a couple of days in Wrexham...
Start your day with brunch at one of the city's many cafes - Lot 11 or To^st Cafe and Deli are two of our students' top picks - before doing a spot of shopping and exploring Wrexham city centre.
You'll find all the high street names you'd expect, as well as plenty of independent shops and two historic indoor markets.
Keep an eye out for hidden gems like Overton and Central Arcades too, with their off-the-beaten-track treasures like patisseries, craft shops and retro furniture.
Fancy doing a bit of sightseeing while you're here?
Make time to pop into the city's impressive 16th century church, St Giles .
It's steeple is one of the Seven Wonders of Wales, and if you're feeling brave you can climb the 149 steps to the top of this 135ft tower - not for the faint hearted!
Or, take a stroll down to the Wrexham Lager brewery , and treat yourself to a few bottles of their famous tipple from the on-site shop.
If the hunger pangs are starting to set in, make a beeline for the food court at Ty Pawb .
An award-winning arts hub, Ty Pawb occupies a former market that's been transformed into a thriving social and community space.
Inside, you'll find an acclaimed art gallery (previously host to exhibitions from art royalty like Grayson Perry) and an eclectic mix of independent shops selling everything from old-school computer games and vintage vinyl records to rare and customised trainers.
There's also, of course, a fantastic food court where you can sample some of the city's most up-and-coming eateries - think waffles, milkshakes, curries, chicken wings, pies and vegan goodness.
Alternatively, if you're a footy fan, why not try and catch a game at the historic Racecourse Ground?
The home turf of the city's much-loved Wrexham FC , you may have seen the club hit the headlines recently after being bought by Hollywood stars Ryan Reynolds and Rob McElhenney.
With a devoted crowd of over 10,000 supporters attending, you can bank on an electric atmosphere, and who knows who you might see while you're there...
If you fancy going out 'out', Wrexham has everything you could need for a great night.
Whether it's live music at The Rockin' Chair and The Parish, a pint and the latest sporting action at Hill Street Social, bars and clubs like Chequers or a cosy dinner and cocktails at the Fat Boar, there's something for absolutely everyone.
And that's not forgetting our very own on-campus SU bar Glyn's - a must if you're a student!
It's time to fuel up for the day!
Begin the morning with a trip to artisan bakery Wrexham Bakeshop to pick up some sandwiches and a doughnut (or three) for lunch later before heading out for an adventure.
Our region excels at outdoor sports and the areas surrounding Wrexham are no exception; jam-packed with rivers, mountains and coastline, they provide a playground for adrenaline seekers.
Try a canoe tour over the towering Pontcysyllte Aqueduct , test your balance out a SUP board on nearby Hope Lake , engage your Spidey-skills rock climbing on the cliffs above neighbouring Llangollen, or take on the mountain bike trails at Oneplanet Adventure in Llandegla.
Whatever it is that gets your heart racing, you're sure to find it here.
For those that want to kick back and relax for the rest of the day, hop in the car and return to Wrexham.
There, you could take a trip to Eagles Meadow Shopping Centre and challenge your mates to an afternoon of pool and bowling, before rounding it all off with a gaming marathon at the city's nearby gaming arena.
Or, if you're a low key fan of period dramas like Bridgerton don't miss National Trust site Erddig .
With an impressive country house, formal gardens and around 1,200 acres of parkland, Erddig gives visitors a real life look at the life of upstairs and downstairs of the gentry.
After a busy day, treat yourself to dinner out.
The city is home to a vibrant mix of people and cultures which is reflected in the food here; from pubs, steakhouses and pizzerias to tapas, Thai and Mediterranean you'll never go hungry.
Still got some energy left?
Check out one of Wrexham's comedy nights, head to the cinema to catch the latest movie or book tickets for an event like bonkers bingo.
Make sure you look at the line-up for William Aston Hall on-campus here at Wrexham University too.
The 880-seat theatre has welcomed everyone from comedians like Rob Beckett, Romesh Ranganathan and Jimmy Carr to shows and bands like Feeder.
Fancy coming to see what Wrexham University has to offer for yourself?
Find out when our next open day on-campus is here and check out 8 reasons to choose Wrexham University .

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/student-stories/sarah-morris.php:
Course Title: BSc Mental Health & Wellbeing Year of Graduation: 2022
Undergraduate Health & Wellbeing
I had worked in the care industry for many years.
I received a flyer through the door and had always been interested in counselling, so I attended the open day.
Upon chatting with the team on the counselling stand they redirected me to Mental health and wellbeing, as he felt I would was more suited to that .
Brilliant!
Attending lectures and learning about the many parts of mental health and wellbeing.
AMAZING!
I suffered some personal circumstances and the support that I received was brilliant.
I never would have completed my degree without that support.
100%!
I t’s a great place with great support
Although I’m 4 6 and have had many jobs , I learnt a lot from the employment modules and it put me in a good position for entering the industry.
Whilst studying my degree I discovered a passion for ACEs and now work in a school on one-to-one support with a pupil, I would like to eventually work as a wellbeing officer for pupils in schools.
Unfortunately, when I was accepted to Wrexham Uni, I had been subjected to a negative work situation, that had taken all my confidence and self belief , I was not in the best place from a mental health point of view and had suffered a breakdown, my degree restored some confidence and has improved my mental health dramatically.
At the age of 43 embarking on an academic journey was scary but with support and guidance I now have a degree!
I’ve made some lifelong friends and learnt valuable lessons about myself.
Sarah Morris

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/student-stories/clare-stevenson-.php:
Course Title: BSc (Hons) Forensic Science Year of Graduation: 2021
Undergraduate Science
Before I enrolled at the University I worked at a garden centre and ran my own small business producing and selling specialist house plant compost.
A friend who had recently graduated from Wrexham Uni and they talked me into applying after I’d posted something on facebook about wishing I wasn’t too old to retrain as a Forensic Ecologist.
She assured me I wasn’t and that Wrexham uni was the place for me so I applied, got accepted and started my studies all within the space of a few months!
I’m so glad I did!
The support system is vast and it is so important to find out what extra help is available to you .
Whether you need assistance with IT, assignment writing, or researching there is always someone available on the resources team to help .
There is also a great Inclusion Team and University Counsellors who are on site and dedicated to helping you adjust to life as a student .
Your personal tutor will be able to advise you about all the help and support available to you.
I have benefitted hugely from studying at University .
My academic achievements have far surpassed anything I thought myself capable of and I have learned so much in the short time I have been here.
Not only that but I have made lifelong friends who have been a tremendous support from the very start of my course.
Yes, do it, it will change your life !
There are also lots of short courses available if you want to study other subjects alongside your degree .
These can be anything from Confident Numeracy to Climate Change, I would highly recommend seeing what else is available.
Best.
Decision.
Ever.
If you’re thinking about going to University but aren’t sure if you can then take this as a sign that if I can do it, you can do it too .
I would encourage anyone who has been out of the education system for a while to do a foundation year .
It is invaluable in teaching you what is expected from you at University as w ell as furnishing you with all knowledge you need about the resources available to you.
Clare Stevenson

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/student-stories/katie-mccormick.php:
Course Title: BA (Hons) Photography Year of Graduation: 2023
Undergraduate Art & Design
Before starting at the University , I was running my own small photography business, so it naturally seemed to be my next move for personal progression.
As a mum I needed to be close to home to suit my family needs, but I had also seen recent investment into the University which was appealing.
Plus, our course had also just taken on a new tutor who bought his own working experience knowledge with him and a new way of delivering the concepts of the course
The s upport is absolutely brilliant .
Y ou only have to ask for it.
I sometimes struggle to get my point across without spiraling out of control, I’m an over thinker, but my tutor has learnt that about me and helps to simplify my ideas.
I also reached out for help with my essay writing and had help within days from a resource tutor who talked me through at my understanding.
I’m certainly no writer and found this resource so useful.
Over the past two years, I certainly see myself as a different person to when I started.
I have learnt to a lot about myself: I would never had pushed myself before to enter competitions and put my work out there, so you could say my confidence has grown massively.
Pushing myself through course assignments and critical thinking have certainly expanded my hopes for my future too.
I understand now what drives my creativity.
I highly recommend a course at Wrexham Uni!
The facilities and support are brilliant.
It is also a welcoming and friendly environment.
I have made best friends within my department, and they are now my support bubble.
I’m absolutely delighted to have won the Studio Portrait Photographer of the Year Award at The British Institute of Professional Photography.
I was completely blown away when my name was called.
I couldn’t believe it especially as I was up against some incredibly talented photographers, who had produced some amazing work.
I have loved my time on the course , it is certainly not what I expected at first but not in a negative way at all.
I have been forced to push my way of thinking which has further pushed my technical skill.
I look back now, and my work outlook has changed so much .
I could never have imagined I would see myself where I am today and that’s down to Wrexham University.
Expanding my vision!
Katie McCormick

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/student-stories/dylan-vining-.php:
Course Title: BA (Hons) Paramedic Science.
Year of Graduation: 2025
Undergraduate Nursing & Allied Health
I was working for the Welsh Ambulance Service in the control room.
Firstly it was the area of Wrexham and being in North Wales, it has a real buzz through it.
Another reason I chose the University was that the course pushes you to work interprofessional with other allied health care courses.
This allows us to build on our knowledge and interprofessional working throughout our study.
It’s a small cohort size and this allows you to bond with your fellow students and learn together while also allowing you to have more tailored support from the teaching team.
The teaching is always fun and exciting.
The scenario days are mixed with the teaching team (who are working paramedics in practice) along with operational Paramedics coming in to assist and allows you to ask questions and work as a team.
There is plenty of support on the course from all the staff.
The lecturers are always on hand to help and to explain things in more detail by email, teams or in-person.
The University also has a wide range of resources of support available via the library and The Student Portal from financial advice, wellbeing, counselling ,academic skills and support.
I have met some amazing and wonderful people so far and have enjoyed every minute of it.
The main benefit for me is the small cohort size allowing a more one to one approach to teaching and feeling as if I have been heard.
Yes!
I would recommend anybody who’s debating if they should study an undergraduate course here.
There is a real sense of community and everybody is friendly and happy to help.
Exciting, Fun, Enjoyable!
Dylan Vining

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/student-stories/emma-salvoni.php:
Course Title: BSc (Hons) Animal Behaviour, Welfare & Conservation Science Year of Graduation: 2022
Undergraduate Animal Science
Prior to attending Wrexham University I was working in a boarding kennels, caring for people’s dogs.
I also started learning to train and handle many different types of dogs.
I then took a break from work to be a Mum.
I had always grown up with animals and didn’t thin k working with animals would ever be a possibility.
Wrexham was local to me and provided the Animal Studies course, so I thought, why not?!
Our course was taught on the Northop campus.
It was a quiet campus so w e got to know each other as a cohort really well.
Northop had a very personal feel to it!
I enjoyed challenging myself and learning new skills.
I enjoyed meeting like-minded people who had an interest in animal welfare, behaviour and training.
The tutors were an excellent support, a lot of our group had been out of education for a while so they provided a very holistic teaching experience.
Wrexham University provided an ex cellent foundation for continuing in my personal education.
I completed the PGCE after my BSc (Hons) and have since completed my MSc in Clinical Animal Behaviour.
Yes, 100%!
It has a very personal feel.
The staff are very knowledgeable in their subjects and I was able to learn from them and develop further passion in my line of work.
I wasn’t sure that HE was for me before I started the course but I felt at home very quickly.
I am a self employed Canine Behaviour and Training consultant.
I see around 100 dogs a week for group classes and one-to-one sessions for a range of behavioural issues and train with Cheshire Canine Services/REAL Dog Training near Chester.
I have worked as a Police Dog Instructor specialising in Puppy Development, I currently instruct for the UK International Search and Rescue Team, I also consult for a number of organisations and support specialist dog training around the world.
I teach and lecture in a range of subjects including Canine learning and training and dog behaviour.
I work with the OK9 Team to train and assess Well-being and Trauma Support dogs for the Fire and Rescue service.
I train dogs at home I currently have 3 Belgian Malinois puppies in training for various disciplines, when I can I compete in Working Trials.
Being self-employed allows me a lot of flexibility.
Some of my highlights include participating in televised demonstrations at Crufts, working with the UKISAR team and training Police, Border Force and other Governmental organisations in Mongolia as a consultant for the Zoological Society of London.
Completin g my degree built my confidence after a break in education.
I was able to gain qualifications which have facilitated my current career and further opportunities.
I was lucky enough to be working in the industry prior to starting at Wrexham.
I completed an interesting placement as part of the work place module which did provide some networking opportunities for the future.
Emma Salvoni

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/student-stories/laura-davies.php:
Course Title: BSc (Hons) Football Coaching & the Performance Specialist Year of Graduation: 2023
Undergraduate Sports
Growing up, I was very sporty, very active.
I was in every team, boys and girls, and football was my main passion.
That was the route I definitely wanted to go down.
Unfortunately, especially in North Wales at that time, we're talking about 18 years ago now, there wasn't a lot of opportunities for female football.
Completely different story to nowadays where there's a lot of opportunities.
I saw an Easter football event at Wrexham University.
So I thought, yeah, I'm going to go for that, give it a go.
I went along and it was actually advertising for a university degree, which the lecturer spoke to me about afterwards.
And I thought, Nah, I can't do that.
I didn't go to college, I can't go to university.
But, it turned out amazingly.
I had brilliant support, especially with my health through the university and the lecturers and, yeah, I applied to the Football Coaching Performance Specialist degree and was successful!
My time at Wrexham University definitely helped increase my confidence, especially in applying for internships and jobs in the industry, To be honest with you, if I'd have seen this internship or the job I'm about to go into, I probably wouldn't have applied without going to university or without having that experience and knowledge in the background of that role, but also the support I received from my tutors.
So, for example, going over my CV, we did, modules or we Practice interviews, all that was really helpful - and group work was so beneficial.
You don't realise it at the time, but once you leave, you understand that actually most of these sport roles you're going to go into do involve groups and teams, and learning how to manage those teams and how to work in a team is incredibly beneficial for when you go into your career.
So I'm in the grassroots department at the Football Association of Wales (FAW)  and my roles is kind of leading on the day to day running of the UA for Disney Playmakers programme, which is a programme that's been implemented throughout Wales for girls age five to eight in primary schools and it's very innovative.
So, they learnt to play football through storytelling and the magic of Disney.
I also work on the Huddle again, lead the Day to Day on the Huddle programme, and this is a community based programme, so it's run by clubs and a couple of sport development teams are also providers.
And this is to get girls aged four to eleven in the community active playing football, but in a fun female environment where there's no competition and it's not your typical training session.
It's very tailored to those girls.
So I also support on other programmes such as the B-Football programme and the ‘Environments for her’ programme, and also any women or girls participation projects that arise.
I support on those.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/student-stories/chelsea-mcclure-.php:
Course Title: BA (Hons) Criminology & Criminal Justice Year of Graduation: 2023
Undergraduate Law, Criminology & Policing
After finishing my A-Levels in 2019, I decided to take a year out to work and experience life outside of education.
This decision helped me realised that I wanted to further my education and take it to the next level.
I was very impressed with the university’s inclusion.
I felt that I mattered, they not only care for my education, but for me as a person.
It’s a lively and social campus, everybody knows everybody, and you are never stuck for making conversation with anyone.
Everything!
From the kind and knowledgeable lecturers, the exciting and interesting modules, to the amazing friends I made throughout our three years together.
All of the above have made my experience of the course so enjoyable .
You are cared and supported every step of the way, from the beginning of your course to the very last day, there is always someone there to help.
Not only has my knowledge grown, and my education taken to the next level, I feel I am a better person in many ways.
I am more confident, more self-assured, and excited for the next stage in my life, more so than ever before.
I would recommend it to all prospective students because it is never too late to achieve your dreams.
They will care and support you all the way and help you through your worries and doubts to help you achieve your personal and educational goals.
The university has been very helpful in preparing me for the next stage after education.
There are always events and staff throughout the year to help and guide you for life after uni.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/student-stories/cara-baker.php:
Course Title: BA (Hons) Criminology & Criminal Justice Year of Graduation: 2022
I was a single mother to one child working with young adults who have profound mental health difficulties.
It was the location.
I was able to continue to work and be a mum whilst giving myself better chances at a well-paid career.
I always found it really friendly .
There was plenty going on around the campus to get involved in.
I particularly enjoyed the Criminology society events.
I loved the psychology unit.
It has been one of the most helpful units in terms of my career.
Being able to apply theories of behaviour to people has helped me facilitate positive working relationships.
I will forever be grateful to my lectures for the support given, I was able to work around being a mother, and working full time to complete a full-time degree.
My dissertation mentor allowed me to bring my son to all my one-to-one sessions and she welcomed him.
This made the whole process so much more achievable for me.
Without out, I would have dropped out.
Being at Wrexham gave me the qualifications I needed to apply to the Probation Service.
Beyond that, I made real lifelong friends who I can collaborate with in my working careers and vice vera.
I would recommend it for the sheer support that its staff put into their learners.
It is this human touch that kept me on task which gave me the drive to complete my course.
I had several opportunities to speak to and question various professionals which gave me a real positive insight into what life inside various criminal justice roles is like.
Since graduating, I went on to complete a PGCE also at Wrexham University.
I then joined the National Probation Service as a Trainee Probation Officer.
I was posted to Colwyn Bay where I trained for 15 months undertaking a Level 5 qualification in Probation Studies as well as a second undergraduate in Community Justice.
I left probation to take a post of the programme co-ordinator and lecturer for Public Services in Rhyl College.
Here I am responsible for all public service learners, delivery, and compliance from level 1 to 3 together with a team of tutors.
Here I can make a real difference in the lives of young people.
Particularly with the group of young people who should be in year 11 but are not in school for various reasons.
Qualifying as Probation Officer was a very proud moment for me.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/student-stories/beata-choraza.php:
Course Title: LLB Law Year of Graduation: 2025
I started studying Psychology in Poland.
However, I quickly realised that this course was not for me.
Before the end of my first year, I left university and Poland, and came to the UK to study at Wrexham University.
The accessibility and reviews from students about the teaching methods was a big factor in deciding to come here.
I like the fact that students are known by their name and they are not just a number.
On many occasions tutors would give me some of their time to advise or guide me if there was something that I struggled with, or I did not know where to go with a specific issue.
Apart from gaining knowledge, which is the principle of studying, I have met some great people and created a network of contacts which I am sure will benefit me in the future.
Yes, I would recommend undertaking a course.
From my experience, I can say that all the staff is very nice , helpful, and very good at conveying the information.
I am proud of myself that I have been awarded the Neuberger prize as for me this is the biggest award so far.
I believe that You are never too old to set another goal or to dream a new dream and this is the reason why my age or my busy life did not stop me from continuing to make my dream come true.
I am proud of myself for being awarded the Neuberger prize.For me this is the biggest award so far.
I believe that y ou are never too old to set another goal or to dream a new dream.
This is the reason why my age or my busy life did not stop me from continuing to make my dream come true.
Beata Choraza
Find out more about our degree and  on one of our upcoming open days
Are you a current student or graduate?
We want to hear your stories!
Simply fill out a form and the team will be in touch!

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/student-stories/george-morris.php:
Course Title: MSc Mental Health Nursing Year of Graduation: 2024
Postgraduate Nursing & Allied Health
George Morris is studying for a 2-year masters in MSc Mental Health Nursing .
Watch below to hear his thoughts on the course, placements and how the NHS Bursary was a factor in him choosing Wrexham.
MSc Mental Health Nursing Student at Wrexham University

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/student-stories/harjinder-mackenzie.php:
Course Title: Professional Graduate Certificate in Education (PCET) Year of Graduation: 2022
Postgraduate Education
Before starting postgraduate study, I studied BSc Hons Psychology and graduated with a first class degree.
I thoroughly enjoyed my time at University and wanted to continue learning in order to assist others to fulfil their true potential, so I chose to study for a PGCE.
I have learned a lot from doing the PGCE, one of the most significant being the importance of differentiation and inclusive practice, because learners come from many different cultural and socio-economic backgrounds, bringing with them diverse learning needs and styles.
I have also learned how to recognise and support potential learners who may have additional learning needs (ALN).
This has reinforced my belief in the importance of getting to know learners and build a good rapport with them to be supportive and inclusive.
What makes this course special for me is the outstanding lecturers and mentors I have been blessed with.
They are al l very understanding, knowledgeable and approachable people who happen to make learning fun and enjoyable.
I was pleasantly surprised at how supportive peers have been of each other’s success and how much this co urse has helped me to develop my confidence and self-efficacy.
I now feel comfortable standing in front of students to deliver teaching sessions (something I thought I was never capable of doing!)
After earning my degree I would very much like to teach in higher education, and would like to continue learning and hope to accomplish the QTLS whilst teaching.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/student-stories/-ellie-mchale-.php:
Course Title: BSc (Hons) Professional Policing.
Year of Graduation: 2024
Before coming to Wrexham University, I had just finished in college and was unsure of what I was going to do next.
I knew I wanted to go into the police however was unsure of how to get in.
I came to an open day and saw the policing degree.
I went and spoke with the lectures.
they told me all about the course and how this would allow me a good opportunity to get into the police.
Around the campus everyone was friendly.
All the staff were helpful and super supportive.
Throughout the course there were many opportunities for guest speakers.
This gave a unique insight into the real side of policing.
I have dyslexic and I cannot recommend this university enough for inclusion.
The university helped me to succeed in my course.
This allowed me to achieve the best of myself I could.
Within the course the lectures support, advice and guidance was truly amazing.
They always had time for a chat and would always where possible go the extra mile to help me succeed.
I never thought I would be able to achieve the grades I did without the support I received.
The smaller classes allow you to receive the most outstanding teaching.
The quality of the teaching is so high.
Wrexham University really focuses on not just teaching academic work but also preparing you for the working world.
Within our course we received interview advice from current police officers.
We received support through the application processes.
I have been successful in my application to a Police force and have begun training to become a police community support officer.
Wrexham University gave me the confidence to know when I set my mind to something I can achieve it.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/student-stories/harry-williams.php:
Course Title: BSc (Hons) Professional Policing Year of Graduation: 2022
Before coming to Wrexham University, I had just finished a two-year Public Services course at Before coming to Wrexham University, I had just finished a two-year Public Services course at College.
I was in a predicament on whether to attempt to join the police straight away or further develop myself by continuing my education and gaining more life experiences.
I recall speaking to a police officer, who explained to me how life experiences were invaluable when going through the police application process.
From doing research into WU and speaking to the lecturers on an open day, their relationship with the special constabulary was a key element of intrigue for me.
They offered an opportunity like no other university did.
They explained how during our studies, they would encourage and support us to gain real-life, hands-on experience by doing the role of a police officer.
This was opportunity I knew I just had to take.
The areas of my course which stood out to me the most, was the inclusivity for the lectures.
I found that due to the limited spaces on the course, we became a close group of individuals who were always supportive of one another.
The lecturers were able to know us individually by our names and understand everyone unique strengths and weaknesses.
This is something I feel could not be reciprocated in the other universities, where the capacity of the lectures is significantly higher.
The support provided by the university course stood out to me.
The vast experience of the lecturers enabled appropriate sign positing to the most effective person.
Where their experience did not cover, they always seemed to have contact with an expert in that field.
More often than not, my queries were answered with an abundance of resources and knowledge.
I have benefitted by studies at Wrexham University, through the great support offered by the tutors.
During regular meetings, I was able to discuss in person my performance through the terms.
This allowed us to work together to from a working strategy to progress the standard of my work and push myself towards getting those higher grades.
I would recommend studying the BSc Professional Policing Degree to anyone with the intentions of joining the police force in any capacity, whether as a Police Constable or a Staff Role.
The degree would give you an insight into the world of policing like no other.
Having received many talks from professionals within my service of interest, my eyes were opened to a more realistic prospect of policing.
I got to grips with the intense levels of responsibilities held by each professional and appreciated the importance of working together to succeed in our unified goals.
A rare opportunity to attend a seminar by a victim of serious crime was also extremely beneficial.
It helped my understanding of the impact we can have on individuals as professionals in the real world.
I have been successful in my application to a Police force and have begun training to become a police constable.
Studying at Wrexham University helped me to build contacts within my chosen profession prior to my employment.
Support and encouragement from the lecturers helped my journey from student to employee be a smooth transition.
The in-depth topics within the professional policing degree, helped me feel more confident in my knowledge prior to starting my new profession.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/student-stories/-esther-rhodes-leader-.php:
I was studying at Castell Alun Sixth Form.
I liked the fact that there were smaller numbers within the class and how they made you feel like an individual instead of just another number.
Also, the support they offered for my learning needs was very appealing.
Everyone was very friendly and there was always someone there to help you.
The lecturers, they really helped me throughout my time on the course.
They always made sure that I was okay whether it was educational related or outside of it.
There was so much support, if someone is unable to help they will direct you to someone who can.
Everyone has time for you if you allow them the chance to help.
My confidence has grown massively, at the start of the course I could barely speak to anyone but now I feel able to speak in front of everyone.
I have also benefited by joining the netball society and improving my skills in that setting.
It prompted me to try different ways of experiencing the job before applying.
For instance, they supported us with becoming a Special Constable within the Police.
Additionally the lecturer’s provided interview support prior to job interviews.
I am studying at Wrexham doing my PGCE course to retrain as a primary school teacher.
It made me feel that I am able to do what I set my mind to.
Also, it is important to do what you love.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/student-stories/kiara.php:
I wanted to attend Wrexham uni because it was close to where I lived so was ideal for living and travel.
It was also highly rated for its criminology programmes and student satisfaction.
I also attended some of the open days where I was able to speak to the students and tutors, which helped to confirm my choice to study here.
The atmosphere was always friendly around campus.
There was always somebody close at hand to help when needed and there are a number of places for students to sit down and work or to relax with friends between classes.
I enjoyed being able to learn something new.
Weather it be from lectures, conferences of guest speakers who could give first hand experience about the subjects you were learning about.
The tutors used different methods to teach us about the subjects that we were learning about, which helped to understand the information when it is being used in a practical setting beyond university.
The tutors were always on hand to provide students with support, using one-to-one sessions, assignment preparation session or through e-mail.
There were also a number of extra-curricular sessions that were made available to students and provide additional support for assignment guidance, with information on how to find academic sources, referencing or how to complete assignments based on the learning objectives.
There was also support provided by the library services which was always available for students, and they provided one-to-one sessions if asked.
I feel I have benefited from studying here because I was made to feel welcome from the off, made great friends who supported me and always knew where to go to if I needed any extra help.
I feel that I have become more confident in being able to speak in front of people, have confidence in the work I produce, but also built confidence in my work ethic.
I would recommend studying with Wrexham because as I have said there is always somebody on hand to help you when you need it, weather it be help with your academic studies, how to complete assignments or finding out how to use the skills that you have gained through your studies and apply them to work.
Or if you’re not sure what career path you want to follow, tutors can help you to consider the variety of pathways that the course or career can offer.
The tutors were able to speak from experience when talking about the subjects, and by having people from the service talk to us about their experiences and providing their point of views regarding the subject matter, it helped to put what we were learning about in a practical setting.
They helped us to understand what skills would be needed and how what we have learned can be used to better ourselves and the way that we approach situations if faced with them in that working environment.
Since finishing my studies I have since found a job in retail so that I could take a break after these past three years, and to be able to consider what career pathway to pursue.
I have been considering what job I would like to follow, but also allowing myself some time to relax after the vigorous studies of the past three years, taking into consideration the skills that I have obtained and how I can use these in my future career.
A career highlight from my time in the specials was assisting with the policing of Remembrance Sunday.
It was the first remembrance day that was held after being postponed as a result of COVID-19, and to be a part of leading the parade, interacting with the public and volunteering on such a special day was an amazing experience.
It has helped me in a number of ways.
I have been able to build on my confidence both through class participation and assessments, whereby I have had to stand in front of my peers and present my work, whether by myself or as part of a group.
This has helped me be more confident in talking in front of people but also helped me to become a more interactive student, and to be able to work with my peers towards a shared aim.
I have also built my self-confidence.
Even though the tutors were there to help when needed, I learned to have more confidence in myself and the work that I was producing.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/student-stories/chloe-lou-mills.php:
Course Title: BA (Hons) Illustration Year of Graduation: 2024
I was studying Speech and Language Therapy at a different University.
I had a lot of interest in the English language.
I also love helping people.
It ended up being not what I expected and I decided to drop out and pursue art, like I always wanted to do.
It was the only uni close enough to home that also had an Illustration course.
I knew a few people that attended Wrexham Uni and saw how good the reviews were.
It made me feel comfortable in my choice to attend this uni.
I love being able to spend my time creating art.
It’s what I get to do every day now and I woul dn’t change it for anything.
I love getting briefs and I love being able to explore different styles and try new things, and I always have the staff backing up my ideas.
The support from staff is always incredible.
I get lots of feedback and last year, they were all extremely helpful and supportive.
I struggle with some mental health difficulties, and it meant a lot of the time, I struggled to do my work and get stuff handed in on time.
They were more than happy to aid and pro vide extensions where necessary.
I think bein g closer to home has done me wonders but the atmosphere makes me love coming into uni.
I always hated going to school but now I come into uni and get to do what I love, surrounded by wonderful people.
I’m so much happier.
I absolutely would recommend studying at Wrexham Uni.
People are always so focused on getting into ‘Red Brick’ universities and I always found that it didn’t matter so much.
I’m much happier here than I would be anywhere else.
As an illustration student, we actively investigate pricing your work.
This is something we cover in a module, and we also have Creative Futures.
This is a class in Semester 2 that covers the world of work as an artist, and it can be helpful at times.
We get to listen to artists who are in the world of work talk about their experiences.

New sentences found on https://wrexham.ac.uk/student-life/student-stories/chris-wallace.php:
Course Title: BSc Applied Sport and Exercise Science Year of Graduation: 2021
There were several practical considerations involved in the decision, including distance from home.
Still, one of the main drivers was from recommendations from previous students o f how welcoming of mature students Wrexham Uni is.
This, along with having a chance to discuss my options within the university with lecturers within the department and the support and knowledge they have across a wide range of specialisms, especially as I was unsure of what area of focus I wanted.
Yes, I would 100% recommend studying at Wrexham Uni, especially within the Sports Sciences department, as due to the smaller size of the department, the opportunity to be involved with extra eve nts, internships, and experiences is excellent, plus the chance to speak to lecturers and other staff if much easier.
Above all, you feel that the staff know who you are, what you are about and genuinely care about how you are developing!
For me, already having an experience of the working world and returning to education was a big step.
Although already experienced, I feel that the last three years have given me a chance to develop skills that have started to help on my return to work.
I firmly believe that my prioritising skills have improved, along with my ability to work to deadlines.
I have also found that my teamwork and leadership skills have also developed.
I am currently working as a self-employed endurance coach and a coaching/teaching tutor for several governing bodies and training providers.
With the work being so varied, I have to split my time between many priorities, from completing practical and theoretical coaching and teaching assessments to conducting athlete consultations, prescribing training and analysis of training and racing data to develop their fitness and skills.
Working with several athl etes to help develop their fitness to qualify for age group championships in triathlon.
Working within an excellent coach education team for Welsh Triathlon and was involved with changing how the coach certification courses have been delivered due to the C OVID-19 restrictions at the time.
Being able to return to education in my forties was a worrying and pretty scary time.
Still, the great support received within the university really made me feel I was making the correct decision and has really helped me develop my confidence within my area of study and the academic skills required to do well.